
    ----CITATION----
        Ballou, John.. The Lady of the West, or, The Gold Seekers .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5720 wright2-0201
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE LADY OF THE WEST,
               OR, THE GOLD SEEKERS.
            
            
               
            
            
               
                  
                     [Let us live to love, for lo! our time is passing—
                     As the tolling bell's last solemn sound, when fading,
                     Each moment is severing a cord that's now
                     United in such strains of heaven-like glory.]
                  
               
            
            Written for the Great American Nation, BY JOHN BALLOU.
            
            
               CINCINNATI:
               PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR, BY MOORE, WILSTACH, KEYS AND OVEREND.
            
            1855.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, by JOHN BALLOU, In
                  the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Southern District of
                  Ohio.
               Stereotyped and Printed by WM. OVEREND & CO., PRINTERS,
               CINCINNATI.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            IN writing upon a subject in which the character and principles of my great nation
               are placed before the whole world, I feel that I have ventured into a field of
               literature where no other novelist has yet presumed to travel, and where my own
               incompetency may render me as a target for the criticism of reading millions.
               Consequently, it is but fair for me to express my timidity, or even my anxiety, in
               placing such a book into the hands of one of the most literary nations on the globe;
               for however noble and exalted have been my intentions—however favorable and
               extraordinary have been the subjects of illustration—however indisputable I know the
               general character of my story to be—I am well aware that worthy minds will perceive
               defects in composition, and I fear, perceive that I have attempted to accomplish that
               which ought to have been assigned to a person of higher literary attainments. Though
               I have written it expressly for my own nation—never losing sight of the glorious
               principles of liberty and equal rights—hoping to awaken among the people in general a
               higher moral sense of the interests and privileges of all men than are now maintained
               by the stern advocates of partyism; yet, it will go further—and, in the distance I
               see above the clan of creeds, a crimson blush that would give a world to have had its
               truth not been! Certainly then, Americans! fellow citizens! you may justly ask the
               cause of this; for such is the nature of our government that whosoever lives upon our
               Republican soil is somewhat accountable for the conduct of the nation, and must
               necessarily feel himself subject to the censures and the praises that other countries
               bestow upon our public administration.
            In reply to such a question, I shall abandon all claims to distinction, and merely
               refer to my sojourn among several of the most important nations of the earth as being
               one of the principal incentives that has induced me to attempt a conciliation of
               these mighty powers; for when I remember that the sun and moon cannot shine without
               giving light to some of my friends or acquaintances upon some quarter of the globe, I
               feel that I am as at link in an endless chain—sorely scourged by the man that lisps
               aught against a distant people! So, likewise, when I roamed over foreign lands, many
               thousands of miles away, and heard the word American! spoken in
               smothered whispers, I perceived a tone in their accent that caused my soul to chill
               within me! Then when I have asked my fellow countrymen the cause of this, the answer
               has been, We are—Americans! Americans
                  icans! Though we have done nothing to merit their denunciations—then why
               comes that voice so cold and foreign?
            Many of the scenes represented in this book came under my own observation; and in no
               instance is there a single fact related but what something similar did actually
               occur; however, their arrangement, and the names that I have given, are mostly
               selected to suit a continued story. To avoid the plan of connecting too many
                  fortunes, or misfortunes with a single personage, has caused the
               introduction of more characters than is common to most novels; but, in this, I have
               only sought to place before my nation—facts that are worthy of their most serious
               consideration. So, also, to avoid making it a trifling love-story, I have had an
               excellent fact to illustrate, and have related only such incidents as particularly
               apply to the subject that ought to interest everybody.
               Certainly, I have represented the glaring outrages of a partial law, in its most
               extravagant light, for such was my privilege; and it is the only way in which the
               public will ever be led to investigate the consequences that always do result from
               partial legislation. Therefore, to blend the useful with the extravagant, the
               unpleasant with the pleasing, the good with the bad and horrible— in order to give a
               general view of society—and yet make an attractive story for the public, has so far
               been attempted, yet I hesitate very much about sending out the first edition until it
               could be rewritten and revised by a person of more gifted genius; but, being very
               much pressed for time, and knowing that my nation is an indulgent friend to a book,
               especially when it has been written for the purpose of social reform—I publish it,
               trusting that I shall receive pity for my weakness, rather than contempt for my
               presumption; for everybody will surely admit that, as no other has attempted to write
               upon the subject in a masterly way—I am not to blame for
               doing the best I could.
            Lastly, of the personages represented, I have mentioned no names that need to cause
               uneasiness, notwithstanding, many may perceive their characters portrayed more fully
               than they ever supposed any one to have a knowledge of.
            In conclusion, to my fellow countrymen I would say, that our administration may
               advance in promoting good-will among all nations—peace and love among ourselves—is
               the earnest prayer of one of the most devoted Republicans.
            
               J. B.
            
         
      
      
         
            The lady of the West, or, The gold seekers
            THE LADY OF THE WEST.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               A LITTLE more than twenty years ago, MR. SIMONS resided in the great commercial
                  city, London.
               In comfortable quarters up-stairs, his family, a wife, three children and
                  sometimes a nephew, a lad of fourteen, lived very happily, and were always ready
                  to receive his gentlemanship with open arms when he returned from his commercial
                  voyages at sea.
               He possessed considerable capital, and was doing a fair business, with a prospect
                  of a fortune by long perseverance.
               His children were a daughter of seven, a son of four, and another of two years of
                  age; in his estimation the prettiest and dearest little creatures in all of
                  London. The eldest son, Nathan, was of delicate construction, and according to the
                  judgment of many old women, who chanced to be acquainted with his weak hold on
                  mortality, nothings but a voyage at sea could restore him to the health common to
                  boys of his age.
               At that time Mr. Simons was trading between South America and England, and quite
                  naturally enough, the old women concluded that one voyage to South America would
                  place little Nathan among the most rosy-cheeked boys of his years; and to work
                  they went, and finally convinced Mrs. Simons that she would be thwarting the
                  purposes of divine power, if she did not immediately give her son a trial at the
                  remedial effects of sea water.
               The arrangements were all completed, and the little boy separated from his mother,
                  and on his way to South America in company
                  with his kind father; but, contrary to the former supposition, little Nathan grew
                  rapidly worse, and his father almost despaired of ever seeing him again on land.
                  Fortunately, however, they had an excellent run to New York, where the ship was
                  obliged to stop and discharge some of her cargo, before proceeding on her
                  voyage.
               Mr. Simons had a cousin, an old maid, living in New York, and to her habitation he
                  proceeded with his son. In a few days the boy began to recover; but, fearing the
                  effects of the sea, his father finally yielded to the earnest entreaties of his
                  cousin and her friends, to let him remain in their charge and care until he should
                  return from South America.
               Considering his son was in no danger, and being under a pressing engagement
                  himself, Mr. Simons, with his nephew by his side, went on his way to South
                  America.
               Nathan soon became a prospering lad, and bid fair to be a man of at least usual
                  strength; but, a few weeks after the departure of his father, the maiden cousin
                  took ill, and in a few days her innocent lips were closed forever!
               After her death, Nathan continued to live in the same family, where she had made
                  her home for several years. Unfortunately, this family, Mr. Mason's, did not know
                  the residence of Simon's family in London; but, having an attachment to the boy,
                  they took him with them to Philadelphia, where they established themselves, with
                  the intention of remaining several years.
               For a long time they kept an eye to the different newspapers of the country, in
                  order to learn something of the unfortunate family; but over two years passed,
                  and, as no information was obtained, they finally grew heedless of further
                  search.
               In this family, which had no children, he was looked upon as a precious treasure,
                  and soon became as interesting as though he had been a blood relation; but they
                  took the liberty of curtailing his name into Simons, and in all common intercourse
                  he was known by no other.
               It was little more than two years, when Mr. Mason removed to Cincinnati, and came
                  to the very anti-American determination of settling permanently. Here, little
                  Simons was put to school, and for a considerable time did nothing else but attend
                  to his books; but, in proportion to his own inclinations, he often assisted Mr.
                  Mason in the bookbinding business; and, between the trade and school, gave his
                  guardian and master to understand that promising abilities were likely to shine
                  forth from his usefulness, in some future time.
               Simons often talked about going, some day, to see his people in England, and in
                  his own mind fancied just exactly how things still looked in his old home; but it
                  is very doubtful whether he could have loved his connections much more than he did
                  Mr. and Mrs. Mason.
               Year after year continued to roll by, and Simons grew up into manhood, master of
                  an excellent trade and a good English education; but, just before he closed his
                  teens, his guardians, Mr. and Mrs. Mason, fell victims to cholera, and were
                  hastily carried away.
               Mr. Mason had often promised Simons a share of his estate; but, being carried away
                  without making a will, the property all fell to distant relations, and left Simons
                  entirely penniless. This made a sad inroad upon his future calculations, and
                  aroused him to a new series of reflections. Shortly after this, gold was
                  discovered in California, and many people began to talk of going there to make
                  their fortunes. Among the number of these contemplated migrationists was Simons;
                  but one of the chief difficulties before him was he had not sufficient means to
                  carry him there; another difficulty was, true to the style of "Young America," he
                  had fallen, or rather grown, desperately in love. The object of his heart's
                  desire, was no other than old Dr. Sparks's daughter, Mary—a blooming girl of
                  seventeen, no less noted for her beautiful gray eyes and dark-brown curls, than
                  for her plump person, pretty face, and independent spirit—common characteristics
                  of Cincinnati ladies.
               Mary was a good girl, and well educated after the American fashion; that is,
                  taught almost everything useful, including common sense. She had never been
                  blessed with brothers or sisters, and consequently, was almost the idol of her own
                  parents, especially the old Dr. The old Dr. seemed to think that his little girl was as near like an angel as human
                  beings generally get to be; and, well knowing that she would some day become the
                  rightful owner of all his property, he felt wonderfully inclined to have something
                  to say about the distribution of Mary's affections. With all the praise that
                  people generally bestowed upon the old Dr.'s medical and neighborly qualities, we
                  can not refrain from saying, there was a haughty spirit, and feeling of
                  importance, which accompanied his more useful qualities as a serviceable man.
                  True, that deep, gruffy voice was far more natural to him than was the Squire-like
                  protuberance of his abdominal viscera; but the motions of the man indicated a will
                  and determination of his own. Neither did anybody know his disposition so well as
                  did his wife. Whenever she wished to command his lordship, or induce him to
                  abandon any notion, she was always cautious to approach him previous to having
                  heard him express himself; for then he had nothing to retract, and, being very
                  considerate of her delicate appearance, he would generally succumb to her wishes.
                  But, when they both agreed upon a point, it would have required one of Napier's
                  fleets to have changed their wills. Now, then, both of these were aware that a
                  great intimacy existed between their daughter and Simons, and both of them had
                  been trying various plans to break down that attachment; and, after nearly a year
                  of behind-back maneuvering, they began to counsel seriously upon it. They did not
                  hate Simons, but they were aware that if he should ever marry Mary, he had but a
                  poor show of providing her with as comfortable living as she had been used to, and
                  that, consequently, although she loved him now, she might finally rue her bargain,
                  when too late. Simons and Mary were both well aware of the old folks' notion, and,
                  accordingly, held their meetings "on the sly;" which caused them the more
                  faithfully to pledge themselves to each other forever.
               After the gold discovery, Simons looked toward the West with a view of bettering
                  his circumstances; but he had not yet decided to go to California—for there was
                  but one way in which he could go; that was, to work his way overland, which seemed
                  too long and hazardous to undertake. Neither had Mary given her consent for him to
                  go the overland route; for at that period the journey was considered dangerous in
                  the extreme.
               Returning to the city, one evening, after having had a social promenade on Walnut
                  Hills, they were met by the old Dr., who was on his way to see a patient. The Dr.
                  gave them a very dignified look, but spoke to neither. Mary seemed to understand
                  his look, for scarcely was his back turned, when she said:
               "Simons, I'm sure father intends to prevent us from ever walking together again.
                  He never gave me such a look before."
               "He may prevent us for awhile. It will only be for awhile."
               On the following day, when Simons repaired to his shop, he had the following note
                  handed him by a little boy: 
                     
                        
                           
                              "MR. SIMONS:—I am well aware that you are cultivating an attachment
                                 for my daughter; but, in order to prevent anything which might
                                 follow such an attachment, I now give you to understand that I do
                                 not intend to permit your further intimacy. Henceforth, you can not
                                 consider yourself a welcome guest at my house. Remember, my words
                                 are positive. You must not expect to meet my daughter any more. I
                                 hope you will consider well upon this, and see that you act the
                                 part of a prudent man. You must perceive that I am acting as any
                                 man in my circumstances ought.
                              
                                 DR. R. SPARKS."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "'Acting as any man in my circumstances ought;'" Simons muttered to
                  himself, and sat down to give the subject a serious consideration.
                     "Circumstances" ground upon his reflections. "If I should go to
                  California, 'circumstances' might yet make the Dr. glad to recall his
                  words! Ah! might in reality make me more fit to wed such a lady."
               After an hour of brown study, he resolved to go to California by the overland
                  route.
               In the evening following, he called upon the old Dr. for permission to take his
                  farewell of Mary. But on reaching the place, he found the doors barred against
                  him, and the Dr. ready to meet him. At this time, Mary was not aware of his
                     determination mination to go to
                  California; but it was for this purpose, and to receive her parting prayer, that
                  he had called.
               He approached the Dr. in every possible manner, but no entrance into Mary's
                  presence could be obtained. Not feeling disposed to discuss his feelings on the
                  public sidewalk, he was about abandoning his attempt of getting to see her before
                  leaving, when a tap at one of the upper windows directed his attention upon Mary,
                  with a book in her hand. She raised the window and cast out a little slip of
                  paper, and immediately drew her head in again. The old Dr. did not notice this,
                  and Simons stooped and carelessly lifted the paper, and read, "Despair not; for
                  fate itself shall not separate us." Simons turned to speak to her, but she had
                  disappeared. Not seeing any possible chance of meeting her, he returned to his own
                  boarding-house. In a short time he arranged all his business, ready for leaving on
                  the next morning; for a boat was to leave for St. Louis at daylight. After his
                  arrangements were all completed, he wrote a long farewell letter to Mary. His
                  business was now all completed, and on the next morning he left for
                  California.
               After Simons left, Dr. Sparks, the old gentleman, told Mary that Simons was going
                  to California. She believed it, but did not think he was going so soon. Now the
                  old Dr. had frequently given Mary small parcels of money from her infancy up, and
                  at this time she was in possession of several hundred dollars. When she heard that
                  Simons had firmly resolved to go to California, she resolved to furnish him with
                  money sufficient to carry him there by way of Panama; for she could not bear the
                  idea of him crossing the Plains. On the following morning she commenced writing
                  him a note to inform him of her intention; but, while she was yet writing, in came
                  a little boy, saying:
               "Please, Miss—but I nearly forgot to bring you this letter," and he handed her the
                  farewell letter written by Simons.
               Mary glanced hastily over it, and perceived that he had now been gone upward of
                  two hours. This unhappy news brought tears to Mary's eyes; and a feeling of
                  despair nearly overcame her, when thinking of him going the overland route. While
                  in this distressed condition, her father came in, and administered her a slight
                  rebuke. Mary felt it. It made a wound not to be healed in a moment. When the Dr.
                  passionately left her, she said to herself:
               "Must I always submit to this? Am I not a woman, that other people dare to trifle
                  with my natural affections? Whatever my feelings are, they have no right to scoff
                  at the object which I consider worthy of my highest esteem—neither shall they
                  scoff—nor shall they laugh at my tears. If human will can devise, and this person
                  withstand, this shall not end here."
               Mary thought long and earnestly upon it. If she could get money to Simons, so that
                  he could go by way of Panama? and how could she get money to him? Could she send
                  it? No; he would not be looking for it.
               Two days after this, she asked her father's permission to visit some of her
                  connections, who were living in Louisville. The old Doctor consented for her to
                  go, and to remain a fortnight. He helped her down to the boat, saw her things
                  safely packed, and took leave of her.
               Mary had a courageous heart when she left her father's house; but when her father
                  was about taking leave of her at the boat, she could scarcely refrain from
                  throwing her arms around his neck, and acknowledging her desperate resolution. She
                  looked long and anxiously after him, as he walked up the square, saying to
                  herself, "I will show you what woman can do!"
               The boat moved out into the river, and floated away. Mary looked back upon
                  Cincinnati, and said, "Oh! when shall I see thee again—again!"
               Early next morning she reached Louisville, and had her baggage taken off the boat.
                  Then she thought of home, then of her connections in Louisville, and then of
                  Simons; and as she thought, she looked at the boats. In large letters she noticed
                  a board painted, "For St. Louis, at ten o'clock precisely!" "I must hurry," she
                  said; and, in a few minutes, she and her baggage were on board the boat, bound for
                  St. Louis! Mary shed tears when she thought of all this. Her father had made
                     light of her tears once; and those
                  light expressions left a mortal sting.
               "What's the name, Miss?" said a tall, greasy-headed young man to Mary, when she
                  went up to pay her fare.
               "Harriet Lindsey," said Mary, with a blush. Mary never had any sisters; but, when
                  she was small, there was a little flaxen-headed girl, who frequently lived at
                  their house. Mary loved that little girl. They played together, and sat together
                  in Sunday-school. That little girl's name was Harriet Lindsey. Little Harriet had
                  no sister either; and between these two little creatures existed a sisterly
                  affection. When they were playing together one day, Mary noticed a strangeness in
                  Harriet's voice. She became alarmed. In the night after that, she was called to
                  little Harriet's bedside. She saw her little playfellow struggling. Harriet was
                  very pale then. Then she saw Harriet's white hands pulling at her throat; then she
                  shook a little, gasped once or twice, and then ceased to move! Mary's father told
                  her that Harriet was dead! and then Mary wanted to die too! She was very young
                  then; but, when she looked upon the world, it seemed to be void and desolate! Long
                  years rolled by, but Mary's love still streamed upon the space that little Harriet
                  once filled. The name, Harriet always seemed something more than mortal. Mary
                  never found another that she loved as she had once loved Harriet! For many years
                  she had wished for some one that she could love as she wished to love. At last she
                  found one; and, to follow up that source of love, she had now resolved to
                  encounter whatsoever came before her. Mary thought, that perhaps her father would
                  soon learn of her elopement, pursue, and bring her back. To baffle any such
                  attempt, she decided upon traveling under another name: the name she chose was
                  Harriet Lindsey; and by that name we shall henceforth speak of her.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               IT was early in the spring, and soon after the discovery of gold in California.
                  Dark, heavy clouds overhung the horizon; fierce, cold winds were blowing; fine,
                  cutting rain, in nearly horizontal lines, was descending; and all the disagreeable
                  relics of a hard winter were still lingering among those western hills. Far up and
                  down the valley of the great coffee-colored river, the snow-white canvas bedecked
                  the long, level meadows, and even extended far up the eastern hills, overlooking
                  the crowded little village below. Flapping and cracking in the fierce, cold wind,
                  the tents and wagon-tops seemed to be turning the premeditated departure into a
                  grand hurrah; but, clinging to the loose ends, the half-pleased, half-mad
                  emigrants, were determined to convert the flimsy houses into comfortable
                  residences for the few days they were to remain.
               All around the country, horses, mules, oxen and cows, were tethered, roving, and
                  bellowing; at every tree and every stump, rifles and pistols were being fired; all
                  through the streets, and all over the adjoining hills and fields on the valley,
                  great crowds of emigrants were strolling through the mud—some losing their boots,
                  some their hats, and nearly all, their sober senses.
               Here was an interesting group indeed. The many different ranks, forms, sizes,
                  fashions, habits, dispositions, and everything else peculiar to our 'land of
                  liberty,' all hurrying and bustling, in the greatest possible confusion and
                  disorder. Here, the wealthy were laying extensive plans for additional wealth and
                  aggrandizement; the poor were contemplating upon promising fortunes, and, the
                  happy release from their miserable circumstances; the religious and pious were
                  counseling upon the distribution of their supposed invaluable services in the land
                  of gold; but a vast number were enjoying the present, and rejoicing at the still
                  brighter future—all, all busy, buying or selling, drunk or sober, playing or
                  laboring, and preparing for their final departure.
               
               More than two thousand miles of a dreary, unknown plain had to be crossed. Its
                  difficulties, hardships, and dangers; its variety, pleasures, magnificence of
                  plain and mountain scenery, were all hidden and sealed to civilized man. To insure
                  safety, to surmount the privations, and overcome the dangers of such a long
                  journey through the many tribes of Indians, they had halted here, for the purpose
                  of proper organization into messes, parties, companies, etc.
               Now, we must follow Simons down the long valley, among the wagons, to where three
                  men were huddled over a little camp fire, to keep themselves in good humor.
               "Gentlemen," said he, "I am told that you are anxious to have another man join
                  your party; if so, I shall offer myself!"
               "Yes, sir, we want another; and we are anxious, also, that he should understand
                  the management of cattle; for none of us understand such business."
               Such were the remarks of one Mitchell, a little man, with heavy, black whiskers,
                  and gentlemanly-looking exterior, about thirty years of age. He wore excellent
                  cloth, and would bear criticism in either judgment or good manners.
               "But," said Simons, "before I go any farther, then, let me tell you, that driving
                  team is somewhat different to the trade I learned; but still, I think I can do it.
                  But that is not the greatest reason that you can have for not considering me a
                  profitable partner—I have not money enough for a full partner, but I am anxious to
                  do extra labor for my deficiency in funds."
               "Well," said Mitchell, "you are just the kind of man we want. If you can drive
                  team, we are not anxious about money."
               "I think I can manage it; but then I have money enough for half of my outfit, and
                  I am perfectly willing to give it all, and work beside. The fact is, I am
                  determined to go to California, and I will do you any service if you can favor me
                  in that way."
               "Well, what do you say?" asked Mitchell, turning to his two partners.
               "I think we'll accept him; we are not very particular, you know. Then, the most I
                  am anxious about, is to get somebody mighty soon, and be rolling out; for you see
                  many are starting already, and if we want our cattle to get a share of the grass,
                  we must be among the first—that's my opinion about it."
               Such were the words of Mr. Warner, a man deserving particular description, and one
                  of the prominent characters in our story. As he was standing before the little
                  camp-fire, his general form would put one in mind of an inverted letter V. His
                  extreme length was never ascertained, but, evidently, he must have grown upon good
                  soil, and in the shade somewhere; for his little eyebrows had not a shade of
                  color; and, what made them exceedingly odd, was, that they were always trying to
                  climb to the top of his forehead; and, although the distance was short, yet they
                  never accomplished the journey. To the physiognomist, his mouth would be among the
                  principal attractions; but, certainly, its size was good evidence that it was
                  intended principally for an eating machine—and, sure enough, when it was not
                  eating food, it was eating tobacco; but one great misfortune attending this part
                  of his mortality was, that a deep-yellow streak of tobacco-juice was always
                  trickling down at each side, and thereby attracting the eye of the public to the
                  main orifice, which kept up a continual fire of saliva at everything within his
                  reach. At times, the upper and lower halves of this curious fixture would approach
                  each other, and pout out upon foreign territory, as if his mind was solving some
                  great mathematical problem; which, however, was the least of his considerations.
                  For a young man, his green-looking phiz was no less characteristic than the vast
                  number of violent oaths which generally accompanied his common conversation; but
                  his peculiar manner of propping his immense feet apart, and loudly pronouncing
                  "I'll bet," was his general manner of convincing people of his judgment. He wore
                  good cloth—particularly his red striped vest—a watch and bowie-knife, which were
                  quite sufficient to give him a position of undoubted standing in the eyes of
                  many.
               But there was still another in the party—Andrew—a man said to have held
                  considerable rank in the business of kiln- drying corn-meal; but, unfortunately,
                  as he was in the habit of taking his
                  bitters too freely, he made bad bargains, and very suddenly neglected to remain in
                  his own neighborhood. This curious, little, middle-aged specimen of humanity, was
                  one of those frost-bitten, peevish, irritable, snarling, bloat—faced,
                  self-important, business creatures, who are and always have been unfortunate. The
                  most attractive peculiarity belonging to Andrew, was his voice, which everybody
                  agreed was really interesting. It was one of those curious voices, which Europeans
                  say is so characteristic of our whole nation, namely, a mixture of whining and
                  sluggishness, squeezed out between the teeth and nasal region.
               As Mitchell and Warner had given their consent for Simons to join, only Andrew
                  remained to be consulted.
               "Well," said Andrew, stretching himself into a business attitude—"well, Simons, I
                  can't be quite so fast about your joining as my partners are. I find it is always
                  better to have a fair understanding in such things. Now, I am a
                  business man, and I can judge, from your appearance, that you are a man of good
                  morals; but that ain't the point. Here's things we must know: How much money will
                  you give us? how much luggage have you? and how much work will you do for us?
                  These are things that must be understood, if we want to do things in a business
                  manner; but, if we ain't going to do things so, why, we had better turn the affair
                  into nonsense at once."
               "Certainly, sir," said Simons; "you are quite right; and here are my terms: I can
                  give you sixty-five dollars, and I am willing to do what work I can; but, as none
                  of us know what all is to be done, I can not make any farther promises. I have
                  only fifty or sixty pounds of luggage, and I am sure that is a mere trifle."
               "Very well, said Andrew; "upon such conditions I can give my consent to have you
                  join us; but, as for having no understanding, I should have never consented in the
                  world. I'm too much of a business man for that, I can assure you."
               "Well, then, you can bring down your luggage to-morrow, and we will pack up, ready
                  for starting on the next morning."
               "I will do so," said Simons; and immediately returned to his hotel.
               For the purpose of giving a little further insight into the character of Simons'
                  partners, as well as to convey an idea of the annoyances of an emigrant, we must
                  observe them packing their load.
               "I suppose we had better weigh all the luggage," said Mitchell, "and then there
                  can be no misunderstanding between us; for it is very evident that we should all
                  carry an equal amount."
               "I 'spose," said Warner, straddling his feet apart, you are hinting that I'm
                  carrying more than my share, eh?"
               "I can not tell," said Mitchell, "but by the appearance of your chests I should
                  judge that you had a great deal more than either Andrew or myself."
               "Well, and suppose I have! Don't you think I'll carry what I please?—if you don't,
                  you can bet your life that you're mistaken. I paid my money for one-third part of
                  this wagon and team, and I'll bet I'll be entitled to say something about luggage
                     myself—I will."
               "No, no, Warner, you are wrong," said our little frost-bitten Andrew, "you are
                  wrong; we must do business in a business-like manner. We three have
                  paid equal, and as I'm a business man, I know that the
                  law would consider us, by right, allowed to carry an equal share of luggage."
               "But do you 'spose I'm going to throw away some of my luggage, just to please you
                  fellers?—no, I'll bet I don't. No, no, I'm better stuff than that."
               In that manner they disputed for an hour or so, but Andrew finally brought the
                  matter to a close, by saying:
               "Well, if we are going to do business, we must do it in a business way. If Warner
                  won't consent to carry only an equal amount, we won't allow him to carry any; and
                  as we have the team we'll keep it."
               Finding that Mitchell and Andrew were firm in their purpose, Warner finally
                  yielded, and even four hundred pounds were weighed out to each, except Simons.
               
               Following the weighing, another trouble arose about placing the things in the
                  wagon.
               "Don't pile your things on mine—you want all the room— don't stand on my chest;"
                  but trifling as these disputes seem, it is doubtful if ever a party crossed the
                  Plains without meeting the same. These are little annoyances, of which the person
                  who has never been from home can not have any just conception; and, it even seems
                  that a party can not be made up, but some one of the number is sure to strike up a
                  discord upon these little affairs, which, in some instances, brings the parties to
                  blows.
               The next day was dark and dreary. The same cold winds, heavy clouds and smoky mist
                  still rendered the weather too disagreeable to change comfortable houses for the
                  wild Plains; but it was the day of departure, and many were taking their last
                  farewell to civilized life. In heavy swells the great river was foaming through
                  the valley, and chiming its sad rumbling with the active scenes upon its banks;
                  but sadder still its foaming sheet cherished the sorrows of the last friendly
                  adieu. Husbands and wives, mothers and sons, were taking their farewell embrace,
                  and dropping the deepest heart-felt prayers that words can express; but loosing
                  their cordial grasp, burst into tears, overcome with sorrow and grief, severing
                  the strongest earthly ties, and searing their affection with the doom of long—long
                  absence. Little children, loving little ones, were clinging fondly to their
                  fathers, but, held back by their weeping mothers, their weak hold was broken, and,
                  as the affectionate father departed, they were left wringing their little hands
                  and crying most pitifully.
               "But as soon as we crossed the river and drove near the forest, where all would be
                  shut from view, I paused to take the last fond look at civilized life, and quick
                  as thought, the great length of our journey through an unknown wilderness,
                  overcame my presence of mind, and I fancied the whole world was growing giddy
                  wherever I gazed. The tall forest was waving, little birds were darting through
                  the cold wind, wild with sadness, and even the village seemed to move with grief
                  for our departure. But, when I turned toward the forest, the whole earth seemed to
                  quake and tremble, and immediately I turned to look once more at the village, but,
                  alas! the view was closed forever!" So it was with Simons and his party.
               A few miles through a great forest, and over an awful road, brought the emigrants
                  to an open plain, where the vast crowd stretched onward in one grand moving line.
                  Their beautiful white-covered wagons were waving their rounded tops in the fierce
                  cold wind, and their long teams of fat cattle and horses were moving steadily up
                  and down the little green hills, as far as the eye could see. By their side, the
                  walking and riding crowd were scattered in beautiful disorder and
                  confusion—swinging their long whips in the air, and waving and cracking them over
                  the backs of their poor toiling teams. The jolly laugh, the merry shout, the
                  passionate curse, and the grand hurrah! rendered the enchanting scene one of the
                  most exhilarating, strange, wild and enthusiastic of all modern migration.
               Far in the distance, on one side, a few trees marked the winding course of a small
                  creek, but on the other, the rich rolling plain—only interrupted in its
                  smoothness, by a few trees scattered here and there over the little hills, whose
                  tops formed an even surface—extended to the clear blue sky beyond.
               "Hail! glorious Plain! my mind leaps away o'er thy unbounded scenes, unfettered by
                  the restraints of man, unfolding thy mysterious changes in future ages, until I am
                  overcome with inexpressible emotion."
               Such were the wild, lonely Plains—no one to receive the ebbing richness of
                  reposing nature—no one to till its luxuriant soil—no one to fill the air with
                  merry sounds—no, no!—the solitary moving onward of the emigrants was all that
                  disturbed its melancholy stillness.
               Here we must confine ourselves to one day and night with Simons' party, in order
                  to convey an idea of his partners, as well as the general difficulties to which he
                  was subjected; it will also convey an idea of the emigrants in general.
               Warner placed his inverted V over a little black pony, and galloped back and forth
                  along the line of emigrants. In this way
                  he amused himself, talking to whoever he chanced to be with—of high life—rich
                  people—good times and "fat niggers," and not unfrequently speaking about "my"
                  wagon and team, and offering to "bet" that he would be the first man through to
                  California. In this manner he undoubtedly enjoyed himself. Andrew, our
                  frost-bitten, whining little production, drew his face into a focus, in order to
                  split the cold wind as much as possible, and, mounted on another pony, struck off
                  on the Plains in search of game, evidently enjoying himself quite as well as Mr.
                  Warner. Simons and Mitchell were driving—but such driving deserves particular
                  notice. In the first place, we must state that their wagon was a heavy one, drawn
                  by ten oxen—all new and not half trained. These cattle would have made quite
                  respectable beef, so fat they were, and all being young and wild, it is not to be
                  supposed they were managed, by two green drivers, just exactly like what old hands
                  would have considered "hair-breadth driving." With strong chains and heavy yokes,
                  they were fastened to the wagon somewhat after the proper fashion, and when they
                  were standing still, or moving on in a straight line, they certainly made a
                  beautiful appearance. Simons and Mitchell, each provided with a long rod of "Old
                  Hickory," with an excellent lash at one end, were, one on each side the long team,
                  prepared to do execution in the best possible manner. Where the road was level
                  they had but little trouble, but, in descending the little hills, the wagon seemed
                  wonderfully inclined for a jolly spree, and usually reached the bottom in advance
                  of some of the poor tangled-up cattle. In these sad catastrophes the cattle often
                  got their feet over the chain, which occasioned some wild jumping and kicking, and
                  never ended until some of the skin was removed from the poor animals' legs. But
                  what made these incidents worse, was, Mitchell proved to be a passionate man, and
                  resorted to the whip in order to teach the frightened ox that he was master, and
                  by this means he soon had the cattle so wild, that no one could get near them.
                  Running down one of the hills, just as a farmer-looking customer was passing, they
                  were asked, why they did not lock the wagon? To which Mitchell replied:
               "We always try to stop 'em at the top, for to lock, but the more we yell at 'em
                  and whip 'em, the more they run down the hill!" However, before the day was past,
                  they succeeded in learning how to lock the wagon; but, unfortunately, in locking,
                  Simons had his hand severely bruised by the wagon-wheel. Continually storming and
                  whipping, Mitchell soon became wearied and fatigued, and his passions arose to a
                  dangerous pitch, which found relief only by whipping the cattle harder than ever.
                  For some time Simons remained a silent observer of this treatment, which promised
                  nothing but destruction to the cattle; at length he broke forth in behalf of the
                  suffering oxen:
               "I say, Mitchell, if you continue to whip so much, you will kill the cattle."
               "No I won't," said he, accenting his words by violent blows upon their backs.
                  "They only want to master me: but I'll show 'em who's master," still emphasizing
                  his words upon their backs, which were already covered with large welts.
               "But," said Simons, "do you not see that you are making them worse every
                  minute?"
               "I guess I'll be my own judge," said Mitchell, still continuing his whipping. "Let
                  'em learn to mind what I tell 'em, then."
               "But," said Simons, "the cattle are fresh, and they don't know what you want them
                  to do—they will be apt to quiet down after a few days, by proper treatment."
               "I'll quiet 'em," said Mitchell—"I'll quiet 'em—the contrary—" finishing with an
                  oath.
               "But, if you whip so much they can never reach California. See, they are foaming
                  and sweating now. You are killing them. You are making them ruin their necks, and
                  sprain their legs— they are nearly frightened out of their lives already."
               "What business is that of yours?" asked Mitchell, still whipping. "You have only
                  paid for having your things carried— the team is none of yours."
               "I know that," said 
                     Simon
                     Simons
                  , "but I am anxious to save and preserve the cattle, in order that they
                  may last us through. I don't want to
                  dictate anything about the team—I only speak for the best."
               "Well, if you don't like the way things are going, you can leave. I don't thank
                  you for your advice about our team."
               But Simons perceived the fruitlessness of his words and forthwith became silent.
                  The evening arrived, cold and rainy. They drove into a small valley coursed by one
                  of those narrow, little creeks, so common on the Plains, and prepared for the
                  night's encampment. In a few minutes the other pair, Andrew and Warner, came
                  galloping in; denouncing the cold weather by some of the most violent oaths ever
                  invented on the Mississippi.
               "Why in the world han't you got the tent up? I don't see what you've been about,"
                  said Warner, spreading his feet well apart, and assuming a commanding air. "Ain't
                  supper ready yet? I don't see why you've put off everything until dark," said
                  Andrew, squeaking it out through his nose, in a fault-finding tone.
               "Why don't you come and help us? Do you suppose I am your servant?" questioned
                  Mitchell.
               "No," said Andrew, "but you should have made Simons do it. He agreed to do
                     all our work, and if an agreement is good for anything, he must
                  stick to it too. There is no use of doing business except we do it in a business
                  way—that's what I've got to say about the matter."
               "Mr. Andrew," said Simons, "I think you are too fast. I did not agree to do
                     all your work; but I said I would do all I could; and I am now
                  doing it. We only stopped a few minutes ago, and it is impossible for me to put up
                  the tent, and prepare the supper at the same instant; but, beside that, I have
                  been looking after the cattle. No, I can tell you at once, I did not agree to do
                     all the work, nor will I do it."
               "Yes, that was the agreement. I'll leave it to Warner if 'twasn't. That's just why
                  I insisted on an agreement—I've always found it best to do things in a business
                  way. I'm a business man."
               "Yes, that was the agreement," said Warner, pouting his lips into an important
                  appearance.
               "Well, gentlemen," said Simons, "I am not going to contend about the agreement;
                  and I am only going to do as much work as I can, and if it is not all done, it may
                  remain undone."
               Silly and inconsistent as the above dispute may seem, it is only a fair sample of
                  what existed in nearly every party; but, why most writers of a journey to
                  California, have not given it a place among the pleasures and excitements of the
                  emigrants, is one of the strangest neglects of composition.
               Here we must leave Simons, in order to bring forward other parts of our story.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               MARY, alias Harriet, was favored with a comfortable ride until she reached St.
                  Louis. Here she was obliged to change boats in order to reach St. Joe, where she
                  expected to overtake Simons. This gave her one satisfaction, that was, to get rid
                  of the gaunt, greasy-headed clerk of the boat—a puny, green-looking sort of
                  overgrown boy be was, with a baby grin, trying to act the part of a lover.
               As she reached St. Louis, she saw a boat just leaving for St. Joe. Toward this
                  boat she proceeded with all possible haste. Everybody was saying it was a fast
                  boat; and she put forth all the exertion that she could to get on board. The
                  porters ran with her luggage, and she worked her way through the vast crowd of men
                  with astonishing rapidity Unfortunately, the boat was freed and off before Harriet
                  reached it. She was at some little trouble now. Where should she go? or what
                  should she do? But her former tears were all gone, and a clear, calm face
                  indicated the firmness and coolness of her determination. After spending an hour
                  of tedious search, she found another boat bound for St. Joe, to start in a few
                  hours. Harriet had never managed her own traveling business before, and naturally
                  enough, she thought a "boat was a boat all the world over;" consequently, she
                  hesitated not a moment, but hurried aboard the said boat. It was a little filthy, that boat was; some of the
                  people on board, too, would have been none the worse for a good wash. There were
                  two women passengers beside Harriet; one of them was a very crooked woman, with a
                  dress several hand-breadths shorter before than behind. Harriet thought this
                  crooked woman was a servant, and she asked her where she worked, and for what
                  wages—for Harriet was very anxious to have some conversation.
               "Work!" exclaimed the crooked woman, "me work! Work for wages! I have
                  niggers to work for me, madam. I'm none O' your fanatics o' the North—I ain't. We
                  don't do that 'ere game ourselves—we don't."
               Harriet did not insist upon a further intimacy. The boat finally started, and
                  commenced circling up the great Missouri. Here Harriet, for the first time, had
                  the pleasure of seeing wild parrots; and also saw a country so beautiful that she
                  fancied paradise would soon come in view. "I should like to settle here," she
                  said, but, her eye fell upon the crooked woman, and she added, to herself, "Heaven
                  forbid!"
               On board this boat were two young men, or, rather, thrifty- looking
                  eighteen-year-old boys. They were very well behaved, and seemed to have an undue
                  attachment for each other. They were moderately well dressed, and looked as if
                  they might be farmers. Harriet conversed with these young men a little, for they
                  were on their way to California. She learned that one was Irish, and the other
                  American; but, further than that, she gained but little knowledge of them while on
                  the boat. The boat proved to be a very slow one, and Harriet began to be uneasy,
                  lest Simons should be off before she reached St. Joe; in which case she would be
                  under the painful necessity of returning to her father's house, or of following
                  Simons until she could overtake him. Either of these was a serious and painful
                  alternative. She often looked over the side of the boat, to observe her speed, and
                  every time she looked, she felt like going below to "raise the steam." It was
                  painful, indeed, to Harriet, to think about the slow boats; but we can not stop to
                  comment too much upon such little incidents.
               Late, one dark, rainy evening, she landed at St. Joe. With her baggage on the back
                  of a colored man, she started for the Jackson Hotel. The first few steps she made
                  upon land promised a poor show for reaching the hotel. "O, the mud! the mud!"
                  Harriet exclaimed, lifting her feet a little too quick for her shoes, thereby
                  being obliged to halt, and thrust her hand down the place where her foot had been,
                  to extract the missing article. But it was dark, and nobody observed it. Harriet
                  did not mind it much, but she dreaded getting wet feet; the old Doctor had always
                  said, "if people permitted their feet to get wet, it would surely bring on some
                  dangerous illness;" and she was sure the Doctor was right. But she was determined
                  to go to the Jackson Hotel, even if she had to swim the streets and sidewalks.
                  And, sure enough, by considerable perseverance, she reached the noisy Jackson
                  Hotel. It was filled with loud- talking young men in the bar-room, and with a
                  motley concert in the sitting-room, where a young lady was just in the act of
                  singing the "Bride's Farewell." Harriet heard the words, "Farewell, father;
                  farewell, mother;" and she thought they never before sounded so sacred as now;
                  they caused a dimness to come before her eyes. As soon as she was fairly in the
                  hotel, she was met by a thrifty-looking, middle-aged man, who apologized very much
                  for the noise in his house, and also promised to make her as comfortable as he
                  could. That man's kindness almost caused Harriet to forget the mud and water
                  around his house; and, though years have since rolled by, the name of that man
                  stands near the head of Harriet's list of most valued friends.
               "Your name, Miss, if you please?" and he handed her a large book; in which she
                  wrote her name. Then she looked to see if Simons' name was registered there. It
                  was not to be found. The landlord asked her if there was any particular person she
                  wished to find. Harriet wrote the name. He took it, provided a lantern, and asked
                  Harriet to accompany him to the different hotels, to examine the registers.
                  Harriet dreaded the mud. The landlord brought her a pair of boys' long-legged
                  boots. She put them on, and accompanied him through the rain, dark, water, mud,
                  and cold.
               
               After about an hour of tedious tramping from hotel to hotel, they chanced upon a
                  register in which they found Simons' name. He was gone—four days gone. The only
                  information she could gather, was, he had joined one Mitchell's party, who were
                  traveling with cattle teams.
               "Why," said the landlord to Harriet, "if you join a train of horses,
                  you can overtake him in a few days."
               Harriet knew that horses could travel faster than oxen, and she believed the
                  landlord's story that she could soon overtake Simons. Back to the hotel they went,
                  and Harriet now sat down to a hot supper. The concert was just ending, and the
                  lady was singing "Sweet Home." Harriet little dreamed to whom she would in some
                  future time sing that same tune! The future was 
                     vailed
                     veiled
                   and hidden.
               After supper, she withdrew into a room, suitable to dry her feet, and to examine
                  the various depths she had been in the mud. She was astonished to see how high
                  some of the mud marks had left their print! and, as confused and troubled as she
                  was, she could not refrain from smiling.
               On the following morning, the landlord accompanied her to a company, who were soon
                  going to start, and here she perceived the two young men whom she had noticed on
                  the boat. They all interceded in her favor, and Harriet bought an interest in the
                  said company. She was to assist in cooking, but to be entitled to ride as much as
                  she wished. The company were to start in the afternoon. Harriet made all possible
                  haste to purchase what little articles she could think might be of use on her way;
                  she then said to herself, "I ought to write a letter to may parents," and she
                  procured paper and wrote; but when she had finished she said, "If I fail to
                  overtake Simons, and am obliged to return, people may laugh at my foolish
                  attempt," and then she burnt the letter! In the afternoon Harriet's company moved
                  away toward the far West.
               Unfortunately, the second day after their departure the company quarreled so much
                  that on the following day they split in twain. Neither did it stop here, but in
                  another day they were divided again. At this stage of the division Harriet
                  belonged to a company of five wagons—sixteen men and one woman. As this little
                  company proved to be one of curious incidents and mishaps, we will give it a
                  passing description.
                The company was composed principally young men from many different States; some
                  were American, some foreign, and all pretty respectable in appearance. During
                  their duties they kept up a continual quarreling, and generally accompanied it
                  with abundance of profane swearing. Let not the reader think that these are idle
                  and wicked; for, judging from facts, they are as indispensable to the emigrant's
                  welfare as is his daily food, and never known to be so scarce as the latter has
                  frequently been found to be.
               The captain of this little company was from Michigan—a fine old fellow he was;
                  and, in respect to his good qualities, the company was named the "Michigan
                  Company." The foreman or pilot, whose duty it was to ride a little ahead every day
                  and select camping-places, was a large, good-looking young fellow, usually called
                  "Tom."
               Mr. Ellis, a clergyman, and his lady, were considerably past the meridian of life,
                  and looked as if they might have once held a rank among the fashionable world, and
                  been broken down by extravagant living; but as they were Harriet's particular
                  associates, we will not criticise upon their seemingly reserved, proud airs, as
                  much as we feel inclined. Beside these, there were two young men, whom we shall
                  hereafter meet on so many occasions, that we shall notice their principal
                  appearances.
               Jimie, one of them, was the son of a happy farmer, in the State of Indiana, a
                  sprightly youth of eighteen, and in general exterior, a young man of promising
                  abilities. He was loved, respected and well-wished by all who knew him. A fair
                  complexion, and well balanced temperament, were his physiology. Charley, the
                  other, was of the same age, but larger and stouter, and more coarsely featured. He
                  was an Irishman, from the middle classes of the county of Tipperary—indeed, a fair
                  sample of the Irish, was Charley. Holding a position midway between the refined
                  upper classes, and the brickbat-throwing lower classes, he was not to be trampled
                  upon by violence, neither was he
                  destitute of politeness and good manners. He was of dark complexion, coarse
                  features, and of combined motive and mental temperament. He strained hard to
                  abandon the Irish brogue, but having been only a few months in America, he
                  sometimes neglected himself. For a few weeks previous to his departure for
                  California, he had been in the employ of Jimie's father, and, consequently, became
                  acquainted with Jimie.
               Between these two young men a brotherly attachment existed, and wherever they
                  went, or whatever they did, they were 
                     inseperable
                     inseparable
                   companions; in fact, the love they had for each other, made everybody
                  love them. However, in dispositions, they were entirely different; so, also, they
                  were different in religion. Charley was a faithful Catholic; but his much beloved
                  friend was a real skeptic, if not an infidel to Christianity itself. Jimie was
                  rather sedate, but talkative; Charley said but little—but what he said was
                  extremely odd and witty. In general education, Jimie was far superior to Charley;
                  but why they formed such an attachment to each other, was a mystery to themselves
                  as well as to everybody who chanced to know them. The balance of the company was
                  made up of Johns, Bills, Freds, Dicks, etc., none of whom deserve description for
                  peculiarities.
               Such were the company in which Harriet enlisted, and traveled toward California;
                  but, lest people form too low an estimate of the party, we must state that the
                  abbreviation of names has nothing to do with rank and class when crossing the
                  Plains. It is a universally adopted system, to call each other by the shortest
                  possible name, and very few are ever known by anything except an abbreviation of
                  the Christian name. All that wonderful collection of great names, which nearly
                  distracted all the old women in each one's neighborhood in his infancy—all, all
                  are lost and unknown on the Plains, and sacrificed to some contemptible dub.
                  Harriet made faithful inquiry of the different passers-by, but succeeded in
                  gaining no information of her lover.
               When first entering the magnificent open plains, the mind of the emigrant expands
                  so wonderfully that he fancies he shall be deprived of the glorious scene too
                  soon; but the continuation of little hills and hollows soon becomes very
                  monotonous and tiresome some, and he sighs for a change. The wide, level valley of
                  the Platte is girded by bluffs of meadow-looking upland, but extending so far away
                  that the mind grows weary contemplating their awful distance. A few willows are
                  scattered along the banks of the wide river, but the valley is unadorned by a
                  single shrub, and continues in a level plain many miles to the side, where it
                  rises a little, but still devoid of timber, and then stretches onward, smooth and
                  even, until it fades away in the glimmering light. Farther up the river, these
                  bluffs are broken by granite projections rising in the form of dilapidated cities,
                  and, like their ruins, unfolding a series of wonderful novelties that confuse
                  reason and leave wild imagination to soar among the awful changes of material
                  existence.
               Scattered over these immense fields are to be seen small droves or flocks of
                  antelopes, skipping so swift and close to the ground, that their graceful
                  movements seem to be controlled by some supernatural power to escape the
                  sharp-shooting rifles following so rapidly after. But when buffalo come lumbering
                  down from the distant bluffs, packed in immense droves, fleeing before the merry
                  laugh and joyous hurrah! of the mounted hunters, they add to the magnificent
                  Plains one of the most pleasing and animating scenes that the imagination can
                  picture.
               "Ah!" said Harriet, "my father would take me to Europe to improve my mind! But
                  these glorious, romantic scenes are unknown to the great world. Here, where my
                  eyes are o'erflowed with tears of emotion—where I can weep and rejoice with
                  everything living—where my heart bleeds for my old companions, and for one whose
                  absence is wearing out my existence; here, I can cast my eyes o'er the boundless
                  meadows, and see the smiles of heaven descending in matchless purity and
                  sweetness. O, hail! enchanting scene of which I have so often dreamed, stamp thy
                  thousand views and soul-enrapturing glories deep upon my heart, but, Oh! remove
                  the cruel monster who declares that my soul is mortal."
               Among the objects which attracted Harriet's attention, were the Indians, who were
                  to be seen in small gangs, roving about nearly destitute of clothing—begging for
                  bread. Their styles of dress were very
                  curious. Their hair, so long, straight and black, was braided and tied into horns
                  and tails, which pointed toward both heaven and earth in the most ridiculous
                  wildness. Their few plain or ornamental skins were suspended in very ungraceful
                  indifference about their large, well-shaped persons; but their misty-black,
                  inexpressive eyes lighted their ugly copper-tinged features more with pain and
                  sorrow, than with savage expressions. Their noses and ears were stretched somewhat
                  out of shape by a superabundance of jewelry, but paint was bestowed, both red and
                  white, in great abundance all over their faces. Curious people these. Real Know
                  Nothings are the Indians. But Harriet took a more sedate view of these unfortunate
                  people, and in her Journal, remarked, "I cannot perceive why people will treat
                  them cruelly. When I saw those nearly naked mothers kissing their little babes,
                  who were almost frozen with cold, I could have cried with pity, and to their
                  trembling little infants, either asleep or crying, I would have given a world away
                  if I could have made them comfortable. But their poor mothers seemed to be weeping
                  for the distress of the little ones, who, poor things, were unconscious of the
                  miserable life before them. Ah! here are the two representatives of the mortal
                  condition of man. The one is ignorant of the arts and sciences, and exposed to all
                  the evil effects of the common elements; but throwing his whole dependence upon
                  what he supposes to be the Author of his existence, and forming his whole moral
                  conduct according to the precepts of his ancient fathers. Ah! they are heathens!
                  The other has become so confident of his wisdom, by having some knowledge of the
                  arts and sciences, that he leads a life of exposure and abuse, placing all his
                  dependence in gold, and forming his moral conduct according to circumstances.
                  Behold! these are Christians! who stand in public places and thanks God that they
                  are not as the Indians, and pray for power to exterminate the poor race! Oh!
                  relieve me, for I am sad and weary with conjecture."
               With all Harriet's anxiety to find Simons, she guarded against communicating her
                  wishes to any of the company, lest it might subject her to some unseen trouble;
                  bout she never neglected to inquire of strangers, nor did she neglect to hurry her
                  own company to travel as fast as possible.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               AFTER traveling several hundred miles, the line of emigrants becomes somewhat more
                  broken and scattered; yet, along the level valleys of the Platte, the number that
                  can be seen at one view is immense. In appearance, though, they make a sad
                  contrast to their former beauty. Their wagon covers are generally torn and
                  ragged—their cattle, growing poor and weak, are no longer beautiful, but go
                  limping before their burdens wretchedly indeed—and even the emigrants themselves,
                  are becoming ragged and filthy; the wet weather has ruined their boots, and they
                  are limping; the cold winds have cracked their faces and hands, and they are
                  continually bleeding. Some of the companies too, are thinned and reduced in number
                  by a few, whose mortal remains are resting back on the way—in tombs where tears
                  shall fall no more! Alas! there too, are resurrectionists, wolves, that feast upon
                  the bodies of the dead!
               The quarreling which was so common at first, is now generally entered into as the
                  most important part of family duty—young and old, men and women, brothers, and
                  even fathers and sons come forward to engage in the most outrageous quarreling at
                  every favorable opportunity. The fatigue, cold, wet, absence of wood for cooking,
                  standing guard in rainy, stormy nights, seem not to be so favorable for social
                  development as other easy and comfortable modes of living.
               Not many days after Simons' party left St. Joe, Mitchell formed an ungovernable
                  hatred to two of the cattle—the leaders. Upon these leaders he bestowed many a
                  whip—both lash and stock. If it rained he whipped the leaders—if it hailed he
                  whipped them—if the sun shone he still whipped them—if the wind blew he still
                  whipped—whipped the leaders—and whip the
                  leaders he would; a good whipper was Mitchell. But the result of this treatment
                  had spoiled the cattle, and well nigh finished their miserable existence. This
                  occasioned a continual quarrel between him and Simons, and cherished a contention
                  in the whole party. Warner and Andrew refused to do any driving at all—in fact,
                  refused to do any of the labor whatever, but busied themselves riding their
                  ponies, in search of game and amusement. These two belonged to that class of
                  emigrants who usually consider that the journey across the Plains, is one of
                  pleasure; but Simons and Mitchell, upon whom devolved all the labor, through the
                  ugliness of their companions, belonged to the number who have experienced its real
                  hardships.
               As their cattle were fast decreasing in strength, it became a matter of serious
                  consideration what should be done to insure their safety to California. After much
                  deliberation, they concluded to put their provisions in sacks and discharge their
                  heavy boxes. In doing this, a contention arose between Simons and Andrew—the
                  little, whining business man—about Simons' luggage.
               "No, we didn't. We never agreed to carry your baggage. That's the very reason I
                  wanted a fair understanding in the first place—I always like to do business in a
                  business way—myself."
               "Why, most assuredly you did," said Simons, "did I not tell you I had about fifty
                  or sixty pounds? and you told me to bring it down next day and pack up?"
               "No, I'm blamed if I did. I'll leave it to Warner if I did!" said Andrew.
               "No, you didn't do no such a thing," said Warner, always setting his feet well
                  apart before speaking. "It is just as we see fit about carrying your baggage; and
                  if we don't choose to do so, our agreement don't bind us to do so nother—so it
                  don't."
               "I say, you did agree to carry it, and I paid you sixty-five dollars for doing
                  it."
               "No we didn't; and your things must go out too—we didn't buy the team to be killed
                  by hauling your things about," said Andrew.
               For all that Simons and Mitchell generally quarreled all day, yet, their abuse
                  from Andrew and Warner made them have some sympathy for each other; and, in this
                  instance, Mitchell, fearing that Simons was not having justice done, spoke in his
                  behalf.
               "Yes, gentlemen, that is the way I understood the agreement—we agreed to carry his
                  luggage, and we ought to do it."
               "No, we didn't," said Andrew. "Do you 'spose I am a business man, and ever make
                  such an agreement as that! No, sir, his luggage must go out."
               "Well," said Mitchell, "agreement or not, look at the injustice of the case. Here
                  we are carrying four hundred pounds each, and we won't allow him to carry sixty!
                  No, sir, I'll never give my consent to such an outrage as that, I assure you."
               "Yes, you must," said Andrew, continually squeaking through his nose, "an
                  agreement is an agreement, all the world over, and I say his things must go out,
                  and if he don't like it, he may join some other party—I don't care."
               "That is a very fine story," said Simons, "after you get all my money, to tell me
                  if I am not willing to have my clothes thrown away that I may join another
                  party!"
               "But one suit will last you through to California, and you don't need any
                  more."
               After considerable difficulty, Andrew succeeded in convincing Mitchell and Warner,
                  that Simons' bundle ought to be discharged; and, as Simons was in some danger of
                  being thrown out of the party altogether—in which case there would be a surety of
                  still greater hardship—he was obliged to see his small pack very deliberately cast
                  to the winds.
               This breach of common justice took place on Saturday evening, and early the next
                  morning they reached the crossing of the South Platte.
               Whatever everybody's notion is of keeping the Sabbath holy, it matters not to the
                  emigrant—he is obliged to travel according to the grass and wood, if he acts the
                  part of a prudent man, and wishes to save himself and his team from starving. The
                  Sunday's labor before Simons' party now was to cross the river. Diagonally, the
                  river was about one mile wide, and it was to be forded by following the sandbars,
                  where its depth was about three or four
                  feet. As usual, however, Andrew and Warren were galloping over the plains after
                  buffalo; but Simons and Mitchell were left to the afore-named task, of conducting
                  the wagon across the river. The day was hazy and exceedingly cold, with occasional
                  spitting of fine hail, which, carried on the fierce wind, rendered the bath they
                  were about to take anything but pleasant. Mitchell resolved to ride in the wagon,
                  for the purpose of avoiding the cold water, but Simons was stationed near the head
                  of the team, where, as a matter of course, he was under the necessity of
                  wading.
               The bottom of this river is covered with a thick bed of quicksand, and great
                  danger follows standing in one place, for the sand is not sufficient to support
                  one but a very few minutes, when he finds himself fast sinking beneath the water.
                  Owing to this it is necessary to drive as fast as possible, and not allow the team
                  to stop, or a possibility of never starting again becomes very likely; and, as
                  emigrants are well aware of this, they always prepare a good assortment of whips
                  before starting. After that fashion were Simons and Mitchell prepared, and to the
                  river they went; but the first plunge down the steep bank sent the wagon in
                  advance of some of the cattle, which were found standing in all sorts of confusion
                  and fear, with the chain under their feet, evidently contemplating what was to
                  come next. However, some of their number seemed to think it was a "bilious case,"
                  and turned side-about and made back for the bank. In this confused and tangled-up
                  condition, Mitchell, bellowing at the top of his voice, eased himself by severely
                  thrashing all the cattle within his reach, and as the wheel-cattle were not used
                  to his driving, they were frightened almost out of their senses, and kept drawing
                  the wagon among the retreating leaders. Simons, continually calling to Mitchell to
                  stop whipping until he could get the team to rights, was running after the
                  leaders, but the poor leaders, fearing that he was after giving them a flogging,
                  continued to run wherever the chain would allow them. At this stage of affairs,
                  the chain was under the bellies of some, across the backs of others, and between
                  the legs of not a few; but in a little while the scene became so complicated, that
                  the whole concern cern was brought to a stand-still. Amid great quarreling and
                  ill-temper, Simons now proceeded to unloose the chain, and arrange the cattle into
                  a pulling condition; but, to do this in such deep water, and manage the
                  frightened, restless team, was no trifling task. However, after considerable
                  perseverance, he succeeded in doing it, and once more they started; but only
                  started until they stopped, and tangled up again. One thing that rendered their
                  labor very serious was, that off the sandbars, the water was five or six feet
                  deep, which resulted in giving the team and Simons many a cold dipping.
               In this sad condition, sometimes starting and then stopping, they continued until
                  the greater part of the day was gone, and were only about half way across. Rain
                  and hall were still falling, the cold wind blowing, and the water very cold—all of
                  which made Simons' condition one of the most wretched imaginable. But a new scene
                  soon followed. Three men were approaching—two walking and one riding: they were
                  Andrew, Warner, and a young fellow called Nixon. Warner was wounded with a rifle
                  ball. This occurred by chasing a buffalo which he had wounded, but when he came
                  close upon it, it turned and made at him. At this instant Andrew was about firing,
                  but a moment too soon his gun was discharged, and the ball passed through a
                  portion of Warner's knee and lodged in his pony's heart.
               Nixon was a youth of about twenty years, but in appearance much younger, and, as
                  he forms the character of an important part of crossing the Plains, we must notice
                  a few of his exterior attractions. He was extremely delicate, and consequently
                  took no part in the labor of driving, cooking, and such-like emigrant duties, but
                  busied himself by riding along and doing nothing, or by hunting, just exactly as
                  he felt inclined. He was extremely fair, and had his flaxen hair been long, he
                  might have passed very well for one of the fair sex; and so mild, gentle, and good
                  was his disposition, that everybody liked him; and by traveling in that way, he
                  was well known for a long way ahead and in the rear.
               As Andrew accompanied Warner across the river, little Nixon halted to assist
                  Simons with the team; but as soon as Andrew and Warner were safely landed on the opposite side of the river, Andrew set up
                  a furious cursing at Mitchell for riding in the wagon; but Mitchell complained of
                  being ill, and wanted the pony brought in to carry him across. Between these two
                  important men the most violent oaths continued to fly back and forth across the
                  water for a long time, but as they were so far away from each other, Andrew's
                  whining voice could not throw the words distinctly. Off little Nixon ran and
                  brought in the pony, whereupon Mitchell mounted and proceeded across, leaving
                  Simons and Nixon to manage the team as best they could. As soon as Mitchell landed
                  on the bank, he told Andrew that if Simons had whipped the leaders, as he directed
                  in the first place, they would have crossed well enough. This occasioned a new
                  series of curses to fall upon Simons, who was nearly stiff with cold; but whether
                  he thought of giving the pair of them a good thrashing when he got across, we are
                  not prepared to say.
               Nixon was well acquainted with cattle, and proved to be of great importance in
                  this instance; but, being so very delicate, his thin frame was soon chilled
                  through; his face was turning pale, his lips were purple, and a death-like
                  weakness accompanied his trembling voice. It was then nearly night, and they were
                  yet two hundred yards from the desired bank; but Simons no sooner noticed the
                  fearful change on the good boy, than he exclaimed—
               "Why, my dear sir, you must get out of the water—you are freezing! Lose not a
                  moment—you are endangering your life!"
               "I don't feel the cold now so much as I did; then, I can't think of going and
                  leaving you here," said Nixon; but in his voice there seemed a sad
                  omen—it was that touching sympathy wherein righteousness and good-will are above
                  all mortal things. Fortunately, the cattle took a sudden start and drew the wagon
                  safely over. Nixon could scarcely walk, but knowing that his team was on ahead, he
                  was anxious to overtake them, and merely bade them a good night and hurried away.
                  Simons had frequently seen Nixon, but never before had any conversation with him;
                  still there seemed something very curious or strange about him that made him long
                  to make further inquiry. It was a curious presentiment, that an odd history would
                  some day revive his memory of things nearly forgotten.
               On account of Simons having no change of clothing, his condition now was wretched
                  in the extreme. It was night, and they were obliged to camp upon the bank of the
                  river, where neither wood nor grass were to be found. It was his night to stand
                  guard, but whether he would have preferred a comfortable bed, we leave every one
                  to judge for themselves; certain it was, that the darkness of the night did not
                  pass off without witnessing some serious quarreling in that little party.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               ASH HOLLOW is one of the most delightful changes of scenery on the entire route to
                  California or Oregon. It is nothing very remarkable either, but, wearied with the
                  monotony of the smooth, rolling Plains, one drops so suddenly into this wild and
                  romantic freak of nature, that it seems in a measure to pay him for all the
                  tedious journey behind. It is formed by a collection of sand and rocks thrown
                  together in great disorder, and covered with cedar and ash trees clinging to the
                  high and fearful projections, so that it seems to be one of the most retired
                  places that a person could wish for. The hollow itself is nearly inclosed with
                  these little hills, and the North Platte running directly through it, makes it a
                  very happy resting-place for the wearied emigrant. And from the fact that the
                  three greatest privations of the journey—wood, grass, and good water—are here in
                  abundance, it is usually crowded with emigrants.
               The next day after Simons' party crossed the South Platte, this encampment was
                  thrown into great excitement and anxiety. This was occasioned by a man and his
                  wife hurrying round among the wagons and tents in every direction, and making the
                  most careful inquiry after the missing youth, Nixon. These were Mr. Hamlin and
                  wife who were in search. Mr. Hamlin was a
                  farmer from Indiana, and, as he afterward proved, a near neighbor to Jimie's
                  father. He was about thirty years of age, a good-looking, dark-complected,
                  bushy-whiskered, wholesome fellow; the pride and confident of Julia, his wife, a
                  lady somewhat younger, with a pair of black, fascinating eyes ornamenting one of
                  the best-humored faces that a round, plump lady ever possessed. Many a song did
                  Mrs. Hamlin sing on the Plains, and not a few were charmed with her voice—it was
                  such a voice as made the romance of the Plains seem as a dream; and Julia could
                  laugh such a laugh as would make the lonesome, dark nights merry and joyful—a
                  happy woman was she! But now, alas! poor Julia was sad. It was her brother who was
                  gone, and no sister could have loved a brother better: she thought she had no
                  other connections living. The result of all her faithful inquiries was of no
                  avail—no word could be learned of his having been seen, and Julia now feared his
                  days were numbered. As soon as this news was started, many of the emigrants also
                  took part in making inquiry, but it, likewise, brought forth no news of the
                  missing boy. Many seemed to think he might have been drowned in crossing the
                  river; but, on the evening following, Simons' party arrived in the encampment, and
                  stated that Nixon had left them just at dusk on Sunday evening. The alarm now
                  became serious; and if he was not murdered by the Indians, it was likely that he
                  might still be living, but lost by following some Indian trail.
               On the following day a great number of men, well mounted, struck over the hills in
                  the direction that they supposed he must be, if lost. After a few miles' ride,
                  they found three or four pieces of somebody's shirt, marked with blood! Finding
                  this at a considerable distance from the road, they at once concluded that Nixon
                  had fallen a victim to the savages. No sadder news could have reached Julia than
                  the conviction of Nixon's death, and no other could have created such a sensation
                  among the people. Sorrowfully indeed did Mrs. Hamlin leave Ash-hollow and proceed
                  on her journey to the West. No further doubt now existed, and everybody believed
                  that Nixon had been murdered by the Indians. This news went upon the winds, and,
                  both far ahead and far in the rear, the outrageous conduct of the Indians was the
                  only topic that engaged public attention. Violent oaths were sworn, knives were
                  sharpened, guns and pistols cleaned and well loaded, and everybody prepared for a
                  desperate encounter with the first Indians who dared to show their faces.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE sad loss of Nixon, was the occasion of dispelling much of the quarreling and
                  ill-feeling that existed in many of the companies; but, serious as it was, it
                  could not banish the profane swearing from the Michigan Company—in fact, it rather
                  increased than diminished it. Of course, such a state of affairs was anything but
                  pleasing to Harriet, but, she had resolved to cross the Plains, and, woman-like,
                  do it she would. However, with all their rough language among themselves, they
                  were kind to her and Mrs. Ellis, and as polite and good-humored as anybody could
                  be under such circumstances, and she could not ask more. For the Indians she had
                  great sympathy and feeling; and the terrible oaths now sworn against these
                  unfortunate people, filled her with fear and trembling on their behalf. Again and
                  again did she appeal to the Captain and to Mr. Ellis to stay the wrath of the
                  company, but all—all to no purpose.
               By fast traveling, they were now within a few days of Simons' party; but what made
                  their condition critical was, that they would be passing Ash-hollow, just when the
                  excitement was greatest. But their alarm, however, was no greater than that of
                  other companies, for every one was expecting an attack at any moment. It was on a
                  windy day, just after they had passed Ash-hollow, that they discovered about
                  twenty Indians, all mounted, heading directly to their camp, where they had halted
                  for dinner and for baiting their cattle. The Indians were to the southward, and
                  descending the bluffs at a distance of several miles; but occasionally
                  disappearing, as they fell behind some of
                  the little hills, though never but a few moments at a time. The wind was from the
                  northward and blowing violently, flapping the ragged wagon covers, and frequently
                  whirling hats and bonnets in the air, or tumbling them rapidly over the prairie,
                  which resulted in some smart racing. The wagons were standing in a somewhat
                  semicircular figure, to break the cold wind; and within this circle the company
                  were seated on the ground taking their dinners; their cattle were grazing a little
                  on one side, and Charley and Jimie were guarding them from straying. Those who
                  were at dinner were laughing and talking as usual, over their hard biscuit and fat
                  pork, but little thinking of the desperate scene which would so soon follow.
               From this gustable enjoyment they were aroused by Charley shouting at the top of
                  his voice:
               "Indians! Indians! murthering Indians!" but the word was no sooner given, than
                  they sprang to their feet, nearly wild with fear, looking in every direction for
                  Indians.
               "Where? where, Charley?" asked a great number of voices; but Charley now reached
                  their presence, all-impatient at the stupidity of their eyes, exclaiming:
               "Faith, do ye not see them, and I am pointing all the time to them? I belaves, by
                  my sowl, if they would murther ye, ye would never see divil the hate 'o them.
                  There they are! behind the little mountain, jest—do ye not see them?"
               "No, no, Charley, I see nothing," replied about a dozen voices.
               "Faith, I belaves they will murther us before ye know where ye are, and there are
                  enough o' them to eat us up. I was ating the last bit o' dinner, when I diskivered
                  the craythurs flying like serpents along by that white cloud in the
                  mountains—there! do ye not see them? O! by my sowl we shall all be murthered!"
               "O! I see, I see," replied many voices, as Charley's mention of the cloud directed
                  their attention further than they had been previously looking.
               Not a moment was lost until every rifle was well examined and re-primed, ready for
                  positive execution. Mrs. Ellis and Harriet; stood aghast and speechless, trembling
                  at the contemplated plated scene of destruction. Charley and Jimie were requested
                  to guard the cattle from being frightened away, but the balance of the company
                  were prepared to do the duties of warfare. At first, some differences of opinion
                  existed as to whether the Indians might be hostile or peaceable, but by the time
                  they had all things in readiness, they were near enough to be distinguished as
                  warriors of the Sioux tribe, which left no further doubt but that their condition
                  was critical in the extreme. Feathers, ribbons and skins were braided to their
                  ponies' tails and manes, and when galloping against the wind, presented a bold,
                  wild, warlike appearance really frightful. As soon as they left the bluffs, they
                  continued across the level valley directly toward the company's camp, with as much
                  zeal and courage as if a few minutes more would crown their glory with scalps
                  sufficient for eternal renown; but the company were ready to "welcome them with
                  bloody hands and hospitable graves" as soon as they were within reach of rifle
                  shot.
               With their rifles and ammunition in hand, the company stepped a little to one
                  side, in order to draw the arrows fired from the Indians away from the wagons,
                  where Mrs. Ellis and Harriet were standing as trembling spectators. But the scene
                  was soon brought to a close. The Captain designated a certain spot where he would
                  call upon the Indians to halt; to do which, if they refused, he would give the
                  signal to fire upon them. In a few minutes they reached the place pointed out by
                  the Captain, who called out to them, "Stop! stop! stop" but the Indians seemed to
                  be looking in the direction of the wagons, and paid no attention to the Captain's
                  command, but galloped steadily onward. Enraged at such boldness, the Captain threw
                  up his hands and again called out, "Stop! stop!" and at once the Indians turned
                  their eyes in that direction, as though they had not seen them before, and were
                  just in the act of halting—but a moment too late. The Captain cried, "Fire! my
                  boys," and quicker than thought a volley of rifle balls were flying at their
                  breasts! With a dreadful howling and fierce, wild yell, two of the Indians fell!
                  The others halted but a moment to gaze upon their fallen companions, and then
                  galloped away. Evidently, many of the
                  Indians were wounded, but not seriously enough to fall from their ponies. The
                  company now proceeded to the two fallen Indians, but they were not altogether
                  destitute of triumphant joy, to think that they had expired instantly, and that
                  the work of slaughter had been no greater. A few of their number, however, seemed
                  to rejoice in their skill at warfare, and wished for another engagement. Mrs.
                  Ellis and Harriet could not be prevailed upon to go and look at the Indians, but
                  remained at the wagons.
               Over these two bodies some strange conversation was going on previous to their
                  interment, to which Charley listened for some time, but, on hearing one of the
                  party remark, that the Indians ought to be exterminated, he put on a sedate face,
                  and commenced:
               "Faith, and do ye think them is not people, and got sowls the same as
                  yerself?"
               "Souls or not, Charley, they ought to be destroyed, and then we shall have no
                  further trouble with then. There always will be danger and destruction where they
                  live—only think of them murdering that young man a few days ago!"
               "But ye's have killed two for one!"
               "Yes, Charley, but what are they—beasts—better out of their miserable existence
                  than to remain here half starving."
               "Perhaps they think the same of ye's?"
               "No, Charley, they can't think—they are a poor d—d lot of heathens—and the quicker
                  they are out of existence the better. Talk about sending missionaries among them!
                  Nonsense!" Nothing can be made of them—it is no use of spending money and time
                  with them. It's the height of nonsense."
               "Faith, and it's little more credit the poor Irish get."
               "No, Charley, the Irish are taught the Scriptures, and believe them, but these
                  wretches can't be made to believe anything different from their old heathenish
                  notions. Missionaries have tried in vain."
               "But the poor craythurs are starving for food, more than for the Scriptures!"
               "Yes," said Jimie, coming to Charley's rescue, "yes, if they would send out men of
                  good common sense, to teach them how to till the ground and live comfortably, it
                  would be much more consistent than to try to stuff the Bible down their throats,
                  before they can comprehend it. They may be taught until doomsday to sing and pray,
                  but if they are half-starved, it is impossible for them to grow up destitute of
                  evil propensities."
               "No, they ought to be exterminated" replied several others, and I should think
                  you, Jimie, ought to know it, but Charley there, is full of his 'old foreign
                  notions' about American affairs, and don't know any better; he thinks nothing is
                  right except it is done under the eyes of a priest."
               "What," said Jimie, "is the use of throwing such an insult at Charley? Must he not
                  speak his opinion about such a thing as this without being insulted?"
               "Bah! to h—ll with your foreign sympathy. We don't thank any foreigner to dictate
                  about our affairs, and I think d—d little of any man who will take sides with
                  them, too!"
               "Come, come, come," said the Captain, "drop it—drop it. Let us get the spades and
                  bury these bodies, and be off, for another gang of Indians may come upon us for a
                  more desperate fight."
               "No, Charley," replied one, "you would never do for a 'back- woodsman.'"
               "And divil the place else I iver was, excepting once to the town o' Cork for a
                  fortnight, and that was the same time I was telling ye I recaved that knot above
                  my ear, and it was no favorable opinion I formed o' the same aither."
               There was a decided majority in favor of visiting as much destruction as possible
                  upon the Indians; some also looked upon the present little brush with considerable
                  pride, when they thought about their decided victory that resulted from their good
                  courage and marksmanship. But a few minutes passed, ere the bodies were
                  unceremoniously buried, and the Michigan Company once more on their way. A sharp
                  look-out was now maintained, in order to be ready for another attack in case the
                  Indians chose to seek vengeance; but nothing was so conspicuous in the
                     character acter of the company as
                  their loud talking and vain boasting about the "battle with the Indians."
                  Different emigrants heard about it, and everybody looked upon them as a favored
                  body of men, by the direct interference of Divine power, that they should have
                  "conquered the Indians without a single man of them being wounded." But the battle
                  gave them two ponies, too, which more than paid the expenses of the war, as well
                  as gave them a token of valor.
               Two days after the above (battle) the Michigan Company overtook Hamlin and his
                  wife, who were now traveling rather slowly. At noon they halted in a small valley,
                  which was coursed by a very beautiful little creek, but formed by a continuation
                  of small, bald hills. In Mrs. Hamlin's condition, having lost her brother, nothing
                  could have been more satisfactory than to meet with Mrs. Ellis and Harriet—the
                  only ladies she had seen for many weeks; and she occupied her time in conversing
                  with them, asking a hundred-and-one questions in a minute, and answering as many
                  for each one of her fair companions at the same time. They had never seen each
                  other before, but the fact of their all being ladies, and so far away, was quite
                  sufficient to produce a familiarity and generally sympathy.
               While they were thus engaged, the men were talking over the Indian battle, and
                  lying and rolling about on the ground, according as their own feelings dictated.
                  They had finished dinner and were about preparing to start on, when the
                  ever-faithful eyes of Charley again discovered Indians approaching.
               "O, captain," said he, look here!—a whole army o' Indians! and they're afther
                  bringing all the childher in creation!"
               Charley had scarcely spoken, when there was a general rush for firearms; but here
                  was a grand mistake—almost every weapon was neglected and out of order, and only
                  one or two of the guns loaded. The women, in this instance, seemed almost as
                  courageous as the men, and, huddled close together, were waiting the result. The
                  Indians were about a dozen in number, and when first seen were in the act of
                  descending one of the little hills, but were too soon behind another to give them
                  an opportunity of conjecturing their design. Before they could appear over the
                  next hill the company were busily ramming powder and lead down their rifles, so
                  that, when they did appear, they should be ready for whatever might chance to
                  follow.
               The suspense was only for a few minutes, for the Indians were soon in full view;
                  but behold! instead of warriors, they were composed of all ages, sizes, and sexes,
                  strolling along half-single half-double file, as merry as crickets, laughing and
                  talking jollily.
               "What's that they're carrying?" questioned a few of the company, as something
                  heavy seemed to be supported by the Indians who were in the rear. At this time the
                  Indians were distant about two hundred paces, but so huddled together that it was
                  difficult to see those who were carrying the bundle, as it seemed. They were known
                  at once to be peaceable, and the company took no further precautions; but the fact
                  of their laughing and talking so merrily, and carrying such a burden, seemed so
                  contradictory to the general character of the Indian, that the company stood
                  gazing upon them with curiosity and distrust. In a few minutes, however, it was
                  all explained, and the scene became touching in the extreme. Legs and arms were
                  soon seen dangling over the shoulders of the Indians who supported the burden, and
                  "It's a man! it's a man!" began to be whispered among the company; but alas! a
                  fiercer spirit was hurrying through their veins, and a sadder scene dazzling
                  before their eyes! Presently they were holding out their hands and trying to say
                  in English, "How do?—how do?" but at that instant a whitish or rather flaxen head
                  of hair was to be seen, supported by one in the rear of the burden; and then,
                  alas! how fiercely flew the solemn conviction of the inhuman deed of two days
                  before, as the rude savages drew near! What a death-like stillness overcame the
                  whole company as the terrible reality of the missing one appeared as a vision! It
                  was a man! and one whose appearance poor Julia remembered well. The
                  body was scarcely laid down ere the weeping woman attempted to fly to his
                  presence; but ah! her joy had unnerved her—her limbs failed, and with a faint
                  scream she sank to the ground. She had seen him! he was living! it was Nixon—her
                  brother! No marks were upon his person, but a delirious stare was on his pale and
                  wasted features, and his almost lifeless
                  brain seemed unconscious of the mournful scene around him—he could no longer
                  recognize his own sister, but looked wildly upon her, while his suffering mind
                  evinced the awful struggle to bring back to memory the realities before him.
               The outrageous conduct of the company, in killing the Indians, now became so
                  evident, that at first it was likely to produce some severe reaction among
                  themselves; but it finally passed off, not, however, without removing all
                  disposition thereafter to boast of the "battle with the Indians." On the first
                  day, Nixon showed signs of recovery, but still remained so unconscious and
                  delirious that Mr. Hamlin was obliged to drive exceedingly slow; and here, again,
                  was the inhumanity of the Michigan Company manifested, for they could not travel
                  so slowly, and immediately deserted them, leaving Mrs. and Mr. Hamlin alone to
                  attend to their dying brother.
               To persons who have never crossed the Plains, this may seem to be, and is, a
                  breach of humanity unbecoming our race, who claim to be Christians; but it only
                  proves how little we can trust to a man's religious pretensions, when
                  self-preservation, or self-aggrandizement, is at stake. Of course, Mrs. Ellis and
                  Harriet could not give their consent to so cruel a separation; but they were
                  obliged to yield to the wishes of the greater number of the company—at the head of
                  whom were the Captain and Rev. Mr. Ellis.
               In this sad condition, Mr. Hamlin and his wife were left to minister to Nixon, who
                  promised little hope of ever rising. Mrs. Hamlin tried all she knew, and thought
                  of nothing else; but her anxious, troubled mind nearly despaired of ever again
                  mingling in social union with her only brother. Every hour of the day she would
                  lean over his helpless body, and whisper in his ear, "Nixon, Nixon! do you not
                  know me? I am Julia, your sister! Do you not know me?" But his lips remained
                  motionless, and a wild stare was the only answer he could give. Thus the
                  unfortunate young man continued for several days; but one evening it was plain
                  that a change was coming, as he began to show more than ordinary strength; and
                  thought and life seemed about to revive. But, alas! it seemed too like that
                  dangerous awakening of the soul when life arouses the earthly part to take its
                  last view of mortality—to feast for a moment upon the sweets of earth—then wing
                  its way to eternity!
               The sun had sunk behind the distant mountains, and all nature was overhung by that
                  glorious twilight, so soothing to the reflecting mind: ay, the whole world even
                  seemed to be filled with devotion for the magnificence and perfection of the
                  visible creation; but the glory of the coming night carried the mind so far back
                  to the past, to reflect o'er the lapse of ages, and the mutabilities and changes
                  of time, that the dark clouds of melancholy hovered o'er its romantic flight, and
                  impelled it back to earth, aggrieved that man was mortal.
               The stillness of the lonely valley, and the wild, rough, black mountains that
                  surrounded it, only made the lamentable condition of the sufferer more touching to
                  the few anxious hearts clustered around his feeble frame.
               A few others were camping in the little valley, some of whom came to look at
                  Nixon; but, amid their conversation, Julia was startled at seeing him rise in his
                  wagon-bed, and instantly rushed to his side, exclaiming, "O! Nixon, what is
                  wrong?" but her words were scarcely spoken, when he seemed to turn wild; and,
                  fixing his eyes upon hers, feebly asked, "Julia, where are we?" but, alas! he
                  never spoke again! He seemed wild with fear, but still held fast upon Julia, until
                  his strength gradually failed, and he again rested upon his bed. For a moment his
                  eyes turned toward the starry heavens; then back to Julia's; but no longer was
                  sorrow depicted in his features; neither care nor suffering; and all was
                  still—even his breathing seemed to have ceased—and only his eyes connected him to
                  things on earth. Julia was holding his thin, cold hands, regardless of the tears
                  streaming down her face; she witnessed that last, sad quiver, and, alas! his
                  spirit fled! Poor Julia thought she saw the last of her connections pass away!
                  where no other mortal lies—far away on the cold, wild plains, where hungry wolves
                  are howling—where tears shall fall no more! Ah! poor woman, the bright future was
                  then unknown to thee! Hamlin and his wife now moved alone; but who could tell their grief when taking their last view
                  of the tomb! Ah! a drop—a shadow—and life is gone! Given in wisdom—sold in
                  folly!
               The sad news of Nixon's death spread far and wide; but, with all the kindness of
                  the Indians in restoring him to his people, the news still was, that he had been
                  wounded so badly by the Indians, that he died of his wounds; and the fury of very
                  many of the emigrants was raging for an opportunity for "vengeance." Why our
                  enlightened people are so anxious to glut their ire upon these poor creatures,
                  without stopping to consider the common rights of equality and justice, seems to
                  be a glaring neglect in their moral education, which has never been explained.
               The second day after the Michigan Company left Hamlin and his wife, when Harriet
                  was amusing herself by "hard walking," she noticed a great number of buffalo
                  skulls lying along the roadside, upon which the emigrants in advance had written
                  their names. These skulls are to be seen here and there for several hundred miles,
                  but as nobody attends to the management of this rude resister, a person might pass
                  many thousands before seeing the name of an acquaintance. How eagerly Harriet
                  commenced to decipher some of those names, can readily be imagined; but, as good
                  fortune would have it, she had scarcely begun her search when she chanced upon one
                  which read: "Nathan Simons—June —have a violent fever—am threatened with
                  abandonment." Nothing could have been more affecting to this young heroine, and
                  although there was no date upon it, the pencil-marks seemed so very fresh that she
                  now believed a few days' fast traveling would bring her into his presence;
                  consequently, the way in which she applied her earnest entreaties to the company
                  to push forward, was some reason for some of her admirers in the company to be
                  suspicious that there were other objects of interest on the route. Nevertheless,
                  Harriet told them that the horses could go faster and farther in a day, and that
                  they would be sure of finding it decidedly the best in the end to do so; and so
                  effectual was her perseverance, that she actually gave renewed vigor and celerity
                  to their movements.
               This renewed activity continued for several hundred miles, and although Harriet
                  had not received any favorable news of Simons, she maintained as much hope as on
                  the day she left St. Joe. They were now traveling very fast, and passing some
                  teams every day. Unfortunately, she always made her inquiries after Mitchell's
                  party;" but Warner's importance had taken possession of the name, and Simons was
                  now called "Sime." Harriet, however, did not know all this at that time.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               AFTER Warner was wounded it became necessary for him to ride in the wagon; for
                  although the wound was slight, yet it was in such a place as rendered it very
                  difficult for him to move, as it must be remembered that his legs were exceedingly
                  well favored with small muscles and long joints. Seated far back in the wagon,
                  with his long, lame leg stretched far forward, he busied himself by chewing
                  tobacco, spitting at everything within his reach, and by swearing at whatever his
                  struggling mind chanced to be expounding, and by eternal curses upon his mates,
                  especially Simons. But here was another difficulty:—before they left St. Joe, they
                  bethought of sickness and distress, and very wisely laid in a keg of "old rye," to
                  answer, in case of emergency, for a medicine and a soothing balm to their moral
                  feelings, in case they were disposed to assume important privileges. On the day of
                  Warner's wound this invaluable treasure was punctured and relieved of some of its
                  fiery contents; but Andrew—our whining, frost-bitten companion—had known the use
                  of such medicine in days of yore, and, considering that he was entitled by law to
                  one-third of the contents of the aforesaid keg, he set himself to work at the
                  bung, and drink he would. But the result of his continual sucking the bung of that
                  keg was, a giddy head, querulous tongue, and staggering body; all of which
                  convinced him that, in a "business way," he was as much entitled to ride in the wagon as was Mr. Warner,
                  and into the wagon he would go—a decidedly business man was Andrew! But this
                  brought on some serious profanity between the pair in the wagon—gave Mitchell an
                  opportunity to ride the only remaining pony—made Simons do all the driving, and
                  finally promised a hasty ruin to the cattle. But, in crossing the Platte, Simons
                  had taken a severe cold, which promised to throw him into a violent fever, and
                  rendered it very difficult for him to per- form the labor which was now forced
                  upon him. In this sad condition they traveled by day and quarreled at night, and,
                  although they traveled faster than most other companies, it was evident they were
                  soon to meet with the loss of their team, unless they reversed their modus
                  operandi; but Andrew was decidedly in favor of doing things in a "business way,"
                  and, if possible, to force the cattle to withstand the journey, and he could not
                  give his consent to try any new system. The pony, the poor little pony, too, was
                  likely to cause more sorrow and trouble—its earthly sojourn was nearly over; yet a
                  little while, and it too must sleep on the bleak, wild Plains! And whenever this
                  should occur, Mitchell would be entitled to a ride in the wagon, as well as his
                  two companions. But the leaders, the awful leaders, upon which Mitchell had
                  bestowed so much labor, (whipping,) pulled and pulled until they pulled their
                  lives away, and were left, unmourned, food for wolves!
               About six hundred and fifty miles is really the end of the Plains, but as the name
                  is usually applied to the whole route, we shall not meddle with its literal
                  phraseology. Here the hills commence, and continue to grow larger and larger for
                  nearly two hundred miles, where lies the base of the great Rocky Mountains. This
                  is not far from Fort Laramie, and affords a position for one of the most
                  enchanting views on earth. Looking to the eastward, the great, wide level Plains
                  seem to form a grandeur of unlimited beauty which is impossible to be surpassed:
                  it is a sea of land, variegated by little waves, and by curving lines of cedar and
                  willow trees, extending from the south, round to the east, and on to the north,
                  forming a beautiful meadow, but so great in extent that the sky seemed to rest
                  upon its edges. But turning to the west, the view and its impressions are beyond
                  description. At first are seen a few smoky-looking hills lying close together, but
                  each one beyond is a little higher and higher, and looking steadily, the eye will
                  soon alight upon monstrous black mountains, so great and so many, all looming
                  their awful peaks so high in the hazy sky that one nearly shudders at the view;
                  but continuing a moment, a few snowy tops, still further away but so high in the
                  heavens, are to be seen reflecting a thousand colors o'er the giddy grandeur
                  beneath, while the beholder, o'erwhelmed with the glorious magnificence before
                  him, turns with wonder and astonishment to learn the impressions of his
                  friend.
               Although the labor of driving among the Black Hills was far more severe than it
                  had been on the even plains of the Platte, yet Simons was without assistance; and
                  although his fever grew gradually worse, still, labor and abuse were heaped upon
                  him— to do either of which, if he refused, he was threatened with a discharge from
                  the party. In the evening he was to be seen gathering "buffalo chips" for fire, or
                  far off bringing water: at the wagon he was preparing supper—but late at night he
                  was ordered off to guard the cattle, where nothing but dark, wild hills beset his
                  every view, save the twinkling stars beyond the swiftly flying clouds, made
                  terribly impressive by a dull, rumbling breeze, accompanying which the dismal howl
                  of distant wolves spoke of terrors, and revealed their fiery eyes along the black
                  mountains, making the darkness sparkle with their murderous flash at every
                  occlusion of their furious jaws. At midnight came the change of watch, and he was
                  to be seen hurrying to the camp, where, wrapped in blankets, he would lay his
                  wearied body down to rest—his uncombed chestnut hair curled and dangling down the
                  face—once so florid, now so pale and lean, and covered with heavy beard; one hand
                  upon his aching forehead, the other upon his fevered, heaving breast, while
                  hurried breathing bespoke serious danger awaiting his fast-sinking body; half
                  conscious, half awake, he saw all that was dear to him on earth, but worn out by
                  contemplating the dark scenes around, he rolled and tumbled till dawn of day. But
                  in the morning he came forth, weak and
                  trembling, to ramble o'er the hills and drive the half-fed, dying cattle to their
                  daily toil; but the poor, hungry beasts ran limping and hobbling away, until his
                  trembling frame was nearly sinking with fatigue, and his mental exertion to
                  conquer irritating passion could scarcely withstand the eternal abuse of his
                  unfeeling mates.
               But still greater difficulties followed him and his party. The little pony died,
                  and many of their cattle soon began to fail; so that by the time they were among
                  the Rocky Mountains, but little hope remained of getting the team through to
                  California. Quarrel after quarrel ensued, and the most violent profanity that
                  words could express was the particular weapon by which the combatants fought their
                  battles; but the fury of their scenes was only preparing for the great change that
                  soon followed.
               After entering the mountains, Simons grew rapidly worse, and in a few days he was
                  unable to walk.
               "O! Mitchell, I can walk no further," and immediately he sank by the way, fainting
                  with sickness.
               "O! I didn't know you were so bad as that, or I should have drove before—come, get
                  in the wagon," said Mitchell, assisting Simons up.
               The team was stopped, and Simons placed in the wagon, where were Warner and
                  Andrew, the latter of whom got out to walk. Warner pouted out his lips and looked
                  important for a little while, shoving his white eyebrows far up on his low
                  forehead, then discharging a large quid of tobacco, and spitting furiously,
                  commenced:
               "What! sick are you. Must take some pills. If you'd took some at first, you might
                  have been well 'afore this; but I 'spose you think if you're sick you'll get to
                  ride, eh?"
               Certainly this was as great an infliction as he was capable of bestowing, and upon
                  a man too sensitive to forget it soon. Simons made no reply, and endeavored to
                  gain what comfort he could as the wagon went jolting over the wild sage. Mitchell
                  and Andrew now betook themselves to the whips in order to make good driving, and,
                  for all this was the first of Andrew's driving, he proved himself an excellent
                  hand with the whip, and fully an equal to Mitchell himself. Between these two, it
                  was plain enough, that the cattle would soon be obliged to come to terms, or
                  submit to an unpleasant alternative; and, as Andrew was determined to be first
                  through to California, he was perfectly willing to sacrifice a few of the
                  remaining whips still in the wagon, for the sake of doing things in a "business
                  way."
               Simons grew rapidly worse now, and his fever assumed a dangerous form. In a few
                  days he was scarcely able to speak, and even yet subjected to insults and abuse
                  from Warner. But Mitchell's and Andrew's driving proved equally bad to the poor
                  cattle, and soon, only six were left. The party now agreed to discharge more of
                  their luggage, but, in doing it, Warner made such formidable opposition to any of
                  his being thrown away, that the attempt resulted in nothing advantageous. After
                  this they traveled very slowly, for although they whipped—they whipped in vain.
                  Many trains passed them, and the probability of their never reaching California in
                  good condition, was now forced upon even their own senses; but with this, their
                  quarreling also became more serious than ever. One day as they were traveling
                  along, Andrew proposed to Mitchell that a division of all the property be made,
                  and that for the sake of convenience, he and Mitchell should hold their shares in
                  common, and by that means retain the wagon and team; in the event of which, Warner
                  and Simons would be under the necessity of shifting for themselves! By hard
                  perseverance, Andrew finally convinced Mitchell that that would be doing things
                  according to agreement and in a "business way;" consequently, this inhuman
                  proposal became the topic for the night's quarrel. At this time, Simons remained a
                  silent witness of their cruel proposals, lying in a helpless condition in the
                  wagon.
               "What!" said Warner, after Andrew had finished telling his plan of proceeding,
                  "what! would you turn me—in my helpless condition, with a lame knee—away from my
                  own property! You must think you're a mighty smart feller if you are trying to
                  come such a thing over me, as that. But I guess I'll have something to say in this
                  business myself—Iwill." "But
                     me and Mitchell," said Andrew, "we are going to do
                  things in a business way, and if you ain't willing to do things so,
                  why, you can lump it—that's all."
               "But," said Warner, "are you going to turn Simons off when he is so sick, and
                  han't no money? Is this the kind of principles you have?"
               "We have nothing to do with Simons," replied Andrew, "we haven't his life in
                  charge. If God intends him to die, why he'll die, that's all there is about it;
                  and if God intends him to get well, why he'll get well, and it's none of our
                  business what acomes of him—that's the fact of the business—and it's no use to
                  fool away our time and money with him."
               "Then will you lay him down by the side of the road and leave him?"
               "Certainly we will. Ain't the wagon and team ourn? Han't we paid our money for
                  'em?"
               "But he'll die if we put him out?"
               "Well, what of it; han't we all got to die sometime? but if you think so much of
                  him, you can stop and take care of him—I don't care; but me and
                  Mitchell is determined to do business in a business way—that's
                  all."
               Unprincipled as this may seem, it is not the only case that occurred on the
                  Plains. Andrew finally accomplished his purpose, and made Warner yield to the
                  proposal; not however, without giving him time to purchase a horse before the
                  division should be made.
               The day previous to this change of affairs, Mr. Hamlin and wife passed them, and
                  were now on ahead. In their party Simons now thought that he might meet some
                  attention, but they were at least half a day in advance.
               At this time there were two packers, with four horses, traveling along close to
                  their party. These packers were, an old man, known only by the name of Uncle
                  Thomas, and a young man, familiarly called, Downie. These two emigrants moved
                  along very quietly, and were much better known among the steady class of emigrants
                  than among the gamesters. By packing, instead of being troubled with a wagon, they
                  were enabled to move quickly over bad roads and deserts, and when finding good
                  grass and water, they had sufficient time to lay by, and recruit before moving on
                  again. In this way, sometimes ahead and sometimes in the rear, they had formed an
                  extensive acquaintance, and, although they were well liked by everybody who knew
                  them, yet they were almost envied for enjoying themselves so well, and for
                  traveling so easily. Among their emigrant acquaintances, were two of no less
                  pretensions than our friends Jimie and Charley. Downie was of a talkative
                  disposition, and a young man of more than ordinary practical information. Between
                  Jimie and Downie some very interesting questions were discussed as they sauntered
                  along that interesting road; but generally relating to subjects, such as the
                  boiling springs, soda deposits, the pure atmosphere, (which, perhaps, has no equal
                  anywhere on the globe) etc., which are so interesting to men of literary notions,
                  all along the Plains.
               In these two young men, we have an exact representation of the literature of "John
                  Bull" and "Young America." Jimie could whip him out on the books; but Downie had
                  traveled, was reserved in advancing his ideas, and generally an equal on any
                  question. But this did not lessen their attachment to each other, nor did it
                  lessen Charley's unbounded confidence in Jimie's talents, nor Uncle Thomas's pride
                  in Downie. Uncle Thomas was apparently about sixty-five years of age, of thin
                  features and delicate person; yet, he was not destitute of that fair freshness,
                  which is not uncommon to elderly people; but still, one would be disposed to think
                  that he had been infected with a truly romantic malady to attempt such a journey.
                  However, such was not the case, for he had been traveling so many years, that the
                  present journey was not very disagreeable to his natural inclinations.
               To Uncle Thomas and Downie, Warner proposed to purchase one of their horses, and
                  to join them; which he finally accomplished, but not until the following day. As
                  soon as he purchased the horse, Andrew and Mitchell called for a division of their
                  property. This took place one moonlight evening. At this time the Michigan Company had come so near
                  upon Simons' party, as to be encamped within view of each other; but, as yet, this
                  was unknown to Harriet. While Warner and his companions were dividing their
                  spoils, Uncle Thomas and Downie were with the Michigan Company, chatting upon
                  whatever pleased their minds. Harriet knew they must be within a short distance of
                  Simons, and she took occasion to inquire of every person they met, but never
                  divulging her true secret. When Warner got the division completed, which was near
                  midnight, he came down to the camp of the Michigan Company, who were sitting about
                  their little fires "spinning yarns." As bad as was Warner to use profane language,
                  when in the presence of women, he endeavored to act the part of a moral man and
                  gentleman; and when perceiving Harriet, he adopted the said character. Harriet
                  immediately sought him, to make inquiry after "Mitchell's Company." Warner turned
                  with a smile at her question, and said:
               "That must be my company you mean. There was a man in my
                  company that once had the name of the company; but it is dissolved now."
               "Was there one Mr. Simons in your company?"
               "Well, there's a feller we call Sime, and I think he said his name was Simons;
                  he's a young man from Cincinnati. We've had him to drive team for us."
               "What kind of a looking man is he?"
               "Well, he's a pretty good-looking feller, at least he was afore he took sick. He's
                  a right smart-sized feller too, with sandy hair. He's a laboring man—a
                  bookbinder."
               Harriet made no further inquiries, but rose and started toward Mr. Ellis's tent.
                  Now, during all the journey, Harriet slept in the same tent where did Mr. and Mrs.
                  Ellis, which, considering the quarreling that existed between this man and wife,
                  rendered her time not at all enviable, and generally prevented her from going to
                  bed until she knew this old pair of wooden people were asleep. As a regular thing,
                  this reverend gentlemen and lady spent about half an hour every evening saying
                  their prayers; after that they would crawl beneath their blankets, and commence to
                  quarrel, which would usually last until one or the other fell asleep. After that,
                  the last one awake would lie and grumble, until also overcome by sleep. Such a
                  system of religion caused Harriet to avoid their company as much as possible; for
                  which, Mrs. Ellis persisted in telling her, that it was the "wickedness of the
                  natural heart." But of these curious people we shall have occasion to speak
                  further after awhile. The night we have now been speaking of, was Mr. Ellis's turn
                  to stand guard; which took place every third night. His watch was to commence at
                  twelve, and remain until daylight. Now, while a few of the Michigan Company were
                  yet sitting about their camp-fires, the first watch came in. Mr. Ellis had retired
                  early, so as to sleep in the first part of the night, but he was now called to
                  take his stand. When rising he observed that Harriet had not yet retired; and,
                  upon looking about the camp-fires, he became alarmed at her absence. He
                  immediately communicated the fact to the rest of the company, and in a few minutes
                  the alarm was intense. Every tent and wagon were searched, and everybody was
                  hurrying here and there in great excitement and confusion.
               After Harriet left Warner, she hurried off to Mitchell's camp; but, behold her
                  sadness when learning that Simons had left several hours previously! Harriet now
                  felt a sting of discouragement which was entirely new to her. She made all the
                  inquiry she could; but Simons had not given them any information as to what
                  company he intended to join. As soon as she heard the excitement at her own camp,
                  she hastened back to allay their fears; but fully determined to rouse her company
                  to an early start on the following morning; for she still believed Simons to be
                  close by. Simons had started soon after sunset, but without even speaking to his
                  companions. His health had been greatly improving for the last two days, but yet
                  it was almost impossible for him to walk; and, had it not been for the extreme
                  necessity of the case, it is doubtful whether he could have done so. His
                  resolution was, that by traveling as much as he was able, he might overtake Hamlin
                  before morning.
               
               Here we must let the others pass for the present, and follow him in his feeble
                  struggle for life. This occurred shortly after they had made the "pass" of the
                  great Rocky Mountains. When passing over the summit of this great range of
                  mountains, there are present certain "spiritual manifestations" with which a
                  person is apt to be continually combatting, in order to convince himself that he
                  is really crossing the "backbone of the world." To think that he is traveling so
                  many thousand feet above the level of the sea, and that he is near the head waters
                  of the Colorado, the Columbia and the Mississippi—the greatest of rivers—possesses
                  charms of the grand and sublime—of the romantic and the fanciful—which seem
                  closely connected with a poetic conception, if not that life itself is merely
                  fancy.
               A little beyond the "pass," are to be seen the great peaks called the "Wind-River
                  Mountains," which form a circular appearance, but so high are their snowy tops,
                  that it is impossible for the romantic mind to look upon them without feelings of
                  emotion! At night their appearance is grander still; when the moon is high in the
                  heavens, and a few clouds moving slowly beneath, the shadows of which are to be
                  seen leaping and skipping from peak to peak, now 
                     unvailing
                     unveiling
                   their dazzling beauty, then again seeming to blot out the magnificent
                  view, but in a moment after, their glittering peaks are seen to pierce the
                  skies!
               Such was the night on which Simons was wandering after Hamlin's wagon. Back to the
                  east were large black mountains, terribly wild and hideous; but to the west were a
                  continuation of rocky hills and sandy hollows, over which wild sage—the most
                  tiresome production in the vegetable world—was scattered only sufficiently to make
                  the rumbling breeze sad and melancholy, while now and then the hungry, howling
                  wolves could be heard among the distant hills, made more fearful by the quivering
                  whoop of the wild, roving Indian. With a few cold biscuits in his pockets and a
                  blanket under his arm, he journeyed forth—now down a long valley among the sage,
                  then past a camp of emigrants who were resting until morning—now across a little
                  creek—then up a rocky-looking hill—now resting and listening to the howling
                  wolves, or looking at the great mountains; then up, and on—on—on, each step
                  seeming to grow slower and weaker, and with a long, faint sigh he could feel his
                  trembling frame giving way beneath his little hopes. Often did he look at the
                  moon, but only to grow sad by seeing it lowering so rapidly; for should he not
                  overtake Hamlin before morning, he could have no hope of ever reaching him.
                  Nerving forth all the power he possessed; he continued to wind his way round the
                  hills and hollows, and peering over every little valley in search of a team of
                  mules, he continued until the moon was gone—gone! When the sun arose he was still
                  going, going, but so weak that he could scarcely move; and every team, every camp,
                  every rock, every shrub, looked in the distance as though it was the desired
                  party's team. In this awful condition, scarcely living, he continued until the
                  evening of the next day, when he halted at a lone wagon by the way, to rest.
               "Why, stranger, you look almost too ill to be going it on foot," said one of the
                  party, as Simons, half falling, seated himself in their camp.
               As we shall have occasion to meet this person on several occasions, we will give
                  his name; it will also give some idea of the man himself, as well as of the
                  familiarity of the emigrants—it was "The fat man." The "fat man" had a jovial
                  face, and the heart of a man could be seen in all his words and movements. He
                  inquired after Simons' condition, and prepared him a good cup of tea; and although
                  he had only provisions sufficient to do himself, yet he insisted on Simons'
                  remaining with him and "sharing it to the last." From this individual Simons
                  learned that Hamlin was about eight or ten miles ahead, and believing that he
                  could reach them before morning, he merely thanked the "fat man" for his goodness
                  and started on.
               "Ha! I wish you'd come back," called the "fat man," for his sympathy could not
                  bear to see him limping away.
               "O, thank you; I think I can stand it," replied Simons, weakly.
               "If you do not overtake them before morning, you must wait by the road until I come to-morrow," said the "fat
                  man;" but Simons merely thanked him and continued on.
               The tea had given him strength; and although he was so stiff that he could
                  scarcely walk, yet he felt determined to accomplish the task. One of the principal
                  reasons he had for wanting to join Hamlin's party was, that as one of their
                  number, Nixon, had died, they would be sure to have plenty of provisions. He had
                  only traveled a few miles after leaving the "fat man," when he discovered that his
                  little dog, a white one, and a great favorite of his, had been left somewhere
                  behind; but considering his own life of more importance than the animal's, he
                  concluded to proceed on without him. It was just breaking day when he drew near
                  Hamlin's camp, which he could not mistake by the peculiar appearance of his
                  mules—having seen them before. Hamlin was up and in the act of changing his mules
                  on to fresh pasture, and his wife was just lighting a fire, over which she
                  intended to prepare their breakfast. Different from most of the emigrants, they
                  preferred to travel alone, rather than engage in the quarrels which are
                  unavoidable in all the large parties; for they now placed so much confidence in
                  the Indians' good qualities, that they entertained no fears whatever from
                  them.
               Simons no sooner came in sight of them, than the sad fact of being destitute of
                  money forced upon him a new series of troubles which he had entirely overlooked.
                  This distressing condition, added to his nearly exhausted person, almost caused
                  him to sink down in despair; but nerving forth still more energy, a few paces
                  brought him to the camp-fire, where he had scarcely halted ere he sank with
                  weakness to the ground.
               "Why, my dear sir!" exclaimed Hamlin, raising him into a sitting posture; but
                  Simons was unable to support himself any longer, and seemed to be fainting, when
                  he was assisted into the wagon. Coming so suddenly upon them had nearly frightened
                  them, but supposing him to be one of those unfortunate creatures who had "eaten
                  himself out of provisions," they were not under the necessity of regarding the
                  incident sufficiently strange to press him for an explanation until he felt better
                  able to do so. Again the good woman commenced to prepare the breakfast, and by the
                  approach of broad day she summoned her black-whiskered husband to come and partake
                  of the repast. As Hamlin was about to commence, she called at the wagon to invite
                  the stranger, but she called in vain—he was sound asleep; his nearly worn-out,
                  body and mind had fallen into that profound slumber from which one never wishes to
                  arouse another.
               Mrs. Hamlin said not a word, but stood gazing upon his care-worn face, watching
                  his feverish breath escaping between those thin, pale lips, and carefully tracing
                  his wasted features, noticing every curve and line that seemed so familiar, and
                  with her eyes at last riveted upon his arched brows, she drew a long sigh. "Ah!"
                  she muttered to herself, "are not these like those of my own brother—poor Nixon!"
                  but her heart was heaving with emotion, and she silently turned away and joined
                  her husband.
               Mrs. Hamlin was really a very lively woman, and usually kept her good-natured
                  husband in a burst of laughter; but, as persons who are susceptible of very great
                  love are apt to be, she sometimes fell into deep melancholy, and although it never
                  lasted but a few minutes, yet it made such an impression upon her rosy-like
                  features that her admiring husband could detect it in a moment. She had scarcely
                  seated herself at the breakfast, when he looked into her face and exclaimed, "Why,
                  my dear, you seem to be in trouble this morning!" "No," said she, "I was only
                  thinking about our lost brother. Seeing that gentleman so ill, I suppose, was the
                  cause of it."
               Simons was not disturbed during the breakfast interval, but left to enjoy a
                  forenoon's ride in the wagon. During the fore- part of the day Mrs. Hamlin walked,
                  which was not very laborious, from the fact that the road along this part of the
                  journey is obliged to make some very long circles in order to avoid the hills,
                  whereas one on foot can take what we call the "cut-off," and by walking half the
                  time, come out ahead of the wagon. Here she busied herself, sometimes walking,
                  sometimes looking across at the wagon where her husband was encountering clouds of
                  dust, and sometimes she was gathering wild currants for the "dinner stew." Coming
                  to a good camping-place, they halted a little before the common noon hour. Simons was
                  considerably revived, and as soon as the wagon stopped he arose, and now for the
                  first time took a fair look at the persons upon whom he had so unceremoniously
                  intruded. He remembered that Nixon was a brother to this woman, and he remembered,
                  too, that there was a familiarity in Nixon's features that had once startled him;
                  and now, when he came to look upon Mrs. Hamlin, the same features caused him to
                  startle again. Just as he raised into a sitting position, Mrs. Hamlin was in the
                  act of selecting some kindling with which to make their camp-fire. She turned
                  toward him and asked:
               "How have you enjoyed your ride—the wagon jolts so much?" But when she spoke, she
                  also startled, and fixed her gaze upon him. Hamlin was at this time taking his
                  mules from the wagon, and entirely heedless of anything else. Simons replied to
                  Mrs. Hamlin:
               "I have had a good ride; but, tell me, have I not seen you before this—your face
                  looks very familiar?"
               As he spoke, Mrs. Hamlin startled more than ever, and they were now earnestly
                  gazing upon each other.
               I can not tell whether you ever saw me before or not, but I also thought I knew
                  you," said Mrs. Hamlin; but her feelings were getting the command of her
                  composure, and she quivered, and waited anxiously for a reply. Simons sat
                  silent—more like a statue than a living man.
               Then, Mrs. Hamlin burst into tears, and said:
               "You look so much like my poor brother, Nixon, that I can not help thinking you
                  are my own brother Nathan, who has been so many years lost!"
               Simons also burst into tears, but still made no reply. Hamlin was still at work at
                  his mules, but unaware of what was going on between his wife and Simons. Mrs.
                  Hamlin struggled hard to suppress her emotions, and again said:
               "I'm sure you must be my brother! Nathan Simons! Speak to me, for heaven's sake!"
                  and she still looked upon him; but he was yet silent.
               Again she said, "When I was a little girl in London, I had a brother Nathan taken
                  to sea; but that was the last I ever heard of him! We thought that he and father
                  were lost at sea! Then we moved to America, but never heard anything of either of
                  them any more! But I know you must be my brother! For God's sake! tell me, are you
                  not Nathan Simons? 
               Simons still sat motionless, but paler than ever before was the face of man.
               Mrs. Hamlin walked close up and leaned against the wagon, and amid faint sobs,
                  said:
               "I know you are my brother, Nathan! I am Julia, your sister! Though eighteen years
                  have passed since we separated, yet I know you are my brother! Our cousin James
                  was with you when you went away from home. We lived near London bridge. O! speak!
                  speak! for heaven's sake, speak!" and the poor woman bowed her face over and
                  rested on Simons' knees: he faintly said:
               "I am your brother!" and bowed his face upon her neck; and while they
                  were thus locked in the fondest embrace that earth could give, Hamlin looked upon
                  them! And while he looked upon them, the dreadful monster, suspicion, commenced to
                  rise within his bosom, to account for so unexpected liberties with his fair
                  companion; but, as he came up, he was relieved by hearing their faint sobs, "O!
                  brother!" "O! sister!" smothered between the pressure of their lips!
               After a long embrace, they commenced to weep and to relate still further
                  particulars of their identity and history: but, of what they did say or do, we can
                  not stop here to relate, even if we had the will to revert again to such an
                  affecting scene. It seems as though Nathan Simons' father must have been lost at
                  sea, after having left his son at New York, for the vessel in which he sailed
                  never returned to England. Two years after they left, Mrs. Simons was taken
                  speedily away, and only Julia and her brother were living. Julia was nine, and
                  Nixon four years of age, and left in the care of a family by the name of Spencer.
                  Spencer then moved to this country, during the following summer, and brought the
                  two children with him. He moved to H— County, Indiana, and purchased a farm, where
                  Julia and Nixon continued to live until their present departure for character fornia. At the age of twenty-two, Julia
                  was married to Hamlin, but she never had any offspring. With the exception of
                  Nathan's hair being a little sandy, he looked so nearly like his brother Nixon,
                  that any person having known the one would have recognized the other. Mrs. Hamlin
                  afterward said, that it had seemed to her for many years, that she would some day
                  meet her brother; and, to this day, she can not be persuaded but that she had held
                  a sort of "spiritual communion" with him ever since he left his mother's arms; but
                  whether she could have done so is a subject we shall leave to the "table-turning
                  philosophers."
               It is scarcely necessary to mention that this was a fortunate change in Simons'
                  journey to California, for Hamlin had but a small load, had good mules, and they
                  traveled alone, all of which gave them an advantage over most of the emigrants.
                  Certainly, Simons would not have cared about traveling so fast, had he known who
                  was so near upon his heels.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               IT is scarcely possible to conceive Harriet's grief when learning that Simons had
                  moved so quickly away. But with all her reflections she did not yet disclose her
                  secret to a single mortal, but encouraged the company to travel as fast as
                  possible. It must be remembered that she had now been traveling many weeks, and
                  had accomplished nearly half the journey. A few days after this they entered the
                  valley of the great Salt Lake.
               The valley is completely surrounded by mountains, the highest, of which, are
                  always sparkling with snow; and the luxury of the ten thousand streams of water,
                  coming from the mountains and flowing beautifully down the gradual slope to empty
                  into the great lake, gives it a living romance, truly grand. But, after a tiresome
                  journey over the bleak wild Plains for a thousand miles, to drop at once into a
                  city, and bear the tingling and clangor of bells, is almost sufficient to make one
                  doubt his own senses, and fancy that he has been dreaming for weeks and only now
                  awakened. However, one would be disposed to say that the Creator had chosen a
                  curious place to manifest his goodness and power by placing these poor creatures
                  among those wild mountains, where their much-to-be-pitied common sense can obtain
                  no news except by prophecy. The city of these unfortunate dreamers, stands several
                  miles back from the lake, but in no very enviable position; and affords quite a
                  comfortable repose to the wearied emigrants. The Michigan Company concluded to
                  remain here for a week, in order that their cattle might regain their former
                  strength. Making their encampment not far from the city, some of them remained to
                  live in the camp, and some concluded to take up board with the Saints. Mr. and
                  Mrs. Ellis, Harriet, Jimie and Charley, put up at the residence of one Mr. Cooper.
                  This house, was a little low one with three rooms, or rather three one-story
                  houses, in a row. The windows opened in the French style—except that they were
                  nailed fast to the cheeking and did not open at all—had no garden in view, to say
                  nothing about the old hats and bonnets where the glass should have been—little
                  things which gave the inside of the house quite a similarity to the favorite
                     resorts of Madame Trollope, places known in our country under the name
                  of pig-pens. From the fact that a large table was always standing,
                  full-spread, in the middle of the floor of each room, it is unnecessary for us to
                  state that the inhabitants were genuine English people.
               Mr. Cooper was a good looking man—that is, a hearty, red-faced, fair complexioned
                  fellow—about forty-five years of age; had a strong mind, and some of the qualities
                  of good people. He had three wives, one in each room. The eldest of these was near
                  his own age, and not a bad lady, or, in positive terms, a pretty, good-natured,
                  fat little woman. The second belonged to the class known by the common word
                  "ugly,"—she was of ungainly proportions, and decidedly much better "cut out" for a
                  man than a woman. She was extremely tall, stooped forward, and had her colors been
                  brilliant, looked not very unlike a July rainbow—as though storms would be common
                  where she was. This peculiar construction seemed to be of about thirty-five
                     years' standing; had a prominent nose,
                  and cheek bones accordingly, and, as a phrenologist would say, had a strongly
                  marked bilious temperament, and as facts proved, she was rather a "bilious case."
                  But the last, and the one to whom we must make particular reference, was a young
                  lady whom Mr. Cooper brought from England, on his last spiritual mission to that
                  country. The story of this unfortunate creature, would form a tale more thrilling
                  than all the novels of modern times; but here we can only make a short allusion to
                  her. She was about fifteen years of age, and the mother of an infant two weeks
                  old. From her appearance, she was from some family of highly respectable and
                  intelligent standing. In her tender, sensitive and affectionate voice, something
                  seemed to manifest distress, which would always enlist any one to sympathize with
                  her; and, no doubt but her beauty was the cause of her misfortune. The other wives
                  had two or three children each; but the second wife had formed a lasting hatred
                  toward this young one, and, being a strong woman, she manifested it by frequently
                  choking her, and pulling her hair; and some of these scenes, too, were noticed by
                  our guests shortly after their arrival.
               Mr. Ellis was not in Cooper's presence but a few minutes, until an argument was
                  commenced on religion; and as many people fancy these poor creatures have no
                  evidence to support their religion, we will state the basis of their doctrine, and
                  let any answer it who can.
               1. That God inspired men in olden times to prophesy.
               2. That God is always the same—and that the nature of man is the same.
               3. Consequently, the same God, and the same men must effect prophecy yet.
               Many of our Protestants and Catholics will do well if they can prove why men can
                  not prophesy now, as well as in olden times, and yet, governed by an unchangeable
                  Being? Let every one study this subject well, lest he some day fall in with a
                  Mormon, and get himself—like we were once—badly "flaxed out." It is easy to
                     say that no man must add one word, and that we have the Book, and that
                  prophecy is unnecessary since religion has been revealed; but that is very far
                  from proving the point, and presents what the man of letters would call prima facie evidence that God has changed from his
                  former course. But the Mormon heaven certainly must be a grand place.
               After leaving this world, a man—righteous one to be sure—is supposed to be changed
                  into a little Creator—first to be Christs over other worlds, and finally, to be
                  able to manufacture the worlds themselves. And if he has been a good man, he will
                  soon rise to be a companion and counselor with the God of this world; and in
                  proportion to his goodness here, so is his exaltation to be in the eternal
                  worlds.
               In proportion to the man's exaltation in the eternal world, his wife is also
                  supposed to be in a state of continual progress, and as fast as he gets to be God,
                  so she gets to be a goddess. But, although a man's children are supposed to have
                  equal privileges in rising, yet they are to hold a subordinate position to their
                  fathers; consequently, the more children a man is father of, the greater will be
                  his exaltation, and also his wife's in the eternal world. This is the grand
                  principle upon which the plurality-wife-system is founded, and not, as most people
                  imagine, lust. Every temporal wife brought into the family, is supposed to exalt
                  the husband and first, or real wife, in the eternal world.
               Many of the Mormon ladies say, that, so far as their own nature and feelings are
                  concerned, they are opposed to their husband taking any more wives; but for the
                  sake of being exalted in eternity, that they consider it is their
                     duty to assist their husbands in getting as many as possible.
                  Such, were the views and principles of the elder Mrs. Cooper; and, accordingly,
                  although a good woman, she immediately commenced laying schemes to entrap our
                  friend Harriet—whose pretty face was the means of making Mr. Cooper have a
                  revelation the first night after her sojourn. It was on the second day, and when
                  all the men were out, as Harriet was sitting in company with Mrs. Cooper, that
                  this little scene commenced. Mrs. Ellis and the ugly Mrs. Cooper were taking a
                  walk out among the wagons, and the youngest wife, in a different room, was the
                  only person near. Mrs. Cooper lost no
                  time, but introduced her subject to Harriet in considerable haste.
               "Miss Harriet," said she, with an air that forewarned Harriet of something
                  terrible, "I have something of great importance to tell you—something that may
                  save your life! I'm sure a dreadful end awaits you, and I know it is my duty to
                  tell you before it is too late!"
               "Why! Mrs. Cooper—-do, tell me! 'Something awaits me!'" exclaimed Harriet, fixing
                  her large, gray eyes steadily upon Mrs. Cooper.
               "O, but Miss Harriet, you must not get excited; such things need the most careful
                  consideration. There is an opportunity for you to escape uninjured, and that is
                  the thing I am going to tell you."
               "O! you frighten me!—pray, Mrs. Cooper, do tell me what it is?" and already tears
                  began to sparkle in her eyes.
               "But you must be calm, and do not fear but I'll tell you soon enough; for I take a
                  great interest in helping you to escape from such a perilous condition; I consider
                  that it is the duty of any woman to tell another when she knows of plots laid
                  against her person."
               "O! Mrs. Cooper, do tell me what it is! Why do you keep me in suspense?" and poor
                  Harriet began to turn pale with fear.
               "I shall tell you quite soon enough, Miss Harriet; but I'm sure you will think it
                  is strange how I learned it, and that you have already been nearly captured
                  several times."
               "O! Mrs. Cooper, for goodness' sake, tell me!" said Harriet, trembling. "Do tell
                  me what it is!"
               "But you must not get excited, Miss Harriet. When I heard of you having escaped
                  thus far, I couldn't but thank the Lord for his goodness toward you; indeed I must
                  thank him for sending you into our presence."
               "Was I in danger from any of our company?"
               "Yes, Miss, and in such danger as you came near never escaping! but, ah! that is
                  not the worst of it!"
               "O! do explain it all to me; I can not bear this!" but poor Harriet's pale cheeks
                  were covered with large drops of tears, and her heart throbbing violently, while
                  Mrs. Cooper proceeded:
               "But if you were safe from this time onward, it would all be well enough: but, O!
                  Miss Harriet, I am sure you can never leave Salt Lake and live through what awaits
                  you!"
               "Is it from the company that I am threatened?"
               "It is, Miss; and their plans are so secure, that you can not avoid them only by
                  leaving them at once and remaining with us."
               "But, how did you learn this?"
               "O! Miss, by the best evidence in the world. Evidence as true as the Lord
                  himself."
               At this instant heavy footsteps were heard at the door, and presently in came Mr.
                  Cooper, and drawing a chair close to Harriet, who was already frightened, he
                  commenced with that mumbling, guttural voice, peculiar to many of the English:
               "Miss Lindsey, I have an important communication to make to you; one that will
                  spare your character and your life! But, beside preserving you in this world, it
                  may be the means of your eternal glory in the world to come. I know it affects you
                  to learn of your awful danger, but I am doing according to the commandments of
                  God, and by doing so I am clearing my skirts, and if you are ruined, no one but
                  yourself is to blame."
               Harriet still sat pale and trembling; but, luckily, while Cooper was thus
                  speaking, Jimie and Charley entered the other room, where the young wife was
                  sitting, and were enabled to hear Cooper's heavy voice. They had not been here but
                  a moment when the young wife told them of Cooper's intentions regarding Harriet;
                  but they continued to sit, listening to Cooper, whose tongue was running with
                  maddening fury.
               "Yes, Miss Lindsey, you should thank the Lord that even yet you may escape the
                  destruction that is planned against you. Nothing but the hosts of angels could
                  have rendered you any hope, and you ought to be able to perceive the goodness of
                  the Lord in thus bringing you to his kingdom, and preparing your eternal
                  exaltation."
               
               Thus he ran on for fifteen or twenty minutes; but Jimie and Charley could bear to
                  wait no longer, and very unceremoniously entered.
               "Why, Harriet! what on earth is the matter?" Jimie asked. immediately turning his
                  eyes upon Cooper, who replied:
               "Why, sir, well she may look pale, I have just been telling her of the awful
                  danger she is in."
               "Yes, sir, I know it, and I want to know why you told her so? Sir, there is not a
                  man in our company who would not lay down his life to save her; but I want to know
                  how you found out that a "plot is planned" against her? I demand an answer,
                  sir!"
               "Sir, do you want to insult me in my own house? But, sir, I can tell you my
                  author—it's no trifling source;" then turning his eyes toward heaven, and,
                  apparently, very awe-stricken, he continued, "The Lord himself appeared unto me in
                  a vision, and told me these things, commanding me that on this day I should make
                  known to her the way of eternal glory to herself and to God."
               "Yes, sir; I know that was it, and on the ground of your lustful dream—which you
                  call a revelation—you have been trying to frighten her to become your 'Spiritual.'
                  I know it, sir; I know all about it—it's a scheme between you and your wife to
                  capture her."
               "Who told you this, sir?"
               "Mary, sir, your youngest wife; she told me all about your plan. It was your
                  intention to get us all away from the house in order to carry out your
                  purpose."
               "How dare you to insult me so!" said Cooper, rushing toward Jimie, whose tongue
                  spared him not; but Charley was true to Jimie, and seizing Cooper by the collar,
                  dashed him violently against one of those little windows, sending hats and bonnets
                  wildly outside; just at this instant, however, in came Mr. Ellis and lady and the
                  ugly wife; and Mr. Ellis and Jimie succeeded in separating Charley and Cooper;
                  both of whom had exchanged some violent blows. The whole house was in the greatest
                  excitement, and everybody that had a tongue seemed to be using it. Harriet's fears
                  had relief as soon as Charley and Jimie entered; and when Mrs. Ellis came in, she
                  ran up to her and attempted to relate the scene, but was so excited that she
                  failed.
               After Charley and Cooper were separated, the former stepped out into the yard and
                  laid down his jacket, turned up his sleeves, and waited for Cooper, who was
                  detained in the house by Mr. Ellis, to whom he was explaining how the young men
                  had interfered with his family affairs. While in this condition, the ugly wife,
                  judging that the young wife was the cause of it all by disclosing the family
                  secret regarding Harriet, rushed in upon poor Mary, the young wife, seized her by
                  the hair, and led her out into the yard, where she was in the act of visiting a
                  few heavy blows upon her person and face; but as Charley was just warm enough for
                  a good tussle, he pitched at the said rainbow-lady, and gave her a "Tipperary
                  touch" that sent her sprawling on the ground.
               How this affair would have ended had it been left to the present parties is very
                  difficult to imagine, but, fortunately, Cooper's voice was so loud that some of
                  the neighbors were soon upon the ground, and maintained peace until our Michigan
                  Company's friends succeeded in getting away. This was near the evening, and when
                  they reached the camp they found that most of the company were in favor of
                  starting out on the following day, for already some of their cattle were missing,
                  and they feared they were to be still further losers by remaining much longer in
                  the "City of the Saints."
               Mr. Ellis, who had as much influence with the company as had the captain, gladly
                  decided in favor of the proposal, and accordingly they were all informed that, on
                  the following morning they must roll on their way to the West. Instead of being a
                  quarreling company now, they were the most happy and united party of men ever
                  collected. Every one was talking, and every one fancied that he had seen the most
                  extravagant sights among these strange Christians. But as almost everybody are now
                  informed upon the mode of living adopted by these curious people, we cannot stop
                  here to relate their different schemes to prophesy themselves into the possession
                  of the company's property.
               
               Harriet supposed Simons must have taken the northern road, for she made inquiry at
                  many of the hotels and boarding-houses, and received no information of him; and
                  had he done so, she could entertain but poor hopes of meeting him before arriving
                  in California. But she had now resolved to go until she did overtake him, and
                  being well respected and cared for by the balance of the company, her journey was
                  not more laborious than that of any other lady on the Plains. Then, there was a
                  liberty and freedom in such a life—an abundance of excitement and a continual
                  variety—a grandeur, sublimity, solitude, expansiveness, and many more
                  peculiarities belongings to the Plains, which were not at all unsuitable to her
                  wishes, to say nothing of the satisfaction of crossings the Plains. But this
                  little incident in Mormonism was an entirely new scene; and though she had often
                  had opportunities of investigating their doctrines, she had never before supposed
                  they would be guilty of such foul attempts to decoy her into their "Zion."
               While the company were sitting about their camp late in the evening after the
                  aforesaid outrage, conversing upon the many curious systems of religion said to
                  have emanated from the Creator of the universe, their attention was called to
                  notice a small person, wrapped in a long blue blanket, approaching to where they
                  were sitting. The company sat perfectly quiet until the person drew near and
                  feebly asked, "Is Mr. Ellis and the Michigan Company here?" It was the voice of a
                  woman, and Harriet at once recognized her as Cooper's youngest wife, and said,
                  "Why, Mary! what's the matter?" and rose to meet her. The young another staggered
                  forward a little, and then fell down among them. The company immediately gave
                  attention to her, and discovered that she had been most shamefully beaten by the
                  second wife, who had resolved to pay her for the threat she had that day received
                  from Charley. Harriet took the little sleeping infant—poor creature, it was
                  unconscious of its mother's trouble—and the others of the company assisted her
                  into one of the tents, where she feebly and tearfully told "of Mormon treachery
                  that would have moved the hardest heart and brought tears from any eye." Here she
                  entreated the company to take her in charge and assist her to California, for
                  which she would agree to work for them as long as she should live, without any
                  consideration. They immediately agreed to conduct her out of the country, and to
                  assist her after her arrival in California.
               The next morning was still and clear. The great red sun was just peering over the
                  tops of the snowy mountain-peaks, and the five-o'clock bell dropping its last
                  doleful knell, when the Michigan Company again moved slowly toward the west. As
                  their party moved down the valley, the poor mother looked from the wagon and
                  viewed the city, as if never to see it more; and though tears were streaming down
                  her face, her heart was overflowing with gratitude to the Michigan Company, and
                  she pressed her infant to her breast and cried with joy.
               By her side sat Harriet and Mrs. Ellis, who were ministering encouragement
                  according to the best of their abilities, and sympathizing for her distress only
                  as woman can. The first day passed with few annoyances except toll-bridges; and
                  the fears of the poor mother being captured and carried back by the "saints of
                  God" began to seem as if unfounded. The night passed away as usual, and much of it
                  was spent in talking about the Mormons. On the following morning they were again
                  off bright and early, and the young mother's tears began to dry up, and her
                  beautiful face seemed to be lit with joy and gladness, and a new world was
                  dazzling before her eyes: even the infant, the little infant, seemed to be
                  conscious of its escape. But here we must turn to look at the "City of
                  Saints."
               On the evening after the Michigan Company started, Mr. Cooper,—who, by-the-by, was
                  an important elder in the church—discovered that his wife was "among the missing,"
                  and went direct to the "man of the hat," to learn what steps he should take to
                  bring back the wife, who had thus been a traitor to the church; for he suspected
                  that she had gone off with the "gentiles." The "man of the hat" immediately went
                  into a vision, and, of course, received the following words, as he said, from the
                  Lord: "Behold! I the Lord say unto thee, this woman hath committed a great sin in
                  mine eyes; yea, she will surely bring curses upon thy people, lest thou shalt bring her to judgment."
                  The "man of the hat" now turned to Cooper with this command: "Go ye on the morrow
                  and summon one hundred and eighty 'minutemen,' and prepare your arms well, and
                  pursue and bring back this woman, for she may bring curses upon the Saints. If the
                  gentiles refuse to deliver her up, it mattereth not, for this is the commandment
                  of the Lord; but you shall slay whosoever opposeth you. But if they deliver her
                  up, and she refuse to come again unto Zion, then thou shalt destroy her, for She
                  is of a wicked heart."
               The commandment was quite satisfactory to Cooper, and he immediately spread the
                  news far and wide through the city. On the next morning this strong company of
                  well-armed militia, all mounted, commenced a furious gallop on the great western
                  road. They were well acquainted with the country, and capable of taking many
                  advantages of the route, and consequently sped over the barren fields with
                  exceeding rapidity. The Michigan Company had a good forenoon's drive in advance,
                  but halted at a little creek to take their dinner and to bait their cattle. This
                  was a short distance from the road, and in a position not favorable to taking a
                  very extensive view of the country. Many of them were huddled about the camp, and
                  engaged in all sorts of lively conversation; even the ladies seemed to be
                  recovering from the past dangers of Mormonism and growing happy; but when in this
                  condition, the deep, heavy tramping of horses' feet startled them, and instantly
                  all eyes were looking very earnestly over the distant hills. The poor mother had
                  known such scenes before, and turned deadly pale and trembled as she gazed down
                  the road whence the solid body of troops appeared. All eyes turned upon her with
                  pity and sympathy, but in a moment more she gave a despairing moan, pressed her
                  poor little infant to her bosom, and sank down on the ground! The company raised
                  her almost senseless person and laid her in the wagon, but scarcely was she in,
                  when the militia arrived and surrounded the company. They stated their
                  command—just as we have given it—from the "Lord," and, with shining muskets and
                  glistening swords, abeyed the company until the fainted woman was secured upon
                  their horses, when they set up a demoniacal laugh of triumph and galloped
                     away.*
                  
               
                  *For the particulars of this story we shall ever be indebted to Mrs. Maria L.
                     Stuart, of Newark, who escaped the Mormons' wiles about a year since and
                     returned to New Jersey. Doubtless, Mrs. Stuart never expected to hear again
                     of Mrs. Ellis and Miss Lindsey; but should she ever see these remarks, she
                     alone is prepared to judge of Harriet's many obligations to her kindness
                     while residing at the great Salt Lake. May every blessing rest upon her, is
                     Harriet's devoted prayer and our most earnest wish.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               AFTER Mitchell and Andrew took charge of the team the poor cattle were shown no
                  quarters,—every day witnessed their rapid decline. For this, they blamed each
                  other, and quarreled seriously about it, until they finally agreed to divide the
                  spoils and go into separate companies. After dividing, they packed what provisions
                  they could upon the backs of their best cattle, and continued to travel side and
                  side for several days, but they quarreled so much that they finally agreed not to
                  travel near each other at all. Let not the reader think that these were uncommon
                  men, for such quarreling is as common on the Plains as smiles in a
                  ballroom—decidedly the most interesting and perplexing things that one can meet
                  with.
               Not many days after this separation Mitchell was mysteriously gone, no one knew
                  where. However, on the day before, a great excitement in a neighboring party,
                  occasioned by a stampede at night and the loss of a horse, induced the emigrants
                  to believe that he had stolen it and gone ahead. Andrew retained the whisky after
                  leaving Mitchell, and still persisted in doing things in a "business way" but
                  unfortunately he drank a little too much, and soon lost all self-control. For many
                  days he had thus indulged. Halting, one day, on the bank of a beautiful river, he
                     concluded to have a real "blow-out."
                  In the course of his spree he fancied that he was celebrating the fourth of July,
                  and commenced singing of the "land he loved"—shouting forth his conglomerate
                  nasality to disturb the solitary fields, like an unoiled weather-cock preaching to
                  the winds—determined to be a faithful representative though none should hear his
                  wild melody.
               While in this merry mood a company drove up and called out,
               "Halloo, stranger, is there room here for another company?"
               "Plenty, plenty, my boys," said Andrew, "come ahead. Turn out (hic) your cattle
                  (hic) and come and (hic) drink. Hip (hic) hurrah for (hic) General Jackson." Here
                  he staggered about for some time, exciting the curiosity of the company, but all
                  at once seeming to recollect himself, called out, "Come, my boys, who's going
                  (hic) in swimming? I am (hic) for one (hic)."
               Suiting the action to the word, he commenced divesting himself of his clothes—his 
                     druken
                     drunken
                   motions exciting no small degree of risibility on the part of the
                  spectators. As soon as he had placed himself in a state of nudity, he staggered
                  toward the river, but halted a moment—he saw the bottom—he saw it twice, then made
                  his fatal plunge! then plunged again, and sank forever!! in a "business way."
               Warner was remarkably fortunate in joining himself with Uncle Thomas and Downie.
                  Owing to his wounded knee being such an obstacle to him, they were of great
                  service in assisting him to take care of it; services that made him somewhat the
                  debtor, and at least attempt to conduct himself agreeably to their feelings.
               Uncle Thomas, who will form an important part in our story, was of a highly moral
                  and sensitive disposition, and possessed that suavity of manner so commendable in
                  old people, and which impresses the younger ones with reverence for age.
               Bad as was Warner, this old gentleman had sufficient influence over him to
                  superintend the manner of traveling, and even, on some occasions, it was said,
                  that Warner actually dispensed with some of his profanity, and frequently wiped
                  the tobacco-juice from his capacious mouth, when speaking to the said Uncle
                  Thomas.
               Things had now taken a peaceable turn, and a happy journey seemed to lie before
                  them. For several days they sped rapidly over the barren hills, rejoicing as they
                  went; but unfortunately a sad scene soon followed; it was an incident that
                  bestrewed the old man's future with a long series of troubles! Uncle Thomas and
                  Downie had conceived a great attachment for each other, and no joy nor sorrow
                  remained unshared between them. True, there was a vast difference between their
                  ages, but they seemed to live like father and son, and for many, many years they
                  had been inseparable companions, roving all over the world. Uncle Thomas had
                  arrived at that sweet elysium in age where the cold hand of self-interest is
                  absorbed by the more heavenly regard for the happiness of his fellow-mortals, and
                  he was striving to fulfill his last and dearest wish, that in a little while—when
                  the feeble frame had run its course, and the mighty swords of heaven and earth
                  swung their keen-cutting edges o'er the things of time, and clipped the soul
                  asunder, to rest in peace—he might, be able to look back on earth and see no dark
                  stains on the trying road behind.
               His tall, thin person, clear skin, and cleanly-shaven face, ornamented by a few
                  long locks of silvery-white and gracefully-reverential hair, hanging carelessly by
                  its sides, or floating its nearly wasted substance on the warm, glimmering air,
                  rendered the few broken, mellow tones of his feeble voice escaping between his
                  thin lips, among the most venerated things of earth, and whose waning beauty
                  filled the soul with sadness.
               A life of misfortune had nearly sapped him of his wealth, but he trusted that the
                  country before him would enable him to see Downie, his only living treasure, in
                  prosperity before he closed his mortal career. But alas! how soon the scene can
                  change! The robust and the feeble stand alike on the verge of eternity! One
                  faltering step, and lo! life is gone!
               It was a bright sunny day, when the three packers descended the steep hills and
                  crossed the valley to the banks of Greene river—the river of terror, the sea of
                  madness—the fountain of danger and scene of death!
               
               For some time they stood upon its bank, counseling upon the best manner of
                  crossing; but, finally, concluded to send their provisions across on a raft, make
                  their horses swim, and then cross on the raft themselves. When the provisions were
                  packed, Downie mounted the raft to assist the raftsmen over. Uncle Thomas and
                  Warner still stood upon the bank, and the raft started out into the stream; but,
                  unfortunately, their load was not well balanced, and as soon as they reached the
                  middle of the river—where the curving waves were flapping their frothy sheets in
                  dizzied fury—their frail raft tottered, beneath its heavy burden, dipped an awful
                  surge and filled the souls of all with dread and terror; but the rushing water
                  soon told the tale! A few mighty heaves and the wreck was scattered among the
                  foaming billows, while the unfortunate raftsmen spoke a few hasty words—then waved
                  their hands aloft—cried, "Good-bye"—and sank beneath the current to rise no
                  more!
               On the following day they made another raft, and with their few remaining
                  provisions, Warner and Uncle Thomas crossed the river, and proceeded on their
                  journey. For several days their march was solemn and quiet; but, in due time,
                  sorrow and grief abated, and happiness once more brightened the old man's way. For
                  many hundred miles they continued to move along in peace and quiet. Warner's knee
                  improved, and he showed more kindness to his old friend, than any one would have
                  supposed; but as we shall refer to them once more before they reach the mines, we
                  must now leave them, and follow Harriet through some of her arduous struggles.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               FROM the Rocky Mountains to the Sierra Nevada, is a continuation of small barren
                  mountains and sandy valleys. Through many of these valleys small streams—fed by
                  the melting snow on one or the other great ranges of mountains—run for a
                  considerable distance, and then waste away in the sand; but, further down the
                  valleys, stagnant pools, and ponds of mineral water are frequently strewed along
                  in unpleasant clusters; continuing further down, water finally disappears
                  altogether, and nothing but barren beds of sandy ridges are to be seen. One of the
                  most extensive of these valleys is the Humboldt, through which runs the river of
                  the same name, which is usually followed by the emigrants for over three hundred
                  miles. Scattered along this river, are a goodly numbers of hills and ridges of
                  sand, which give the valley the appearance of anything but a valley. Looking over
                  the tops of these hills, as one is winding along the crooked river, peaks of
                  mountains covered with snow, are to be seen for hundreds of miles in every
                  direction, which form a pleasing contrast to the burning suns of the great
                  valley.
               Of the whole journey, this is the severest; and in later years, it has become a
                  continual graveyard, where lie the bones of thousands! After the Michigan Company
                  left Salt Lake, they continued on the old Oregon route, and struck this river near
                  its head; and, from a small stream of pure, cold water, they followed it until its
                  different branches swelled it into a large and powerful river, and then on, until
                  it wasted itself in the long, sandy valley through which it flowed. Ah! they
                  followed that tiresome, hateful river, over the burning sand, until their cattle
                  were starving—until they themselves feared they could not reach their destination
                  with their remaining provisions. They had tasted of its refreshing purity at
                  first, but followed it until it grew gradually warmer, and then thickened into
                  stagnant pools, where they were obliged to sip its poisonous fluid through its
                  green scum—from the refreshing air above, they had followed it until its awful
                  stench below sickened their feverish bodies. Ah! the name of the
                  river—Humboldt—was distressing and sickening; its valley of sandy ridges and
                  clusters of sage, was painful to their view, and from their very souls, they
                  prayed for a change of scene. Haggard, hungry, sick, sleepy, wearied, ragged,
                  dirty and despondent were the Michigan Company when they camped on the last
                  stagnant pool of that never-to-be-forgotten valley. But they had clung
                  together—shared the pleasures and hardships of the journey—until an affinity
                  seemed to exist among them, and until
                  their friendship was likely to become permanent. But now they were to be
                  tested—they had reached the Great Desert; and as this was nearly the commencement
                  of emigration over that waste, no accurate knowledge of the distance to water was
                  yet known; but it was supposed to be about forty miles. It was near the middle of
                  July that they reached this desolate region; and the day they commenced to venture
                  on the Great Desert was oppressively warm. At this time the teams were so reduced,
                  that every one of the emigrants were obliged to walk—both men and women. As soon
                  as day was breaking, those who had not charge of the teams, started on the desert.
                  Among these were both our ladies, Harriet and Mrs. Ellis. Harriet thought it was a
                  bold adventure, for a love-sick young lady and a broken-down minister's wife to
                  attempt to walk forty miles over a loose bed of sand, in one of the hottest days
                  of July; and while she thought of this, she wondered very much if persons who
                  write so much about the delicacy of American ladies, were very well informed upon
                  the subject that they pretend to have investigated; but her final conclusion was,
                  that Boston and New York would continue to disgrace the American ladies by their
                  puny physiology, until people who write upon the subject take a jaunt to the
                  West.
               The appearance of the country here at midday is the most tiresome to the eye that
                  man ever looked upon—barren ridges, piles, and plains of sand, with here and there
                  scattering bunches of offensive wild-sage, beneath which are to be seen, now and
                  then, the "electric lizard" darting so rapidly that the eye can not follow it. How
                  this detestable weed, or bush, rather, can subsist in this parching, dry sand, is
                  really a mystery for the botanist, for so dry is the growing plant, that if a
                  lighted match be applied to it, it will instantly ignite and burn to the ground.
                  The sight of this vegetable production becomes so oppressive to the emigrant that
                  he will forever after, when thinking of the Plains, be haunted with its smell and
                  appearance; and as it forms the only material for making camp-fires for many
                  hundred miles, its smoke and fizzy-like noise when burning will continue to be
                  loathsome to his reflections for many, many long years. Yes, reader, though it is
                  now many years since we saw it, and though we are in a neat little room more than
                  a thousand miles away from it, yet we can hear its fiz, taste its bitterness, and
                  smell its offensive odor, easier than describe it. But the lizard is quite as
                  mysterious a production as is the sage. He is from five to fifteen inches in
                  length, and combines a hundred varieties of color, some of which are the most
                  beautiful that are to be found in the whole animal kingdom. He will sit in the
                  hottest part of the sand, facing the sun, and so still is he, that one can
                  scarcely detect him; but when he starts to run, you commence to look, but so rapid
                  is his flight, that only a flash of light, which is occasioned by the brilliancy
                  of his colors, is to be seen, and then you feel sorry that he is gone. But how
                  this harmless little creature finds his food, and what his food is, unless he
                  catches gnats and musquitoes at night, is quite difficult to explain. Upon the
                  Great Desert this lizard is the only attractive native that the emigrant meets.
                  Birds and beasts cannot live upon it—at least, previous to the period of
                  emigration they could not; but since that time they have the bodies of the cattle
                  and horses, and even of many of the emigrants, to feast upon.
               
                  
                     A MISHAP ON THE DESERT.
                  
               
               Looking over the desert, the ridges and piles of sand seem to form an uneven plain
                  for many miles; but continuing the gaze, the brightness of the light looks, in the
                  distance, to glimmer like burning coal
                  when the sun is shining upon it; even so seems the further, boundary of the desert
                  when earnestly gazing over it. But this view is more oppressive near the middle of
                  the day than at any other time; for by looking a little upward, at a distance of
                  one or two hundred miles, are to be seen mountains of snow, which, when the sun,
                  is shining upon them, seem such a contrast to the heat that the emigrant is
                  enduring, that he more fully appreciates the misery of his condition. In fact,
                  reader, if you have ever been very hungry, and in the presence of rich viands,
                  with no money in your pocket, you may have an indistinct idea of how an emigrant
                  feels when looking upon the snowy mountains.
               As already mentioned, the Michigan Company started to cross this desert at the
                  breaking of day; and it is doubtful, if ever a party started with more hope of
                  accomplishing the feat with ease. As it was moderately cool in the morning, they
                  pushed forward with considerable haste, intending to make less speed during the
                  middle of the day. After traveling about ten miles, Tom went to the top of a
                  sand-hill to look ahead, and see if an end to the desert yet appeared.
               "What's it like, pilot?" asked the others, who had halted to hear of the
                  prospect.
               "Nothing—nothing," Tom replied, and continued on toward the road again. Some of
                  the party showed signs of returning to the wagons, but upon Harriet and Mrs.
                  Ellis's determination to proceed onward, they all continued on again. Their
                  single-file line now began to show signs of thirst and fatigue; but no one broke
                  the silence, and they moved onward, still as the calm scenes around them. But as
                  they journeyed on, the heat of the sun continued to increase, and even the air
                  became more still and rarefied, and they felt that oppressive longing for breath
                  which fortunately is unknown to most of the inhabitants of our country. About ten
                  miles further were traveled, when Tom again ascended a sand-hill to look for a
                  change of scene, but again they were disappointed. This was near noon, and the
                  temperature of the air was about one hundred and twenty degrees Fahrenheit. A
                  general acknowledgment of fatigue now became public, and some of them started back
                  to meet the wagons. Among these was Mrs. Ellis. This left poor Harriet to travel
                  alone in company with the men, or to return to the wagons: to do the former she
                  decided. Again they continued onward. The heat of the sun still continued to
                  increase, and the thirst of the emigrants was becoming almost insupportable. Yet
                  as they went onward, Harriet tried hard to convince herself that she could go, the
                  other twenty miles; but she thought there was already a heaviness about her feet
                  that made them drag and slip in the loose, hot sand as if her hopes were vain. She
                  noticed, also, that some of the men showed more weakness thaw, herself; and she
                  was not altogether destitute of an ambitious desire to say that she had crossed
                  the Great Desert on foot, for at that time very few ladies had accomplished the
                  feat. Taking all these things into consideration, she determined to put her
                  physical powers to the test.
               Now, the sand on this desert is exceedingly hot, and whenever any one sits down
                  upon it they are in danger of being sun-struck so as to never rise again; and the
                  ignorance of the people upon this subject has caused many a poor fellow to leave
                  his bones upon that desert; whereas, had he continued to exert himself, and
                  thereby maintain his perspiration, he might have saved his life. Harriet
                  understood this principle. She remembered one old Dr. Sparks, who used to drill
                  her upon the subject of animal philosophy; and while she thus thought about the
                  old Dr., she feared that she had not treated him with the regard he deserved,
                  which now caused a dimness to come between her vision and the arid scenes around
                  her. As she moved onward in this "melting mood," regardless of the few tears that
                  now and then rolled down her cheeks, she elevated the larboard bow of her calico
                  sun-bonnet and perceived one of the men, a little in advance, sitting down in the
                  sand; but ere she had time to speak, she heard him moan a little and gasp for
                  breath. She ran to him and called him by name, and said all she could to encourage
                  him; but he soon laid down on the road, and they all thought he was going to die.
                  They nursed him up for a few minutes, but they feared they were endangering
                  themselves by remaining in the place; accordingly ingly they whispered courage to him, and then left
                  him. They could do no better. The same has been done a thousand times since, and
                  will be done again this summer, only they will be different people.
               This was Harriet's first lesson upon the necessity of hardening her heart; it was
                  also her first lesson upon the vain struggles of ambition—the first upon
                  mortality, and upon the curious organization, of our fellow-creatures, that cause
                  them to use up their existence in this world for the acquisition of wealth, and
                  defer making themselves happy and contented until they get to another. Yes;
                  Harriet perceived that she could not bestow the natural religion of her own heart
                  upon the evils and misfortunes around her, until the world discarded the vain
                  whims and follies, which cause people to sacrifice the life and the body that God
                  has given them. Yes; she perceived that there was within her own nature, fallen or
                  not fallen, a principle too sympathizing, too sacred and moral, to say, "Thank
                  God! he has quit this world and gone to heaven!" but yet she tried to dry up her
                  tears and harden her heart by the common saying, "Well, this world is sour grapes;
                  and if I don't believe it, I might be induced to assist my fellows to gather some
                  of them; so, I had better believe it, and then I can bear these horrors without
                  shedding tears. Yes; if he dies in the sand there now, I must thank God that his
                  troubles are over; but if he should not die, I must—what? curse God for not ending
                  his troubles? Ah! mystery, mystery! I will neither thank nor curse about it. It
                  seems to me that it is none of my business, any further than if I can get water to
                  him before he dies, I shall do so." But while she was walking along in the burning
                  sand, pondering upon this subject, another of the party (it was Jimie) became too
                  exhausted to proceed, and sat down to rest; but he, too, fell beneath the stroke
                  of the sun. Charley, his friend, was soon by his side, endeavoring to assist him
                  to rise and walk, but Jimie was too weak to stand. Then, when he laid down,
                  Charley sat down by his side, held his head in his arms, and said:
               "Be the holy Virgin, if ye die, Jimie, I will remain here and die wid ye!"
               Harriet looked at Charley, and she saw large drops of tears rolling down his broad
                  Irish face; but she became confounded when witnessing this, for she thought she
                  had made a discovery that would startle the nations—that the Irish were human
                  beings! And while she looked at Charley's tears dropping into Jimie's face, she
                  said to herself, "There ought to be a law against these 'uneducated Irish' coming
                  to our country: their doctrines are interdictive to the spirit of the age;" and as
                  she muttered the words, she felt something gushing out of her eyes and running
                  down her face. Then she turned to look at the others, and she said to herself: "At
                  the tomb I have seen men shed tears, but I have never before seen men
                  so moved by sympathy." But they had no time to lose: they could not stop in the
                  sun any longer. They all went on, leaving Charley at Jimie's side.
               Their party were now few in number, and all greatly fatigued. Not long after this
                  they perceived the tops of trees far ahead. They felt confident that those trees
                  must be standing on the banks of Carson river; but they were at least eight or ten
                  miles off, though not so far but that every one of the party believed they could
                  reach them. As the sun lowered to the westward their thirst seemed to increase,
                  and their hunger and weakness continued to depress their spirits. This was about
                  thirty miles they had traveled since daylight, and, as it ultimately proved, but
                  little more than half way across. This, too, is the most difficult part of the
                  journey, for at that hour the temperature in the sun generally stands as high as
                  one hundred and twenty-five to one hundred and thirty-five degrees Fahrenheit.
                  Were the road solid, the difficulty would be a mere pleasure promenade; but the
                  loose sand seems to make one's feet go as far back as forward—a difficulty that
                  tries one's patience quite as much as it does his physical powers. Then, after the
                  thirst commences, the throat seems to stick or collapse so as to make it extremely
                  difficult to breathe; to do which, the mouth must be kept open. But the exercise
                  of these organs causes the glands of the neck to swell, so that even the tongue
                  will protrude from the mouth. In this condition they are sometimes obliged to
                  travel for many, many miles; so that to be an observer of a few of these
                     sufferers as they move along in a
                  dejected single-file line, is to be in a position where your own feelings would be
                  far more difficult to describe than would be the scene itself.
               Such, then, was Harriet's condition—seeing strong young men, behind and before
                  her, in a far worse condition, than herself. This has been frequently noticed in
                  crossing the desert, that ladies have accomplished the journey quite as well as
                  the men, and in many instances, far better. But with Harriet, doubtless, her
                  anxiety to overtake Simons was the means of giving her as much strength as she
                  already manifested. When the sun was about setting, or at least falling behind the
                  distant snowy mountains, the heat slightly diminished; but though the air was
                  cooler, their hunger and fatigue still kept them in fear of sinking before they
                  reached the river. At sunset the trees seemed to be almost as far off as when they
                  were first noticed, although the party had now completed upward of forty miles
                  since daylight.
               Harriet now began to fear, for the first time, that she would yet be unable to
                  accomplish the feat; and, should she fail, her condition would be wretched indeed;
                  for they were in place where the Indians were said to be very hostile, and, as
                  night was fast coming on, they would soon be strolling out to commit their
                  depredations upon the emigrants. They were now at least twenty miles ahead of the
                  teams; accordingly, it was her wisest plan to continue on, if possible; and so she
                  resolved to do. But she noticed that, as the night came on, a weariness,
                  occasioned by the less rarefied atmosphere, seemed to incline her to sleep, This
                  is a curious sensation to a person worn down by fatigue and hunger, and seems to
                  be accompanied by a death-stroke to ambition; it is at principle that makes one
                  feel perfectly willing to meet danger or anything else, even death. In fact, he
                  feels like saying, "let come what will, I'm going to have a sleep." So Harriet
                  began to think, but she struggled to suppress her drowsiness; and after an hour of
                  severe struggling, she overcome the feeling, and "was herself again." Before the
                  moon arose, their view of the green trees was entirely closed, which rendered
                  their condition almost hopeless. Then too, they were becoming scattered tered,
                  some were fifty or a hundred yards in advance of the others, and really none of
                  them were near enough to enter into conversation, even if they had been able to do
                  so. But the moon arose; the silent desert was lighted up, and the distant, snowy
                  mountain peaks were sparkling. And as they moved along in silence, Harriet
                  muttered to herself:
               "Welcome, lovely night! Though I am ready to sink down with hunger, thirst, and
                  fatigue, I am more than paid for it all, by looking upon the glorious scenes that
                  surround me. Far in the distance, on every side, I perceive snowy peaks towering
                  so high above the hideous, black mountain ranges, that their sparkling sides
                  ravish my soul with a pleasure more intense than I ever before conceived to be
                  possible. And while I look upon them, so great is their grandeur, that I think
                  they are coming toward me, and I am mounting into the air to escape from their
                  chilly impressions! Then, when I quickly cast my eyes over their wild blacks
                  outlines, I feel a lonesomeness in my condition, that almost persuades me that I
                  have left my mortal existence, and am now dwelling within a garden of grandeur and
                  solitude, that has been fitted up for my eternal home. It seems as though such
                  scenes can not be upon earth! But, when I bring my view closer, and confine my
                  eyes to the silent desert, a conflicting of earthly and heavenly contemplations
                  convinces me that nature's domain is the highest and most unimpeachable evidence
                  of the power and greatness of Omnipotence."
               Yes, Harriet thought of all this; and so does every one that ever looks upon such
                  glorious scenes. But we must not confine ourselves to these impressions, but hurry
                  on with our story.
               After nearly despairing of ever reaching the river, and after nearly wearing
                  themselves out with fatigue and thirst, they did reach the river, where they
                  hesitated not to lay themselves down and drink to their entire satisfaction. Here,
                  Harriet accomplished a journey of fifty-five miles, which, at that time, had been
                  done by few ladies, but which has been done by hundreds since. As soon as they
                  were refreshed to their satisfaction, they took an old keg, which some, one in
                  advance had discharged as useless luggage, filled it, and started back to meet and
                  to relieve the balance of the company.
                  Those who had given out during the day, had, when the evening set in, revived and
                  were marching onward. Charley had succeeded in getting Jimie within a short
                  distance of the river, when they were met by the returning party with water.
               "Be me faith, pilot," said Charley, "ye are always afther doin' a fellow a good
                  turn. A small drap to Jimie if it may plase yer honor, for meself can rache the
                  river, and ye had better save yer wather for the poor fellows behind, jist."
               "But you had better take a sup too, Charley."
               "Not a drap, pilot, and all the thanks in the world upon ye, but sure I wouldn't
                  touch a drap, at all at all. Faith, and did ye," turning to Harriet, "go all the
                  way through till the river?"
               "Yes, Charley, I reached the river," said Harriet.
               "Sure, and it'll be a lucky man that gets ye for a wife; but ye must be
                  weary?"
               "Not much, Charley, but I couldn't stop at the river alone."
               "But ye can go back to the river and stop with Jimie, and we will carry the water
                  to the fellows behind, while ye rest yer limbs."
               To this proposition Harriet consented, and accordingly, returned with Charley and
                  Jimie, but the others continued on with the keg of water. The balance of that
                  night and all the following day, was occupied in getting the company safely over,
                  and encamped on Carson river. A few of their cattle died, but otherwise, all was
                  well, and from that time onward but little quarreling was known among them.
               Carson river is the first view that the emigrant gets of timber, which is quite a
                  luxury after traveling for over a thousand miles through a barren country. But one
                  of the oddest things is, that every emigrant is astonished to think that, of all
                  the writers who have described the difficulties of crossing the Plains, no one has
                  ever spoken of it as being a barren road; consequently, everybody is surprised to
                  find that they are obliged to travel hundreds of miles without seeing a tree or
                  shrub, or even a bush. Whether writers have purposely neglected to represent the
                  route in its true colors, for the sake of public good, or whether they have always
                  been used to barren countries and did not notice its break appearance ance, it
                  mattereth not, but such is the fact. As soon as the emigrants reach this river
                  they usually rest awhile in older to feast their eyes upon the timber, and also,
                  to allow their cattle an opportunity of improving. At these halting-places along
                  the journey is an incident—or fact rather—which puts one very much in mind of a
                  busy housewife, namely, a tumbling out of all the clothing, looking it all over,
                  mussing it up a little and packing it all back again. In these little inspections,
                  worn-out garments and empty boxes are discharged; and not unfrequently are to be
                  seen coffeepots with holes in the bottoms, and sometimes are seen bits of harness,
                  so that altogether, these encampments form quite an interesting appearance; and
                  were they several thousand years old, no doubt they would make one somewhat
                  melancholy when giving them a serious inspection. Upon these relics, as on the
                  buffalo skulls, the persons in advance, thinking that some acquaintance might
                  follow, have written their names upon the kettles and boxes, and generally set
                  them in an upright position. As the Michigan Company remained for some time in
                  this encampment, Harriet might be seen wandering among the ruins, Closely watching
                  every speck of tar or chalk marked upon the front of relics, in search of a
                  well-known name; and sure enough, her labor was not in vain, for she found the
                  following: "July 16th—Nathan Simons in prosperity." Harriet gazed upon it a
                  moment, and half-aloud exclaimed, "Possible! four days in advance!
               He has gained upon me, O! dear, what shall I do? After a few minutes' hard study
                  she laid the board down and proceeded directly to the Captain, and commenced: "Oh!
                  Captain, how long will you stop here? Must we never start? Why, I should think,
                  anybody would have more ambition than our company has; then you must know that
                  this has been such a frequent camping-place that we shall have better grass
                     by going on further ahead!"
               "O, my dear girl," said the Captain, "don't be uneasy; for we shall start
                  to-morrow, and we are going to travel very fast now; but I am astonished at you
                  hurrying us up! I should think you had nearly enough of fast traveling by this
                  time!"
               
               "O, no, Captain, I am tired of waiting so much on these young men—I don't mean
                  waiting on them, but for them, they are so slow! I think
                  we might start to-day!"
               "Faith, and ye are right, Harriet," said Charley, "such a lot of youngsters—bad
                  luck to us—we can't travel as fast as yerself, and there is no pity for us."
               Carson Valley is one of the most beautiful places in the wide world! And as the
                  emigrant emerges from the long, desolate scenes behind, and enters into this vale
                  of living grandeur, he is prepared to feast upon its superabundant richness and
                  beauty with untiring admiration and feelings of inexpressible delight. To the west
                  are to be seen the great Sierra Nevadas, which form a wall running north and south
                  for several hundred miles, seeming to cross the road and the valley, but rising
                  abruptly, and so high in the heavens, that their snowy peaks are lost amid the
                  blue and smoky haze, where the eye of the beholder becomes fixed and giddy while
                  he feels unable to express his emotions. Turning to the north, one continued mass
                  of bleak, desolate mountains seem to roll one over another, extending so far away,
                  that the eye grows dim in following their wild, black curves through the hazy
                  atmosphere. To the eastward, for more than a hundred miles, the small, dark-gray
                  mountains seem to lie on a lower level, but spotted here and there with fields of
                  snow, forming a variegated landscape of the grandest beauty.
               But it is to the south where the mind loves to feast—there lies the valley of
                  incomparable beauty! It is a meadow of the richest vegetation, partially
                  interrupted in its extent by giving up from its midst, here and there, a
                  sugar-loaf mountain, which is, at first, of the most beautiful green, and then, as
                  it rises in the air, becomes huge, black, and wildly protecting over the rich
                  vegetation below, but continuing to raise its awful pile until its tapering peak
                  pierces the clouds! Through the middle of the valley flows the clear, sparkling
                  Carson, its winding course ornamented by a continual row of tall cottonwood trees,
                  following its meanderings through the vast green meadow. The gentle slope of the
                  valley on each side of the river, is coursed by thousands of rivulets—fed by the
                  melting snow on the distant mountains—which extend their little murmuring channels
                  for several miles through the tall green grass, and, finally, empty into the main
                  river. Here, excluded from the whole busy world, and protected by the strongest
                  walls on earth, the emigrant knows no language that can express his admiration of
                  so beautiful a garden among the wild mountains, for even its solitude is surpassed
                  by its richness and grandeur.
               The Michigan Company had a very favorable drive until they reached the foot of the
                  Sierra Nevadas, where they were obliged to halt and discharge a quantity of
                  luggage. At the foot of these mountains commence the forests of pine, fir and
                  hemlock, so that only a few hours are required to hide the "valley of beauty"
                  forever. Perhaps, every one has seen remarkable sights, for which they would have
                  given half their lives away, to have had a friend to participate in the enjoyment
                  of the scene, if so, they can easily imagine our young heroine of romance taking
                  her last view of Carson Valley.
               "O! could I have looked o'er thy enrapturing scenes, and beneath thy smiling
                  groves, mingled my voice with his, while his comprehensive mind accompanied the
                  vivid flights of mine, I could have forfeited my self-love, and resigned my wishes
                  to the will of thy inanimate fields! Could he, too, have passed this glorious
                  view? Ah! I see the same mountains and valleys, the same groves and meadows, the
                  same clear light, and even the same curtain-like clouds, that he, too, has seen.
                  Then, too, he looked to the eastward; he saw those distant gray mountains, spotted
                  here and there with fields of snow, o'er which he peered through the hazy skies
                  that rest upon them. And while he looked upon these, he heard the melancholy hum
                  of this mighty forest; he heard these fountains of water too, that come rushing
                  down these hideous cañons, mingling their crashing and foaming roar with the
                  wheezy-like echo that continues to rise among the leaves above, but never escapes.
                  Then he saw the tall grass on that extensive slope waving gently, and he heard
                  these little rivulets trickling along their hidden channels; and while he saw and
                  heard all these, he, too, thought about the change to which this wild and lovely scene would be subject,
                  when civilized people settle upon it. But he, too, had to take his last view of
                  this Vale of Beauty! And I must leave it. A few minutes more, and I must be
                  climbing the mighty Sierra Nevadas! The dark, wild forest will hide the view to me
                  forever—forever!"
               Harriet had now abandoned all hope of meeting Simons, until she reached the mines
                  or settlements in California. Indeed, she had only about two hundred miles further
                  to travel, and she was not at all discouraged by so insignificant a remainder. But
                  here, we must dismiss her for the present; and, reader, at the end of our story,
                  you will be able to perceive why we are obliged to break off from the apparent
                  course of our narrative; we are only introducing persons who are indispensable to
                  the objects of the main subject. Therefore, take your time, and we promise to
                  bring you safely over.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               A CURIOUSLY matched pair of individuals were Warner and Uncle Thomas, but in order
                  to ascertain a few of their peculiarities, we must relate a sketch of an afternoon
                  with them along the road in the mountains. Here we have a road composed of steep
                  mountains and narrow defiles, down which, deep creeks of cold water are seen
                  dashing their sparkling foam among the long branches of fir, hemlock, and pine,
                  which hang in such rich profusion, as to prevent a glimpse at the clear sky above;
                  all dark and dreary, the roaring water seems to wheeze and moan to escape its wild
                  solitude. Up the side of these creeks, passed the narrow road which leads to the
                  summit, and along this road we find our inverted V on the back of a pretty little
                  gray horse; his mouth, filled with tobacco, is pouting, but now and then opens a
                  little to let fly a liberal discharge of Kentucky cartridge, then closes, and
                  looks important again. His legs are dangling lifelessly nearly to the ground, but
                  his short body, bent a little forward full-breasted behind, his
                  "wide-awake" resting upon his shoulders, his white eyebrows climbing his low
                  forehead; but his beauty is completed by a dark-yellow streak of tobacco juice
                  trickling down each side his long chin, over which a sickly-white furze is
                  growing; with this face, such a face, wild with ignorance, lighted by
                  two rather queer-looking eyes, directed toward Uncle Thomas, who has been trying
                  hard to explain the causes of mountain elevation.
               "Certainly," said Uncle Thomas, "it required a great force to elevate such a range
                  of mountains as these; but, if that force did not proceed from the interior of the
                  earth, we can not conceive of any method that will give us any explanation of
                  their upheaval at all. But if you don't think the cause exists within the earth;
                  where, Warner, where do you imagine the power does exist?"
               "Well," said Warner, stretching himself up a little, and assuming an important
                  air, "well, I never study these things much, but I always thought that the
                  mountains was as old as any other part of the world; in fact, I always understood
                  that they was a little the oldest, if anything."
               "O, but you see that cannot be, Warner; for the mountains could not stand until
                  something existed beneath them?"
               "Yes," said Warner, "yes, uncle, you are right; but I never tho't o' that afore. I
                  see at once, as quick as you advanced the idee, the mountains can't be the oldest
                  part of the world; but how did you say the mountains was made?"
               "Why, the earth is supposed to be in a state of solution at a depth of about
                  twenty miles, and the crust, in resting upon it, is risen or depressed by the
                  action of other planets upon it; for as one portion is rising, another is sinking,
                  but if this action is not uniform, the crust is cracked, and either elevated or
                  sunk; but in the eruption here, the land was elevated."
               Before the old man could get through with a single idea, Warner's mind would be
                  strolling after something else, or, perhaps, toward his horse's ears—a mark that
                  he usually fired his tobacco juice at—an operation that would give rise to the
                  following address to his horse, "Ha, ha! take that, will you, or I'll give you one
                  on the other ear, too. Your infernal lazy beast;—what are you lopping your ears so early in the day for? I'll
                  brighten your idees—if I don't—you can take my hat."
               Such speeches he would frequently commence, when the old man would be in the act
                  of explaining some scientific problem; and any one can easily imagine what sort of
                  company he would be for Uncle Thomas, when such a scope for geological metaphysics
                  was within their reach. Anxiously indeed, did Uncle Thomas wish to reach the end
                  of the journey, where he soon expected to mingle in better company; but, alas!
                  poor old soul, he was not aware of the high position that this same Warner would
                  yet hold in California.
               Riding along after the above fashion, the old man generally grew very weary when
                  night approached; but here he had most of the labor—attending to the horses and
                  preparing supper—to perform; for, even yet, Warner's knee prevented him from
                  assisting, or at least afforded a "soldier's excuse." Uncle Thomas withstood the
                  hardships of the journey as well as many young people; and, had he had a liberal
                  companion, doubtless he would have stood it much better than many.
               Before the emigrants reach California, they usually talk very much about what they
                  are going to do—how much money they wish to make—how long it will require to make
                  it, and by what means they are going to make it.
               Upon this subject the old man finally turned the conversation, for really it was
                  the only one on which he could secure Warner's attention; but whether he had an
                  idea of awakening a new sense of reflection in his young companion, does not
                  appear very clear; more probably he loved to talk, and would talk with anybody on
                  anything rather than be quiet. But we must give a specimen of their own words, and
                  should it awaken new ideas in anybody's mind upon the inalienable rights of man,
                  it must be remembered that it did not effect as much as that upon the mind of Mr.
                  Warner.
               "So, Mr. Warner, you think you shall commence gambling as soon as we reach the
                  mines? But have you ever thought whether you would be doing as useful a business
                  as if engaged in something else?"
               "That ain't my business; you know it's a free country, and it's my business to
                  make money at what I can?"
               "You Americans seem to have a curious notion of freedom; in England we don't
                  understand by a country being a free country, that a man can follow an illegal
                  business, or rather, anything he chooses; for he may be thereby trampling upon the
                  rights of others."
               "But here's the fact of the business," said Warner, stretching himself into an
                  important attitude, "if a country's a free country, why a man may follow anything;
                  and if he can't do that, why it isn't free, that's all. Look what Washington and
                  Jefferson said on the freedom of this country."
               "But if I mistake not, Washington never wished to carry freedom to such an extent
                  as to tolerate gambling! But I am not arguing other men's opinions; I only speak
                  of gambling being a business that is trampling upon the rights of others, and
                  that, consequently, it can not be said that a man has a natural right
                  to engage in it?"
               "O, yes! uncle, I'll show you in a minute how that is. You see, if a man's
                     free, he can do what he likes; and if he can't do that, he ain't
                  free. Now, we'll say you are going to the mines to dig gold; well, if you can't
                  get to dig, then you ain't free, are you?"
               "Ah! but look you here: by digging gold I am not interfering with any man's right;
                  I am not injuring anybody; I am really a benefit to society. But by gambling, you
                  are taking another man's money, which it is his right to keep."
               "O, no, uncle, he has a right to spend his money; and if he's fool enough to come
                  and gamble it into my pockets, why he has a right to do so."
               "Ay, if he is fool enough; but do you know that in England we consider the
                  business of a government is to protect the rights and property of such people as
                  are not capable of judging for themselves."
               "Pshaw! what is England? Why, you can't go into the fields and shoot birds!"
               "Ah! but see here, Warner; what particular harm does our game law to society? I do
                  not approve of it either; but we English
                  people consider that a place where the government tolerates gambling, is of
                  decidedly low morals; but that is not what I wish to get at—it is this; how far do
                  the rights of man extend; or in other words, how much freedom has a man by
                  nature?"
               "Why," said Warner, growing still more important, "why, I consider, if a man's a
                  free man, he has a right to do anything he chooses—anything."
               "O no, Warner, surely that cannot be; or at least, it is very different from what
                  we English people think."—We must mention here that Uncle Thomas was not devoid of
                  the general character of the English; and although he was one of the best men that
                  ever lived, yet that eternal weakness of making so frequent allusion to England
                  and to English people, was the first and greatest of all his crimes; and dull as
                  was Warner's comprehension, yet he was capable of perceiving it.-="For," the old
                  man continued, "if we give a man a right to do as he chooses, he may wish to run
                  naked into a ballroom, for that is only giving him the most extensive
                  freedom."
               "Ah!" said Warner, "I don't mean that a man shall be free to do such a thing as
                  that; but he has a right to do any kind of business he chooses."
               "Any kind of business that does not injure society, I will admit; but a man has no
                  right to be setting traps along a public highway to catch people and rob them, has
                  he?"
               "O no, I don't mean to uphold any dishonest business by giving a man perfect
                  freedom; but I have a right to gamble if I choose, and it's nobody's
                  business."
               "But that is very different from what we English people think. We say, if any
                  occupation that a man follows is an injury to society in general, then that man
                  has no natural right to follow it."
               "But by gambling I'll not injure society. I'll just open a monte-bank, and if
                  people are foolish enough to injure themselves on it, why they can do it."
               "Ah! but see here, Warner; everybody will agree that gambling is a bad thing as it
                  does now exist; well, then, the question is, have you a right to hold temptation
                  before the public? Your argument is precisely the same as that used by the
                  manufacturers of spiritous liquors: they say that they have a right
                  to make whatever they choose; and if people do not know enough to let
                  their liquor alone, why, let them drink it. Now, I do not say that these
                  manufacturers trampled upon anybody's rights by making the liquor;
                  for if it was destroyed immediately, it would not injure the public; but by
                  placing the temptation before the people it then injures society, and consequently
                  it is not right in the manufacturer to engage in such business."
               "Well, I don't care," said Warner, growing somewhat impatient; "it's a free
                  country, and I have a right to gamble if I like."
               "Why, not as we English people think, you have not."
               But Warner could bear it no longer; so stretching himself well up, and commencing
                  with that dreadful place where he wished all bad people, he replied: "To h—ll with
                  your d—d foreign notions: you are like all others—-you want to dictate to us
                  Americans, by G—d, what is right; but you don't come any of your slack over me,
                  I'll bet."
               "O not at all, Warner," replied Uncle Thomas, surprised at such a sudden burst; "I
                  did not mean to dictate anything at all; but I supposed anybody had a right to
                  speak their opinion in this country."
               "So they have; but we don't want foreigners to dictate to us about our affairs,
                  nor, by G—d, we won't have them do it either."
               "But I was only expressing an opinion; I do not want to dictate."
               "Yes, you're just like an abolitionist: he says he's only expressing an opinion,
                  but all the time he is trying to rob us of our rights."
               "But do you know that you can express your opinion on anything in England?"
               "To h—ll with England!—a nation of people that can't trust to each other's
                  word!"
               "But see here, Warner; does it never occur to you, that when there are
                  institutions in a country against which a man cannot express his opinion, those institutions must be
                  wrong? I will agree that we have great curses in England, but against any of these
                  a man has a right to speak and to advocate his own notions; and because I speak
                  against gambling, you accuse me with meddling with the rights of the country. No,
                  Warner, I tell you I am the last man to dictate to anybody; but you
                  will find me a true Englishman—I will speak against whatever does not
                  seem right to me."
               "Well, I don't care; but I am going to open a bank as soon as I get to Sacramento,
                  and it's nobody's business."
               Warner and Uncle Thomas had but few of the mountain difficulties to encounter, and
                  consequently reached the mines in advance of most of the emigration. Immediately
                  after their arrival they sold their horses. Warner went to Sacramento to commence
                  gambling, and the old man started for the diggings; but as we shall keep an eye to
                  their prosperity, we must now return to welcome our happy lady, Harriet, across
                  the mountains.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               AFTER the Michigan Company entered the mountains, their whole attention seemed to
                  be directed to everything that would accelerate their speed, and, with the
                  exception of the loss of a few cattle, they met but few difficulties.
               Near the summit of the Sierra Nevadas the road is frequently very good, being
                  nearly level for many miles; but, as it does on most of the route, it follows
                  along the side of creeks and ravines; and in the mountains these creeks are nearly
                  hidden by the thick underbrush, and along their very narrow valleys are sometimes
                  small patches of grass, but the mountains are covered with snow.
               In the early emigration, grizzly bears were to be seen almost every hour of the
                  day, either strolling along the road in the hot sun—for it was the middle of
                  summer—or wallowing in these little creeks; so that it was not very wholesome for
                  a single person to go very far in advance of the company, unless he was well
                  prepared for a tussle with the very friendly-looking Mr. Bruin.
               
                  
                     ASCENDING THE SIERRA NEVADAS.
                  
               
               A little after sunset, one evening, the Michigan Company were in the act of
                  encamping upon one of those grass-patches close to the side of a creek, which was
                  completely inclosed by a dense thicket of willows, when a rather laughable
                  incident occurred among them. Harriet had taken a bucket to bring some water from
                  the creek, and went in a careful, stooping posture, creeping under the brush until
                  she stood at the water's edge; but behold! she had scarcely straightened into an
                  upright position when Mr. Bruin arose to give her a hearty welcome; and, within a
                  few feet of her, he looked not very unlike some comical monument topped out with Michael Angelo's God of
                  Moses—only the bear lacked the horns and the beard. In such a formidable position,
                  and not having showed his card, poor Harriet did consider that his desire for an
                  embrace—in the dark—was a decided breach of etiquette, and herself at
                  liberty—being a real American in principle and birth—to decline his solicitations;
                  and accordingly she commenced a gentle screaming, and at the same time betook
                  herself to her hands and knees, making a hasty retreat beneath the brush in the
                  direction of the camp. But Mr. Bruin seemed to consider such a hasty denial an
                  insult to his dignity, and forthwith proceeded to follow the poor girl for an
                  explanation, and the way those willows shook, mingled within poor Harriet's
                  scream, seemed really serious.
               In the midst of this unceremonious march toward the camp, Charley, the
                  ever-faithful Charley, being prejudiced in favor of his traveling companion, and
                  thinking Mr. Bruin was a Corkonian,—a race of people who had not many years since
                  planted quite a projection on the side of his head, and for whom he entertained no
                  very good feelings,—did proceed, with shillelah in hand, boldly toward Mr. Bruin,
                  who soon came to the very wise conclusion that the sooner he abandoned his
                  intentions upon the poor girl, the better; and in a moment after, his ungainly
                  person was "among the missing," while Charley was left, calling out: "Run, ye
                  cowardly blackguard!—bad luck to yer impudence, to be afther bating a poor girl!
                  There isn't a spark of the true gentleman about ye, and divil the honor there is
                  benaith yer jacket at all, at all!—run, ye blackguard, run!"
               Poor Harriet, pale and trembling, was now overcome by a good hearty laugh, and
                  soon after, it was noticed, she had charged a very ragged dress for one of better
                  appearance. The others brought up the water-bucket, and thus the scene terminated,
                  and thus ended the last exciting acts of the Michigan Company on the Plains.
               On entering California in the hottest days of summer, one is apt to form a very
                  different notion of the country from what a certain explorer represented it to be.
                  All over the valley of Sacramento is not to be seen a spire of green grass—nothing
                  but a level, dried-up plain glimmering in the sun; and, but for a few squatty oaks
                  scattered over it at wide intervals, it would appear as desolate as the deserts of
                  Arabia. However, this is really the California winter; for at six months from this
                  period the entire valley—ay, hundreds of square miles—are literally hid beneath
                  the innumerable variety of flowers upon it. But such is not the case in what is
                  called summer. Then, clouds of dust, a dry atmosphere, and an oppressive sun, are
                  all the enjoyments with which the emigrant is greeted. But, bad as it is, who can
                  judge of the heartfelt thanks of the emigrant who has just accomplished this
                  journey! No one but an American would have dared to perform such a feat. But so
                  great is the migrative disposition of our nation, that even our women and children
                  venture where civilized man has never been.
               After nearly four months of severe toil and exposure, the Michigan Company
                  encamped close to Sacramento city. We have thus hastily passed over Harriet's
                  adventures, experiences, excitements, hopes, and despondencies, because our story
                  would have been too long had we not confined our remarks to the most prominent,
                  interesting, and instructive incidents that this venturesome creature met with. It
                  is not to be supposed that she crossed the Plains without experiencing bad colds,
                  headaches, and fevers in the hot sun; and that some of the company were very kind
                  to her, some indifferent, and some disagreeable; these things contain nothing new
                  to most readers, for there has already been much written upon that subject; then,
                  beside, since the period of which we write, the journey has been performed by many
                  other ladies, both old and young.
               Of Mr. and Mrs. Ellis, and Jimie, and Charley, we shall have a little more to
                  speak after a while; but with the rest of the company we have done. However, among
                  these, Harriet had some warm friends, as may be judged by her remarks when taking
                  a farewell of them all. This was on the next morning after their arrival, and when
                  the company had just arisen from their out-door breakfast, but yet stood in a
                  circle around their camp-fire—it was their last camp-fire! After going round among
                  them, shaking hands and bidding them farewell individually, she stepped to one, side of their
                  circle, so that she could look upon them all; when they all became quiet to hear
                  what she was going to say, she said:
               "Gentlemen, I must now leave you. Our journey is accomplished; our struggles are
                  over. We must separate. My feelings toward you make me wish our journey continued
                  on! But the end has come, and I can know your presence no more! I say, no more;
                  but yonder! yonder! we shall meet again. But, till then, we must live and wander
                  among the busy world, struggle to achieve our various wants, and continue to
                  remember each other. And you, gentlemen, need never think that a single day will
                  pass by in which I shall not remember you all—remember having witnessed your
                  kindness, labors, and distress, while on that long, long road. But those troubles
                  are all past now. Those wild and dangerous scenes have disappeared, and we are now
                  surrounded by happy and civilized life. But, when I think of our long ramble over
                  those wild plains; those mighty mountains, and those desolate hills; among the
                  many tribes of injured, but dangerous Indians, and among the wretched scenes of
                  suffering emigrants—when I think that you, that I, have
                  done all this, so strange and troubled are my feelings, that I tremble and fear
                  that my life itself is not real. Ah! I remember you all, gentlemen. I have seen
                  you all on the Platte, where those dark, wild clouds were hovering over us—where
                  the rain I and hail fell in torrents—where the cold winds chilled us all, and
                  dashed our tents and wagon-covers in pieces—where you so kindly held the torn
                  canvas over my head, to shield the storm from me! You were kind to me,
                  gentlemen—too kind. I know not how to leave you. But, I must, I must go—go! I can
                  never expect to see you all collected again. Very probably, I shall never see some
                  of you again on earth! For your kindness to me, I know not how to thank you; but,
                  such are my feelings, that I almost wish our journey continued, so that I could
                  enjoy your presence. Even our struggles on the Great Desert are now dear to me—ah!
                  that burning sun, that yellow moon, beneath which our wearied limbs bore us over.
                  Yes, gentlemen, you are all dear to me; but, henceforth, our joys and sorrows can
                  not unite! As you now stand together, you will, perhaps, no more. But, come what
                  may, while life lasts, an affectionate heart will ever cherish your remembrance,
                  will sympathize with your troubles and hardships, will do all that the heart of
                  woman can! Farewell, gentlemen; farewell! I must let this be my last view of you!
                  Farewell!" and she turned, pressed her hand upon her face, and walked away. Though
                  years have since rolled by, Harriet has never forgotten her sad feelings when
                  leaving the Michigan company.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               WHEN Harriet arrived in Sacramento, she was almost penniless, and in possession of
                  a very scanty suit of clothes, beside the poor, ragged one upon her back. In this
                  miserable condition, she now found herself in an immense country, where people
                  knew so little of each other as to be entirely ignorant of their neighbors' names;
                  and, so scattered were the population, that she now feared more than ever that she
                  might yet miss the object of her attachment. What this persevering lady endured
                  has, perhaps, no equal in modern times; and, for faithfulness, energy, and
                  presence of mind, affords one of the most important arguments upon "woman's
                  rights," of any of the fair creature's who have ever taken upon themselves such
                  extensive liberties.
               Only imagine a plump, rosy-cheeked, gray-eyed girl of seventeen, in a half-wild
                  city, ragged and destitute, with hands better adapted to the pencil and the piano
                  than to the common kitchen duties—so much spoken of by old housewife
                  philosophers—as an entire stranger to everybody. Of course, everybody will say she
                  is on her road to ruin; and even less daring ladies might say it served her right
                  for attempting to follow her lover; but, let none rejoice until they hear her
                  fate, and then, should they ever wish to be so enthusiastic, they will have some
                     notion of what some of their fair
                  sisters can accomplish when they make a bold attempt.
               Harriet now commenced looking for some employment whereby she could earn the
                  necessaries of life; and, in a few hours' search, she chanced upon a
                  boarding-house, where she succeeded in making an engagement, for the no trifling
                  sum of one hundred and fifty dollars per month.
               A slight description of this house may not be uninteresting, for it will afford a
                  limited notion of most of the houses in California at that period, and such as
                  were her abode in different places. Its frame consisted of a great number of
                  poles, standing, leaning, and bracing against each other at the top, where an
                  abundance of nails secured them from slipping; but the lower ends of the poles
                  were driven into the ground, so as to look after the style of a common frame
                  house—houses which have been, unfortunately, common in our country; but the
                  construction was a single, low story, of exceeding length. The frame was covered,
                  outside, with a good quality of brown muslin, but inside with the most gaudy, red
                  and green calico that could be obtained in the country; and, within, it presented
                  attractive qualities really laughable. These flashy colors had the desired effect
                  of superseding paintings, particularly as regarded their brilliancy of appearance
                  and economy in construction. This edifice was divided into two very necessary
                  rooms—a dining-room and kitchen. The former occupied about two-thirds the
                  building, and, although it was upward of sixty feet in length, yet it was so very
                  narrow, that a single table, which extended the entire length, and a row of bunks
                  on each side, scarcely left room for one to walk. The table was formed of unplaned
                  boards, supported by posts driven in the ground; but it was covered by a good
                  oilcloth, which was nailed firmly upon it. On each side of this table was a rude
                  bench, patiently waiting for the hungry boarders; and well greased were those
                  benches. The bunks were the nightly resorts of the boarders, and many a good sleep
                  and happy dream passed upon their squeaking humbleness; but, during the day, the
                  blankets in those bunks presented a sorry appearance, and prima facie evidence that washerwomen were rare novelties, if not
                  altogether unknown.
               The kitchen was occupied by a few shelves for holding the china and tinware, which
                  seemed to abound rather luxuriously, and an immense cooking-stove, over which a
                  colored man and his lady were to be seen in a gentle perspiration, preparing the
                  fat pork and beans—the principal articles upon which early Californians subsisted.
                  The floor of this establishment was nothing more nor less than terra firma itself,
                  and in warm weather quite as pleasant and neat as are similar ones in the land of
                  Erin.
               After Harriet's arrival in this mansion, it became necessary to construct a wing
                  to the building, to answer for her dressing and sleeping room; and in those fast
                  days, only a few hours were required for the completion of her apartment. Her
                  occupation at this place was merely to superintend the table; but her presence was
                  to give a respectability to the house, and thereby enable Mr. Long, the
                  proprietor, to make an extra charge for board.
               As soon as Harriet found herself safely located in this establishment, she sat
                  down and wrote a few long letters to her betrothed—expressing such feelings and
                  sentiments as are never interesting to third persons—and immediately proceeded to
                  the office to mail them to different parts of the country.
               It must be stated that, at this period, no government post-office was established
                  at Sacramento, and that everybody who liked, kept one; and, in consequence, there
                  were about one hundred post-offices in this little city! In fact, nearly every
                  store, grocery, grogshop and every other shop, was a post-office, and well
                  represented by a large painted sign above their doors. The reason of so many
                  post-offices being in the city will appear plain, when it is remembered that most
                  of the miners were anxious to send specimens of gold to their wives, sisters or
                  brothers, or intended lady-love in the Atlantic States; and, as no other
                  opportunity existed, they were obliged to send them through by the mail. In this
                  way scarcely a letter was mailed in that city, that did not contain several
                  dollars worth of gold—in answer to which, the poor, honest miner expected his
                  "dear" would bend her affectionate
                  heart and remember him. But, immediately after these letters were mailed, the
                  self-appointed postmaster, who always received a dollar for "prepaid," withdrew to
                  a back room, and there, deliberately and confidentially did break open the said
                  letter or letters, and place the same in his own purse; and then, just as
                  deliberately consign the "dear—dear" letter or letters to his stove, there to be
                  burned and destroyed forever! This was a profitable business, and, probably, the
                  principal cause of so many post-offices, and of so few letters containing gold
                  never reaching their intended destination—a trifling fact that came near causing a
                  secession upon the dilatory conduct of Congress—it was not a Calhoun recession,
                  but the cold hand of lost-confidence-feeling pervading an intelligent and injured
                  public.
               Harriet felt somewhat puzzled at seeing so many post-offices, and was a little
                  lost and embarrassed to know how to proceed. While standing on the corner of J and
                  Fourth streets, taking a general view, of the signs, she was approached and
                  addressed very politely by a young gentleman, apparently about twenty-six or
                  twenty-eight years of age. The appearance of this gentleman was quite
                  prepossessing—robust, full-sized, well-proportioned, straight, of dark complexion,
                  arched brows, large forehead, lips rather thick and denoting dignity of feeling,
                  and always lighted by a smile; beautifully carved chin, ornamented by a short,
                  neat rim of black beard; he wore excellent black-cloth, black kid gloves, and a
                  neat walking-stick. Lifting his hat, he bowed and said to Harriet:
               "I beg pardon, Miss—but you seem lost, as well as myself!"
               "Thank you, Sir, I am not really lost, but there are so many post-offices here
                  that I scarcely know to which one to go, to mail some letters."
               "I am sorry, Miss—but I can not give you the information you need, for I only
                  arrived a few hours ago in the city; but if I can assist you to ascertain I shall
                  be happy to do so—excuse me a moment and I will make inquiry for you." And bowing
                  gently away, he soon disappeared behind the dense crowd of people on the sidewalk;
                  but, in a moment more, he appeared again, bowed politely and said:
               "This way, Miss, if you please, I am told that Mr. Moore's is the best
                  post-office. If you will allow me, I will assist you through the crowd."
               " Thank you, you are very kind," replied Harriet, as they moved across the street
                  to Mr. Moore's.
               As soon as they entered the store, Harriet handed in her letters and the money for
                  postage; but, while waiting for her change, this new acquaintance, who proved to
                  be Elias Parker, afterward a prominent man in California—being taller than
                  Harriet, cast his eyes over the calico partition, into a back room, where a clerk
                  went with Harriet's letters, and he perceived the clerk breaking open said
                  letters, where, of course, he expected to find a few dollars in gold-dust. Parker
                  looked for sometime, to satisfy himself that he might not be mistaken, but,
                  enraged at such a breach of justice, he finally called out:
               "What are you doing there?"
               The clerk started, and observed Parker watching him. Parker then said to
                  Harriet:
               "He has torn your letters to pieces," but his indignation began to arouse, and
                  with a bold, firm step, he burst through the calico partition and seized the
                  frightened clerk, just as the letters burst forth into a blaze of fire. Harriet
                  stood pale and trembling, and beheld her letters consumed; but such gallantry on
                  the part of Parker, sent a magic thrill to her very soul, and while he brought the
                  mercy-begging scoundrel toward the door, she thought that never man looked so
                  noble as did Parker.
               There were no officers present to whom to deliver the clerk, and of course he was
                  obliged to be allowed his liberty, as soon as he promised to leave the city—to
                  which he consented in a remarkably short time. Mr. Parker now accompanied Harriet
                  to her residence—Mr. Long's—where he engaged boarding. Harriet returned to her
                  little room, where she had been so long engaged in writing the letters, and now
                  the difficulties in finding Nathan Simons, and her gratitude to Mr. Parker, made
                  her feel as never woman felt before; and while large drops of tears rolled down
                  her burning face, her heart throbbed, and seemed to die within her.
               
               On the following day Harriet again wrote letters, and, in company with Mr. Parker,
                  proceeded once more to a post-office, but this time she tried a different one, and
                  was promised care and attention. With a somewhat lighter heart she now returned to
                  her residence and entered upon her household duties.
               Mr. Parker continued to board in the same house, and was for some time engaged in
                  looking after some suitable employment: he finally purchased some town-lots and
                  prepared to build upon them; but as we shall again see this remarkable and yet
                  unfortunate young man, we must leave him for the present, and return to follow
                  Simons.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               AFTER Simons joined his sister on the Plains, his health and prosperity became the
                  most prominent characteristics. Few troubles interrupted them, and they were soon
                  at the head of emigration. Julia again became merry and sang her happy airs to
                  everybody, laughing loud and long at every strain. Her husband understood the
                  management of the team, and it prospered and grew fat under his care. A happy mess
                  indeed was Simons', and the way they sped over the sandy valleys and stony hills
                  was really astonishing. But the Sierra Nevadas nearly used them up.
               The ascent and descent of these mountains are performances very laborious, yet
                  rather pleasing and interesting. Imagine a bushy-whiskered, good-looking man about
                  thirty years of age, holding fast to the reins by the side of four long-eared
                  mules, with his whip whirling and cracking over their backs, his mouth wide open,
                  and the words, "hep—get'ep—je—haw," escaping with the greatest rapidity, while his
                  black eyes look quick and sharp at every stone and tree, and himself unconscious
                  of the profuse perspiration rolling down his face, and then the person of Mr.
                  Hamlin driving up the mountains, may be pictured forth.
               But at the wheels is Simons, a rather fresh-faced young fellow, lifting, pushing,
                  and sweating, his lips half open and firmly set by the same resolve that caused
                  his brow to knit, while his half-bent body expressed, "do or die," and at each
                  furious heave the wagon moves. But just behind the wagon was a pretty little
                  black-eyed, rosy-cheeked, plump, laughing woman. In her half-gloved little hands
                  she held a scotch-block, and at each successful move she placed her block behind
                  the wheel, then panted and laughed—it was Julia. In that style they continued to
                  make the ascent, always fancying that each mountain ahead would bring them to the
                  summit of the range, but always perceiving another still higher before them. After
                  a few days of this kind of labor they reached the summit. Then commenced the
                  descent, which, though also laborious, was one of mere amusement. With a long rope
                  tied to the wagon, Simons and Julia held back, but Hamlin was still at the team,
                  crying, "Wo! wo! ho! wo-ho!" while the crazy wagon went leaping and bounding over
                  stones and logs, followed by Simons' and Julia's gigantic strides and torn
                  garments; but at each awful plunge, their voices rang with, "Wo!" and their eyes
                  ran wild with fear and fun. And down they went, thinking that each mountain would
                  be the last, but, like the ascent, each one following seemed to increase in
                  magnitude and length, and reveal still greater ones ahead. However, after a few
                  days' perseverance, they followed down until the mountains dwindled away into the
                  Sacramento valley, across which they proceeded to an encampment called Sacramento
                  city. This was about one week in advance of Harriet, and Simons immediately wrote
                  her a letter to Cincinnati! After some deliberation, Hamlin concluded to open a
                  small store in the mines, and accordingly proceeded to the celebrated Weber Creek,
                  accompanied by his happy wife, to engage in the business. He was to purchase the
                  goods in Sacramento, and haul them up to the store, where his pretty wife was to
                  remain as wholesale and retail manager and disposer of the stock. They built a
                  house for their store-goods something after the style of Harriet's residence, but
                  not by any means so beautiful or costly; but, from the fact that its parlor,
                  kitchen, garret, and cellar, store and all, were in one room, it was an exceedingly handy house. It
                  stood under one of those large, spreading green oaks which adorn so much of the
                  lowlands of California, and thus it was considerably protected from the dry,
                  burning suns of summer. They also took the precaution to build it close upon the
                  banks of the nearly dried-up Weber, which gave them only about two-and-a-half
                  steps to a celebrated spring, where many people were in the habit of coming for
                  water; but they never said whether they built so close to that spring for the
                  purpose of obtaining plenty of custom, or not: it was a case, notwithstanding, in
                  which a suspicion of that kind might be justifiable. Here it was they entered into
                  mercantile life; but from the fact of their never having more than one wagon-load
                  of goods on hand at one time, it was very probable their capital was limited. Here
                  it was Mrs. Hamlin could be seen, late and early, weighing out flour, pork, sugar,
                  and tea—the principal articles used in the money-making days of California—-to the
                  different miners who chanced to be living near by. Day-books were dispensed with
                  there; for all who had the "dust," paid as they bought, while new arrivals—so poor
                  and hungry—were told to take what they wanted, and to come and pay for them when
                  they made the money: even names were not given, but implicit confidence was
                  universal—so great were the honor and trust that existed throughout the land in
                  the element of that flourishing State. No law, no politicians, no courts—no, none
                  of the binding said-to-be-indis- existed among the miners, and yet all moved along
                  in ony and morality than any other collection of men since the
                  days of history began.
               It is no wonder, then, that Mrs. Hamlin loved her occupation, since she had such
                  an honorable class of people to deal with. She had no uneasiness in regard to the
                  fact of her husband carrying such great bags of gold-dust when on his way to the
                  city, and was almost certain that in about every seven days he would return safe
                  and sound. Neither murder nor robbery ever entered her mind; but skipping about
                  all day, singing and laughing, she was prepared for a safe, happy rest at
                  night—"all alone." As Simons had no capital, he was under the necessity of going
                  to mining; and accordingly, having heard great accounts of the richness of the
                  Yuba, he took leave of his affectionate sister, and struck off for Parks' Bar. Not
                  having means to carry on business alone, he united with a small, black-whiskered
                  German, commonly called by the familiar name of Hance. It must be borne in mind,
                  that in the diggings, as it was on the Plains, people seldom got farther than the
                  easy part of the name pronounced, before they came to the conclusion to dispense
                  with the balance. Hance was one of those little, odd, talkative men, who, though
                  of unimpeachable morals, afford a sort of amusement to large men; and yet, from
                  his good judgment and sprightliness of disposition, he was rather a desirable
                  companion as a miner. He had been more than a week in the diggings, previously to
                  Simons' acquaintance, and perhaps he was somewhat justifiable in endeavoring to
                  explain that such localities as were likely to be exceedingly rich, were perfectly
                  plain to a man of experience.
               "Now, you see, Mr. Simons," said he, "where dese rocks lie him up straight-like,
                  so you see, well him always pay rich; ah! very rich sometimes. What you say—we try
                  him here?"
               "O! certainly; you are much better acquainted with it than I am; and then, you
                  know, if it will not pay in one place, we must try another," said Simons.
               "O! to be sure—to be sure; but, den, dis must pay. You see de water comes rushing
                  down ober de rocks and tings, and carries all de loose stuff away; but de gold,
                  him lie heavy on de bottom, and neber can cross de little (what you call em, eh?)
                  crebices: so him stop. Well, bym-by, de rocks wears out, and de water carries him
                  all away; den de gold, him slip into anoder (ah! what?) crebice. Dis de way de
                  gold come him togedder."
               Such was his style of lectures, which generally lasted from sunrise to sunset;
                  and, although his ideas of denudation were remarkable good, yet his curious manner
                  of describing, together with his broken dialect, were equally attractive to all
                  who had the opportunity of hearing him.
               They had a very comfortable brush-house, which answered the principal object of
                  any house on that sunny hill, namely, to keep their blood about twenty-four degrees below Fahrenheit's standing point
                  from eleven until two. The manner in which their side of the river was protected
                  by a high, abrupt, red-looking, bald mountain, holding its broad, glimmering face
                  toward the "sun's dinner time," rendered their lounge quite a social resort, where
                  they could see and enjoy the playing electric lizards, darting their slippery,
                  shining, green, purple, red, and blue sides through the brushy walls of their
                  little palace, as though their precious necks were of less value than the time
                  occupied by their vision going in advance. In this wild home they amused
                  themselves by conversing as their own inclinations dictated; but that was,
                  generally, upon the amount of gold they were making, and going to make.
               Hance came to California with the intention of remaining two years; about six
                  months of which had already been passed in San Francisco; but, while there, he had
                  received a letter from home, stating that his wife and only child, in New York,
                  were very ill. This induced him to quit the jewelry business in San Francisco, to
                  try the more hazardous but speedy business of gold-digging, which had, up to the
                  aforesaid period, been anything but flattering. His wife was, undoubtedly, in hard
                  circumstances; so he now resolved to return as soon as he could collect a few
                  hundred dollars, which seemed likely to be at no very distant period. At this
                  time, there were but few miners on the river, compared to the number who have been
                  there since; but almost every day, witnessed a host of arrivals, all marching up
                  to the mines, with as much courage and hope as if a few days would give them money
                  enough to live upon at ease the balance of their lives. Now, it was usual in those
                  days, when new arrivals took a general view of the labor going on, to watch the
                  manner of separating the gold—for it was believed to be something of a feat to
                  "pan out a dish of earth without wasting the gold;" consequently, when anybody was
                  panning out, a number of spectators were generally collected to observe the
                  operation. In this way, they perceived how much gold the party was getting; and,
                  if it proved to be a handsome yield, some of the spectators would immediately take
                  possession of the adjoining ground. This occasioned most of the miners to be
                  huddled into groups along the river banks; but these groups would frequently be a
                  mile apart.
               For two weeks Simons and Hance prospered rather slowly, not laying by but a very
                  few ounces; but, fortunately, one Saturday evening, they hit upon a valuable spot.
                  Many miners were about them when they were panning out, and, very soon, all the
                  adjoining ground was claimed. The manner of signifying ownership was by scattering
                  their tools upon the ground; these were the only registers of claim-titles, and it
                  was quite sufficient. While they were panning out, Hance very scientifically
                  entered into a description of the philosophy of gold deposits, and how plainly it
                  seemed to him where rich veins were lying concealed. "I told you so," he would
                  say, "I know dis all de time; in de pint ob de bend, like, is sure to be one great
                  fortune—sure. Just like I say all de time; de water comes rushing round de rocks,
                  and de gold, him stop, 'cause he can't go no farder." But it mattered not whether
                  he knew it before, certainly they had hit upon it, and Simons was quite as well
                  pleased as was little Hance; and he was none the less pleased to think that his
                  sojourn in California promised to be a short one.
               "Soon we will make plenty gold now, Mr. Simons; very soon we will make one
                  fortune; I think so, sure."
               "I hope so, Hance; and our prospect is rather favorable at present."
               "O! I am so glad! Den I will go away to see mine poor, sick wife, and mine leetle
                  boy. Ah! mine poor, leetle child! When I come away, him look his leetle eyes to
                  me, and O! him make me cry. O! my poor, leetle boy! Him not know I am gone so far!
                  May be soon I will come to him. O! I does cry when I tinks ob mine poor
                  family."
               "But you should not think so much about them. Your thinking does no good to
                  them."
               "Ah! you for one young man can talk, but I must tink. Him tink heself, not me. Him
                  make me one happy man to tink ob mine family."
               
               "But I thought you said it made you cry to think of them?"
               "So he do. I does cry one way for happy, and one way for mad like. Mine poor wife
                  is one fine, ah! fine lady, and she not got much money; so I not know what she do
                  when she sick; so I cry for cause I can not get money quick; so I cry when I tinks
                  ob mine poor, leetle child; he so leetle, him not know nothing like, den I like to
                  see him. O! I tink dis will make a leetle money, so I will go away—I tink so."
               "Well, I think it is quite likely, if you don't want much; but I'm sure it has
                  paid us a handsome yield to-day; and, if it continues so, you can soon get your
                  little pile. We must commence early on Monday morning, and try and follow up that
                  rich crevice below that large boulder."
               "O yes, I know de rich place; I come early on 't next week, you see."
               Such were their remarks on the evening preceding the general prospecting-day.
                  Hance, though by no means an irreligious man, could hardly content himself to
                  remain quiet during Sabbath; and after changing his old "hickory" for a new one,
                  he was to be seen often taking a quiet survey of the lucky spot where he expected
                  a short time, would enable him to see his family. Many an anxious thought
                  fluttered in his mind, when he remembered the sudden misfortune of his
                  affectionate wife; but now a bright hope awakened, a sense of thankfulness for an
                  answer to his-oft-repeated prayer. It seemed wonderfully strange to him, if all
                  his "great luck" had not been, by some providential cause, intended to award his
                  honest endeavors. Thus his mind was strolling in anticipation of a small fortune,
                  made comfortable by the society of his wife and child. But in a few short hours
                  all his happy contemplations were given to the winds. A musty breeze of satanic
                  selfishness, like the hot winds of summer, casting a cloud of filthy dust over the
                  bright, fragrant, harmless, and sweet-scenting flowers of a blooming garden, cast
                  a polluted robe of outrageous blight over his air-built castles, and chilled and
                  soiled his heaven-like visions.
               A little past noon of that same sunny Sabbath, a party of four young men were seen
                  wandering along the stony banks of that rumbling river. They seemed not as
                  robbers, but moved along more like curiously meditative, unconcerned, honest men.
                  Their new, clean hats and blackened boots showed at once that their white faces ha
                  only been a few days in the bright, sunny land of the West.
               Simons and Hance sat by their tent, talking upon the appearance of the strangers,
                  who, would frequently sit down on the boulders and pick into the sand, as if to
                  discover the hidden treasure. Then they noticed that the strangers walked along
                  the point of the bar where their claim was, where they seemed to take a general
                  view; then, as if satisfied with their Sunday's labor, they started down the river
                  and soon disappeared.
               Simons and Hance thought nothing strange of it. The evening came. Clear, calm
                  twilight hovered over the bleak, bald, lofty mountains, where the rumbling of the
                  foaming water sent its coiling echo warbling over their reposing grandeur. Then
                  came the gentle darkness, so calm and still. But the heaven, the clear, starlight
                  heaven, still reflected its awe-inspiring purity over the wild mountains, and
                  revealed the presence of the Comforter to the lone wanderer, soothing his cares
                  and anxieties by a dignified administration of heaven-like glory. With clear
                  consciences and brilliant hopes, Simons and Hance slept as sweetly as ever did two
                  mortals. Neither did rain or dew fall upon them, so pleasant was the night. But
                  the night passed away. Cool, refreshing morning was made a welcome guest by the
                  appearance of gay singing-birds fluttering merrily among the leafy mansion of the
                  happy twain.
               So far, we have not made mention of Simons' anxiety to make a fortune—not even
                  mentioned the great care he took to sit down and write a long letter, of all his
                  difficulties in crossing the Plains, to his lady-love, and how soon he expected to
                  return and meet her—all this we have purposely left out, for every one can quite
                  well enough imagine what sort of feelings a man would cherish, when writing to his
                  intended from such a distance as he supposed himself to be. In fact, he only
                  thought of Mary Sparks as his wife, and imagined himself making preparation to be
                  her future husband; and in this light we leave his matrimonial anxieties to public conjecture, while we relate the
                  progress of his struggles.
               To Hance he formed something of an attachment, perhaps more because the little
                  fellow was so anxious to return to his family in New York, than on account of his
                  industrious habits or honest disposition; and at all favorable opportunities he
                  encouraged him to believe that he should yet get money enough to return with.
               Monday morning was bright and lovely, but the sun had not yet peeped over the dark
                  blue mountains to the east, when little Hance leaped from his blankets and came
                  forth gayly whistling: he lighted the fire, and set the pots and kettles among the
                  curving flame. Simons, too, was soon out, and ready to feast upon the
                  "slap-jacks," fat pork, cold beans, and hot coffee; and down to their humble fare
                  they sat, happy as kings, merrily laughing and talking. While in this gustable
                  mood, their attention was directed to four men—the identical same that were seen
                  on the day before—walking hastily along the river-side, not turning to the right
                  or left, but hurrying to the extreme point of the bar, where they made a sudden
                  halt: this was Simons and Hance's ground.
               The strangers hesitated not a moment, but seizing Simons and Hance's shovels and
                  picks, flung them furiously to one side, and commenced working upon the rich spot
                  before alluded to. Simons and Hance looked upon the scene, but could not
                  conjecture the meaning; for it must be remembered that they were both new miners,
                  and not yet initiated into the principles of claim-jumping. With a few hasty
                  mouthfuls they finished their breakfast and hurried on to the ground, and Simons
                  lost but little ceremony in giving them the following words: "Gentlemen, that
                  claim belongs to this little man and myself: we have worked here every day for the
                  last two weeks."
               The four men continued to work, but one of them replied: "I guess you think we're
                  some green 'uns, but you're getting up the wrong fellers this time;" and his
                  peculiar nasal chewing of words placed him in the mind's eye as having been for
                  some time a resident of the so-called city of "steady habits;" but Simons, a
                  little nettled at such a taunting remark, and feeling himself to be a man, firmly
                  demanded: "What do you mean, sir? this is our claim, and we want you to abandon it
                  immediately."
               To which the other coolly replied: "Yer dew, dew ye? but dew ye see anything green
                  there?" pulling the lower half of his orbicularis
                     palpebrarum just low enough to give his eye that sarcastic,
                  fun-making look so inviting to a fighting man's fist. But Simons did not strike;
                  for the party looked to be of fighting dispositions, and were decidedly too many
                  for him and Hance, and he resorted to words.
               "If you have any reasons for jumping our ground, why can you not tell them? or do
                  you just mean to plunder us of our property because you are a stronger party? Why
                  do you not give your reasons?"
               "I guess we're just doin' things accordin' to law, we are," one of them replied;
                  but another seemed perfectly willing to explain, and said: "This tarnation Dutch
                  foreigner hasn't paid his license, and he has no right to mine, until he walks up
                  to the teune of twenty dollars a month—he hasn't: and we don't intend no
                  foreigners to be robbing us of the wealth of our country—we don't."
               "But," said Simons, "how can you take all the ground?—I'm no foreigner."
               "We don't want to take yours, but that tarnation foreigner hasn't any business
                  here at all. You can come along with us, if you have a mind to, but he's not the
                  sort o' fellers we associate with—he isn't."
               "But he is a first-rate miner and a good fellow: I can't think of leaving
                  him."
               "We don't care nothing about how good he is—he's a Dutchman, anyhow,
                  and we are only going according to law by driving him off the mines; and he can't
                  come into our party—he can't."
               Although Hance understood English moderately well, yet he could not exactly
                  understand the foregoing, and turned to Simons and asked: "What for dey take mine
                  claim? I not know why come dey to jump our ground."
               
               "Why, Hance, I'll tell you: the law requires all foreigners to pay a tax of twenty
                  dollars per month; and as you have not paid yours, these men have determined to
                  take your ground."
               "O, is dis de law? I not hardly tink it."
               "Yes, Hance, that is the law."
               "But den I always hear, in dis country, ebery man has some rights like anoder; but
                  dis is no like to me—so he is to you?"
               "Ah! but such is the law, Hance; and although I am ashamed to acknowledge it, yet
                  I cannot help it."
               "But de law no own de gold in de ground—he belong to Got, and he no care if a
                  German, or if American, no more de one nor de oder dig it."
               "But, Hance, our laws are only based upon God's laws, and upon equal rights, so
                  far as suits the interest of a few office-seeking demagogues."
               "Well, den, if dis is de law, I will pay mine tax, and keep mine claim."
               "But you cannot pay it to these men—you must go to San Francisco to pay it."
               "Den I not go dare before dey work all out de rich place; by tam I not know dis
                  before; and dem is big rascals to take mine claim when I not know de law."
               "Now, gentlemen," said Simons, turning to the jumpers, who were hard at work in
                  the richest part of the claim, "I know very well that you care nothing about
                  Hance's paying that license—it is only an excuse for jumping the ground."
               "Ye dew, dew ye," replied one; but Simons interrupted:
               "And be your notions whatever they may, good and honorable feelings would not
                  permit you to take another man's property, even if the law allowed it."
               "But I guess his country wouldn't let any of us dig gold there; and we're not
                  going to have foreigners getting our own property; that's not the way we dew
                  things down to Bosting—it ain't."
               "And suppose his country would not allow the public to dig gold, must we take that
                  for our guide—and yet boast of equal rights? But you say the gold is our own
                  property, and yet you don't say if it is ours by natural right or justice, or
                  merely because we have power to keep it. But I'm not going to argue about it, I
                  merely want you to restore to us the property which is ours—which is ours by
                  justice, and by all other rights."
               "Well, I guess ye can keep on wanting," coolly replied one of the four; "but we
                  ain't a tryin' to take your ground—but that tarnation Dutchman shan't
                  come into our crowd."
               "But do you think I will leave him for the sake of the gold in that claim, and
                  come to work with such men as you?"
               "Why, I guess ye can do as ye mind about that; we're sort or green, but we're the
                  clear grit, right from Massertoosetts; and I guess we can work the ground
                  ourselves."
               "But," said Simons, a little enraged, "can you come and take a piece of ground,
                  which is almost as valuable as money in a safe, which we opened and discovered,
                  and have prepared for working, without any regard to the labor and industry of
                  this little man? Are you so regardless of his condition—only wanting to make money
                  enough to carry him home, and feed his sick family—that you have no conscientious
                  scruples?"
               "It's just for that we're doing of it—he hasn't no business to being digging the
                  gold of our country!"
               "That's all humbug," said Simons, "equal rights cannot call the gold ours; nor
                  will any honest man attempt to argue such stuff; but if it was ours—but it is
                  not—but I say, if 'twas, could you call yourself an American and yet begrudge that
                  poor little German what would keep his wife from starving?"
               "But, I guess, it's the law of the country, and we intend to stick to it, too—we
                  do."
               "But that ground is worth at least two thousand dollars—can you think of taking it
                  without paying something for it?"
               "Why," replied one of the party, all of whom kept remarkably cool and continued
                  steadily at work—"why, if it's worth tew theousand deollars it's all the better
                  for us; but, as we told ye before, you can stay and work with us; but no foreigner
                  comes into our crowd."
               "I tell you plainly I'll not do it, unless you admit Hance also!"
               
               "Well, we're not anxious to have ye come in with us, I guess."
               "Then will you not pay Hance something for his share?"
               "Well, I guess one of us won't pay no foreigner to rob us of our
                  rights."
               "Well, I guess here's another."
               "Well, I guess here's another," replied the last of the four, every
                  one having the same languid, nasal snarl and apparent coolness. We cannot here
                  relate all their dispute, which lasted for something over an hour; but no further
                  ideas were given, and it finally ended by Simons' and Hance's defeat, the latter
                  of whom, greatly discouraged, and with his eyes filled with tears, replied:
               "Well, I neber before seen so bad a ting like dis, neber,—neber in all my life.
                  Dis law make one man to rob anoder because Got make him born in anoder country! By
                  tam I will go right to mine wife, and den to mine own country; neber again will I
                  come to anoder country; but I will stay in mine own land, and I will work, and I
                  will work till de blood comes out ob mine hands before I will come where I am not
                  liked—by tam I will! In mine country no man say to me, "you Dutchman what for you
                  here?" no, no man say dis to me; and den I will work for a little money till I
                  die, before I hear dis say to me ebery day; but in mine country de law is to you
                  so like he is to me—de same to one as to de oder. By tam I neber tink dis; I tink
                  all de night I will soon make a little money, and den go away troo de sea, and
                  come to mine poor wife and mine leetle boy; but now I tink I neber will make no
                  more money—neber!"
               And for a moment he tried to suppress his tears, and then added: "I will go! I
                  will go away to mine own country, dis country no like me. I would radder be poor
                  in mine own land dan be here!"
               Then, suiting his action to the word, he gathered up his tools and started for
                  their brush-house. Simons remained for some time pleading for a change of
                  sentiment in the jumpers; but meeting no success, he also took his tools and
                  proceeded to the camp, where he found Hance making preparation to leave.
               "So you intend to leave, then, Hance?"
               "Yes, I will go right away to mine own country—right quick; I will go now."
               "But I think if we prospect for a few days we shall find another good place!"
               "What for, we will find one good place; den somebody come and drive me away! Only
                  where dare is no gold, dare I can work, but so quick as I come to de gold den I
                  must go away! No, I will stop no more; neber I will stop in one country like
                  dis."
               "But I hate to see you leave with so little money—you will have scarcely enough to
                  carry you home! Then I hate to see you leave my country with such poor success in
                  it."
               "So I hate to leave you too; for cause you have been like one gentleman to me; but
                  what can I do? In all dis big country! one poor little German can have no place to
                  work! De people tink cause Got make me born in Germany, I am no man! No, by tam, I
                  don't want to stop no more in country like dis; but for you I have sorrow to leave
                  you too; but for de law, by tam, I wish de country him may sink—him say I am no
                  man like you! De gold is made here by Got; and mine hands deserve dere own labor
                  de same as any man; for 'cause I am de same child of Got as anybody is; but de law
                  seek to rob me 'cause I am, what?—cause I am obliged to bear it! No, by tam, I
                  will go away from such a country."
               Simons made some considerable entreaty to get him to try again, but, like his
                  countrymen are apt to, Hance indulged in the gloomy thought that he was not
                  getting fair play, and would not make any further exertion; but in a few minutes
                  he was winding his course down the river—and his family, New York, and finally
                  Germany, were his only thoughts.*
               
               
                  *For this German story, we are indebted to Mr. Nash, on Parks' Bar. He was
                     Justice of the Peace there for sometime; and was the only old man we ever
                     knew to hold an office in California—neither was that all, but he was a
                     temperate and honest man. But he and his eldest son have long since been
                     called away!
               
               Simons was now without a partner, and not seeing any other lone miner with whom to
                  unite, and being firmly resolved not to work with the party who had so foully
                  robbed him of his claim, he was
                  somewhat puzzled to know what to attempt next; but after some deliberation, he
                  resolved to commence packing provisions to the mines to sell to the miners. To
                  carry this business on properly, he started on the following day to Sacramento, to
                  purchase his mules, and also to lay in a stock.
               In the early days of California there was, perhaps, no business in the country
                  more promising than packing; and to this business Simons now directed his
                  attention, with the flattering hope, that a few months would enable him to leave
                  the country, and of course, return to Cincinnati and meet his lady-love in such
                  circumstances, as would make Dr. Sparks sorry for ever having opposed him.
               As soon as he reached Sacramento, he proceeded to the horse-market, which, for
                  noisiness, has no equal on this side of a bar-room in an English hotel; and then
                  and there, did purchase a pair of excellent mules. After this he made his
                  selection of goods, ready for starting out toward the mines on the following
                  morning; but his day's work was a tedious one, and by the time he had his
                  arrangements all completed, night was upon him.
               Such a lovely night as that was, is scarcely known anywhere except in Italy and in
                  California—it was one of those mellow, sacred, impressive and meditative nights,
                  when one thinks of all their dearest friends, and grows somewhat melancholy to
                  think they can not enter into their enjoyment! A full, bright moon cast a gray
                  purple light over the great valley, and faintly revealed the snowy tops of the
                  mighty Sierra Nevadas—sending an awe-inspiring thrill to the very soul, by their
                  magnificence, grandeur and stillness. Even the tall sycamores along the streets of
                  the young city were still and calm; and but for a few cowbells on the level plain
                  that surrounds the city, not a discordant sound broke upon the ear. But farther
                  down, and along the principal streets of business, a few gambling saloons were
                  made an attractive scene. As soon as Simons had his business all completed he
                  repaired to one of these places—the only attractions in the city. The saloon he
                  entered was about as large as a Roman Basilica, or in plainer language, about as
                  "big as an Ohio potato patch." All through this immense building, common sized
                  breakfast tables were scattered in tolerably good order—they were covered with red
                  or blue blankets, and gold and silver; and around each table were a few
                  individuals—some sitting, some standing—gambling with right good-will. The whole
                  establishment was lighted with the most beautiful lamps, which were suspended from
                  the red and green papered ceiling, but hung their many branches of sparkling
                  crystals just high enough to clear the tallest loose-jointed part of the
                  community. All along the walls of the room was a choice collection of painted and
                  printed pictures, which illustrated the degraded genius of somebody, and yet of
                  such curious fancy as to forbid public criticism. But it was a free country, and
                  of course such pictures had a right to hang here; and so they did—to attract
                  attention. At the far end of the room an immense bar extended clear across the
                  building. Behind it, about a dozen neatly dressed, greasy-headed young men, who
                  seemed capable of speaking all the modern tongues, were busy handing the rich, red
                  bottled delicacies to the loud-talking men in front, and in exchange, drawing in
                  the half dollars. The collection of glassware behind the bar showed at once that
                  the proprietors had spared no expense in adapting their house to the taste of the
                  most extravagantly fashionable of every country.
               But of all the attractive things in this remarkable turn-out of the nineteenth
                  century, the vast crowd of people took the prize. English, German, French,
                  Spanish, and Italian, all representing some odd fashion in dress; some walking up
                  and down the great room as idle spectators; some clustered closely round some
                  table, where heavy betting was going on; some standing by the tables, and merely
                  risking dollar and half-dollar bets; and yet, through all the house, a general
                  quietness, considering the motley collection, was one of the peculiarities which
                  Americans can claim without any thanks to policemen. A few neatly dressed persons,
                  occupying an elevated position on one side of the room, were entertaining the
                  whole audience by their fiddles, horns, and pipes in such a way as would have done
                  no discredit to the (London) celebrated Drury-lane theater; and, from their
                  dialect, it was not at all improbable that some of them did help to fill that very "little coop" a few
                  months before. Such were a few of the leading characteristics of the house that
                  Simons was promenading so slowly from one end to the other; but the particulars of
                  the dress of "gentlemen," and of that blue, drab material worn by the miners, must
                  be left for the present, while we observe individuals. Simons, it must be
                  remembered, came down to the city to engage in packing provisions to the mines, to
                  sell to the miners; and, having arranged all his business ready to start out next
                  morning, he did, as most other people did, in those free-and-easy times—namely,
                  took a stroll through the gambling-house—not to gamble but to see and
                  to hear, and pass the calm evening away. He marched slowly down to
                  the far end of the room; then turned along the white marble bar, and moved across
                  to the other side; gazed a little while at a Spaniard playing French monte; then
                  moved a little farther, and stopped to hear the clear, soft tones of the merry
                  band. But while he listened to the wondrous strains that went echoing round the
                  walls of the great establishment, his intellectual eye, was surveying the throng
                  of people with that peculiar kind of reflection which goes beyond dress or
                  language, and seems to be endeavoring to grasp the thoughts of others. But while
                  in this meditative mood, made rather melancholy by the touching harmony of the
                  music, his attention became suddenly fixed upon the people at one of the tables.
                  His eyes flashed—they sparkled—they fell, and yet they seemed riveted to the spot.
                  He stooped; he straightened himself; he looked, and looked again. On the table was
                  a bank of about one thousand Spanish dollars; but the owner was sitting behind it,
                  and facing Simons, busily engaged with his game. This individual was of such a
                  peculiar appearance that any one once seeing him, could never forget him. His
                  upper end, while sitting, seemed to form a quarter circle by leaning forward; but
                  his lower end was divided into two immense prongs, which extended from the base of
                  the periphery at right angles, but decidedly too far under the table to be
                  designated by the term radii of their circle. His dress was of excellent
                  material—a beautiful black, and neatly made. On the center of his bosom was a
                  large, clumsy, gold breast-pin. On his long and very unhandsome hands, were a
                  number of heavy, gold rings, which would, among a certain class of people, have
                  been likely to attract attention to his ungainly proportions. But the top part of
                  this person was the most interesting of all his possessions. Just a little above
                  the middle of his face, an immense opening showed at once, the beautiful
                  arrangement of the animal economy to the prominent faculties of his mind. No
                  matter how much he loved to eat, there was a mouth all-competent to accomplish the
                  task; no matter how much he wanted to smoke, there was ample means provided. If he
                  wanted to chew, there was a mouth to do it; if he wanted to drink, still it was
                  ready. In fact, it was a prominent organ, and it was never denied its regular
                  exercise. When material was not going in, it was coming out; and that, too, with
                  such precision, that the great Napier might have learned a good lesson on the
                  velocity and power of flying bodies had he been present on the evening mentioned.
                  With exceeding grace and deliberateness he would draw the "long nine" from his
                  extensive opening, squirt forth a volley of darkened fluid, and then, with, just
                  as much grace and affection, place the lovely article in his mouth again. But, in
                  repeating this operation, an emission occasionally escaped at the sides of his
                  mouth, and trinkled down his beardy chin, which somewhat defaced his beauty. A
                  little above this mouth, a pair of white eyebrows, by continually trying to get to
                  the top of his back-sloping forehead, showed that what little brain he had, was
                  actively occupied in the interesting game before him. His hands held a pack of
                  cards, which he often turned and shuffled until they pleased him; when he would
                  draw forth four, and place them carefully on the table. Then a few persons in
                  front of the table, would lay a few dollars down on their choice of the four; then
                  Warner—for it was no other—would raise one of his large hands, and let it fall
                  rather awkwardly down to the table, at the same time saying, "All down; all down."
                  Then, with a sort of business air, he would run off the cards, to see who had won;
                  after which, his bank was replenished or diminished according to the result. Then
                     again he would shuffle; place out
                  four cards; take bets, and then again run them off.
               Thus he was engaged when Simons first discovered him; but, having changed his
                  appearance in dress, Simons was a little puzzled to know how such a change could
                  have occurred in so short a time.
               After having gazed a little while from a distance, Simons drew closer, in order to
                  observe his old companion in his newly-selected calling; but, when coming near, he
                  made a sudden halt, and, though astonished before, his features now seemed nearly
                  convulsed with the view before him.
               His eyes were directed to the opposite side of the table, and seemed ready to
                  burst from their sockets; his cheeks first turned pale and wan—then flushed with
                  excitement; but, in a, moment, his eyes were turning alternately from Warner to a
                  little man—it was a man in tears! While he seemed to be contemplating whether he
                  should stride directly across the table, and grasp the little man in his arms, or
                  whether he should withdraw without speaking. However, only a minute passed. Simons
                  could witness those tears no longer, but strode boldly forward—not now as a
                  teamster on the Plains—but like a man rescuing a friend from danger. He pushed the
                  crowd fearlessly away, and soon stood beside the little man, and exclaimed, "O!
                  Hance, why do you cry?" But the little German was nearly overcome with joy, and,
                  throwing his arms around Simons, exclaimed, "O! mine fren, mine fren! God bless
                  you, mine fren; but I have lose all mine money, and I can neber come to see mine
                  wife and mine leetle child—neber! O! mine fren, what shall I do? O! I'll die!"
               "Did you gamble your money away, Hance?"
               "O, yes. Dey say to me, you shall bet, and den you shall win; so den I bet, and
                  one time I win much money; but den him all go—all go! And now I have no more
                  money—none! O! I shall neber see mine wife: and mine leetle child—neber, no more!
                     I will kill me!"
               "Did you lose your money here, at this table?" Simons asked; but at this time,
                  some of the gamblers began to think that he was meddling with their gaming
                  business, and commenced a general murmuring among themselves; however, he waited
                  to hear the German's story.
               "O, yes; dis big man, he got all mine money. He say to me, 'you shall bet, and if
                  you shall lose, I will give to you all your money back;' but den, when I lose, I
                  say dis to him, and den he say to me, 'go away, you child—you foreigner—you
                  Dutchman.'"
               But here he was interrupted by Warner, commencing with a furious oath, and saying,
                  "You d——d Dutchman, if you don't go away from my table now, I'll bet that I'll
                  give you a sickener that you'll carry to your grave; now, be off! And you too,
                  Simons, you are always trying to kick up a row; I know you very well. I want you
                  both to leave. I pay my money for this table, and, by G—— I want you to understand
                  that," finishing with a violent blow on the table; but there was such an abundance
                  of dreadful oaths in this man's conversation, that it is impossible for us to
                  represent his debased character.
               "Sir, I am not doing anything to interfere with your game," said Simons,
                  shortly.
               But Hance could not keep quiet, and said, "Nor me, neder, too, you bad man; you
                  are robber; you are one t'ief; you take mine money."
               But Warner felt himself too much of a gentleman to stand that; and, rising, said,
                  "I'll bet I'll move you, you d——d foreign son of a ——; I'll learn you to shut your
                  mouth;" and immediately flourished his revolver. The noise instantly collected a
                  very dense crowd—every one in the rear pushing up, in order "to see the row," and
                  every one trying to quiet the disturbance. Hance became fiercely bold when Warner
                  drew his revolver, and cried out, at the top of his voice,
               "You robber! you t'ief! I care not for your pistol, you coward! You steal my
                  money, you t'ief!" Nobody seemed to know what the row was about; and, though they
                  saw that there was danger, they kept crowding forward.
               
               Simons endeavored to keep Hance back; but the injured man seemed to have acquired
                  more strength than common, and kept getting continually closer toward Warner, who
                  was flourishing his revolver, and swearing that he would blow Hance's brains out
                  if he came any closer. But, so dense was the crowd, that no one could move as he
                  wished; for many endeavored to free themselves, but could not. Knives and pistols
                  were shining all around, and some of the people were crying, "Stand back!" "Shoot
                  him down" "Don't shoot!" but it was impossible to gather any sense or application
                  to the different utterances, in consequence of the confusion. Warner kept leaning
                  over his table, and holding up his revolver; and Hance kept grabbing at Warner's
                  arms, and calling out, "You tam t'ief! you robber!" etc., as loud as he could
                  yell. Warner then leaned farther over the table, and grabbed at Hance's collar;
                  his motion was awkward, and he missed his hold; but, as his hand passed downward,
                  Hance caught it, and, being naturally quick, jerked Warner forward, so as to tip
                  the table, and send Warner's silver dollars on to the floor. Warner soon recovered
                  his upright position—for he was much stronger than little Hance; but every time he
                  attempted to point the pistol at Hance's head or breast, Hance would ward it off,
                  and strike at him. Simons grabbed Hance's arm, and endeavored to pull him back;
                  but, as he thus held him—though he did it to save him—Warner clapped his pistol to
                  Hance's head, and drew the trigger! Hance was shot! The top of his head was
                  literally shattered to pieces! He instantly fell, not even uttering a groan, and
                  his brains were scattered upon the floor! But we must stop, for its horrors are
                  too bad to relate!
               The instant that Warner fired, the crowd seemed as much inclined to scatter as
                  they were before to push together; and, in a few seconds, the corpse was lying a
                  ghastly spectacle, with only three or four persons standing over it. Warner now
                  commenced to collect his silver, which was scattered all about, but even yet
                  continued to swear eternal vengeance upon the "d——d Dutchman."
               We have now given a fair relation of this horrible murder, though neglecting to
                  mention the favorable light, for Warner, in which things were now construed; for
                  scarcely had Hance fallen, when the word went round, "The Dutchman tried to rob
                  the bank, and Warner shot him in self-defense." And it was merely by a chance that
                  Warner was taken charge of, to have his trial on the following day; for many
                  already declared it to be justifiable homicide—and yet they knew nothing about the
                  case. In fact, of all the crowd who saw it, not more than three or four knew the
                  cause of the murder, and yet they decided upon its line of justice.
               While the subject was undergoing a general discussion among the astonished
                  spectators, Simons and one or two others removed the corpse and placed it upon a
                  bench at one side of the room, where Simons covered it with a blanket. This
                  effectually broke up gambling that night; however, it was quite late enough, or in
                  all probability it would not have done so. The greasy-headed bar-keepers then
                  commenced to clean up the floor, swearing and cursing at Warner for giving them so
                  much business at such a late hour. In the course of an hour, most of the people
                  were gone, excepting the gamblers, who generally slept upon their own tables.
                  Warner slept in that same room; and even before Simons left, which was not later
                  than one o'clock in the morning, Warner was sleeping as soundly as if nothing had
                  happened. But the house became quiet, and Simons left to look after his mules.
               The moon had disappeared, and only the bright starry heavens lighted the great
                  valley. How calm was that night! Even the gentle waving of the leafy branches of
                  the sycamores made no sound. The whole city seemed to be sleeping. Then Simons
                  went a little to one side the city, where he had his mules fastened to some hay:
                  he spread his blankets and laid him down to sleep. Did he sleep? will he ever
                  forget that night? No, no! Did he fathom the cause of all this? did he see wherein
                  it might have been`prevented? Did he think of Hance's wife and child, and reflect
                  that no one knew where they were living? Did he think about the law that taxed
                  foreigners twenty dollars a month, but upheld gambling-houses, and the privilege
                  of shooting a man in defense of them?
                  Yes; Simons thought about this, and so did many others, who were not in a position
                  at that time to "show up" what was going on; but they felt it, and it left a
                  mortal sting.
               The next morning was clear and beautiful. The sun once more rose from behind the
                  snowy mountains, and shone upon the great plain. The slight fog commenced to rise,
                  and daylight once more began to dazzle upon the dusty roads and streets. Then came
                  loud, merry voices along the busy thoroughfares, and teams of cattle and mules and
                  long wagons were beginning to move slowly through the vast crowd. But at one of
                  the gambling houses on J street was the most attractive scene, where a number of
                  people were collected, The house was completely filled, and five times as many
                  were closely crowded in front of the establishment. All the modern languages
                  seemed to be spoken, and everybody was trying to talk at the same time; yet inside
                  of the house good order was generally observed. Near the body of the deceased sat
                  a jury of twelve, in company with a coroner. A few witnesses were standing on one
                  side who received the solemn oath, and in a little while the evidence was all
                  given in. The jury then withdrew. Warner was firing tobacco-juice at one of the
                  "spitboxes," and talking to some of his gambling friends; but Simons was sitting
                  on one side and said nothing. Sometimes his eyes turned from the corpse toward
                  Warner, when a cold shudder would steal over him. All in the house seemed to be
                  looking at Warner, while they were talking lowly among themselves. But soon they
                  began to wonder why the jury staid so long: whispers of "can't agree," were
                  dropping among the impatient ones. However, a few minutes settled the business—not
                  like other places, where hours and even days are required to adjust such trifles,
                  but a few minutes were sufficient. The jury moved along to where the
                  coroner was seated, and all the house again became quiet.
               "Mr. Coroner, we agree that tho deceased came to his death by a 'pistol-shot' from
                  the hand of Mr. Warner, the prisoner. We also agree that the said Warner has
                  committed justifiable homicide! And we further state that, in the eyes of this
                  jury, gambler ought to have a right to protect his property, even by arms—pistols
                  or knives."
               During the time of this delivery, two or three of the jury, laughing, stepped
                  forward to shake hands with Warner. But a little time now elapsed until the house
                  was all in a lively conversation. Blankets were spread over the tables, and the
                  general course of gambling commenced. The band struck up its merry tunes to drive
                  sad thoughts away. The coroner had a cart drive up: the body was placed in a box;
                  then, in the cart—then driven away. The coroner and Simons followed. A little way
                  below the city, where the land rises a few feet, the three deposited the
                  corpse!
               Now, it is only justice to mention two things in connection with this outrageous
                  murder being made justifiable. The jury were selected from the well-dressed
                  gambling community. The coroner himself was a notorious gambler. These are the
                  misfortunes of a new settlement under a republican government. Bad characters are
                  sure to form a large part of the population, and they then have power to elect
                  their own officers and to control their own business. Here the American can see
                  the crimes of a new settlement, and, while his soul turns sick, tremble and grow
                  sad to think that the heedless acquisition of territory is threatening the entire
                  overthrow of republicanism by internal corruption. Here his hand presses hard upon
                  his heart; his thoughts fly rapidly over the greatness of his country, and his
                  bosom heaves with pride; but when he remembers the greedy, depraved, inconsiderate
                  cry for annexation, tears seem to flow from his very soul, and his blood boils
                  indignant at the inhuman monsters who boast of enforcing such civilization and
                  liberty upon distant soil.
               Simons now went to see after his goods, and to prepare for leavings the city. But
                  where, among what people, in any part of the world, could he have left so valuable
                  a stock of goods without being stolen? In New York? No. In Boston? Never. In
                  London? By no means. In Paris? Perhaps, if a body of police stood by. But in
                  Sacramento there were neither police, soldiers, nor priests. Then why were they
                  safe? Shall we claim the laboring class
                  as Americans, and attribute it to that? Is it not likely that the good
                     circumstances of the common people were the principal reasons? Then is
                  it not likely that if the people of other countries were in good circumstances,
                  they would also endeavor to respect each other's property without a host of police
                  at their heels? What is there in the organization of an American citizen, that he
                  should be the only man who esteems his word inviolable? But in all
                  countries the people who are well provided with the necessaries of life, generally
                  maintain good characters and endeavor to do justice among men.
               From the fact of money being so plenty in California, in its early settlement, all
                  the people, no matter how poor, were sure to be in possession of a handsome sum
                  before the next meal was ready; in fact, the labor of stealing would have been
                  nearly equal to that of procuring it honestly.
               After the first trip, Simons fixed his trading points from Marysville up the Yuba.
                  His new employment proved to be far more remunerative than bookbinding, and soon
                  persuaded him that that old trade would be obliged to look somewhere else for a
                  man in his stead. During the time of his prosperity, he never neglected the
                  post-offices, and although, almost everybody believed that letters to be sent out
                  of the country never got away, yet letters coming from the other States—not
                  suspected to contain money-generally came direct; but why he should receive none
                  began to give him some distress and anxiety on account of his intended. However,
                  by hard struggling he persuaded himself to believe that the awfully mismanaged
                  post-offices were the cause of a non-communication between himself and the fairest
                  creature living. But here in prosperity we must leave him for the present.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               HARRIET'S employment proved not so pleasant and attractive as she could have
                  wished; but through the kindness and attention of Mr. Long, she was disposed to
                  undergo many privations and hardships, which she could not have done
                  otherwise.
               Among her troubles was that of avoiding the society of gamblers—of whom their
                  boarding-house afforded a home to no very small number—some of whom would be
                  considered modern gentlemen in the fullest sense of that term; for they could not
                  only quote Byron, Shakespeare and Homer, but dip into French, Spanish and Italian
                  phraseology so liberally as to pass for learned men; then, beside, they wore such
                  fine cloth, such large breast-pins, and such a number of rings upon their fingers,
                  that it was impossible to consider them under any other than the title—for you
                  know in our country we have but the one title—of gentlemen.
               These pretty men—I mean gentlemen—generally gambled at
                  night until most other people were among the reposing; but in consequence of
                  keeping such late hours they usually spent a good part of the day in the bunks, of
                  which we have given a faint description and, by occupying this public position,
                  they were not very enticing to Harriet's feelings, when she busied herself
                  adjusting the knives and forks upon the aforesaid table: however, they possessed
                  that ever esteemed character—of which Americans can justly boast more than any
                  other people—to respect woman and her feelings; and bad as they were, they
                  conducted themselves like gentlemen when in her presence. That such a lot of idle
                  men should be prejudiced in favor of Harriet's beauty, which was a source of
                  trouble—and try to ingratiate themselves into her confidence and affection, was
                  not at all unnatural or different to what good men might have done under similar
                  circumstances. But, being Dr. Sparks' daughter, and having been taught—as ladies are in Cincinnati—to look upon
                  gamblers with a suspicious eye, she very prudently endeavored to avoid their
                  society; and, consequently, never permitted herself to exchange but a few words
                  with anybody except Mr. Long and Mr. Parker, the latter of whom, she feared, was
                  beginning to have affectionate inclinations toward herself. From the moment that
                  Parker captured the post-office clerk, Harriet could scarcely persuade herself
                  that he was mortal, so noble a fellow Parker looked. In his strong and manly
                  voice, was that tender pathos so touching to the soul of woman—it was that melody
                  of which all her former life had dreamed; and, but to see him, she feared that her
                  spirit mingled with his! Often she would return to her room, and burying her face
                  in her hands, exclaim:
               "Oh! why steal these phantoms o'er my vision? Whence that almighty power that
                  seems to expand and dissolve my whole existence while in his presence? Oh! say, is
                  this love; and am I weak and faithless to another whom my heart is dying to
                  meet—for whom I have so long struggled? No, no, it can not be—the constancy of
                  woman's love shall never falter—by me, never!"
               Parker was a very Apollo, as regards figure; but so great have been the statements
                  and misstatements of this unfortunate young fellow, that a brief sketch of him
                  will generally accompany each chapter upon Harriet.
               For a few weeks after his arrival his business prospered exceedingly; and in a
                  short time he had a house built, where he expected to carry on the druggist
                  business; and from the glowing prospects before him, his naturally happy mind
                  began to look forward to the easy days of affluence. But while thus cherishing
                  glowing prospects for the future, a new land-title sprang up on his ground and
                  swept off everything he possessed—save a few dollars in his pocket. Here we might
                  comment upon the dilatory conduct of Congress, in neglecting to send Commissioners
                  of Land Titles soon enough, to avoid these misfortunes, while they were foaming
                  and sweating over the secession of Carolina with degraded vehemence; but more of
                  this at another time.
               For a young man to be so suddenly deprived of all he possessed, is a misfortune
                  that very few can withstand, even when surrounded by good society and warm
                  friends; but when dogged by a host of gamblers—in those days, the most honorable
                  men—one's very senses seem to abandon him, and he can scarcely wish to live. Such
                  were Parker's discouragements; and in no other but Harriet's presence found he any
                  solace. To her he acknowledged his misfortunes, as to a sister; and from her he
                  received that encouragement which no other but woman can give. At this time there
                  was a Mr. Miller living at the same house—he was a gentleman gambler, and a clever
                  fellow. His full-sized, hunched-shouldered tabernacle seemed to be of about
                  thirty-five years' standing, and not a white hair was to be seen in his straight,
                  black beard—which partially hid his closed lips and covetous-looking face; so
                  that, had not his nose indicated, by its eagle-beak looking curve, that he
                  delighted in picking, it is doubtful 
                     wether
                     whether
                   his long, blue nails and talon-like fingers would have directed
                  anybody's attention to his muttering nasality which seemed even to begrudge the
                  half-pronounced words that his sarcastic tongue was eternally heaping upon
                  somebody, whom he came "mighty nigh raking."
               A curious man indeed was Mr. Miller; and although he was eternally talking, yet he
                  never laughed except when hearing, or seeing, the misfortune of somebody else.
                  But—as may be known from his description—Mr. Miller was a politician—prominent,
                  available politician; somewhat flattered for having written a few newspaper
                  squibs, on his pride for being born upon American soil, and upon the prospects of
                  annexing the Sandwich Islands; and how willing he would be to "spill his heart's
                  blood" to enlighten his fellow man. But, to give him his due, he had talents; he
                  considered that the condition of man had been progressive since the foundation of
                  the world, until the Constitution of the United States was written; and that
                     it was as perfect as the Creator of the universe; and if the world
                  should stand a million of years, yet it would be impossible for man to make any
                  salutary alteration in the Constitution—it couldn't be done without danger; in
                  fact, a real hard sense politician was Mr. Miller; one who would
                     not hesitate to have everybody, who
                  dared to say aught against any of our institutions, cowhided out of the
                  country.
               Strange as it may seem, this advocate for national glory and civilization, now
                  directed his attention to the unfortunate Mr. Parker, and actually coaxed him to
                  try the gaming table! Here was Parker's first great fall. Through Mr. Miller
                  lending him a few dollars to commence with, he soon found himself in the society
                  of gamblers. But yet his feelings were pure, though flooded with remorse, which,
                  soon ruffled his noble face, and depicted the sad conflict between virtue and
                  vice. Coming one day into Harriet's presence, who was nearly frightened by the
                  sadness in his looks, he seated himself and turned his eyes, filled with tears,
                  upon her, while he seemed to tremble and grow pale, but, placing one hand upon his
                  forehead, exclaimed, "Oh! Miss Lindsey, I am ruined—I have gambled!"
               Many weeks passed by, and Harriet continued to attend to the post-office as
                  regularly as the days arrived, but no letter relieved her rapidly increasing
                  anxiety; and a sad despondency began to steal over her at nearly all hours of the
                  day. One hope still remained—perhaps the mail communication, at San Francisco,
                  would afford a better opportunity for correspondence.
               As soon as this thought entered her mind she determined to leave for San
                  Francisco. This was late in the dry season and rains were daily expected, which
                  she fancied would render her canvas boarding-house too disagreeable to live in.
                  Arranging her bandbox and bidding farewell to Mr. Long, she started for the
                  steamboat—the only one on the river—which was about as large as two
                  Chestnut-street omnibusses. The carter placed her things on board and she climbed
                  over the lumber and greasy pork barrels and seated herself on a moderately
                  comfortable bench on the quarter deck. She was the only lady passenger on board,
                  and consequently obliged to bear the gaze of about two hundred men standing on the
                  bank of the river; but, considering that men were naturally inclined to feast
                  their eyes upon the ladies, she withstood it with remarkable calmness and
                  good-will. While sitting in this position, and just as the wheels of the little
                  steamer began to turn, her attention was directed to Mr. Parker, Mr. Miller, and
                  our inverted letter V friend, Mr. Warner, all on board. For an instant she
                  shuddered with fear, for she recognized Warner, as being the man with whom Simons
                  had traveled on the Plains, and also, the one who had murdered the little German,
                  Hance; but to see Parker in their company gave her an oppression of spirits which
                  she had never endured before; but hear her own words, "When I saw the sorry change
                  that a few short weeks had made upon him, I almost wished that the country would
                  sink! Really the whole world seemed to grow dark wherever I gazed, and I feared
                  that I was in a dream, from which I should never awake!"
               Unfortunately, Warner did not recognize Harriet as the same lady whom he met on
                  the Plains, or in all probability he would have relieved her anxieties by giving
                  her information of Simons. In a perplexing state of ennui, she remained a silent
                  spectator of the hosts of gamblers taking their merry good-bye of our three on
                  board, as the little boat pulled out into the river and wound its way among the
                  crowd of ships, schooners, etc., and sped rapidly away from the city. Scarcely had
                  they left the noisy throng on shore, when Mr. Miller commenced upon Warner on the
                  subject of politics; but before we give a sample of their remarks, it is necessary
                  to state that this was at that season when some of the inhabitants made the first
                  exertion to get California into something like State organization, and that
                  gamblers were roving all over the country, electioneering themselves into office
                  or to get into office as soon as the State should be admitted into the Union. This
                  was several weeks after Parker commenced gambling, and, through the influence of
                  Miller and his other friends, he now seemed also inclined to live by his talent in
                  political matters; and between the gaming-table and public office, these three had
                  fully resolved to have some good living. Parker proved to be an expert gambler and
                  made money very rapidly, so that now he and Miller were among the first gamblers
                  in the country; and, as a matter of course, expected to take no ordinary standing
                  in the new State. But to enable them to accomplish their purposes, they associated
                  with a man already noted for wealth—Mr. Warner. This green-looking boy had made a
                     few successful hauls off some of the
                  miners, and could lay down doubloons with any man who would dare bet with him. But
                  in reference to putting himself up for public office, he had been for some time
                  hesitating; and it was to bring him to a conclusion, that Miller now set himself
                  faithfully to work upon him. But while their conversation was going on, Harriet
                  remained a painful listener to the sad change in Mr. Parker's views now, to what
                  they were so shortly before.
               "We'll have the Legislature at Sacramento yet, Mr. Warner?" questioned Mr. Miller,
                  but not giving time for an answer, he continued: "Make a fine Capital—right in the
                  midst of the very best part of California—good land, business and enterprising
                  inhabitants. But what do you think about the Legislature—will we get one? or have
                  you concluded to run for office if the State is admitted?"
               Warner, pulling the stub from his celebrated opening, and discharging a few rapid
                  squirts of tobacco-juice, then placed his inverted V well apart at the bottom, and
                  at the same time shoving his white eyebrows as near the top of his forehead as
                  possible, and taking one good breath, answered:
               "Well, yes—I b'leive—I may say—I have. The fact is—howsomever, I'm 'most pushed
                  into it by my friends. It isn't much object in me doin' it, either, for I can make
                  jist 'bout as much by turning the 'picture-bible' as at anything. But I'm afeared
                  may-be they won't admit it into the Union yet."
               "O, you need have no apprehensions on that score," said Miller. "The thing is
                  here—Congress don't care a straw about California. They think so that we have the
                  number for a State, that is sufficient. Well, you know as well as I do, that the
                  miners are too busy to care whether it becomes a State or not; and if the men of
                     wealth and respectability (not mentioning our
                     business, you know, for on a piece of paper our names look ass
                  long as anybody's) that is, if we all unite, we can easily make this into a State.
                  And now I tell you candidly, Mr. Warner, (of course, I don't say such to every
                  one) that if this is admitted as a State, and I can succeed in
                  getting a seat in the Legislature. I would not, candidly, take all the monte-banks
                  in the Eldorado for my chance. It is not, my dear sir, here, as it is in the
                  States, where everybody is watching like hungry dogs to see what the officers are
                  about. The people here are all going back to the States; and just so they can get
                  their 'piles,' as they call it, they don't care one fig what the government does.
                  Then here is another thing—these great Spanish grants are to be attended
                  to—(perhaps we would like a section or two): some of these will be to purchase—do
                  you understand? The government has plenty of money: they don't think about what a
                  State can do so far away, and they are not going to trouble themselves about it.
                  Neither will we, if we can only get it into the Union, and get credit upon it—that
                  is all we ask."
               "Well," said Warner, still stretching his eyebrows earnestly upward, and spitting
                  faithfully at various little objects on the deck, "well, I think your idees are
                  mighty nigh right. But how much do you think legislators will git, say by the
                  day—or by the month, I b'leive, they are generally paid?"
               "No, they are paid by the day," said Parker; "but as they will regulate that to
                  suit themselves, you may be sure they will not make the pay any too little."
               "O, I thought Congress fixed the rate of wages," said Warner, much better pleased
                  with the appearance of things.
               "No, the State regulates its own affairs on all such matters," said Parker.
               "But the people here won't pay their taxes, may-be," Warner suggested.
               "What do we care about that? Let all the people here return to the States, it will
                  make no difference."
               "But, then, we would not get our pay?" Warner questioned.
               "Certainly we would," said Parker; "there it is, you see—we can fix the expenses
                  of the government at just what we are a mind to; for the people here will not care
                  anything about it, and we can run the State into several millions of dollars'
                  debt, if we wish—the other States will be good for it: and you can take my word
                  for it, they will never inquire into even the general expenses."
               
               "Well, that looks mighty likely," said Warner, "but the most I would like to know
                  is, how much wages would be given to the officers: for I'm doin' mighty well at
                  monte, and I would not like to quit for any common trifle."
               "To quit!—to quit!" said Miller, "why, I am astonished at you! What hinderance
                  will the office be to your profession? I tell you, my dear sir, it will give you
                  respectability, so that miners will not be half so shy about betting. I know of
                  more than a dozen candidates, and they all say they intend to gamble most of the
                  time; and I am very sure of one that will. Then here is another
                  thing—a real advantage, too—there is no government-seat; so that we can have an
                  opportunity of shifting about wherever our business is the best."
               "O, I didn't know that was the idee," said Warner; "and I thought, too, it was
                  mighty curious if at man couldn't foller his regular profession: but
                  ah! if that's the game, you can bet your life I'll have a finger in the pie,
                  'cause I like good things myself, I do."
               Considering the great amount of profanity that accompanied Warner and Miller's
                  conversation, it is utterly impossible for us to represent them in their true
                  colors, and yet preserve our story suitable to the public; but suffice it that
                  after the manner of the above, blackened by a furious oath at every sentence, they
                  continued to lay the foundations for the organization of the government of the new
                  State. But perhaps there is no place in our great country where such infamous
                  characters, attempting to ride into public office, presented to the reflective
                  mind so much disgust and mortification of feelings, as it did in this new and
                  promising territory. Neither could their vicious schemes have been so impressive
                  at any other place as upon that beautiful river, and upon that sunny afternoon,
                  when the brilliant luster of that cloudless sky mantled the great valley with its
                  purity and loveliness, made grand and sublime by the declining sun's dazzling rays
                  sparkling upon the snowy mountains which rim the flourishing State upon its
                  eastern boundary with their lofty border of awe-inspiring whiteness—adding an
                  indescribable charm to that wealth and prosperity that was daily outstripping
                  anything that had ever occurred within the history of man, and, pointing to the
                  great future, 
                     unvailing
                     unveiling
                   the dignity and affluence of rising generations living under a
                  government constructed by the vilest of blacklegs!
               During the conversation of these worthy gentlemen, Harriet busied herself for some
                  time looking over the valley, and reflecting upon her own particular condition;
                  but, finally, wearing out her patience by listening to Miller's political whining,
                  she concluded to change her position, and went down into the cabin—a little place,
                  like an English railway car—where only one can enter at the same time, and then
                  only by crawling upon hands and knees. Not very well satisfied with that kind of
                  confinement, she again came upon deck; but, having been only a few minutes absent,
                  she was astonished to find that the politicians had changed their subject, and
                  were now promenading about the deck in truly important style—Warner with a long
                  cigar in his mouth, his thumbs under his vest, hat a little to one side, white
                  eyebrows climbing his forehead, legs dragging, and, in fact, his whole person
                  seemed to be making preparation for the legislature;—Miller, with a cigar between
                  his fingers; his hand accenting every word that escaped his compressed lips; his
                  hunched back now and then bowing, to show how plainly he was illustrating; his
                  harsh, nasal voice lowered into half whispers of earnestness—all, it all showed,
                  that he was determined to make a fortune by the last contrived scheme. As to
                  Parker, also smoking—once so noble a fellow—his eyes seemed to avoid the public
                  now, and his gentlemanly manners seemed to be entirely controlled by Miller, with
                  whom he was already concocting schemes to plunder his fellow mortals! Side by
                  side, these important individuals were walking; but now, instead of politics,
                  their conversation was still worse—fixing their plans for entrapping "green uns"
                  at the gaming-tables; and it was upon this subject that Miller was directing his
                  remarks—positively assuring his companions of success; and upon his plans he
                  continued to comment until San Francisco came in view.
               Now, with two of these, Harriet had some acquaintance, and considering herself
                  among strangers, together with the curious fact of their going to San Francisco at the same
                  time, gave her some rather serious apprehensions on their account; but,
                  endeavoring to dispel her fears, she directed her attention toward the animating
                  scene before her: islands and bluffs, enlivened by innumerable birds, but seeming
                  to be civilized by the great forest of tapering masts, whose density nearly hid
                  the lower part of the city, but added a charm of romance to the collection of
                  houses crowded upon the hill above, where their whiteness seemed as though their
                  shackly walls were made of Italian marble. But common criticism was not the reason
                  of Harriet's earnest gaze. Before she started from Sacramento, she had indulged
                  the hope, that, by going to San Francisco, she would be sure to hear from the
                  person to whom she had been so long attached.
               Of course, there is some excuse for commenting upon the love of a young lady who
                  would follow her lover through a wilderness of two thousands miles; but, whether
                  there are many of those pretty creatures who would perform as much, is a matter
                  for them to decide; certainly, few ladies ever did cross the Plains for the
                  purpose of meeting their lovers; and yet, it is very probable, that if some of
                  them had "good chances," and met much opposition from the old folks, they would
                  run too.
               But now, when Harriet was drawing near to the city, shadows of doubt seemed to
                  gain a place in her mind. Her attention was fixed toward the young city, but
                  absent thoughts had turned her reflections into melancholy conjecture, and she
                  seemed to avoid looking at others. Sometimes, her snowy handkerchief would rest
                  upon her eyes; but she turned her face, so that others should not see her tears;
                  and, of all on board, no one knew the thoughts that gave her trouble; for, true to
                  the nature of her sex, profound secresy of her own love, was the easiest of all
                  her accomplishments. How soon her troubles might have been over, had she asked one
                  of the gambling candidates for the person she wished to find! But, poor girl, she
                  was not aware that he knew.
               It was nearly sunset when the little boat crossed the wide part of the bay, and
                  beat up toward Long Wharf. The evening was one of those cold, windy ones, in the
                  middle of autumn; so dry and dusty in that disagreeable city.
               Previous to landing, Parker advanced to where Harriet was, made a few remarks
                  about the disagreeable change of the weather, asked her if she had a place to stop
                  at; and, being answered in the affirmative, assured her there would be no servants
                  on the wharf to carry her luggage, but that it would give him great pleasure to
                  assist her. She looked a little while thoughtfully, and then accepted of his kind
                  offer. The boat hauled up; ropes were thrown out; the plank was laid, and the
                  grand hurrah of the passengers was offward—the newspaper peddlers onward.
               Harriet and Mr. Parker pushed their way through the crowd, and marched toward the
                  upper part of the city. On this occasion, justice demands that Parker should
                  receive much praise for saving poor Harriet from being pulled to pieces by the
                  hotel-keepers. This city can complain of outrages, in this respect, which perhaps
                  no other city in the world can with equal propriety. Almost all Americans, when
                  going to England, say, that on their arrival, they know not where to go—no hotel
                  runners to be seen—that it is an awful shame; but, in San Francisco, they have the
                  other extreme: one hotel keeper at each arm; one at the skirts, behind; two in
                  front, and six or seven running all round, like hungry wolves, all barking and
                  swearing furiously. In this instance, Parker was of invaluable service to Harriet;
                  and, by being a large, strong man, and having been brought up in American fashion,
                  to protect the weaker sex, he succeeded in rescuing her before they had her
                  divested of a single dress! Whether these hungry hotel-keepers continue their
                  violent behavior up to this period, or not has nothing to do with what they did a
                  few years ago. But it is not likely that their extreme politeness is
                  done away with so soon; and, in all probability, visitors to that
                     fiery city, would yet see some of those hungry-dog solicitors
                  lurking about the wharves.
               After Harriet and Parker had made their escape from these ferocious gentlemen,
                  they met but few difficulties; that is, few beside the great piles of lumber and pork barrels
                  over which they were obliged to climb.
               Like a certain person and his horse, fat, greasy pork and California, are, always
                  have been, and, probably, always will be, indispensable companions. Go into the
                  mines—it is greasy pork; go into the villages—it is greasy pork; go into the open
                  valley—it is greasy pork still; go on a boat—again you are surrounded with greasy
                  pork—go on the wharves—they are covered with greasy pork; go into the streets of
                  the cities, and it is nothing but greasy pork continually. Excepting that
                  sickening, greasy pork, they had but few obstacles to encounter. It is true, they
                  had a few deep ditches and dangerous holes to cross, on some of the streets; but,
                  over the most of them, they were accommodated with boards; the others they could
                  leap. The cold, winds and clouds of dust were not caused by any neglect of the
                  people; therefore, we shall not comment upon their dreadful, insupportable
                  effects.
               After some difficulty, the pair of adventurers drew up to a small frame house, at
                  the door of which stood quite a neighborly-looking fat woman, of about thirty.
                  Parker immediately took his leave, hoping he should again see her. Harriet thanked
                  him for his kindness, and turned to address her fat, but good-looking hostess—
               "Is Mrs. Case present?" The fat woman nodded in the affirmative.
               "Did you get an address from Mr. Long, of Sacramento, that a lady was coming to
                  stop a short time with you?"
               "O law, yes," said Mrs. Case; "and I s'pose it was you he had reference to—Harriet
                  Lindsey?"
               "Yes; that is my name."
               "Why, law me! come in. I am very glad you have come, for you can tell me how Mr.
                  Long is doing. Will you have some water to wash? Our city is so awful dusty. Did
                  you come down on the boat? O! it is such a little boat, I wouldn't trust my life
                  on it. I s'pose that gentleman who came with you was your husband? he is such a
                  good-looking man. Now, you mustn't mind what I say; for I always say just what I
                  think. Is Mr. Long still keeping a boarding-house?"
               "O yes; I have been waiter in his house for a long time," said Harriet.
               "O, the dear, good soul! I wish he may do well; for he has one of the nicest
                  families at home I ever saw. He has been very unfortunate; but may-be he will be
                  right yet. And did you say you was waiter for his table? Why, law me! it does me
                  so much good to see you. Here, come up stairs; I have a room on purpose for you;
                  though, from your looks, it will be rather poorer than what you have been used
                  to."
               By this time, she had Harriet up the ladder, and into a little room, about nine
                  feet square. A comfortable looking bed stood on one side; a low bench at one end,
                  with a tin wash-basin upon it, accompanied with a liberal-sized piece of soap.
                  There was one chair in the room; but it, too, looked as if it had seen better
                  days—its whole back had been amputated, and the wounds left undressed. But when
                  Harriet's bandbox was in the room, it looked moderately well furnished, compared
                  with most of the houses in those early days. The door was one of those
                  old-fashioned, blue blanket, hanging ones. It must be borne in mind, that this
                  part of our history was before the stealing and murdering period; and, although
                  four-fifths of the houses in San Francisco had no locks, there was not the
                  slightest danger of thieves. Many people are apt to comment upon the crimes and
                  the morals of different nations as being the result of natural differences in the
                  people; but, from the fact, that every nation of the whole world was well
                  represented in that city, no other satisfactory reason for the security of
                  property can be given, than that the people were all in prosperous circumstances.
                  And now, when Harriet had her gold safely deposited in the bottom of her bandbox,
                  no uneasiness was entertained, although she might wish to walk about the city, in
                  company with Mrs. Case, when no person was left at the house. They had scarcely
                  entered this little room, when Harriet, recollecting her principal errand,
                  asked:
               "Can you tell me where the post-office is?"
               
               "O yes; but law me! you can't get in now. It always shuts about three o'clock. The
                  postmaster does jest as he pleases here. Sometimes he shuts at dinner-time."
               "You are sure it is not open?" said Harriet.
               "Why, law me! yes. O, we have had a terrible fuss here about it. Some of the
                  people says if Congress don't do something mighty soon, they intend to have
                  California made into a separate government—I tell you they're getting determined
                  on it, too. Why, law me! there's not a person in this city can get their letters.
                  Nothing is tended to right, and nearly all the people thinks Congress is not
                  caring much about them, anyhow; and I'm sure if they don't look mighty sharp,
                  California 'll give them the slip: all the foreigners are in favor of it, 'cause,
                  you know, the Governor made a heavy tax on 'em; and I'm sure it'll take mighty
                  little to ——"
               Harriet interrupted—"Do you think the post-office will open early to-morrow
                  morning?"
               "Why, law me! how do I know?—may-be they will, and may-be they won't. But I will
                  go with you as soon as we have our breakfast, and see: but come now—Harriet, I
                  think you said your name was—as soon as you get washed, we will have our tea, and
                  I want you to tell me all about Mr. Long. O, he is a fine man! They have the
                  prettiest little children you ever saw—heads just as white as snow; and O, so
                  smart! Poor fellow! I'm sure he wishes he was back. But I'm keeping you away from
                  washing."
               Here Mrs. Case turned to descend the ladder, and, miraculous as it was, the
                  slender, trembling thing sustained her ponderous form. She then made her course to
                  her supper-room, resting her dimply-jointed hands in that comfortable position so
                  envied by the slender part of the human family. There she seated herself, making
                  the chair sing a little Chinese music, fully determined to have a good night's fun
                  with her young lady companion. Why it is that fat people always take the good side
                  of things, and seem to relish a life in this world more than lean ones do, and yet
                  why their breed is not encouraged by everybody, seems to be one of those fancies
                  that never get possession of the human mind. Mrs. Case's account of the
                  post-offices rather filled Harriet's mind with dissatisfaction. However, she came
                  to the conclusion that if she did get no letter, she would have all the more
                  evidence for believing him still to be living. She lost but little time until she
                  was in company with her hostess at tea.
               "Do you live alone?" Harriet asked.
               "Why, nearly all the time I do. John—that is my husband, you know—he is got into
                  the Express business, and he's gone most of the time; but nearly every day I have
                  visitors, or else I am going somewhere myself. Nearly all the women here are in
                  the same fix as me. We must step about home, while our husbands run all over the
                  country. But why didn't you ask your husband in? or was that your husband who came
                  up with you?"
               "O no; I have no husband," said Harriet.
               "Why, law me!" said Mrs. Case, "if I wasn't sure that would be your husband! Then
                  I s'pose he will be?"
               "No, indeed," said Harriet.
               Ha! you always will deny it; but you must tell him to come, just the same as if it
                  was your own house. I s'pose your people live in Sacramento?"
               "No, no; I have no connections in the country," said Harriet, thoughtfully.
               "Why, law me!—no connections in the country!" exclaimed Mrs. Case, fixing her
                  dark-brown eyes most sympathetically on Harriet; but she continued: "Why, what in
                  the world brought you to such a place as this? I s'pose you met some misfortune at
                  home?"
               "O, not particularly," said Harriet.
               "Does your parents live yet?" Mrs. Case asked.
               "They were living and well when I left."
               "And did you come over the Plains?"
               "Yes," said Harriet. But her good hostess was wonderfully put to it to imagine a
                  cause for such an adventure.
               "I s'pose your people are on the way out?"
               "No, no; they will not come," said Harriet.
               
               "Why, law me! I never heerd of such an undertaking by a young girl! But do
                     tell me why you came so far, without some of your connections coming
                  along?"
               Poor Harriet was getting into a tight place; but the fat woman's inquisitive
                  powers were accompanied by so much innocence of expression and sympathy of
                  feeling, that the poor girl's long pent-up secret burst forth—she told it all!
                  Strange it seems that, as well acquainted with Mrs. Ellis as she was, yet she had
                  never revealed to her the true cause of her undertaking. A curious creature is
                  woman!
               Mrs. Case proved to be a sympathizing, confidential friend, and assured Harriet
                  that as her John traveled a good deal, the missing man would soon be found.
               After Harriet and Parker left the boat, his companions and fellow-gamblers, Mr.
                  Warner and Mr. Miller, marched off together to the "Eldorado," a
                  justly celebrated and much admired gambling saloon. Our whining friend, Mr.
                  Miller, being an old hand at his profession, had been to this city before, and was
                  somewhat acquainted with the extravagance of many of these legally recognized
                  houses; and he had been describing some of their wonderful attractions to Warner.
                  He even took the precaution to speak of the shrewdness of the London and Paris
                  gamblers, and the necessity of keeping a sharp look-out for them. Warner was one
                  of the cautious kind of gamblers, and had made most of his money by little dribs;
                  and in this visit, for fear of being fleeced, he had left about one-half of his
                  money at Sacramento. With the exception of killing Hance, he was, altogether, not
                  a very bad sort of gambler. He had paid strict attention to the words of Mr.
                  Miller, and felt determined that no Paris or London gambler should discover that
                  he himself was an American gambler; preferring, for security, to have them think
                  that he was a Londoner. Accordingly, when they approached the celebrated
                  "Eldorado," he commenced making as short paces as his long understandings would
                  permit of, for this was the mode he chose to convince people that he was no "green
                  'un." He remembered, too, to place his thumbs under his vest and his fingers upon
                  his breast. With these disguises he was sure be could pass for a gentleman of no
                  ordinary consequence. His important manner of standing, so as to resemble an
                  inverted V, was his natural position.
               When they entered the establishment it was nearly night, and several hundred
                  finely-dressed persons were either promenading about the room or engaged in
                  gambling. The first thing that struck Warner's attention was, to see several
                     ladies gambling, some of whom were extremely good-looking; and
                  whether it was a peculiarity of Warner's to look at a pretty lady, or whether it
                  is common to his sex, it matters not; certain it was, he looked long and steadily
                  toward them.
               There were a great host of pictures hanging against the walls of the room, and
                  although their peculiar construction forbids description, yet Warner took the
                  liberty of gazing furtively upon them part of the time. Upon the stage, or rather
                  low gallery, a famous band of musicians added still greater attraction to Warner.
                  His whining friend told him the tunes they were playing; but after listening for
                  some time, he came to the conclusion that either his friend was mistaken, or else
                  the tunes were played wrong. In the midst of so many attractions, he neglected to
                  drum on his breast, and to make the short steps; and, needless to say, many of the
                  gamblers thought he was an excellent bird to pick. From several different parts of
                  the house the opera-glasses were turned upon him, and, strange to say, he noticed
                  their gaze; but this made him open the lower end of his understandings in a truly
                  important style. His little white eyebrows commenced in great earnest to ascend
                  his forehead, as though be was likely to outshine anything present. In this
                  appearance he was, when a little man, dark-complected, black, heavy-bearded, and
                  of foreign appearance, as if by accident fell into conversation with him.
               "Dis von vine ouse in your contrée," said he, turning his opera-glass, in the
                  direction of the ladies.
               "Yes," said Warner, "I'm d——d if I ain't clear beat by this sort of fixing up.
                  Must be the finest house in the world."
               "Me nider. I never seen so vine ouse like dis—not in mine contrée, never so vine," said the little man,
                  turning his glass toward the pictures.
               "I think it's a shame to have sich pictures, though, where women are," said
                  Warner, keeping his eyes earnestly fixed on the one-eyed spectacle.
               "Dis is vine painting," said the little man, pointing to one on the other side—a
                  still plainer illustration of somebody's degraded imagination.
               "Is them the kind of spectacles you use in your country?" asked Warner, taking the
                  little man's opera-glass and examining it cautiously. Of course, so green a one
                  attracted attention, and many of the gamblers already began to envy the little
                  Frenchman for his good fortune in being the first to achieve the capture. The word
                     spectacle, however, was further on in the English language than
                  the Frenchman had yet been; but, true to his country, where words were not handy
                  he could illustrate by motions: and after getting Warner to try the glass, the
                  peculiarity of its construction did not interest him; but anxious, too, to appear
                  in the fashion, he determined to have one at the first opportunity. While Warner
                  was thus engaged, Miller had met an old acquaintance, with whom he had stepped
                  aside to drink, and to have some private conversation. This arrangement suited the
                  Frenchman exactly; for the greatest trouble a gambler has, is to get a green one
                  separated from his friends.
               "O, dis fust-rate! I vill teach him to me to gamble. I like dis very vine. O,
                  grand!" said he, after the glass had been properly explained, and walking slowly
                  along with Warner to the other end of the room. Certainly, Warner thought that the
                  little man had come to a dangerous place to learn, for he might lose all his money
                  by learning.
               "Ah! it is a bad business," said Warner; "don't you ever learn it. You take my
                  advice, and go off to the mines, where you can make a fortune. These gamblers lay
                  all sorts of plans for to take fellers in. They don't care whether they rob a
                  feller or not."
               "O, I no care. Den I loss—den I vin; I no care. O, I vill teach him to me, sure,"
                  said the little man, looking most innocently into Warner's face.
               "O, you can do as you like," said Warner; "but look here; I've been a-gambling a
                  long time, and I'll bet I know jist as much about the business as anybody; and if
                  you'd a seen some of the fellers I fleeced, up at Sacramento, you'd never think it
                  was worth while to learn."
               Just before they reached a table where they were throwing dice, the little man
                  halted shortly to tell Warner about the dice-player.
               "Dis man vot play de dice, him loss much money—ah! him loss plenty: he not see him
                  good. Last night I make to me much money. I take up de box ven he not look, den I
                  vin all to me—may-be to-night I vill do so too, de same as before."
               Then they advanced to look on, for a few were betting small "lays-out." The two
                  nations were very fairly represented by these two individuals—that is, in personal
                  appearance and in a criminal point of view.
               Although Warner had not that nasal tone of voice with which our nation is
                  inflicted, yet his extreme length and awkwardness of appearance, and his
                  disposition to place entire confidence in the stranger, were not very unlike a
                  goodly number of our citizens; and, although a bad man, he immediately took part
                  with the little Frenchman, and advised him not to gamble, lest somebody should
                  take advantage of him. The Frenchman, of small stature, deeply skilled in personal
                  appearance, and not pretending to know anything, in order to deceive Warner, was
                  not a bad sample of a French rogue. But his manner of attack was no less ingenious
                  than is characteristic of his great nation; for he was intimately acquainted and
                  in partnership with the dice-player to whom he had been all this while bringing
                  Warner, as it were, accidentally. Here these two criminal representatives seated
                  themselves, and commenced betting dollar bets. In this game the dice-thrower has a
                  tin cup, open at both ends, into which he throws the dice, all of which are
                  lettered: corresponding letters are printed upon the table. Upon these letters the
                  bettors place their money. The dice-thrower then raises his cup, and if the wager lies upon a letter matched
                  by the one on the upper side of any of the dice, then the bettor has won; but if
                  unmatched, he has lost. When fairly played, it is what gamblers call a "perfect
                  chance-game;" but where the players are so disposed, the most foul deception can
                  be carried on without the shrewdest observer being able to detect it.
               Warner had but a few silver dollars with him—having changed his silver for gold, a
                  great quantity of which he had stowed in his pockets.
               Although the Frenchman was an equally interested partner with the dice-player, yet
                  he continued to bet in such great earnest that Warner never dreamed of the true
                  state of affairs. All the time his tongue kept a continual run,—either finding
                  fault with his "luck," or priding himself upon it. As he seldom bet more than two
                  or three dollars at once, he remained nearly the same—sometimes getting a little
                  ahead, and vice versa. Warner soon made way with his silver, and commenced with
                  doubloons. With these he sometimes lost and sometimes won—not getting below, nor
                  above a hundred dollars for over an hour after they commenced. But after awhile
                  they ran up to as high as a hundred dollars a bet. At that time their table became
                  surrounded with eager spectators. A few beside Warner and the Frenchman were
                  betting small bets, but Warner was the principal object of attraction. The word
                  was going the round that he was the "bully" from Sacramento—the same who killed
                  the German. His private character had nothing to do with this case, any further
                  than they were all anxious to see the man; but, his large bets were the principal
                  things that brought so many spectators. A secret pride now fluttered in his bosom,
                  that he was interesting the people so much; and, to show the extent of his
                  ambition, he kept continually increasing his bets. While this excitement was going
                  on, an acquaintance of the dice-thrower stepped up to one side and entered into a
                  low conversation with him. While the dice-thrower's attention was thus called away
                  from his game, the little Frenchman lifted the dice-box so that all the bettors
                  could see what letters were up, and then, clapping his whole pile on one of the
                  corresponding letters, waited patiently for the dice-thrower to lift his box.
                  Nearly all the bettors did the same as the Frenchman—some betting as high as fifty
                  dollars; but Warner, having seen the dice, coolly laid down the sum of five
                  hundred dollars. In about one minute the dice-thrower turned to attend to his
                  game, telling his friend he would see him some other time, when he had more
                  leisure.
               He seemed to be surprised a little at seeing such large bets lying upon the table;
                  but, true to a gentleman gambler, he determined not to shirk. Many of the
                  spectators had seen the dice, and a little smile was lighting up their various
                  physiogs when the box was about to be raised. After looking carefully at the
                  various piles, as if contemplating something serious, the box was lifted—Warner,
                  as well as all the others, won! This only made a small draw upon the bank, and the
                  same continued on as before. Several others seemed to notice the negligence of the
                  dice-thrower, and plenty of bettors were now crowding close to the table. One of
                  these again called the attention of the dice-thrower to change some money. Here,
                  again, the little Frenchman tipped the box, to see the dice. All the bettors now
                  threw down their money with great freedom. Warner laid down all he had in hand;
                  and, just as the dice-thrower turned, to lift the box, he called out,
               "Now, stop; you must break me, or I will you!" reaching down into his pockets, and
                  hauling forth a few large bags of doubloons.
               "Let me shake the dice up again, and then you may bet as much as you like."
               "No, no; no, no," said the bettors; "a game is a game all the world over, and you
                  must let us bet;" every one fingering out what change he had.
               In a case of this kind, it is a rule among gamblers not to back out from taking
                  bets; and, where they do offer to refuse, the crowd frequently become so enraged
                  as to place the banker in a very dangerous condition. If he had, in this instance,
                  absolutely refused to take bets, a serious row might have taken place; and,
                  although many spectators saw the dice, and knew the banker was taken advantage of,
                  still, if they should have spoken of
                  it, their lives would have been forfeited upon the spot. In this innocent manner,
                  many good men were shamefully murdered in those legally recognized
                  houses. Here, however, the people had already learned to control Æsop's favorite
                  dish, and allow every one to attend to their own business.
               When Warner had his gold all down on one of the letters, then commenced the most
                  eager crowding to witness the result; but only a minute was required to decide the
                  contest. The dice-box was raised—Warner, and all the bettors, lost!
               A smile was about settling upon many of the spectators, when the little Frenchman
                  tried to look grave, and said, "Marchand qui perd ne peut rire;" and, rubbing his
                  head, as though he had actually been a loser, turned to the dice-thrower, who was
                  also French, gave a meaning wink, and spoke, rather humbly, "Une souris qui n'a
                  qu'un trou, est bientôt prise." Of course, Warner knew nothing about what the
                  Frenchman had said; and, thinking that the poor fellow might murder somebody on
                  account of his misfortune, he turned to him, and said, "Don't be discouraged, my
                  little man—that's just what we fellers are used to;" and then, affecting coolness,
                  he rose to meet his friend Miller, who had just returned in time to see Warner
                  lose. In a few minutes he returned, and again commenced to bet; and, in less than
                  an hour, lost five hundred dollars of Miller's money. This cooled him, and they
                  both withdrew. Warner had often spoken to Parker about his skill in gambling, but
                  since he had lost so much, he was ashamed to meet Parker; and, in consequence,
                  resolved to leave the city on the next day—a proposition that suited Miller also;
                  so that, on the following morning, they left San Francisco, fully determined not
                  to visit it very soon again.
               After taking leave of Harriet, Parker put out for the Belle Union—this was another
                  gambling saloon, but of less pretensions than the Eldorado. It was also ornamented
                  with those fancy pictures, a band of music, and with a few fair ladies—for some of
                  them were exceedingly fair. Among those dear creatures our friend soon became an
                  intimate companion, and his whole nature seemed about to be changed from high and
                  honorable able intentions to a life too low to bear description. At this house he
                  passed the evening; but, how miserable his own reflections must have been, no one,
                  save himself, was ever the wiser; evidently, his distress of mind was making rapid
                  inroads upon his appearance, and even threatening his health. It is painful,
                  indeed, to comment upon this unfortunate young fellow; and, although his bearing
                  begins to have the appearance of vice and criminality, yet it seems hard to turn a
                  reproach upon him; as will be acknowledged, when we have continued farther with
                  our story. He was much astonished to learn, on the following day, that both his
                  companions were "among the missing;" but it was quite plain enough, when he
                  ascertained that they were in penniless distraction—a fact which he feared would
                  retard their progress into the legislature.
               On the following evening, he felt so much uneasiness about Harriet's situation,
                  that he called to ascertain if she was comfortable. Harriet and Mrs. Case had been
                  to the post-office early in the morning; and, after a few hours' faithful search
                  for a letter, and final disappointment, poor Harriet was nearly overcome with
                  grief; for the fact of her lover still living seemed to be very doubtful. As
                  before stated, she had written to nearly all the post-offices in California, and,
                  if he was living, it was impossible to account for the fact of not hearing from
                  him. The idea of him being tired of her, and falling in love with another, never
                  entered her head, and constancy and confidence remained the guardians to whom she
                  applied for conferer and solace; but the folly of her attempt began
                  to seem very palpable, and her distance from home began to frighten her. Retrace
                  her steps she knew she could not; for she was too well informed not to remember
                  that it was by her strong hopes she was enabled to perform the great journey over
                  the Plains; and yet, if her lover was no more, she could perceive nothing but a
                  sad, unhappy life before her. Then, too, to return to the home from which she had
                  taken such an unceremonious leave, was the most trying of all her
                  considerations.
               She loved her parents as much as any girl could, but her love for another had
                  caused her to abandon them; and with her, as with all other mortals, disappointment, by an unforeseen cause, gave place
                  for despondency in spirits, and forebodings of despair.
               In this dejected mood, she was not well prepared to meet Parker; for she now began
                  to fear his intentions to win her affections; and, different from what she had
                  been a few weeks before, when she would have laid down her life to save a hair of
                  his head, she would now have given half the world to see him no more;
                  consequently, under a plea of ill-health—which was partially true—she only
                  remained a short time in his presence, when she very politely excused her absence.
                  Parker remained long enough to relate the gambling fate of his two companions,
                  which we have already given.
               On the following day, Harriet advertised for Simons in all the papers published in
                  the city.
               Mrs. Case endeavored to perform all the duties toward Harriet that any one could,
                  and really seemed more like a mother or a sister than merely a friend. Harriet
                  never told her that Parker was a gambler; and, probably, because she had been so
                  much in his company, she did not wish to do so, lest it might lessen Mrs. Case's
                  opinion of herself. The consequence of this neglect was, that Mrs. Case formed a
                  high opinion of him; and, also fearing that Simons was no more, endeavored, by the
                  most ingenious maneuvering, to change Harriet's attachment in the direction of Mr.
                  Parker; and, although her intentions were highly honorable, yet nothing could have
                  been more painful to Harriet's feelings than such an attempt.
               For many weeks, Harriet met nothing promising, nor depressing, save the same sad
                  disappointment; but almost daily did Parker make her trouble increase, by paying
                  her visits; and, woman-like, she commenced to hate him—and, though the sun had
                  stood still, yet hate him she would; but, with all her hatred, his address was
                  still so noble and fine, that it was impossible for her to extricate herself from
                  his presence. This hatred continued to rise, until she would as soon have met a
                  grizzly bear as meet Mr. Parker. Even in his absence he was burdensome to her
                  meditations; but, to become absolved from his presence altogether, she would have
                  willingly given all she was worth; and yet there was a peculiarity about this
                  gentleman that so unnerved her, that her firmest resolutions quailed before
                  him.
               Parker's business was nothing but gambling and attending to some of the
                  Pacific-street dancing-houses; and, as he was somewhat acquainted with the
                  Governor—who highly approved of gambling, as a free institution—and most other
                  gambling officials, he was promised an office as soon as an opportunity offered.
                  With those gentlemen he generally loitered about the gambling saloons, smoking
                  cigars, or drinking wine—in fact, lived like a gentleman, discussing the glory of
                  our country, and our right to civilize the "Kanakers," by
                  introducing free institutions among them; yet, a regular politician—that is,
                  making the great cause of morality subordinate to self-interest—and a promising
                  officer was Mr. Parker.
               During the winter, Harriet had but little opportunity to enjoy herself, but
                  generally tried to make a trip every day through the muddy streets, to the
                  post-office; and occasionally helping Mrs. Case to visit some of the neighboring
                  women, were about the extent of her excitement. Her hatred toward Parker became
                  almost insupportable, but was finally broken down by a single blow. It was one of
                  those warm, rainy days, when the whole heavens are resolved into an
                  invisible-gray, and when the slow dropping rain has, in its gentle fall, that
                  deep, homesick melody, so stirring to the memory of the lone wanderer, when the
                  person of Mr. Parker again entered the house of Mrs. Case. Her John had returned
                  the day before, and, at this time, the three were sitting close to a small stove,
                  conversing upon the Express business. Harriet had made earnest inquiry about
                  Simons; but John had received no information of him; and, although she constituted
                  one of the party, she said but little, and sat looking through the window,
                  contemplating upon her own unhappy lot, when this gambling individual made his
                  appearance.
               Parker had the address of a gentleman, and soon made himself at home; and the
                  good-natured fat woman, gave him an
                  introduction to her John with as much laughing good-will as any fat person could
                  have done.
               "Why, Miss Lindsey, are you lonesome? You look as though you had been thinking
                  about your lover, and finally concluded not to have him!" said Parker, taking a
                  hearty, unconcerned laugh, while Mr. and Mrs. Case, either from the want of room,
                  or apprehending something else, very thoughtlessly neglected to remain in the same
                  room.
               "Do you think I look as though I was in much trouble?" Harriet asked.
               "That is right—endeavor to find out what I think of you! You ladies always have an
                  ingenious method of pumping out our sober thoughts. It is not many years since I
                  was badly caught in that way, and it came well-nigh being a death-blow to me."
               "Why, how was that?"
               "Ah! Miss Lindsey, those were serious days to me. I hope, from my very soul, that
                  you may never see such time's as those," becoming very sad.
               "Perhaps, if you tell me about it, I might know how to escape!" said Harriet; but
                  Parker kept looking through the window, as if lost in absent thoughts; then
                  turning, his eyes glistening with tears, looked toward Harriet.
               "Ah! I shall never forget that moment. Before that I was a good man. I didn't
                  gamble then, Miss Lindsey. No; I had plenty of people to love then. O! my God! if
                  I had my life to live over! I tried to be good—I knew nothing else. I had a mother
                  and father then; but, ah! they, too, are gone! Nothing but a dark and dreary world
                  is before me. The deep, heavy shadows of melancholy despair cluster around me
                  wherever I go. The doom of an uncared for mortal seems to be sounding in my ears
                  continually. People blame me for gambling—but I only take their money: but, O! how
                  cruel is the gambler who robs another of love. Ah! Miss Lindsey, you are a happy
                  lady. But, test human beings as well as I have, and you will then never permit
                  yourself to love. It is just two years ago, if all the world had sworn that I
                  would be disappointed, I should have refused to believe it. But, how shamefully I
                  was deceived! I did all that anybody could have done. I saved her and her
                  guardians from disgrace, by giving them what money I had. Ah! why shall I try to
                  be good any longer? For trying to be good, a person is laughed at for being a
                  fool. I beg your pardon, Miss Lindsey, for using such language; but how can I help
                  it. I may turn all my attention to the promoting of the comfort of others, and yet
                  only meet their ridicule! If I am a gambler, I can have more friends than if I am
                  an honest man! But, O! Miss Lindsey, thanks be to heaven! I have done with that
                  unhallowed business. A better day is dawning. A good and honest sister will soon
                  speak in affectionate terms to me. Ah! there I can love. No cold feeling of
                  deception rests within her heart. A few short weeks, and I can converse in
                  confidential terms, without being laughed at. Then, too, I will have an honest
                  occupation, where I can roam the wild mountains with a clear conscience; then,
                  when I return, I will have a friendly home to comfort me."
               "You are going into some other business?" Harriet asked, becoming considerably
                  interested in his melancholy looks.
               "Yes, Miss Lindsey, I have commenced a new life; I have been chosen a tax
                  collector;" still looking absently thoughtful through the window.
               Whether it is that love and sympathy are the same thing, or whether the one has
                  anything to do with the other, becomes a difficult question, the more we attempt
                  to trace their various sources. Some people think a sympathy can exist where there
                  is no love; but, as such people only jump at conclusions, let them jump back
                  again, and explain the cause of sympathy? In all probability, sympathy is the
                  first stage of love. Another thing is quite as difficult to solve: why is there a
                  greater affinity between two persons who have met similar misfortunes, than
                  between any other unfortunate persons? This can only be answered satisfactorily in
                  two ways. By one—the two persons are supposed to be more fully aware of the
                  distress that each has sustained; by the other—there is a supposed channel in
                  which the soul is continually traveling, so that similar misfortunes cause the two channels to break into
                  one, when the souls are left mingling together. In this way, misfortunes cause the
                  mental powers to be united in contemplation. Some even carry this theory so far as
                  to account for all love springing, as it were, by a continual pressure of little
                  misfortunes. But all these difficult questions have nothing to do with our story,
                  further than that this sympathy, or love, always does occur between similarly
                  unfortunate persons, and that in a proper relating of these little things consists
                  the principal art of making love; and it is upon this principle that men act when
                  trying to gain a lady's attachment for any particular purpose. First find out as
                  nearly as possible the course of their anxieties, and then, unobserved, break into
                  the same channel, and weep with them. This generally accomplishes the end, if
                  faithfully tried; but, as simple as it seems, it is one of the most difficult
                  lessons that the accomplished gentleman is obliged to learn before he can pass;
                  but some, by nature, seem to be organized for the purpose, and, among that number,
                  our friend, Mr. Parker, stood near the head of the class. His keen perception
                  could almost see into the silent thoughts of another. His fluent tongue, and
                  affected emotions, were guided by an excellent judgment. By commenting upon his
                  own misfortunes, he could make any one sympathize in his distress. By his glowing
                  prospects, and noble intentions, he could prejudice any one in his favor. By the
                  honest affection for his sister, any one might think he was neglecting them. By
                  his seeming sincerity, none could doubt his fidelity and faithful promises. Only a
                  little while before, Harriet could have earnestly prayed never to see him again;
                  but now she became so interested in his unfortunate attempt at love, that she
                  immediately set herself about prying into his whole history, and felt almost
                  willing to acknowledge her own bold attempt in the field, and relate her own sad
                  disappointment.
               Over his sad life they continued to converse, until she felt herself greatly
                  relieved by his presence; and he never neglected to pledge his word that he had
                  finally reformed, and intended to lead a good life. Harriet pressed him for some
                  time "not to be in a hurry," but finally, taking his hat, he arose to depart;
                  saying, "No, Miss Lindsey, I can not remain now; I must go and prepare for my
                  mountain tour, for I must leave on to-morrow."
               "But you will call again before you go, won't you?" questioned Harriet; and,
                  instead of cold, inexpressive looks, must be imagined a fair creature, now looking
                  into his face, with eyes half-glimmering with tears, while she arose to accompany
                  him to the door.
               "I scarcely see how I can," said he. "Then, too, I have called here so often, that
                  really it seems like leaving home."
               "How soon will your sister arrive?"
               "In a few weeks, if all is well."
               "Then you must come to-morrow, and tell me all about her; won't you? I shall be so
                  happy to meet her."
               "Ah! if I could bring her along, I would gladly come to see you to-morrow; you
                  will like her, I'm sure. She is better than I am, or you may be sure I would not
                  recommend her to you!"
               Harriet felt a blush in her face, and almost thoughtlessly replied, "But if she is
                  as good, I shall be well pleased;" and, to mend it a little, added, "you don't
                  know what I might think of you, if you do really quit gambling!"
               Parker undoubtedly put more meaning to her words than she intended; and, looking
                  her full in the face, he said:
               "Miss Lindsey, by all that is in heaven! I do swear, never to play another game,
                  or lay another wager—never, never! No; I have forever done with that wretched
                  business—forever done! I will never gamble again as long as I live—so help me
                  God!" and his eyes were sparkling, and resting upon those of Harriet. After a
                  moment's pause, he added, "Now, I must go, Miss Lindsey. It will be many weeks
                  before I meet you again; but I shall often think of you; ay, I shall never forget
                  you. When I return, you will see me a better man; you will see me sober and
                  honest. Now, I have already overstayed my time, and I must go. Good-by; good-by!"
                  and he shook her hand warmly, and departed.
               Harriet continued to look after him as he hurried down the street and she thought
                  it was curious that her voice had trembled so when she bid him good-by. It had never done so
                  before, and the poor girl began to fear that; she would yet be unable to ward off
                  his entreaties.
               Here we must suspend our account of Harriet until we bring forward other persons;
                  for we prefer to keep pace with the time of each, rather than to pursue one or two
                  for a while, and then be obliged to fall back. This, we consider, is preferable to
                  running on ahead; for, unless one becomes somewhat acquainted with the
                  intermediate contents of a story, before they have learned the terminus, it
                  becomes less attractive. Therefore, bear with us a while, and we shall tax your
                  patience as little as possible.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               HOW bright and sunny was the month of August. A feverish glimmer was waving in the
                  air, where clouds of dust traveled in broken columns, whirling and wasting away in
                  the wild meadow. The drought and hot suns had put to flight the little birds, and
                  ruined the valley of flowers, and not a cloud hovered over the barren plain—so
                  wild and still it seemed. In a straight line, the dusty road stretched away toward
                  the mountains, further than mortal eye could discern. Here and there were to be
                  seen a few covered wagons, gently moving their rounded tops, slowly going or
                  coming—they were the communication between the miners' palate and the Sacramento
                  merchants. Along this road were the representatives of all nations, in parties or
                  in single file, "going to the diggings."
               One walked alone. His step was feeble—his hoary locks whispered of the tomb. Upon
                  his back was a blue blanket, a pick, and a shovel; his burden made him weary. His
                  thin face was covered with perspiration; his eyes were intelligent and sad. Over
                  the wild plain he looked; the view made his delicate frame tremble.
               "Have I come to this?" escaped his thin lips, as a deep sigh reddened his wrinkled
                  cheeks, and his eyes turned to the trail—dim with tears.
               "Perhaps fortune may attend me, and I may yet return to my native home! Oh! I
                  should love to be buried in the 'old churchyard!' I have a child sleeping there!"
                  his step quickened, and his emotions were deeper that words can express.
               He arrived at the mines,—'twas where wild, red mountains were divided by a foaming
                  river, whose deafening howl sent its quivering echo among the distant hills.
                  Scarcely any trees sheltered the noisy miners along that stream; but he spread his
                  blanket beneath a shady oak, and 'laid him down to sleep.' Next morning was bright
                  and clear. The old man arose, his slender form became nimble, and his mind was
                  happy. He purchased a tent, more tools, and made preparation to mine, and then he
                  said, "I must go and seek a partner, for one cannot work alone!" Forthwith he
                  approached a large encampment of thrifty young men.
               "Gentlemen," said he, and he looked familiar when he spoke, "I perceive that it is
                  almost impossible for one to work alone. I want a partner—will some of you join
                  me?"
               Silent looks were exchanged, but a few low voices said, "He's too old and feeble,
                  he can't do as much work as I can, and I am not going to work with him, for
                  one."
               The old man was sensitive, he was glad to withdraw, but he trembled to think of
                  the new aspect before him. To work he proceeded, but the "cream of the diggings"
                  was gone; and in order to procure anything, he was obliged to dig deeper, which
                  placed his feet among the water. After filling his buckets, he would sit by the
                  cradle "to rock it out," and then again proceed to his hole, when lo! it was
                  filled with water. But he was persevering, and bailed out the water, and again
                  filled his buckets with earth; and again endeavored "to rock it out," but lo!
                  again his hole was filled with water; again it was bailed, and again it filled,
                  and so it continued.
               
               "Oh! how can I work thus alone?" he cried, and sat down to weep. When night came,
                  he repaired to his little tent, and weighed his gold.
               "Two dollars only!" he exclaimed, and sat down to think.
               "Ah! my living will cost me three, at least. Must I toil in the water all day,
                  only to save two-thirds of my expenses? But oh! they say it's all a lottery,
                  perhaps I shall be favored yet."
               Day followed day, and the same sad results continued, and serious trouble began to
                  worry his mind.
               "But I must try—try—try!" he said, and his disappointment moistened his aged face
                  with tears. In a few days a still greater trouble arose, it was the same that had
                  troubled him for many, many long years—rheumatism. Exposed so much to the water
                  caused the disease to renew its aching sting and throbbing pulse, until his
                  groaning voice cried for death! Death would not come, and his emaciated frame
                  limped so pitifully about his camp that life seemed a burden. But he was learned
                  in theory and in practice, and soon performed a temporary cure.
               Certainly he knew too much to venture into the water any more; and again he sat
                  down to think.
               "Oh! I remember," he exclaimed, and he arose with joy, "'twas yesterday that I
                  heard good accounts from the 'dry diggings,' I will move," and new hopes enlivened
                  his view; happiness seemed to dawn. But to move over such mighty mountains was no
                  trifling task, for already he had quite a collection of household and mining
                  furniture; yet by taking a little at a time his trembling knees bore him over; and
                  in three short days he found himself encamped—'twas a wild and lonesome
                  ravine—where a heavy forest of pine and oak clustered along the mountain sides,
                  and cast its refreshing shadow over a clear, cold spring, veiling the hollow,
                  where half a dozen miners encamped, near a retired beauty only known to the lover
                  of the wild woods. It was a spring where a winding trail circled round, to afford
                  weary miners a refreshing rest, when traveling to the upper diggings, where a
                  single file line of miners were often seen marching beneath their bundle of
                  blankets. Beside this spring, and beneath the humming branches of lofty pines, the
                  old man pitched his tent—'twas to be his nightly abode, where his intelligent eye
                  could peer through the waving leaves and see the twinkling stars folding the blue
                  and purple sky into rolling seas of majestic loveliness; where each tint resembled
                  the smiling little children that once clustered round his knees, and lisping
                  innocent questions, rested their confiding eyes upon his, and pronounced playful
                  words that still sounded in his ears; where the howling wolves could be seen
                  skipping through the forest, and startling the crying owl from its hiding-place,
                  leaving a wildly echo to mingle with the forest's dismal hum as sad and melancholy
                  as ever brought tears from mortal man; where the trinkling of that little spring
                  over the ridges of slate dropped a murmur so like the rumbling river where, poor
                  Downie tossed his hands aloft, cried 
                     goood-by
                     good-by
                  , and sank forever! Ay, Uncle Thomas was lonesome; but to work in his new
                  diggings he applied himself with renewed hope. Picking, shoveling and rocking by
                  day, and aching and fitfully sleeping and dreaming by night; but his labor seemed
                  useless, and his pockets continued empty.
               "Perhaps fortune will yet favor me; I must try—try—try," he said, as each evening
                  he viewed the scanty yield.
               So he continued to try—try; but his money was nearly gone, and despair began to
                  make his feeble form tremble. To add still greater trouble to his mind, he
                  remembered that the other miners had declared the ravine to be good for nothing,
                  and left it in disgust. But people say, that "the miner must not run about, and he
                  shall surely make a fortune," and under such conviction did Uncle Thomas work;
                  every day continuing to exhaust his pockets, until, finally, starvation threatened
                  to be his woeful end. So old and weakly, he could perform but little labor; and
                  each day he felt his weakness increasing.
               "O! what's to be done—what's to be done!" he cried, and laid his aching joints
                  down to rest; but tears—they were tears of distress—closed his vision. He awoke,
                  and happy smiles stole over his aged face; for a new thought had flitted through
                  his mind.
               
               "Perhaps the adjoining ravines will pay?" he thought, and sprang to his feet; and
                  forthwith did he proceed to a beautiful ravine, about half a mile
                  distant,—afterward known by the name of Uncle Thomas's ravine—and, sure enough,
                  made the discovery of hidden treasure in greater abundance than was ever before
                  known in that region!
               His heart grew cheery, and his health improved; his bright hopes gave him
                  strength; and like a youth seemed Uncle Thomas. For a few days he continued alone,
                  each, day making a beautiful addition to his purse, and promising still greater
                  success. But he had lived a public life, and his greatest privation was society;
                  and immediately he resolved to make his discoveries public. This was his great
                  mistake. At this time, emigration had nearly all arrived from the Plains, and
                  great numbers from the sea; so that all through the mines, through the mountains
                  and valleys, through the forests and over the plains, along every creek, river,
                  ravine, and hollow, both by day and by night, droves of prospecting miners were
                  strolling, beneath their burdens of blankets, picks, and shovels, in search of
                  "good diggings."
               Uncle Thomas still camped at the Spring, and always walked down to his work.
                  Almost every evening a few miners were encamped at the Spring, merely for the
                  night, but on their way to the upper diggings. To these the old man communicated
                  the fact of his discoveries; but, at this time, people generally judged of the
                  richness of the diggings by the number of miners at work; and, as no others were
                  there, they made light of the old man's story.
               "See here, gentlemen! I made all of this to-day—two ounces!" said Uncle Thomas,
                  showing them the precious metal.
               Looks of astonishment enlarged their eyes, and they could scarcely wait for the
                  morning to arrive. The morning came; but, before the next day passed, fifteen
                  miners were working upon the ravine; the richness of the vein seemed to be rapidly
                  increasing, and all were merry. In a few days the ravine was completely filled
                  with miners, from its rise to its junction with the creek below. Crackling
                  camp-fires were lighted along its sides, and white tents clustered under every
                  tree. In the evening the wild wolves were gone, but blazing lights glimmered in
                  every direction. Fiddling and dancing changed its mountain wildness into public
                  gayety; and the woodman's ax, his laugh and jolly whoop, made it seem as a
                  civilized home.
               Uncle Thomas had taken the precaution to mark off his claim before the place
                  became crowded, which was remarkably fortunate; for the place was so exceedingly
                  rich, that, in a few days, many of the miners were engaged in serious disputes
                  about their respective boundaries. Every inch of ground was most eagerly sought
                  for; since the smallest portion was of great value. The old man's claim promised
                  to yield the little fortune that he was desirous of obtaining; and, in a few
                  weeks, he believed he should possess a sufficient sum to enable him to live a more
                  happy life. The animating scene pleased him; his old age seemed to change into
                  boyhood, and his delight was to converse with his young companions. His rheumatism
                  disappeared and he could walk nimbly through the village of tents, imparting good
                  humor and friendship wherever he moved. In the evenings, a few young men would
                  cluster about his tent, to hear his agreeable descriptions of foreign lands, and
                  the scenes of his youth; here, at a late hour, when the little ravine was quieted
                  in sleep, he would be diverting his young companions, or leading their gay minds
                  away, from silly trifles, to devotional contemplations; and his words fell with so
                  much truth and soberness in this wild retreat, that the young men sat, fondly
                  catching every syllable, as though its purity nourished the soul—so much like an
                  imaginary heaven was the melody of his trembling voice. But, alas! the scene was
                  soon to change—the fine, golden prospects were soon to be scattered.
               The news of the richness of the ravine became spread abroad, and the prospecting
                  community continued to crowd in, until the place was overstocked by an immense
                  population. Many were exceedingly poor, and where they could obtain an inch of
                  ground they seized upon it.
               It was a bright, sunny morning, but still and clear. The long shadows of the pine
                  and the oak contrasted strangely with
                  the yellow leaves strewn along the mountain side, and their pale and varying
                  colors seemed sad and melancholy; even the birds—the little birds—sang with more
                  feeling than before, and the very air of heaven seemed to contain a damp and
                  woeful gloom. 'Twas that soothing season, when the dew-drops fall so mournfully
                  from the leafy trees, marking the lapse of time by each gentle "tick—tick."
               Where the immense crowd of miners were once busy, picking, shoveling, laughing,
                  and talking, now not a living soul could be seen, save a dense crowd, huddling
                  upon the old man's claim! He was in their midst, but his trembling voice could not
                  be heard above the thousand tongues that seemed to be clashing with furious oaths.
                  Jackets were pulled off, sleeves turned up, and that positive "He shan't," "He
                  shall," was ringing through the crowd; pushing and jamming even commenced. 
               A packer, with mules laden with provision, was coming: 'twas Simons. He rushed
                  into the crowd, and, with a strong voice, cried out, "O! gentlemen, don't; for
                  God's sake, don't;" and, in a moment, Uncle Thomas was brought from the
                  crowd—bleeding! His pale face was covered with blood; his eyes seemed wild with
                  fear!
               'Twas ten o'clock. A respectable-looking jury assembled in the shade beneath a
                  spreading oak. Thirty or forty persons were present; the rest were at their
                  respective places, at work. Beside the jury stood Uncle Thomas; his face was
                  patched. He trembled; but tears moistened his eyes no longer.
               "Gentlemen," said he to the jury—but his voice was faint, "I have been here a few
                  weeks. I was the first man on this ground—I discovered it. Here are my
                  witnesses."
               The men whom he invited to the ravine stepped forward, and testified to the same;
                  and then he proceeded again:
               "I have wrought here every day since I made the discovery; and, according to all
                  the rules of the diggings, I consider myself entitled to the ground."
               After a moment's silence, a rude, large, two-fisted man stopped up, and said, "Not
                  so fast, old boy," giving Uncle Thomas a sarcastic smile; "every story has two
                  sides—d'ye understand that? I s'pose you think you foreigners are going to come in
                  and make laws for us, eh?"
               The jury said to him, "Sir, don't abuse, the old man: proceed to tell us why you
                  jumped the claim!"
               "Gentlemen, me and my party took it, because he hadn't any right to it. He's a d—d
                  foreigner, and hasn't paid his tax—d'ye understand that?"
               Uncle Thomas exclaimed, "Why, what do you mean by tax? I was told the mines were
                  free."
               "They are not free to you d—d foreigners, to be stealing our gold away."
               Uncle Thomas became indignant at the word stealing, and advanced and said:
               "Tell me not that I was stealing, until you have trampled my dead body in the
                  ground!" and he struggled forward. The jury held him back, but he trembled with
                  indignant feelings—his aged brow knit, and his eyes flashed fire. The large, ugly
                  man smiled—'twas a demoniac hatred—and proceeded:
               "I know the law of this country, and every foreigner that won't live up to it
                  ought to be tied to a tree and have his d—d hide whipped off, d'ye understand
                  that?"
               The old man looked at the jury and turned pale with fear, but he asked:
               "What is the law, that you are hinting of?"
               "If I had you tied to a tree—you d—-d English son of a —— and had a good lariat,
                  I'd teach you what the law was; come here to talk to us Americans about laws—you
                  d—d thick-skulled foreigner," striding toward the old man.
               Uncle Thomas quivered with rage, but his eyes flashed and showed how feelingly the
                  insult had goaded him; but, as the ruffian advanced, another—it was Simons, for he
                  was one of the jury—stepped between Uncle Thomas and him, and while his brow
                  beamed with manliness, and his strong, clear voice carried courage in its accent,
                  he said:
               "Stand back—but touch that old man, if you dare!" Then turning to the old, man, he
                  said:
               
               "What he is after, is this: there is a law in this country, requiring twenty
                  dollars a month from foreigners—it's a low, selfish piece of rascality, got up by
                  gamblers (for the purpose of lining their own pockets), under the pretense of
                  supporting the revenue—and through this infamous law—which caused one of my own
                  partners to be murdered—this scoundrel seizes the opportunity of glutting his
                  Irish vengeance upon you, because you are English." Then turning to the two-fisted
                  man, he said:
               "Shame, to your dastardly cowardice—see your marks upon that poor old man's face!
                  Style yourself an American! been here two or three years, and made a little money,
                  and now wish to have vengeance on this poor old man, for what your country
                  suffered from England a hundred years ago! But don't touch him any more—it might
                  not be wholesome."
               A curious man was this two-fisted Irishman. Not very unlike a few newspaper
                  publishers that continue to disgrace the land by an unnatural, ungrateful,
                  contracted, inhuman, unwise, criminal distinction between the natural rights of
                  man. But the Irishman was not to blame—a law had set him an example.
                  That law was and now is, claimed to be a just law by many newspapers of our great
                  Republic! Foreigners can not speak much about it in California—few of them speak
                  our language. But, meet them in their own countries, and, our word for it, reader,
                  you will hear something to your advantage. But we are going to confine ourselves
                  to facts that occurred to persons who speak our own language, and who are yet
                  living among us. The case mentioned, needed no further testimony, and the jury
                  asked the old man if he was a foreigner, to which he replied:
               "I am. I was born and brought up in England. I came to this country about a year
                  ago, with the intention of remaining here the remainder of my days. But I did not
                  take out citizenship papers, because I was yet unacquainted with the country; and,
                  another thing, I did not dislike my own country so much as to withdraw my
                  allegiance. No, I love England! How can I help it—all my ancestors are buried
                  there! The dust of my own father and mother is reposing upon that isle! I can not
                  cry out against them! Nor will I! I was too poor to live there, and that is what
                  brought me here; but if I can't be treated as a man, as an equal, you may depend
                  that there is yet too much independent blood in my veins to permit me to yield
                  allegiance to such a government as this. Take my claim! I don't want it! But I do
                  not yield it because the great Creator of the universe gave you any better right
                  to it than he did to me; but I yield it because my rights are taken away from
                  me—because I feel unable to bear the outrage you are heaping upon me, and because
                  I am obliged to submit to your wishes."
               They laughed at him, and took his claim.
               Time rolled on. October came. Clouds streaked the heavens, and a hazy atmosphere
                  almost hid the stars. Late at night, by a small camp-fire in the open air, sat
                  uncle Thomas—alone! alone! alone! It was a small log on which he was sitting; his
                  hands were crossed, and resting upon one knee; his face was calm and sallow; his
                  eyes were sunken and distressed, but gazed alternately upon the stars, the fire,
                  and into the dark woods; and he shivered and looked again, but the same sad scenes
                  cried, alone, alone!
               "What shall I do? what shall I do?" he said, and tears
                  of disappointment stole down his pale, but honest-looking face. "By fair and
                  honest exertion have I tried for half a century to earn my bread, but all my
                  attempts are foiled, and I am obliged to yield at last, to the obstructions that
                  have been strewn along my pathway. Oh! Giver of all good, thy earth—half-inhabited
                  earth—is too small! man hath not possessions enough! But oh! God, why gavest thou
                  me a passion and power to roam over the earth? Knowest thou not that I have no
                  right upon this soil, unless I swear to hate—to hate my own land? thou hast placed
                  the gold in the earth, but lo! thou hast neglected to inform me that thou hadst
                  intended it only for scene of thy chosen people?" but while his voice yet
                  lingered, a beast clothed in black and white, whose
                  head glistened with bowie-knives, whose fiery-red nostrils were bleeding with
                  duels, and whose mouth foamed with political speeches, with a Bible in one hand
                  and a catechism in the other, and "freedom" on his breast, advanced, and with a
                  sarcastic nasal tone, said:
               
               "You would carry the gold to another country, if you were allowed to dig it!" 
               The old man answered:
               "I did not intend to have done so; but I should now! Ay, I shall do
                  more—you have kindled a vengeance against you, more dreadful than all your mines
                  are worth," and his ire was rising—he feared nothing living—he sprang toward the
                  beast; but lo! the political scamp vanished as at dream, leaving his mortified
                  brother of the human family mourning over the contracted views that some people
                  have of natural rights, and of the noble tone of legislation that is necessary to
                  great power, strength and, long existence.
               Uncle Thomas still lingered about the river, washing over "second-hand" earth; but
                  almost daily did his purse continue to decrease, and serious trouble began to
                  affect his health.
               The rains soon came, and his old complaint returned. Provisions rose from one up
                  to two dollars per pound, and his money was rapidly going. He could not procure
                  good diggings and retain his claim, neither could he go all the way to San
                  Francisco for a license, for his funds were too small. In this distressed
                  condition several weeks passed, but his rheumatism confined him to his camp, and
                  only a few dollars were left in his possession.
               "O! my God, must I starve?—starve among these wild mountains!" he said, one night,
                  laying himself down upon his blanket-bed. It was an awful night; the wind was
                  blowing, the rain falling in torrents, and the heavy forest roaring fearfully and
                  wild, while every bend and shriek of the little tent cried with terror, and the
                  poor old man shook with fear.
               "Only seven dollars! 'twill only last me two days longer! 'O! my God, my God, why
                  hast thou forsaken me!' Must I die here? alone! alone!" But his voice was scarcely
                  still, when distant voices and blundering footfalls were heard approaching. The
                  old man became silent, raised a little in his bed, then faintly said to himself,
                  "O heavens! why must my fellow creatures travel through the wild forest on
                     such at night! Hark! oh! even their voices render the howling
                  wilderness more terrible! and oh! this rain! this rain is too horrible to
                  contemplate! But oh! this whirling wind this crashing of trees and this twisting
                  and bending of my little tent—my only home! And these poor fellows are out such a
                  night! O heavens! Ah! I will strike a light, and these lost men may be sheltered,"
                  and Uncle Thomas leaned over his bedside and struck a light, which shone upon the
                  sides of his tent and made it an attractive object. Then again he laid himself
                  down to think upon his own miserable condition, and, while he thought, he said to
                  himself:
               "Only seven dollars more, and my money will be gone! O! what's to be done, what's
                  to be done! Americans boast of freedom and equal rights! would to God they could
                  be foreigners in their own country awhile! To be treated as beasts! To have their
                  money and their property taken away from them, and to be driven to beggary by law!
                  law! law! yes, law! Shame to such outrageous piracy; but—hark—hark; They are
                  coming. O heavens! how horrible this night!" and while he 
                     hearkend
                     hearkened
                  , persons came up to his tent-door, and one of them asked, "Halloo!
                  anybody live here?"
               Uncle Thomas rose into a sitting posture and replied:
               "Yes, my friends, one sick old man. Come in; out of the storm!"
               "We have been lost, and we wish to remain all night with you!"
               "Certainly, gentlemen, come in."
               The strangers then unloosed the tent buttons in order to enter; but one of them
                  said:
               "Faith, old gintleman, but I believe I know yer voice. If it may please yer honor,
                  are ye not Uncle Thomas?"
               The old man commenced to rise in his bed, and replied:
               "That is what I am called, but, if you please, who shall I call you? I think I
                  also know your voices."
               The two strangers then entered, young men they were, and were carrying heavy
                  bundles of blankets all soaked with rain! their boots were covered with mud, and
                  they seemed very cold and tired. But as soon as they entered, before they laid
                  down their bundles, they came to the old man's bedside, and shook his hand warmly,
                  saying:
               
               "O! uncle, we are so glad to see you!" But the old man was so overjoyed that he
                  could scarcely refrain from shedding tears; for he fancied they were old 
                     aquaintances
                     acquaintances
                  . The lamp, a sort of tin plate fixing it was, cast a dim light upon the
                  faces of the young men, but yet the old man did not know them, and he said:—
               "O, gentlemen, who are you? I am nearly dying to know you! Do tell me!"
               Then one of them replied:
               "We are Jimie and Charley, whom you knew on the Plains."
               "O! is it possible! Well, I am happy to see you, my young friends, very happy
                  indeed," and he shook their hands warmly, and rose from his bed. Jimie and Charley
                  then laid down their bundles, and spoke much about the horrors of the night. But
                  when the old man arose, Jimie said:
               "O! uncle, why do you limp? Are you not well?"
               "I have the rheumatism a little, Jimie, that's all. But I'm pleased to see you two
                  look so well."
               "Faith, uncle," said Charley, "then we deceive our feelings, for it's divil the
                  morsel we have ate since the cock-crowing of the morning," and he and Jimie busied
                  themselves by twisting the water from their clothes.
               "Well, Charley and Jimie, then I will make you a cup of tea," said the old man,
                  hobbling out to the camp-fire, and stirring up the coals.
               "But you must not go in the rain, uncle," said Jimie; "stop here, we can wait upon
                  ourselves, we always carry pots and kettles. It will endanger your health."
               "No, I thank you, Jimie, nothing will injure an Englishman when he is making tea
                  for his friends. You know we English consider ourselves protégés to Omnipotence when we are giving anybody something to eat
                  or drink; we are brought up in that idea, and our faith is so strong that nothing
                  can hurt us." And Uncle Thomas laughed and grew merry.
               "Glad to see you, my young friends; but have you had 'good luck,' or what is it
                  makes you both so fat?"
               "O! uncle, do come in out of the rain," said Jimie, "do, on my account, do; we can
                  prepare our supper."
               For a longtime Uncle Thomas kept punching and raking at the fire, with so much
                  earnestness that he nearly forgot his rheumatism. For some, time Charley busied
                  himself wringing the water out of his and Jimie's blankets, and cleaning his
                  boots.
               "Well, uncle," said Jimie, after they had placed a kettle of water carefully over
                  the fire, "well, I suppose you cannot do anything at mining when you are troubled
                  with the rheumatism?"
               "I haven't for some time; but I was so poor that I was obliged to work as long as
                  I was able."
               "Have you been so bad, long?"
               "No, a few weeks only; but I feel better to-night than I have been for a long
                  time. Tell me, have you been fortunate?"
               But they were entering the tent, and Charley, just wet enough to feel full of
                  mischief, took up the reply.
               "Faith we've been lucky enough to pull all the claws off our fingers' ends, and
                  give the sour colic to our moral perseverance; but divil the thing comes into our
                  pockets, save a few holes at the bottom end. I say, Jimie, where did ye plaice our
                  bread? oh! here it is; but, boy, ye should never wrap the bread up into an ould
                  shirt—bad luck to it—it hasn't seed the soap-tub for a season, I'll wager."
               The old man burst into a fit of laughter; but asked again, "Then, Charley, you
                  have not made your pile yet?"
               "Faith if it's earth and rocks ye're meaning, I'll wager Jimie and myself have
                  made more o' them into piles than we've ever been paid for!"
               "Well, I am glad to see you enjoy good health, Charley."
               "Thank yer honor, uncle, for it's all I've got, save the clothes upon me; but I'm
                  sorry, uncle, that I cannot speak well o' yer looks!"
               "I have not been very well, Charley, but I am so anxious to hear your history,
                  since you have been in the country, where you have been mining, and how you have
                  been doing!"
               Charley made a comical bow and replied, "As soon as we get our tea I shell give ye
                  a history as long as my finger, and as
                  hard as the Corkonian knot on my head. I'll tell ye o' things about a miner's life
                  that beats all the holes in my shirt—solid facts. Faith it's no little that yer
                  humble servant has ascertained about the metaphysics o' gold digging, I'll wager;
                  nor is it few tracks he has made along these yellow mountains."
               It is extremely difficult to represent Charley's language, for at times he spoke
                  very good English, and again he spoke very Irish-ified; but still he acted
                  perfectly natural, and was a fair personification of any good-souled Irishman.
               Uncle Thomas finally had the tea made; and the three sat down in the tent to enjoy
                  their repast; and while the rain and wind continued to peal upon their little
                  house with a dreadful mingling of sadness and terror, the happy Charley lighted up
                  his good-humored phiz with a pleasing smile, and said:
               "Well, uncle, now for yer humble servant's experience, but if it may please yer
                  honor another drop o' tea before I commence. Uncle, that tea puts me in mind o'
                  ould Ireland; a little slice o' bread Jimie, if ye're after my blessings
                  jest!"
               Charley smiled, and always helped himself.
               "We'll, uncle, the Michigan Company concluded to run under close reef, and
                  grounded; so yer humble servant and my friend Jimie there, waded out, and scud
                  through the dust and hot sun 'til Sacramento, where Jimie was obliged to stop and
                  write a line to his darlin'——O! I beg pardon, Jimie, but I didn't intend to tell
                  it."
               "And who did you write to?" asked Jimie.
               "To my sister," said, Charley, "I always write 'Dear Miss,' when I write to her.
                  But never mind now. Uncle, you bake the best bread I've seed the winter, if it may
                  please yer honor. Well, d'ye see now, after leaving the city—bless the name, given
                  to a few tents—we went 'til Stony-Bar, a better named place never starved a
                  beggar, and commenced digging—I beg pardon, uncle,—everything else but
                  gold;—that's the most moralizing tea. Well, uncle, we tumbled rocks and shoveled
                  water until we became ashamed of our ill luck. So I says to Jimie, 'We shall
                  move,' and he says to me, 'Mormon Gulch was a capital place,' and cleaner than my
                  boots were two pockets that moved in a bee-line for Mormon Gulch."
               "Are you not going to speak of Miss St. John?" Jimie asked.
               "Och!—bad luck to it—it's her I'm forgetting all the time. D'ye see now, a fine
                  old man—by the way has one o' the bloomenest craythurs for a daughter that ye ever
                  laid eyes upon; but what d'ye think Jimie said to her?"
               "Perhaps he wanted to marry her!" said the old man.
               "Not a word did he speak 'til her—another slice of bread; ah! thank yer honor—but
                  if I should had as good an opportuni-fluity of words as himself, I'll wager I'd
                  made a solitary march through her affections, plain as the knot on my head."
                  Always stopping, at each sentence, to eat and drink. "Well, d'ye see now, it was
                  in the Mormon Gulch we labored so severely; and, after scraping thegither two
                  hundred dollars, we purchased a bit o' ground, about nine feet square jest, d'ye
                  see now; well, faith, we went to work, and like good fellows we pulled, and
                  tumbled, and shoveled rocks for a month, and nary hate o' ground did we leave
                  unturned; and what d'ye think we made by it?" Then Charley sipped his tea, and
                  Uncle Thomas replied:
               "A thousand dollars or two, I suppose."
               "Nary red!" says Charley, sedately. "So I says to Jimie, 'We shall leave the
                  Gulch—bad luck to it;' and he says to me, 'The newspapers are spaking well of the
                  Yuba;' but what d'ye think we done?"
               "I s'pose you went to the Yuba," said Uncle Thomas.
               "The very same, yer honor, and we camped among the mountains jest; and while Jimie
                  was after spreading the tarpolin. I took a squint o' the mines; and never were
                  more truthful words spoken than what the newspapers left out!" and
                  Charley grew exceedingly sedate. "But, d'ye see now, we were determined to be
                  afther giving it a trial; and, no sooner had we our camp set to rights, than into
                  the stones and water we pitched; and what d'ye think we made, the first week,
                  jest?"
               "Not anything, I expect."
               "We made holes in our boots—that's good tea, uncle," and Charley looked serious.
                  "Faith, uncle, we were, entre nous, nearer like two beggars than the
                     debris o' that bit o' ground is," pointing to
                  the fragments of supper; "and our moral philosophy began to ferment, and our
                  prayers tried to murther our bad luck, by holy petitions to unsound sleep, jest.
                  But what does yer honor think we were afther doing then?"
               "I suppose you moved again?"
               "Faith, we did—bad luck to it—move 'til we had, nary red left. So I says to Jimie,
                  'Ye shall prospect, and I will hire out, to get another stake, jest, d'ye see?'
                  Well, I went at it; and, faith, I never earned two hundred dollars in one mouth so
                  easy in all the days o' my life. And what d'ye think we were, afther doing
                  next?"
               "It's hard to say, Charley."
               "But it was harder to keep the money. No, uncle, we went—bad luck to it—to
                  prospecting, and every blessed foot o' ground in California have we traveled over,
                  save this ravine; and, as soon as it's day, I'll wager we'll give it an
                  examination, and leave it poorer than we came 'til it."
               "Well, Charley, you have had quite a romancing life of it; but you are neglecting
                  your tea!"
               "A thousand thanks to yer honor, but I've drinked and ate more than I wanted,
                  bekase it's the cheapest meal I've had for a fortnight; but give us your history
                  o' gold digging—doesn't it rain though?"
               "Mine is a short history, and not a very pleasing one, I can assure you."
               "And, faith, I expect ye have made a fortune in this ravine; but, I beg pardon,
                  I'm hindering ye from telling it."
               "Well," continued Thomas, "after leaving Warner, I came over to the North Fork:
                  but there I was attacked with the rheumatism, and obliged to quit. I heard good
                  accounts of this place, and immediately moved over; but, when I arrived here, I
                  found only a few mines, and that the ravine was good for nothing. In a few days
                  they moved away, so that I had it all to myself; and I might as well have had a
                  hundred leagues for all the good it was to me." But Charley interrupted:
               "But tell me, if it may please yer goodness, why they call the place Uncle
                  Thomas's ravine?"
               "In a moment, Charley. Well, after I was entirely run out, I concluded to try a
                  small ravine just below here; and, sure enough, I discovered a vein of almost pure
                  gold."
               "Faith, I knew ye were a lucky man; bad luck to it, I wish Jimie and myself had
                  been with ye."
               "Well," continued Uncle Thomas, "I had been here a good while then; and, you know,
                  I'm very fond of company—in fact, I would rather be in company with a dog than to
                  be alone—so I immediately gave out a knowledge of my discoveries; and that is why
                  this settlement has been called after me."
               "Faith, it's few people I'd invite to new diggings," said Charley.
               "Ay, Charley, but one never knows what's best beforehand. But—to continue with my
                  story—in a few days the ravine became crowded, and everybody were making fortunes;
                  even myself, who can only do about quarter as much work as most men, was doing
                  very well. Well, as soon as I had my own claim fairly opened, just ready to
                  commence taking out the gold, it was jumped!"
               "What is it ye are afther saying?" said Charley; and his black eye grew
                  indignant.
               "Yes, Charley, they took my ground away!" and Uncle Thomas became sad; but Charley
                  rose to his feet.
               "Are ye telling me they drove ye from yer own ground?"
               "Yes, Charley; an Irishman accused me of stealing, because I didn't
                  pay the tax:; and, you know, an Englishman couldn't stand that; so I struck him;
                  but I came near losing my life, and only for a young packer rescuing me, I should
                  have never escaped!" and the old man shuddered; but Charley became excited, and
                  said:
               "I'll wager the villain was from the county Cork."
               "But do not be in a hurry, Charley; I always like to take my time in telling a
                  story. Well, when I asked why they took my claim, they said, because I was a
                  foreigner;—and these are your republican laws," said the old man, turning his
                     remarks toward Jimie, to profess
                  freedom, and practice pilfering people who had the misfortune—or rather, I should
                  say, fortune—to be born on a different soil. Shame on your freedom,
                  that guarantees your own people the right to steal from others!"
               "Yes, it's a very selfish law; but," said Jimie—
               "But, what? You can stand up and preach about liberty—great
                  country—freedom; but, let me get as much as will carry me back to my native land,
                  and you will see what I think of Republicanism."
               "But I don't see why you apply your remarks to me; I am as much opposed to that
                  law as you are. There is where you English people all judge too hastily of our
                  country; but—"
               "Can any man say I am judging too hastily when I am robbed of my property—property
                  in the ground is as much one man's as another's—when I am literally robbed, under
                  the pretense of law?"
               "But here; this is what I mean—you are not considerate enough of the manner in
                  which that law was made. Don't you know, the Governor himself is a blackleg, and
                  all who are connected with him?"
               "But there's the trouble with these republican governments. We have, in England,
                  men in office, only, who do not need the little pilfering dollars they can scrape
                  off of foreigners."
               "And, faith, did the miners not be afther seeing ye have fair play?"
               "O, yes! If I had only had their voice to deal with, I should have retained my
                  claim; but where was the use of them giving it to me? The other party could have
                  sued it away from me anyhow."
               "Bless may soul; I would have called a jury, and turned the rascals off, before
                  they knew what they were about; and divil the one I would have left."
               "But I had a jury, and fine-looking men they were; but no—the trouble is just
                  here: Republicanism is corrupt; and I am astonished at such men as you, Jimie,
                  trying to uphold such a system," and the old man gave Jimie an exceedingly severe
                  look of displeasure.
               "But there is where you English people always pronounce, as we Americans think,
                  too hastily against Republicanism. Now, Charley, there, can tell you what my
                  sentiments are on this tax-law, and yet you apply your remarks to me, as though I
                  was to blame for your troubles."
               "And faith he is right. Divil the morsel o' tax will he let me pay; and he says to
                  me, before I shall pay the tax, we will fight for the ground; and when the money
                  is scarce, I would rather fight—and, that is the truth."
               "But," said the old man, "when you, as well as all good Americans, stand by, and
                  see such laws enacted; then why have we not a right to blame you for them?"
               "Why, here, I'll tell you; you are aware that in all new countries, everywhere,
                  bad people, blacklegs, murderers, robbers, and thieves, form a large part of the
                  population. Now, if such people make gambling and stealing justifiable by law, I
                  have nothing more to do with it than you have. This is the misfortune
                  of Republicanism—it may show that a criminal people are not fit for that kind of
                  government; but it has nothing to do with the system when the inhabitants are
                  mostly inclined to morality. A band of pirates may be republican—may decide by a
                  majority—vote that they will plunder a ship; but that does not make the crime any
                  the less; neither does it prove that the equality of the pirates in
                     voting was corrupt; but, that the vote itself was
                  corrupt, I do not pretend to deny. So it is in such wretched laws here; but you
                  are blaming the government—the system—instead of the law
                  itself. And here is the dangerous point, which every thinking American dreads—that
                  such vile enactments are going to prejudice all foreign nations against
                  Republicanism, and against ourselves; and that, should we become involved with any
                  of them in a serious war, the foreign citizens in our own country would take up
                  arms against the government. We have already had a little demonstration of this
                  fact in the Mexican war; and, as we are aware, that nearly all foreigners are
                  opposed to slavery, they could be very easily prejudiced against Republicanism,
                  and in favor of Ecclesiastical powers. But, what good can I do? I may vote; I may
                     argue; I may do anything; but what
                  does it all amount to? Only to be abused by other people—to be blamed by
                  Englishmen, for, myself, trying to do the best!"
               "But I do not attach any blame to you, nor to anybody, for trying to do what is
                  right."
               "But you blame us for failing?"
               "Well, perhaps I was a little too fast there, but let me ask, how you would feel,
                  if in some foreign country, where you were an entire stranger, some of the people
                  were sustained by law for robbing you? Would you not feel like
                  abusing any such people at every opportunity? Would the value of the stolen
                  property itself be all your consideration? Would you, not, most likely, be enraged
                  at the principle, so that everything you saw or heard would displease you?"
               "I know it would be very trying to my nature," said Jimie, "and I
                  have not much doubt but that I should become more passionate than most of men; but
                  for all that, I have no desire to admit that I would be doing justice to allow
                  myself to run to such extremes."
               But here Charley interrupted:
               "Och! bad luck to your politics, why don't you tell us all the story jest? Faith I
                  have been waiting on ye until the bones o' my legs are getting stiff with the
                  cowld. Bother the taxes, I pays no tax, and Jimie declares if none o' them pays,
                  no more than what I am going to pay, it will be divil the penny they will
                  get."
               "But that is all my story," said the old man. "Since that time, I have been
                  washing 'tailings;' but a few days ago the rheumatism got so bad that I was
                  obliged to stop. And what I will do now, I cannot tell. I am so situated that I
                  cannot work in the wet-diggings, and if I go to the dry-diggings and get a claim
                  that will pay anything, why somebody will come and take it away from me. I wish I
                  had money enough to leave the country, I would not trouble their diggings much; I
                  would go where I would not be looked upon as a dishonest man, merely because I was
                  born in England."
               "O! you are getting really discouraged. Things may all come right yet—look at
                  Charley and me; we have hardly as much as would buy a barrel of flour."
               "But you are young, and have good health. I am old, I am troubled with a
                  painful-disease; I am where the law will not allow me to hold property unless I
                  pay an enormous tax, so large a tax that I cannot pay it; I am so old and weakly
                  that people will not work with me. Then, what have I to encourage me?"
               "Your case is at pretty hard one," said Jimie sympathetically.
               "Faith it is, and we are an unfortunate lot got thegither—faix the gold diggings;
                  but ye're both forgetting that it's time to 'turn in'!"
               "Well," said Jimie, "we must examine these diggings to-morrow, and see what
                  opportunity is remaining."
               "Why, there is nothing here now; this ravine is well dug—all turned over. But I'll
                  tell you," continued the old man, "there has been a new place, called 
                     Bush
                     Brush
                   Cañon, discovered; it is just behind the hills, and promises to be a
                  very rich place."
               "Well, we must try all the places; but really it is very late. and I think we must
                  adjourn until morning."
               "I say, Jimie, must the wettest blankets lie below us or above us?—bad luck to my
                  holey boots, they stick tighter to my feet than a priest to a text, and little
                  more good are they doing to me."
               With right good-will the three laid down to sleep. The rain and wind still
                  continued to whiz, and the darkness grew more terrible. Uncle Thomas was
                  comforted, and sweeter repose was not his companion for many long—long months
                  past. During the heavy gushings of water, and the squeaking of his little tent,
                  the sound sleeping of his young companions made him appreciate the lonesome nights
                  he had passed; and the comfort of friends brightened his gloomy prospects, and
                  already joy and gladness seemed to dawn before him.
               The morning was calm and sad. The rain had ceased, but dark, wild clouds cast a
                  fearful gloom over the still forest, and each passing moment threatened a heavy
                  shower. The young prospectors sallied over the hills in search of the new
                  diggings; and Uncle Thomas busied himself sitting about his tent, waiting their return. The day passed wearily.
                  The night followed, dark and rainy, but the young men's absence began to distress
                  the old man. Another dark night came, and they returned.
               "Thunder and blizzen, uncle, but it's dark!" said Charley, blundering into the
                  tent.
               "Well, I thought you were not coming to-night, you put it off so late. But did you
                  keep out of the rain to-day?" said the old man, pushing forward blocks to
                  accommodate his visitors with seats.
               "O! we escaped the rain nicely," said Jimie.
               "Ah, I'm happy to hear it; but have you been to tea? I must take the plain fashion
                  of asking beforehand, for my fire has gone out; but I waited a long time for
                  you."
               "Faith if we had known that, we would not have been so bothered with the plaguy
                  fire; for the bad craythur himself would have smoked the eyes out o' his head to
                  make it burn; but we made it go afther awhile, and had a good cup o' tea, and some
                  slapjacks, with a nice bit o' molasses, and faith the same may be a stranger to us
                  in a fortnight hence."
               "Yes," said the old man, "I have seen a great many countries, but I know of no
                  country, unless it is a part of Australia, where it is so disagreeable in the
                  winter. It has rained every day, and I think every hour of the day, for the last
                  fortnight. But that is nothing bad after all, for I generally find that in those
                  places where it is so disagreeable in the winter, it is equally fine in summer. It
                  seems to me as if the two extremes generally go together."
               "Faith, then this will be a very fine counthry in the summer, for more misery
                  could not come together."
               "Then, uncle, I suppose you hold to the doctrine that, in all similar latitudes,
                  about the same amount of evaporation and condensation takes place?" Jimie
                  asked.
               "Yes, I do, but with this exception, that the face of the country, particularly
                  its altitude, being different, prevents the same effect from taking place in one
                  place, that would follow the same cause in another. It is very probable that the
                  hight of these mountains is a sort of condenser; and is the cause of, or assistant
                  cause of, so much falling weather; whereas, if the country was smooth and level
                  for some distance, the clouds would be carried by without producing rain."
               "Faith and I wish somebody would spread them down, for it is not only the rain I
                  am caring for, but I am afther having better roads, so that Jimie and myself can
                  travel easier; for if we are to follow prospecting all our lives I am thinking
                  that will not be long, over such mountains as these jest."
               "But, Charley, you know we'll not need to do so now, when we get to work in our
                  rich claim!" said Jimie.
               "And bless my sowl we are not telling uncle anything about the new-diggings. Shall
                  we tell him?" said Charley, assuming a somewhat comical air.
               "And pray what is the news? you know it is a case of pressing interest when an
                  Englishman asks questions. I am so anxious to go over there myself, that I want to
                  know whether you think an old man, like me, could do anything?"
               "Faith I can't explain them to ye, for the mountains are so steep I never thinks
                  about the diggings, but my mind strays after the ugly mountains. But Jimie, ye
                  shall tell it all to the owld man yourself."
               "No, Charley, you must describe the diggings, no backing off, sir," said
                  Jimie.
               "Yes, Charley give me a sketch of them. I only want the particulars," said the old
                  man.
               "Faith, and it is them that troubles me; for, do ye see, I never was a particular
                  man," said Charley.
               "Was the road very bad, Charley?"
               "Faith, it was that—bad luck to it, we were obliged to crawl upon our hands and
                  knees to find our way out; and if Jimie had not been a hunter like, divil the hate
                  I should ever seed o' this place again."
               "But how was it going over?"
               "An' faith it was fine enough, for beyant that hill it goes straight down, and ye
                  would think ye were goin' to purgatory to keep on down it all the way; but jest
                  close in the bottom ye will come before ye see a living soul; and it is that makes
                     me think it is rich diggings, for,
                  like the bad craythur, the gowld always snakes off into some dark, ugly
                  gully."
               "Were there many people there?"
               "Faith, and it is hard to say, bekase the brush hangs as thick as the hair on an
                  Irishman's head, and divil the more order is it in; but we tried the ground, and
                  what does yer honor think we found?" Charley asked, reaching down to his long
                  pockets.
               "Well, bad enough I suppose!"
               "Bother the pockets, and it is in here I put it—bad luck to it—Jimie, do you know
                  where I put it? Ah! here, it is," said Charley, drawing out a small piece of
                  paper, carefully done up. "Sure, and it was bad enough jest; but do ye see
                  that—bad luck to your lamp—I never likes a lamp made in a tin plate, it makes me
                  think o' my poor owld mother in Tipperary. Do ye see now, we gathered all that the
                  day; and how many pans do ye think we washed for that morsel?"
               "Well, I can't tell I'm sure; but to get so much, it must be very rich!" said the
                  old man, delighted at the prospect.
               "Faith, and that all came from two pans o' earth jest; and I can tell ye what is
                  more, when daylight comes in the morning, ye shall pull up yer tent and go along
                  with Jimie and myself where ye can make a fortune quicker than your owld brain
                  ever dramed o'."
               "O! I am so delighted to hear it; but do you think there is plenty of room?"
               "Plenty—plenty, uncle; but we must not say anything about it to any one," said
                  Jimie.
               "Ah! there is no danger of me ever mentioning good diggings again; I have learnt a
                  good lesson on that," said the old man, brightening up, as though a new era had
                  commenced.
               Their plans were all laid, ready for an early start in the morning; but, just
                  before they retired for the night, Charley said, "Uncle, ye shall do the cooking
                  and making tea, and Jimie and myself shall do the work, if it may please yer
                  honor."
               "But you don't mean for me to be a partner with you?"
               "Certainly—certainly," they both answered.
               "But I can not work as much as either of you!" and Uncle Thomas began to be
                  agitated by their kind offer.
               "But that makes no difference—we are not anxious about you doing much. We have not
                  tools sufficient to work alone; and, by going into one party, we have plenty."
               Uncle Thomas became happy; but the following night was tedious; and rolling and
                  tumbling, half-awake, and feeling grateful, the time seemed long ere he looked
                  upon Charley and Jimie again.
               "Ah!" said he to himself, with a low voice, "why is this mighty difference in man?
                  Why are some so noble and good? Is it because I have before spoken to these? Had
                  the villains who stole my claim been my acquaintances, would they, too, have been
                  my friends? Can it be because people are taught to believe that human nature is
                  corrupt, that each treats the other as an enemy? If people were taught to look
                  upon each other with a higher opinion of their natural dispositions, would they
                  not act with a higher regard for each other? But, lo! I am straying!
                  I must believe that the hearts within these two young men are wicked! but, O! my
                  God! will that prevent me from loving them? Ah! can this be an evil spirit that
                  makes me wish to call the nature of man good? or is it an evil spirit that makes
                  me try to believe that their hearts are wicked? Ah! it is like the hideous
                  night—impenetrable darkness wherever I gaze, through which flowers and thorns must
                  remain forever untouched by all who would be happy. Sleep, my friends, sleep! You
                  are not aware, that the news you have told to me, prevented me from sleeping.
                  Sleep! sleep on! How calm you sleep! Ah! you are yet young, and ignorant of the
                  hardships of life; and, how happy, if you could always remain so! But, alas! time
                  will pass away! Those red faces will become lean, sunken, and pale! Those rich,
                  heavy locks, will become wasted and white; and age will weaken those bodies! But,
                  O! where shall I be then? moldering in the tomb! unknown and unmourned! Ah! my
                  eyes are clouded and dim—I am weary with conjecture! Sleep, my friends, sleep on!
                  I, too, will lay down and sleep—I will try to sleep. May the blessing of heaven smile upon my friends!" and the old man
                  laid his head upon his rude pillow. The rain was falling lightly; but the darkness
                  was terrible. Uncle Thomas was pondering upon the various scenes of life; the
                  young men by his side slept soundly. The old man heard the rain falling upon the
                  tent; but, in the distance, far out in the dark night, he heard something like
                  horses' feet. The sound became plainer. He raised himself in his bed, to hearken.
                  He heard distant voices. "Ah!" said he, "I hear some one calling—it is a cry for
                  help. Why do people go out such nights as this? Hark! The call is desperate! I
                  must arouse Jimie and Charley," and he arose and went to the tent. Then, hastily
                  calling, "Jimie! Charley! come! there is a man drowning!" he burst from the tent,
                  and ran into the dark. Jimie and Charley were up in an instant, and soon followed
                  Uncle Thomas.
               "Here! there! quick! a rope! a stick! help! quick!" was shouted from many persons
                  collected around a large well, where a man and drowning horse had fallen in. The
                  partner to this unfortunate man still sat on his horse, crying for help, but not
                  offering any assistance himself. They were supposed to be Spaniards. The man was
                  saved by the miners, and both the men were conducted to a neighboring camp, to
                  remain until morning. Remember this incident, reader; it will be adverted to
                  again! Uncle Thomas returned to the tent; and he, and Jimie and Charley, talked
                  much about the Spaniard who did not offer assistance to his fellow. Now, for a
                  short time, we must take leave of Uncle Thomas.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE Weather was warm and sultry, and the parched up valley barren and destitute of
                  all the luxuries of that sunny clime. The birds had retreated to the shady forest,
                  and a few electric lizards darting through the dusty road, or now and then a
                  "horned toad," were all the living creatures that were to be seen upon the wild
                  Plains.
               Along that barren road traveled a happy man. He was young, his step was quick and
                  hopeful; his eyes rested upon the great mountains, upon the distant forests, and
                  upon the level meadow; but wherever he gazed, the same happy smile rested on his
                  florid features, the same arched brows adorned his freshness and vigor, and all
                  his movements depicted the happiness of his hopeful heart. He was fortunate. Gold
                  rolled into his pockets at every move he made, but still brighter prospects
                  allured the future; and he could scarce command his eager steps as he marched
                  toward the mountains. Though he choked with thirst, and trembled with
                  fatigue—though his feet were crippled and lame, and though at languid pain rested
                  in his head, and an approaching fever threatened his system, yet his praises were
                  upon California, and his admiration upon the arid scenes around him—all, all
                  because he was prosperous.
               The yellow mountains were lofty and barren. The trail that zigzagged to their
                  summit, faced the burning sun: and each slaty projection reflected the crisping
                  rays, and darted its suffocating heat upon the enterprising traveler; and each
                  angle ascended, pierced his rugged system with fiery pain; and even every step he
                  made rent his feverish body by deeper wounds. The face that smiled before, was now
                  contracted, wry and sunken; the eyes that feasted in admiration over the scenes
                  before, were now distressed and filled with tears; the hopeful mind, so happy
                  before, was now despondent and clouded with fear; the heart, so enthusiastic
                  before, was now weak and despairing, and as them poor traveler gazed toward the
                  summit of the mountains he trembled and cried for help. But help did not come; and
                  that mortal affliction, cholera, prostrated his noble form, and left him groaning
                  in the burning sun; but every moment severed a chord and racked his cramped body
                  by fresher pans, and every hour paled his check and sank him nearer the tomb. His
                  hopes began to wane, his fears to increase, and his woeful distress clouded his
                  vision with tears of agony.
               "O! my God!" he exclaimed, "must I die upon this wild mountain side, alone! while my eyes rest upon the
                  cities of the valley? But, ah! those cities are far, far away!" and his voice was
                  faint and weak—his end seemed near at hand.
               When the evening came, his eyes rested upon the clear blue sky above. He looked
                  steadily, for it seemed to grow exceedingly beautiful and pleasing. The deep blue
                  ridges between the twinkling stars moved in grand procession, and seemed to form
                  into living bodies. But while he continued to look he was delighted to perceive a
                  female figure advancing to where he was lying. She was clothed in the finest
                  purple, and moved so gracefully along, that every star seemed a diamond
                  ornamenting her majesty, and beautifying her lovely features. She arrived, looked
                  with great pity and sorrow upon his suffering condition; stooped her graceful form
                  by his side, and rested her snowy hand upon his aching temples.
               "O! Simons! Simons!" said she, and he knew it was the voice of his love.
               "O! Simons! let me take the pains you suffer, for I am where I can get relief.
                  Awake, Simons! O! Simons, awake! for I have come to give you help," and while she
                  spoke, tears fell fast from her eyes upon him, and he continued to look upon her,
                  for her beauty seemed beyond description; but she continued, "Come, come, Simons,
                  arise! Come, Simons, come, and go with me; for the guests are waiting."
               Then she pulled him along, and he stood by her side, before a great multitude; but
                  a plain woman rushed upon his bride, and embraced her, kissing and weeping.
               "O, my love! my fair one! Thee I have known before; but say, O, my love! am I
                  unknown to thee?" He looked, and behold! his sister knew his bride!
               Once, twice, thrice, and again, did he attempt to speak; but his throat seemed
                  choked with thirst, and all his efforts about to fail; when, raising his hand to
                  his heart, and masking one desperate struggle, "Mary! dear!" escaped his lips;
                  but, lo! his vision fled! and he knew it was a dream! He turned his feeble body
                  over, looked around him in the dark and lonesome night, and wept in reality for
                  his wretched condition.
               The next morning, was still and clear. Simons' mules, on which he was packing
                  provisions, were not to be seen. He turned his feeble body but could do no more.
                  All around him, a death-like stillness reigned. No singing birds came with the
                  fair morning to comfort the distressed sufferer. No merry sounds diverted his
                  troubled mind away from despondency and distress. No sympathizing questions fell
                  from the lips of fond friends, to soothe his departing vitality—no gentle sister
                  to witness his fall, or to cheer his last moments by kind words. No, no; alone!
                  alone! the cruel disease was racking his trembling form. Alone! and sad, he looked
                  upon the bright sun rising; but he knew no escape from the crisping rays that
                  would soon fall upon his aching head. Alone! and sad, he cried for help; he wept
                  with dread at his approaching end, and continued to writhe in pain. The trail was
                  a lonely way, and few people ever traveled there. It was a new route, and, as he
                  had been packing through that country so much, he knew how to take advantage of
                  the mountains, which many miners did not; and, consequently, he could entertain
                  but little hope of being discovered before death should come!
               "Ah!" he said, with a weak voice, "my days are numbered! A few short hours in this
                  burning sun, and my spirit must wing its flight to eternity! This flesh and bones
                  must remain bleaching upon the wild mountain—food for wolves! Lo! here's the folly
                  of mortal ambition—wasted hopes, ruined body, distressed mind, and grievous death!
                  But ah! the isolated interest of divided society has driven me to this. I could
                  not remain poor, and be respected!" and his voice ceased for a moment; his tearful
                  eyes gazed upon the bright heavens, and the weak throb of his dying heart almost
                  made audible sounds—so wildly and still was the melancholy scene!
               "Hark! I hear a voice!" and even his breathing seemed to have ceased; but his pale
                  face and glimmering eyes turned down the mountain-side.
               "'Tis a voice!" he said; and, trembling with excitement, he beheld three persons
                  approaching! These were interesting-looking men. One, a tall man, about forty, was
                  a little in advance of the others, and
                  of that honest, good-humored, motive temperament, free-and-easy kind of men,
                  common among the farmers of our country. His name was Watson, but was always
                  called, by his short-legged, Scotch companions, more familiarly, Wattie. A real
                  whole-souled, good-sense sort of fellow was Wattie; and never could he have
                  appeared more natural than when clothed in flannel and corduroy expounding the
                  principles of agriculture.
               The Scotchmen, Chips and Willie, were dressed something after the style of Young
                  America; but their eternal bonnets gave them a mélange in appearance. Chips, as his name indicates,
                  was a carpenter, of no small Glasgow experience; and of no very bad disposition
                  was the stoop-shouldered young Scottie. But, had some of his florid complexion and
                  high cheek bones, been placed upon the more delicate, tape-measuring, pug-nosed,
                  laughing, white-headed Willie, his appearance would have been none the worse.
               In good-humor, and upon wearied limbs, these fellow mortals approached Simons,
                  scarcely aware of the blankets, picks, and shovels lashed upon their backs, or of
                  the astonishment they expressed by their elongated eyes. But Chips, with his hands
                  crammed deep into his pockets, and his eyes filled with sympathy, proceeded to
                  address Simons.
               "Ho, maun! ye should na lie there in the sun. Ye may tak the fever, wi' the heat
                  comin' on ye sa. Ye should get up, and awa' to some hoose, where ye can be ta'en
                  care o'."
               Simons replied, with a very weak voice—for he could scarcely speak, "Sir, I can
                  not rise—I have the cholera!"
               The word cholera startled them, and a look of fear was rapidly
                  exchanged.
               "Ah maun," said Chips, "I did na ken ye were sa bad, or I should na spak sa
                  fast."
               They all laid down their bundles, and a serious consultation commenced, but with
                  low voices. Willie advanced, and, although he spoke some words that Simons could
                  not understand, yet he ascertained all the particulars of his misfortune. Having
                  learned how Simons was attacked, and having made all the inquiries that his
                     curious Scotch-disposition could summons up, he stood for some
                  time looking upon the unfortunate sufferer, with his hands deep in his pockets,
                  and breathing quietly, evidently contemplating, with all his mental powers in one
                  direction, what was best to be done. But, finally settling the matter, he stooped
                  kindly down to Simons, and asked:
               "Would ye na like a drop o' whisky? it's sa good to keep the circulation
                  going."
               "No, thank you," said Simons weakly.
               "But d'ye ken it's the best thing for the cholera that ye can get?" said Willie,
                  still watching Simons very sympathetically.
               "No, no," said Simons.
               "But," persisted Willie, "it'll give ye strength, an' keep ye frae dying 'til we
                  can run for a surgeon!" and he commenced fingering into a bag of clothes with
                  great earnestness and presently brought out a bottle.
               "Here," said he, holding the bottle toward Simons, and giving him a most piteous
                  look.
               "Just a sma' drop, maun, it may cure ye! it's sa good for cholera!"
               "No, no, I thank you, I never drink."
               "But, ye'll die, maun, if ye'll no tak medicine!" said Willie, astonished to see
                  him refuse whisky.
               "That's not the medicine I need," said Simons, feebly, but the others had ended
                  their consultations, and Wattie said to Willie:
               "I think he had better not take any whisky—it's not good for cholera." Willie
                  looked astonished at such a fact, and replied:
               "I beg pardon, Wattie, but it'll cure the cholera in Scotland."
               Reluctantly indeed did Willie return his bottle to his clothes-sack, and most
                  certainly did he now despair of Simons ever recovering.
               "D'ye ken which is the nearest hoose?" asked Chips.
               "There is a butcher living upon the top of the mountain," said Simons.
               "D'ye ken how far it is?"
               "About a mile and a half," replied Simons.
               After some little deliberation, they concluded to carry Simons to the butcher's
                  tent. To do this, a blanket was spread, Simons laid upon it, and the corners were fastened over
                  him. Under these fastenings a long pole was passed, so as to afford convenience in
                  carrying. Wattie and Chips placed their shoulders under the pole and bore him
                  away, followed by Willie, who carried the blankets and tools. The trail that
                  ascended the mountain was extremely difficult to follow, with a burden. In many
                  places the rocky projections were so great that the path would follow along the
                  side of the mountain for some distance before it could ascend. It was along these
                  sideline places that so many mules fell down the mountains, and were dashed to
                  pieces, with which stories every one is familiar. Sometimes these trails are so
                  very narrow that it is very dangerous for a man to walk; and should he miss his
                  footing it is doubtful whether he would make a halt until he had descended nearly
                  a mile of craggy rocks. It is very difficult for any person who has never traveled
                  among those steep mountains to imagine with what timorous feelings a person will
                  cling to little bushes and detached slate-stones when passing such fearful places;
                  and what renders it still more giddy is, that, down at the bottom of the mountain,
                  a river or creek is always staring one in the face.
               Along such a trail did these good fellows carry Simons, whose heart felt a
                  thousand times more gratitude to them than his feeble voice could express.
               It was late in the day when they arrived at the butcher's—a place that had some
                  rather unpleasant odors for a sick man, and so filthy and disagreeable as never to
                  be forgotten. This tent, slaughter-house, beef-pen, and sleeping room, were all in
                  one and the same room—one concern, fenced in with brush, and covered with
                  beef-hides and canvas.
               The proprietor of this establishment had a soul that took some interest in his
                  fellow-creatures. He was a mixture of Swiss and Spanish blood; spoke three
                  languages, and was well acquainted with a few oaths belonging to many others. He
                  was a red-faced, chubby man, and looked none the better for the cogniac that he had been tasting so freely for many
                  years; but his language was so bad that we cannot possibly introduce some parts of
                  it to the reader; suffice it, that he was one of the profanest men that ever
                  lived; but, with all that, reader, be not too hasty to pronounce judgment against
                  him—perhaps his soul was nearer to God's liking than thine is! Certainly, Mr.
                  Bullock was a foolish man for swearing so much, but perhaps he was unconscious of
                  its degrading tendency.
               This dirty, greasy man, as we stated before, had a soul that had some regard for
                  his fellow-mortals; and, when this procession moved toward his establishment—when
                  he saw that a sick man was approaching—he changed his deep-red color, and stood
                  breathless until the sufferer was laid at his feet—his eyes, though red and
                  bloated with brandy, were now moistened with tears, and his bosom began to heave
                  with sympathy. He stooped his ear to learn the whispers that escaped Simons'
                  pallid lips; his greasy hand rested gently upon the sick man's breast, and he
                  watched those sunken eyes only as a good man could; and while he heaped eternal
                  curses upon the cholera, he 
                     wispered
                     whispered
                  , "Courage! my frien', I will bring you one doctor. Only keep up courage!
                  courage! my frien', and you shall be cured, sure! Courage! courage, my
                  frien'!"
               Pale and trembling with excitement the pussy man started, he ran, he disappeared
                  down the mountain-side! Around Simons were the three who carried him; but he was
                  heedless of their low conversation; and while his eyes rested upon the brushy
                  hovel above his fainting form, his mind seemed to be occupied with other objects.
                  One stooped by his side—it was Willie—poor soul, he was anxious to do him good,
                  and again persisted in giving him whisky. Simons declined, by a weak move of his
                  head; but Willie, confident of the good qualities of whisky, removed his boots,
                  and applied the medicine to his feet—expecting ever moment to see an improvement
                  in the sufferer's appearance.
               "He is coming!" said Willie, leaning over Simons, and gazing down the
                  mountain.
               "'Tis the butcher, and he has brought a doctor wi' him! Ha! maun, ye shall be
                  cured now!" and, rubbing his hands with delight, he perceived the first faint
                  hopes in the sick man's face.
               In a few minutes, the wearied butcher was at Simons' side; and, though he cursed
                  the mountains, yet his hurried breath let fall, "Courage! courage, my frien'!" at
                  every sentence; and his exhausted limbs
                  kneeled in prayer to soothe the sufferer's struggle. Simons turned his face toward
                  the butcher, and, though he loathed the poisonous breath, in tears he asked for
                  the blessings of God to fall upon the profane man at his side.
               The night was dark, and the first feathery clouds of the rainy season streaked the
                  heavens. A gentle breeze kept the wild forest in a doleful hum, and the howling
                  wolves scampering around the butcher's mountain-home, filled the air with sounds
                  of dread and terror unknown to the busy world. Close beside the sick man, sat the
                  four humane creatures, who looked upon him as one of their own race. In mild and
                  gentle tones, they congratulated him upon the last words of the Doctor, "He will
                  recover!"
               The morning was clear, but faint signs of the "end of summer" still lingered in
                  the dark forest. Simons was able to converse with his benefactors. One of them
                  advanced to his side, and said, "Well, stranger, we think you are going to
                  recover; and we must now bid you a good-by."
               Simons made no reply, but gazed upon the speaker until a heavy mist hid his view.
                  One by one, they shook his feeble hand, gave him their blessings, and turned away!
                  His tearful eyes looked long and anxiously after their departing persons, and then
                  turned with gratitude toward the good butcher by his side.
               Mr. Bullock had lived upon the mountain all the past summer; and, as drovers
                  brought up cattle, he purchased them, and slaughtered them for the miners, who
                  were at work about two miles below; and to these he packed his beef on two mules,
                  kept for the purpose. His right name was Swartz; but having had a partner by the
                  former name, who did the buying and selling, he received it, also, when the other
                  left; so that, now, he was only known as Mr. Bullock. Beside butchering, he kept a
                  little cogniac, for the accommodation of the
                  miners who chanced to pass that way; and he always gave the travelers the comfort
                  of his house—which was poor enough—with as much cordiality as though he had been a
                  millionaire; and, certainly, he had some reason for considering himself possessed
                  of a few good qualities. He was of a very talkative disposition, and, as Simons
                  slowly recovered, he would sit by his bedside, relating some of his past
                  adventures in Lower California. But one of the most strange dispositions of this
                  individual was this: he would fasten a piece of beef to a tree, by means of a
                  rope, and then, at night, climb up into the tree, with his rifle in hand; wait
                  until the wolves commenced fighting and quarreling over the bait, then fire upon
                  them. But, when asked why he did so, he would reply:
               "Den let 'em d—d beast no fight and quarrel, and den I no shoot."
               But if, in shooting, he killed one—which he always tried to do—he would carry it
                  into his brush-house, lay it down by the fire-light, evidently to contemplate upon
                  his own cruelty; and then he would commence:
               "Den d—d my wicked heart; I no like to kill ye! De poor coyote!" and, raising its
                  head carefully, he would examine its eyes, and close its lids, while tears rolled
                  down his cheeks. "Den," he continued, "no more can de poor coyote lib—neber!
                  neber! All dis come from my infernal, d—d black heart. O! mine Got, make de poor
                  beast to lib once more! O Got! de poor coyote is gone! Neber lib again—neber!"
                  After rolling the wolf over for some time, and weeping severely over it, he would
                  take it into his arms, carry it out into the woods, and hide it where it would not
                  harass his feelings any more. When this was through, he would come and sit by
                  Simons, and commence to curse his own wicked heart for destroying the "works of
                  God;" and then, seeming to fall into a state of despondency, he would resort to
                  that awful curse—the bottle. Yet, even when intoxicated, he would lean over
                  Simons, sympathize with his stress, and whisper, "Courage! courage! poor fellow!"
                  with as much kindness as it was possible for man to have. Although Simons
                  recovered very slowly, yet the butcher's good treatment added very greatly to his
                  improvement; and, in a few days, he entertained hope of recovering.
               But the rain came. Thick, black clouds covered the horizon, and the mountain-home
                  grew more wild and lonesome. The little birds of summer were gone to the valley;
                  few miners passed that way, and the
                  dreary weather prevented almost every living thing from cheering their tedious
                  hours. Simons still lingered, but still met with kind treatment from Mr. Bullock.
                  By different miners who had passed, he sent several letters to Sacramento; but he
                  was unable to obtain any information from Mr. Hamlin and his sister; and, in a few
                  weeks, another trouble arose—he was nearly out of money. Mr. Bullock had searched
                  well for Simons' mules, but they were not to be found; and nothing but poverty
                  stared the sufferer in the face, if he should recover.
               After the roads became very bad, Mr. Bullock quit butchering, "resting upon his
                  oars" until spring should come, and gave his whole attention to Simons. But week
                  after week passed, and still Simons remained in a helpless condition. It was while
                  he was lingering here, that Harriet was so faithfully advertising for him; but he
                  was not aware of it.
               There is, perhaps, not a more solitary place in any part of the earth, than in the
                  mountains of California in winter. The dense forest, and the dark-gray mist,
                  together with the wildness of the mountain scenery, give it a degree of solitude
                  which is really oppressive, and not very favorable to awaken a happy notion of the
                  world; but it is too apt to cancel what good and comfort, there is in this life,
                  by causing one to lament over the past, and forget the bright hopes that
                  continually surround a busy people.
               It was on a pleasant afternoon, not very many weeks after the rainy season, when
                  Simons and his friend were conversing upon the unhappy lot of man, and endeavoring
                  to devise some method to render their own hours less oppressive, that their
                  meditations were interrupted by the approach of two men on horseback. The
                  appearance of these men was attractive the moment they alighted; and their dress
                  showed them to be upon no trifling business. One was a young man, tall and
                  gentlemanly in appearance; the other was slightly stoop-shouldered, but equally
                  well dressed. They wore exceedingly long-legged boots; and down these boot-legs,
                  bowie-knives were partially concealed; and upon their heels were immense Spanish
                  spurs. They had blue flannel shirts over their inner ones, but the collars were
                  rolled back, so as to expose a large breastpin, of native gold, upon each of their
                  bosoms. Between these flannel and linen shifts, the breech of a pair of Colt's
                  revolvers could be seen, fastened to a belt, in readiness for immediate action. Be
                  not startled, reader, and declare these to be murderers, for we have long since
                  introduced these same persons to your attention; they are Mr. Parker and Mr.
                  Miller, officers of our enlightened country, on the business of collecting tax. At
                  this time they were entire strangers to Simons; and, though he was half-sitting in
                  his bed, he paid them a friendly attention, and bid them be seated on some stools,
                  which the good butcher had manufactured for the accommodation of whoever chanced
                  to visit him. They had scarcely entered, when Parker, drawing a book from under
                  his cloak, introduced his subject.
               "Gentlemen," said he, "I understand that you are foreigners; and, as we are round
                  collecting tax, we thought we would give you a call as well as the rest."
               Simons had already seen some of the evil effects of this tax; and Mr. Parker's
                  friendly salutation on that subject, only needed an instant to fire his
                  indignation into no small compass. He remained silent for a moment, and, rising in
                  his bed, his brow firmly knit, and his eyes directed boldly upon Parker, he said,
                  "Sir, are you one of the villains who are executing that cursed tax?"
               Parker was somewhat startled at such a bold attack: but Miller, being a regular
                  "cut-and-dried" politician, and a man who would sell his heart's blood for the
                  good of his country, (at least, he said so,) was "not to be done" by so bold a
                  stroke, and rallied to Parker's rescue.
               "Sir," said he, with a sarcastic nasal tone, "sir, do you oppose us in our duty?
                  Who are you, a d—d foreigner, meddling with the government of our
                     common country?"
               Simons replied, firmly, "Sir, you mistake your man. You cannot frighten me into
                  that criminal tax—that black-leg tax. You're not the men."
               But Parker again collected himself, and asked:
               
               "Then are you a naturalized citizen? or have you already paid it?"
               "Neither, sir."
               "Then, why do you refuse to pay it?"
               "Because I am an American, sir."
               "Then why did you not mention that at first? Do you want to kick up a row for
                  nothing?"
               "I don't care if I do I kick up a row. How do you know, now, but that I am a
                  foreigner? Don't you see that your inhuman distinction between an American and a
                  foreigner will require everybody to carry passports?"
               Miller was too good a judge of personal appearance to let Mr. Bullock pass under
                  the same rule, and, turning to him, he asked:
               "Are you an American, or a foreigner, sir?"
               So far the butcher had remained a silent spectator; but, had either of the
                  strangers laid hands upon Simons, he was ready for whatever might follow; but, now
                  he was attacked, he replied to Miller:
               "Sir, what for you ask me dat?"
               "Why, sir, if you are a foreigner, you must pay twenty dollars a month, and also
                  pay for keeping this hotel."
               As enraged as Simons was, he could scarcely control a smile when this scoundrel
                  called their bush-house a hotel, for the sake of taxing it. But the butcher
                  replied:
               "Den I am some American, some Swiss, some Spanish and some foreigner! den what you
                  say?"
               "But are you a naturalized citizen?" Miller asked, passionately.
               "Den, my fadder she lib in Switzerland; den my modder he lib in Mexico; den my
                  wife he lib in de woods, but he died; so I lib all over dis country and in Mexico,
                  'til my d—d infernal heart wish he may die—dead."
               "But, I say, where were you born? are you a native of this country?"
               "Den, sometimes I am, den sometimes I ain't; but for born, my d—d foolish wicked
                  heart is too d—d foolish to know where in the h—ll I was made; so den I don't know
                  nothing about it."
               "Then, sir, you must pay the tax—twenty dollars a month for yourself, and five
                  dollars a month for your hotel."
               "You like me to pay you dis?"
               "Yes, sir, that's the law of the State."
               "Den I will no pay it—sure. Before de State is made, mine wife, both he and me,
                  neber paid tax; so I will see de State in h—ll before I will pay him tax. De State
                  he do me no good, den I shall gib him no money—sure."
               "But we can't allow you to keep your hotel unless you pay the tax!"
               "Den you will leeb mine house be—sure. What for you want to tax me?"
               "Because you are a foreigner, sir."
               "Den you tax me, for spite; or den you tax me for to get de money?"
               "We cannot argue about this business, sir, it's the law of the State, and you must
                  pay the tax, sir."
               "But den I won't!"
               "Well then, sir, we'll tear down your house!"
               "Den I'll tear down your d—d wicked heart; so help me Got I will—sure. And his
                  dark Spanish eyes turned toward his butcher-knives, and a vivid flash of his
                  features told what the good butcher might do in a passion. Simons perceived it,
                  and knew that he had considerable influence over him, and said:
               "Don't mind them, Bullock; you shall not pay the tax."
               "What!" demanded Miller, "do you oppose us in our duty? do you know that we are
                  armed? what do you mean, sir?"
               "Certainly, I knew you were armed, or else I shouldn't have known you to be
                  villains and cowards," said Simons, coolly.
               "What! sir," exclaimed Miller, "what do you say to me, you d—d, G—d d—d foreign
                  advocate! How dare you to oppose our just rights, you eternally G—d
                  d—d tory to your country!"
               To which Simons replied:
               "Your services are not required in our hotel any longer, sir; you will find a door
                  at that side, there, under those bushes. And if you should ever want to call
                  again, please send your card in advance."
               
               "We cannot leave without this man paying his tax," said Parker.
               "Well," said Simons, "when you have run over our dead bodies you may collect it,
                  but not before!"
               "Well," said Parker, also becoming enraged, "well, we shall not make him pay it
                  to-day, but we shall be back this way before long, and then he shall pay it,
                  that's all there is about it,—he shall pay it." And, without any
                  fashionable ceremony, the twain turned away, mounted their horses and rode
                  off.
               This little excitement had a deleterious effect upon Simons' health. At midnight
                  following, a fever and slight cramp showed signs of the cholera returning. By his
                  side stood the butcher, rubbing his feet, bathing his temples and whispering,
                  "Courage! courage, my frien'! Courage! until daylight! and you shall be
                  cured—sure!"
               But day had scarcely broken when Bullock started for the doctor—having previously
                  prepared a number of hot stones for Simons' feet. He had about four miles of a
                  journey, requiring, at least, three hours to go and come; and being a fleshy man,
                  the jaunt was a hard one. The day promised to be a fair one, and Simons had
                  nothing to harass his mind, save the severe pains of the disease. On his bed he
                  was lying, gazing upon a small fire near the middle of this brush-house, a place
                  where the roof was sufficiently open to allow the smoke to pass out; with one hand
                  upon his forehead, the other carelessly by his side, he was listening every moment
                  for Bullock's return, and for the doctor's loud voice. But, while in this
                  conditions, the approach of galloping horses startled his attention, and kept him
                  in anxious suspense.
               "Who can they be?" he exclaimed to himself, and, raising a little, he beheld
                  Parker and Miller dismounting. A slight fear stole over him, for both the officers
                  were considerably intoxicated. In a minute more they entered, and Miller,
                  flourishing his bowie-knife, advanced toward Simons, and said:
               "You, sir, you are a d—d tory to your country. You prevent us from
                  doing our duty! Where is that d—d Spaniard? I want to take out his d—d heart! The
                  black s——l,—to dare to dictate about our laws—where is he, sir?"
               Simons saw his danger with such desperadoes, and endeavored to turn their wrath by
                  mild words; he said:
               "Do not make an attack upon a sick man. If you are a gentleman, you will not wish
                  to take advantage of my helpless condition."
               "But where is that d—d Spaniard? tell me, sir."
               "He is in search of a doctor, sir."
               "Well," said the enraged Miller, "well, his house must come down—the d—d inf—l s—p
                  of h—ll!" and, suiting his action to his words, rammed his bowie-knife down his
                  boot-leg, seized an ax, and commenced upon the posts.
               "Here, here," said Parker, "I'll fix it; I'll fix it. Let us carry this sick d—l
                  out, and burn the d—d concern to the ground."
               The proposal suited Miller, and, in an instant, they had Simons—bed and all—out in
                  the common; and, in a few minutes, the whole house was in a blaze!
               "There, there," said Miller to Simons; "you d—d foreign advocate, and tory to your
                  country, take that; and learn not to oppose officers in
                  their duty again. I have almost a notion to take out your d—d heart, you G—d A—y
                  G—d d—d son of a b—h."
               After gazing at the burning house for some time, uttering all the profanity that
                  their tongues could express, they mounted their horses, and galloped away.
               It is but justice to state, that this outrage resulted in the loss of but little
                  property—even the house was, really, of no value; but, for all that, it was their
                  only covering, and the only habitation that Mr. Bullock had on earth; and, as a
                  home, be it ever so poor, it deserved the protection of an impartial
                  government.
               Scarcely had these ruffians departed, when the butcher and the doctor made their
                  appearance. But it is impossible for me to relate the words of the very justly
                  enraged Mr. Bullock on beholding his house in ruins! Perhaps such violence would
                  make almost anybody use "hard words," and feel quite as much like having vengeance
                  as did the butcher. The doctor now
                  recommended Simons to go to Sacramento, where he could have better attendance;
                  and, to do so, Mr. Bullock went to the ranch, and brought in his
                  mules.
               In the afternoon, they started for Sacramento. The weather had changed, and the
                  few clouds that overhung the horizon in the morning, were thick and black, and a
                  steady rain was falling upon them, as they moved slowly through the dark forest.
                  Close to Simons' side rode the butcher; but, unfortunately, his dejection of
                  spirits had caused him to resort to the bottle—not a few of which had been
                  destroyed by the fire—and he soon became quite as unfit to be on horseback as was
                  Simons. In this helpless condition, they rode on—on. The trail was dark and wild;
                  now down a long mountain—now up another—on—on; but night came—it was an awful
                  night. Rain was falling, the wind was blowing, and the tall forest was humming and
                  wheezing, and cold chills stealing rapidly over the sick man's exhausted form. In
                  descending a steep road, one of their mules—it was Bullock's—missed his footing,
                  and plunged into an uncovered well! Simons called for help, and, in a few minutes,
                  many miners were upon the ground, and rescued the man and his mule. Among these
                  miners, were Uncle Thomas, and Jimie and Charley. This was the scene of which we
                  before made mention, and of which we shall have occasion to speak again; for it so
                  plainly illustrates the hatred that frequently rises against a whole nation on so
                  trivial an affair; and shows so well the morbid disposition of people to condemn
                  persons who come from a different country. On the following morning, Simons and
                  the butcher proceeded on their journey.
               
               A gay little woman, with black eyes, arched brows, and smiling lips, ran, singing
                  and laughing, about her airy mansion. Her sleeves were turned above her elbows,
                  her raven curls were neglected, her calico was not fashionable, and her funny
                  tongue broke down all modern rules of etiquette. She was always laughing herself,
                  and made everybody else laugh; she loved everybody, and everybody loved her; but
                  she loved her black-whiskered, chubby husband most; and he loved her more than he
                  loved himself. She sang a good deal; she mixed her songs and hymns together, and
                  chose only such parts as suited herself and her hearers; and, when the words
                  failed, she chose new ones, and always finished each strain with a hearty
                  laugh.
               "Come, my good wife," said her husband, one day, "come, we must change our
                  business—the roads are too bad, and I can not get along them. Then, too, I can not
                  see my wife in such a miserable house as this."
               "My dear," said she, leaning upon his shoulder, "whatever is your will, the same
                  is the will of your wife. Tell me what you wish, dear, and your little wife will
                  help you."
               "We will go to Sacramento, and open a hotel, dear; and you shall be superintendent
                  of the concern!"
               "Bargain," said his wife: "I'm delighted! O! but I shall feel grand! Possible! our
                  hotel!"
               "Yes, dear, you shall have fine dresses, and live comfortable, at least. Our hard
                  life is now finished, and I shall now be able to make you happy."
               "You have always done it, dear; and I shall not see you labor so hard any
                  more!"
               They moved over the valley. The good wife turned to look toward the Snowy
                  Mountains.
               "Ah!" she exclaimed, "the dull breeze of that awful night still rings in my ears,
                  and those howling wolves I can still see leasing o'er the desolate hills. The
                  railing whippowil I can still see darting through the pale light of the yellow
                  moon; and the wild Plain still sends deathlike chills to my soul. That pale, wild
                  face that rose in this wagon-bed, and asked, 'Julia, where are we?' then quivered,
                  and withered forever! still haunts my view, and makes sad my mortal home. The
                  sound of those falling clods, and the weak voices around his tomb, still recall
                  the misfortunes of our broken family, and faintly remind me of my infant days,
                  when we clustered about the knees of a fond father! Alas! can this be life, or am
                  I in an unhappy dream? Then a brother came unto me! he talked, he smiled, he loved
                  me, and I loved him; but, alas!, he, too, is gone, and I am left without a connection on earth!" and her view of the
                  mountains was lost by the intervention of a gloomy mist.
               In the early days of Sacramento, a number of oak and sycamore trees ornamented
                  nearly every part of the city; but they have long since yielded to that formidable
                  weapon, the ax, and fallen, to rise no more! People in other countries may think
                  that the Americans would love the forest, and desire to have trees everywhere; but
                  it is very far from the general character of our nation. The first thing in laying
                  out a city in our country is to satiate our vengeance upon every tree or bush near
                  the place, and give ourselves room to look about. In fact, it may be stated, as a
                  common thing, that nothing is so harassing and annoying to an American's feelings
                  as to see a grove of trees near a city; and, should future generations not
                  continue to keep up this eternal hatred to the forest and to ornamental trees,
                  they may be known not to have descended from the real Know Nothing blood.
               Upon J. street was a moderately comfortable hotel. In front of this establishment
                  stood a twenty-foot stump of a tree, which was left, for convenience, to support a
                  sign of what all the hotel could do, and what good things it kept for the public.
                  Upon this sign were painted, in large letters, "Travelers' rest; oysters, turtles,
                  ladies' and gentlemen's apartments, stabling, vegetables, new milk, molasses,
                  pumpkins, good beds, dried apples, boots blacked, honey, young onions, green peas,
                  apple butter, clean sheets, Western Reserve cheese at all hours of the day,
                  etc."
               The house was divided into three rooms, on the lower floor, and into about half a
                  dozen on the upper. In the bar-room were newspapers, and plenty of idle men—some
                  good-looking, and well-dressed, some ill-looking, and clothed in flannel, and some
                  honest-looking, and quietly minding their own business; some were reading the
                  papers, some were talking politics, some were talking about their ill-fortune,
                  some were sneezing, some were laughing, some were writing letters to their
                  connections; and, altogether, they presented a fair sample of our fellow-creatures
                  in general. The dining-room was exceedingly long, and, considering the calico
                  papering along the walls and overhead, presented quite a fashionable appearance.
                  About the tables some sprightly, tidy boys were to be seen rattling dishes, and
                  brushing the cloths, or dusting the seats. In the kitchen were a host of black
                  pots, a cooking-stove, some firewood, and plenty of ladles; and, beside, a pair of
                  those fellow-creatures usually denominated "niggers." All through this house,
                  above and below, in the bar-room, dining-room and kitchen, every place, was to be
                  seen the black-eyed wife; and the velocity with which she moved from one place to
                  another was really astonishing. She was neatly dressed; her hair was hanging in
                  beautiful curls down her rosy face, and added to her fascinating eyes that
                  peculiar power of penetration so charming to whoever chanced to be in her
                  presence. Wherever she moved she was singing or laughing; whatever she did, the
                  same attractions accompanied her graceful flirtations and theatrical gestures; and
                  in all she did she made everybody love and respect her, without deviating from her
                  own natural disposition.
               It was a cold rainy day in midwinter. A heavy gray mist darkened the firmament,
                  and chilly winds whirled along the muddy streets and whistled round the houses.
                  The good wife and her husband were standing at the window, her hand upon his
                  shoulder, her eyes upon his. One of the boarders opened a door and said:
               "Mistress, there is a gentleman here anxious to see you."
               The little woman turned pale in an instant, and quivered like an aspen, for even
                  in the tone of the man's voice the secret was revealed to her mind.
               "I know my brother has come!" she exclaimed, and flew to the door; she opened it,
                  and again exclaimed:
               "O! Simons! brother!" and her arms were about him.
               He was taken to a room. His voice had ceased! By his side was Julia; her hand was
                  upon his aching temples, her tearful eyes upon his. His eyes were turned toward
                  another—'twas the butcher! The same fat, greasy hand rested upon his breast; the
                  same Spanish eyes still sympathized with his distress, and eagerly watched every
                  sign of life returning; the same curses upon the disease, and the same whisper,
                  "Courage! courage, my frien'! You shall
                  be cured—sure!" still escaped, the good man's lips; his rude frame was nearly
                  convulsed with grief, and amid his curses, the profane man prayed to God to save
                  his sick friend.
               The dark night followed, and still the sufferer remained helpless. By his side
                  were the same hearts. Julia still leaned over her helpless brother, weeping and
                  administering to his wants. Those same dark, Spanish eyes of the butcher, were
                  still watching, but dilated and filled with tears. The same fat, greasy hands,
                  still rubbed his feet, or patted upon his shoulder, and the same voice still
                  whispered, "Courage! courage, my frien'! you shall be cured, sure!"
               The day was dawning, and fair weather seemed likely to follow. Julia still stood
                  beside her brother. The butcher walked often from the bedside to a window that
                  looked to the eastward. At this window he would stand a moment, then return to the
                  bed, and say, "Courage! courage, my frien'! Den de sun rise, den you shall
                  recover, sure! Courage! courage, de sun will soon rise! Courage, my frien'!" The
                  sun arose and he recovered.
               On the third day after Simons' arrival, and when he was lying in comfortable
                  circumstances, and in conversation with Mrs. Hamlin, in came the butcher.
               "Well, my frien'," said he, "I am going away to de mountains! My d—d wicked heart
                  will neber see you no more—neber! neber! Den I wish to you, Got will help you! Den
                  I will go away in de woods, and I will pray to Got to help you! Den my d—d wicked
                  heart shall die! and neber more I shall hab any frien's! neber! neber!" and tears
                  rolled fast down his ruddy cheeks.
               "Can you not live here a while longer?" asked Simons, feebly.
               "No, den I can't lib in de city, I must lib in de woods! In de wild mountains I
                  will lib till I die—dead! Den in de dark woods Got does come to cure my d—d wicked
                  heart; and den I am ready for to die—dead! In de woods mine wife, he died! and so
                  in de woods my d—d wicked heart she wish to die—dead! In de wild woods my
                  modder—he died! and in de woods my fadder—he died! and in de woods my little
                  boy—she died! so in de woods my d—d wicked heart wish to die—dead! and neber lib
                  no more! neber! neber!" and the profane man buried his face in the sick man's
                  bosom.
               By the bedside stood the butcher; in his fat, greasy hands were those of Simons;
                  his beardy breast was heaving, his eyes were filled with tears.
               "Den, good-by! good-by! my frien'! To de wild woods I will go; dare where de poor
                  coyote is crying for his dinner! where de wildcat is crying for de young ones! and
                  where de bats and de bears all lib togedder! and die—dead! dare I will go! into de
                  wild woods! Den I will die—dead! and I will hab no more frien's! none! no more!
                  Good-by, my frien'! my frien'!" and he released his hold! and while the room was
                  still as the house of death, the butcher moved toward the door, waved his hand,
                  and disappeared!
               The heavens were dark and dreary, and not a ray of light pierced the clouds, or
                  reflected brilliant colors over the gloomy valley. A slow and steady rain
                  continued to fall unceasingly, and not a breath of air interrupted its downward
                  course.
               "The Sacramento is rising!" occasionally escaped the voices of the throng of
                  people who hurried along the streets; timid features quivered at the words, and a
                  slight sign of fear was revealed in their exchanging looks.
               "The Sacramento is still rising!" could be heard at every door and window, and the
                  inhabitants of every part of the young city seemed to turn pale with alarm.
               "The Sacramento is above its banks!" sped through the whole city with the velocity
                  of lightning; and though a dark night had set in, the streets were filled with
                  human beings; and in their haste and confusion, not a friend or foe was
                  remembered, but, here! there! everywhere! they were hurrying, and increasing the
                  excitement.
               "The water is already coming through some of the streets!" was in everybody's
                  lips; and men and women, beneath heavy burdens, were to be seen hurrying toward
                  the highlands, beyond the city. But the rain continued to fall, the darkness to
                     increase and the water to rise and
                  spread over the great valley, wide as a sea.
               "The city will surely go!" began to be whispered among the people; and even those
                  in good houses standing at the doors and windows beheld the pitiful scene, and
                  began to tremble for their safety.
               "Boats! boats! boats!" was called from every basement story and the loud voices of
                  the boatmen's songs, and the frightful cry for help, rendered the woeful night one
                  of the strangest and most fearful spectacles ever witnessed.
               "The city will go!" was cried aloud, and everybody seemed trying to escape its
                  fall! The streets were filled with boats and boxes, in which the unfortunate
                  sufferers were fleeing toward the highlands. Stacks of lumber were whirling on the
                  current and dashing through the windows; and small houses were revolving and
                  bending before the sea of waters.
               "The city is going!" screamed the affrighted men, women, and little children, who
                  seemed to swarm over the rumbling water wherever the eye could penetrate the
                  darkness. Houses after houses continued to whirl from their places, give one
                  dreadful crash, and cast their broken timbers upon the frothy sea; and soon whole
                  streets were stripped of their buildings and lost beneath the muddy foam.
               By the ravaging flood Hamlin's house was threatened! By the sick bed stood the
                  little woman; her hands clasped, her plump bosom heaving, her gentle face pale,
                  and her rosy lips quivering and unsettled.
               A boat passed, another came, and the sick man was laid within; his sister was
                  close to his side, and tried to shelter the rain from his pale and sunken face.
                  O'er the dark sea they moved toward the highland. Upon the "grave-yard" they took
                  shelter beneath their blankets, and waited for the awful night to pass away! but,
                  O! how long, how long that dreadful night seemed! Day was breaking, and sorrowful
                  voices were whispering, "The city is gone! the city is gone!"
               But when daylight came, scarcely anything showed where the city had been! The gay
                  little woman was reduced to poverty erty! and her affectionate heart was overcome
                  with the distress that surrounded her. The hotel was destroyed by the flood; and
                  in a miserable tent, they were compelled to remain in the graveyard, and wait for
                  the water to recede.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               "WELL, Jimie," said Uncle Thomas, one evening, as they took a seat on a log beside
                  their camp-fire, "what are your notions about the gold being deposited where we
                  find it? How came it there?" But Charley took up the reply:
               "Faith, uncle ye've touched the point now. Give us the rule for gowld making, and
                  sure as the knot on my head we'll make our point. But it was Jimie ye asked, and
                  the very same can explain it, I'll wager."
               Uncle Thomas's party were remarkably fortunate in moving to Brush cañon. Even
                  their most sanguine hopes were surpassed, and gold began to come into their
                  pockets when they were not expecting it. This is a curious change to which the
                  miner is sometimes subjected, and which is usually ascribed to the expression,
                  being "in luck." Sometimes, he fancies that wherever he works, there is no gold,
                  for, all around him, all are making fortunes. Then he is in "bad luck." But,
                  sometimes he is not able to place his tools into the ground, ere he finds an
                  abundance of gold, although his neighbors cannot find any. Then, he is "in luck."
                  So mysterious do these changes occur, that one almost feels inclined to
                  acknowledge that there is some truth in fatality; for so earnestly does the human
                  mind endeavor to grasp the cause of results, that when reason cannot obtain
                  sufficient scientific principles, it will cling to the pleasing but erring rambles
                  of the imagination. Indeed, the mind seems to escape his control; it is like the
                  sight; when the eye is directed to an apple, it cannot stop half way between the
                  apple and the eye. So it is with the active mind; when the effect is known, the
                  mind will, it must have some reason for cause, before it can stop;
                  and when science is wanting, it will
                  rest upon that which the imagination alone can treasure up. Yes, Uncle Thomas's
                  party were "in luck." Their tent stood close upon the banks of the creek, and was
                  as comfortable as was the habitation of most miners. In front was the creek,
                  beyond which a steep mountain, covered with a forest of pine, fir and hemlock,
                  seemed to rise to the skies; and so abruptly did it commence to rise from the side
                  of the creek that it was fearful to look upon it. But, immediately back of the
                  tent, was another mountain, even more steep and wild than the other; and so high
                  and so close together were these mountains that the sun never shone down on the
                  creek more than three or four hours during the day—which is not uncommon in many
                  of the mountain districts of California, and which are quite as wild and romantic
                  as are the noted scenes in Switzerland. But these grand views, and these
                  extraordinary wildernesses were not so inviting to Uncle Thomas and his
                  companions, as were the ounces of gold they were daily obtaining; and as they sat
                  upon that log late at night, let us return to Jimie's answer to the old man's
                  question:
               "Well, I'll soon give you my ideas about it. But, in the first place, I must
                  notice a few indications of the general eruptions that once spread over our earth.
                  According to the best evidence before us, the earth increases in heat toward the
                  center, and at a rate that must hold all bodies in solution at a depth of
                  twenty-five miles. Now then, under such a consideration, our earth is similar in
                  construction to an egg. It is merely a liquid globe, inclosed within a
                  comparatively light shell. Lay an egg before the fire, and, by its sudden
                  expansion, the shell will crack, and steam will issue. Our earth travels over one
                  and a half millions of miles in twenty-four hours, and must necessarily experience
                  many different degrees of temperature, which, probably, have a contracting and
                  expanding force sufficient to crack the earth's crust, and produce the eruptions
                  which must have been very extensive at a remote age. During these eruptions, a
                  vast amount of heat must have escaped, so that, after again closing, a less
                  portion was retained in the earth, and it was also reduced in size. But by
                  reversing this course of reasoning, the earth, at one period, must have contained
                  a vast deal more heat than at present, and, also, the crust must have been
                  thinner, so that an eruption was far more extensive then, than the volcanoes of
                  our own period. And, by carrying this system of reasoning onward, it is very
                  evident that our earth once contained such a quantity of heat, and was so great in
                  size, that its principal bulk was not more dense than gaseous substances, and that
                  its crust was too rarefied to sustain the present kind of animal and vegetable
                  life.
               "Here!" interposed the old man, who had been listening with delight upon Jimie's
                  views, "allow me to say, that, in this mode of reasoning, have we not striking
                  evidence of a Creator, for, at least, the Animal and the Vegetable world?"
               "Well," continued Jimie, "most assuredly we have, unless we can conceive that the
                  Animal and the Vegetable kingdoms held equally rarefied compositions; but I am not
                  going to argue about that—the gold is the question."
               "Ye're right, Jimie," said Charley; "it's the gowld we're afther finding."
               "Well," continued Jimie, "I will refer to that period of the earth's existence,
                  when its crust was so incompact that large sections of country were upheaved at a
                  single eruption; when the largest ranges of mountains were erected, and when the
                  surface was frequently covered by floods of melted lava."
               "Faith, that would have been warm weather," said Charley; but the old man
                  asked:
               "Why do we not see more lava on the surface at the present time?"
               "Very well, uncle, but hear me out," said Jimie, with his head leaning forward,
                  and seeming to be contemplating his subject. "Well now," continued Jimie, "in such
                  emissions of liquid matter, and at such a high temperature, gold, no doubt,
                  accompanied the lava. Very well, now look where you will, upon any part of the
                  surface of the globe, and you will see that the sand and all rocky substances, are
                  undergoing decomposition, and falling to pieces. And, on this theory, a large
                  portion of the surface material might have once been melted matter, issuing from these eruptions; and, in that
                  condition, gold was undoubtedly in a fluid state; but, with the hardening of the
                  volcanic material, it was contained within; but, again, after the decomposition of
                  the rock, by exposure to the air and water, the gold obtained its liberty. And, as
                  all gold countries are mountainous, (or, at least, the bottom on
                  which it is found,) there is no doubt but the action of the water in such regions
                  has removed the lighter substances, such as clay and sand, and that the gravity of
                  the gold caused it to seek the deep hollows, creeks, rivers, etc."
               "Faith, and why is there not gowld in Ireland?"
               "Well, Charley, I'll tell you how you can have gold in Ireland as well is in
                  California."
               "Sure, and yer honor never gave more thankful information; bad luck to it, I might
                  have made a fortune without coming 'til America, at all, at all."
               "Don't be so fast, Charley; it's not a speedy business to make a gold
                  country."
               "Faith, I'll work a month at it, if ye'll be afther telling me the sacret!"
               "Well, I'll tell you, Charley, but you must not make it public."
               "Yer honor, I'll never open my mouth about it, sure as the knot on my head."
               "Well, Charley, I'll trust you; I believe you are not a bad fellow."
               "Faith, would ye ruin the reputation o' my counthry; but, never mind, tell me how
                  to make Ireland a gowld counthry?"
               "Well, Charley," said Jimie, smiling, "you must elevate the central portion of the
                  island, into a range of mountains, about five or six miles high. After you have
                  that well done, sit down and rest yourself for one hundred thousand years; and
                  then, when you go and examine the creeks and rivers that course down these
                  mountains, you will find that the water has removed the light, earthy substances,
                  and left the gold settled in the bottom."
               "Faith, it's worth a trial, yer honor; but ye didn't tell me how I should get the
                  quartz; for, if I make it into a gowld counthry, I must have some quartz-leads
                  too?"
               "Why, Charley, you are really thoughtful, and, I suppose, you thought you were
                  getting ahead of your instructor?"
               "Faith, I did, yer honor."
               "Well, I'll tell you: you will find that, in elevating your range of mountains,
                  you will crack the earth's crust, so that quartz emissions will flow from the
                  center, and scatter over the whole country."
               "Ah! Charley," said Uncle Thomas "you are beat again—badly beaten."
               "Faith, I can beat yez both in bed, and sleep fasther and sounther than the shirt
                  on my back," said Charley, dryly; and, moving into the tent, he commenced
                  preparing the blankets, and, in a few minutes, he was followed by Jimie and Uncle
                  Thomas.
               We have now given a slight sketch of an evening in their tent, but it is
                  impossible for us to detail any farther; for a more interesting crisis followed,
                  and such a one as more particularly applies to the subject before us. Their claim
                  proved to be very valuable, and at it they were engaged late and early. Uncle
                  Thomas's health improved, and his former happy mind returned; and with his young
                  companions he seemed to be almost as youthful in disposition as if unconscious of
                  the last twenty or thirty years being passed; and for jokes, wit, sport, and
                  agreeable stories, he was as young as either of the others.
               For several weeks their businesses prospered exceedingly, and a prospect of a
                  fortune seemed very evident, and close at hand. But, in course of time, the exact
                  locality of Brush cañon became known, and, as in the case of the ravine where
                  Uncle Thomas before worked, the place soon became crowded; and a vast surplus
                  population was to be seen strolling along the mountain sides, along the cañon,
                  and, in fact everywhere near the "good diggings."
               At this time, the reputation of the claims had advanced their price beyond their
                  value; and many persons were making rich fortunes by buying and selling them. Among these claim speculators were a party
                  of four, who made a handsome offer to our three friends for their piece of ground.
                  After some deliberation, a bargain was made, and the claim sold, and our friends
                  at liberty, with the nice little sum of sixteen hundred dollars each. As soon as
                  this sale was made, Jimie and Charley went to Sacramento to forward their money
                  home; Jimie sent his to his parents, in Indiana; and Charley forwarded his to
                  Ireland, to assist his people and acquaintances to America. And, as soon as they
                  had that all arranged, they returned to join Uncle Thomas again. During their
                  absence, he applied himself to taking a very agreeable vacation, and to musing
                  over the happy change that had at last smiled upon him; but his health was so
                  good, and so, also, was the opportunity for making more money, that he, wisely
                  enough, concluded to remain a little while longer in the mines. When Jimie and
                  Charley returned, they all commenced looking after a new claim; and, in this very
                  undesirable occupation, they spent several days. But, during this recreation, many
                  "unlucky" miners had tried the cañon; and its reputation for yielding gold began
                  to decline, and many were the claims that were "for sale, to the highest bidder."
                  One party of Germans had a claim that they valued at two thousand dollars, and
                  they were extremely anxious to sell it. To this party our three friends applied,
                  and, finally, struck a bargain for fifteen hundred dollars; and the money—which
                  Uncle Thomas furnished—was paid for the ground. To work they again proceeded, but
                  with a greater degree of hope than before; for they were so well acquainted with
                  the place, that they knew about what to expect; and, also, they knew that the
                  German party had not "dug deep" enough to find the "right bottom." It was only a
                  few days ere they were again favored with "fortune's smiles," and gold showed
                  itself in unusual quantity, and with favorable prospects of a considerable
                  increase. They were now considered as the oldest miners upon that cañon; and
                  nearly everybody knew them, either by name or by report. And, soon after their
                  last success here, the people, everywhere, were saying among themselves, "They are
                  a lucky party; they are a lucky party." But this tête-à-tête was followed up by the word "foreigners," which at once
                  drove happiness and joyous evenings from Uncle Thomas's party. How this single
                  word blasted their prospects, and turned the hopeful future into doubt and fear,
                  can scarcely be imagined. While sitting by their fire, upon their favorite
                  log—now, instead of relating silly jokes, or investigating philosophical subjects,
                  they were devising schemes to provide against the danger of losing their
                  ground.
               Previous to Jimie's and Charley's visit to Sacramento, Uncle Thomas tried to
                  persuade them to procure a license for him; but Jimie felt so sure of evading the
                  tax, that he assured the old man it would be utterly useless; and, now, when
                  danger threatened them, Jimie only more faithfully guaranteed his safety.
               Charley was not one of the brickbat Irish, yet he often expressed a willingness to
                  try any one who dared to meddle with their claim, if they would meet him upon the
                  same terms as he used to meet the people of North Cork—where he received his
                  "knot." The old man dreaded any disturbance, for he had already experienced a
                  serious contest; and then, too, he had heard of American riots, and he knew, (by
                  reading English newspapers,) that the American people were the most dangerous
                  people on the face of the earth! unless it was the French—an uncivilized nation.
                  Yes, as much as we liked Uncle Thomas, and as much as we must credit his literary
                  capacity, and with all his traveling experience, the English catechism—that the
                  English people are the only civilized nation—was the most profound of all his
                  knowledge: a real Englishman was Uncle Thomas. But, with all his preconceived
                  notions, he was an honest man; and he was fully resolved to defend his rights upon
                  such honorable terms as could not reflect any stigma upon the nation of which he
                  was so proud. Toward Charley he neither manifested any particular liking or
                  disliking—further than that he considered him an Irishman, even though he was
                  without a fault. But, toward Jimie, he had not only expressed by word, but by
                  every possible favor, the strongest regard, and affection, and pride for his
                  talents.
               
               Although Jimie was, very well informed, yet he was nothing like so polished in
                  expression as was Uncle Thomas; but the latter overlooked such trifles, and
                  regarded him as a remarkable youth, considering the manner of his education. This
                  affection, perhaps occasioned by the loss of Downie, had been indulged in until he
                  almost felt himself a blood relation; and in his conversation he seemed more like
                  a father to Jimie, than as only a friend. Jimie had often promised Charley and
                  Uncle Thomas that they should not pay the foreign tax; and, true to his country,
                  his word was as inviolable as the Declaration of Independence, and must be
                  maintained though it "cost a cow." But, as we have rubbed Uncle Thomas closely for
                  some of his English characteristics, we must also mention one of Jimie's
                  peculiarities, which other nations say is common to our country—a too sensitive
                  feeling in regard to the remarks that foreigners make about any of the evils, or
                  the virtues of our country. He was very young, and entertained an almost sacred
                  feeling toward the old man, even so much as to prevent him from expressing his
                  esteem, except by his actions and conduct, which were always with the utmost
                  deference to Uncle Thomas's feeling's and opinions. But on many occasions he had
                  heard the old man make rather sarcastic reflections upon Republicanism—remarks
                  similar to those related when he was giving to Jimie and Charley an account of
                  being robbed of his claim in the ravine.
               Although this legal outrage was sufficient to make any man hate a
                  foreign country, and although Jimie was also opposed to the foreign tax, yet
                  nothing touched his feelings more severely than to hear such remarks, especially
                  from a friend, for, like every American must, he felt that any reproach cast upon
                  Republicanism included himself in the remark—a principle which cannot be
                  experienced by the subjects of monarchical countries; for the
                     subject has nothing to do with the virtues or vices of his
                  government. But one of the main reasons why it wounded his feelings was, because
                  he entertained such a sincere regard for Uncle Thomas, a regard that prevented him
                  from making any reply to the said remarks, lest he might sever their happy life.
                  However, we shall see hereafter, that the poor old man was not conscious of the
                  effect of what escaped his lips so heedlessly, but still lived as though he was
                  father to the party, and seemed to rest his failing form upon his young companions
                  for protection and success. And there was nowhere that he manifested his feelings
                  so much as when his friends were sleeping; for he was very wakeful, and slept but
                  little; and they, on the contrary, young, and working hard, generally slept
                  soundly from the time their heads touched the pillow until daylight.
               During the night Uncle Thomas would rise upon one elbow, listening to the wolves
                  or owls, or, perhaps the wheezing forest or falling rain; and, while his mind
                  strolled over the sad series of events that had befallen him for such a long life,
                  his noble brow seemed as fixed in dignity, his eyes would rest upon his friends,
                  and the half-audible words, "May my friends never experience such troubles!" often
                  escaped his compressed lips.
               After musing in this way for some time he would lay down, carefully lay his hand
                  upon Jimie's breast, and then say, "God preserve you, my boy; you are my only
                  dependence! If you cannot protect our property—we are ruined at last!"
               But you must pardon us for not dwelling any longer upon this light-fingered
                  outrageous-gambler-enacted legislation against the foreigner, than is actually
                  necessary, for really we are ashamed that our "land of equal rights" should be so
                  pernicious in principle; neither are we, in writing upon such an affair, disposed
                  to exhaust the dictionary in order to find smooth words, while hard ones are
                  crowding so thick and fast upon us.
               Had we not been feelingly interested, and a personal observer of some
                  of these outrages against foreigners; had we not been subjected to ridicule and
                  abuse in foreign lands on account of that penurious tax—we should, being a real
                  American by birth and in feeling, have had too much national pride to relate so
                  many violations of justice. But if any one will investigate the subject, he will
                  ascertain that we have dealt with the matter as delicately as it will permit; for
                  there are darker scenes—scenes of blood and death! Only speak a different
                  language, and live with the foreigners of California, or among foreign nations,
                     and you, reader, will hear a voice
                  of vengeance that will cause you to think seriously. However, as this is a season
                  when the question is agitated, we shall let our story take its natural course—not
                  even stopping to comment upon the young lady who (last evening) spoke so fluently
                  upon our national perfections, and upon our right to disfranchise foreigners; and
                  who, in the next sentence, said, "We women cannot get justice because we are not
                  represented." Was she a moral reasoner, reader? Therefore, suffice it, Uncle
                  Thomas's party met a sad change in prosperity.
               While sitting at their dinner—a combination of bean-soup, boiled-beef, rice and
                  potatoes—one day, their attention was arrested by the approach of a little
                  black-whiskered German, saying, "Gentlemen, if you be foreigners, God save you;
                  two d—d gamblers be coming to make you pay the tax, with bowie-knives and pistols,
                  and clubs, and weapons, and revolvers, and the Lord knows what all—they will kill
                  you, you better run for to save your lives, before they come—they be coming!" and
                  accompanying every word by an upward and downward motion of both his fists and
                  finishing by clenching and grinding his teeth, showed at once that he had probably
                  been one of their victims. But his fearful exclamation had scarcely ceased when
                  the affrighted party beheld two well-dressed, gentlemanly-looking men, in long
                  boots, approaching. The old man turned pale and trembled, but his young companions
                  exchanged looks and assured him that there should be no danger: a few words were
                  all they could speak ere the collectors were upon them.
               These were our former acquaintances, Mr. Parker and Mr. Miller; the former was a
                  collector of the tax; but why the latter accompanied him, at the expense of the
                  State, without having anything to do with the office, we shall discover hereafter,
                  in a private conversation; but at this time, they were entire strangers to Uncle
                  Thomas's party, who had only seen their names in the newspapers on a few
                  occasions.
               "Gentlemen," said Parker, bowing politely and withdrawing his large book from
                  under his arm, "I have been told that two of you are foreigners; and I have come
                  to receive your taxes—how many months have you been mining?"
               The old man and Charley exchanged looks; but a bold pride seemed to flash over
                  Jimie's youthful face, and a spirit of manliness adorned his fair and noble brow;
                  and after a moment's silence, he replied:
               "I've heard you were coming; but, see here, I'm opposed to that tax, and I have
                  told these men that they should not pay it!"
               "But it must be paid—we have the law on our side, and we'll
                     make them pay it," said Miller, with that disagreeable nasal tone
                  so common to some of our people; but Jimie, imitating his cat-whining nasality,
                  replied:
               "O! if that's the way you talk, you may have the law where you please; but
                  remember that, I say they shall not pay it."
               "Well then we'll sell your claim! for the tax must be paid; and there are plenty
                  here who'll be glad to get your ground for the taxes."
               "No, you'll not sell it, either," interrupted Jimie sharply; but Parker had
                  finished turning the leaves of his book, and now took up the subject himself.
               "See here," said he, "it's no use to make any words about this matter at all; for
                  it is impossible to have any misunderstanding about a law so plain as this. It
                  speaks positively that they must pay twenty dollars per month; now then, all I
                  want to know is, how many months they have been mining, and I will tell you what
                  they are required to pay!"
               Demanding tax for the unfortunate past time was a principle entirely new to them;
                  and the astonished Jimie replied:
               "What! not satisfied with the tax for the present month, but want to be paid for
                  so many months when they could scarcely earn living? Why, it's outrageous! I don't
                  believe you are the tax-collectors—how do I know who you are?"
               "Here, sir, here are my papers;" said Parker, handing a roll of papers to Jimie,
                  "do you think I would go about collecting without proper authority,
                  sir?" and again commenced whirling the leaves of his book, as if in search of
                  something of great importance.
               Jimie looked hastily over the roll, and, handing it back, remarked:
               
               "That is all right sir; but where is your law for collecting tax for the time
                     past?"
               "I have not the law with me, but I know that that is the law," said Parker,
                  sharply.
               "Now, see here," said Jimie more calmly, "these men are not going to pay that tax,
                  and you may just as well pack off about your own business—my opinion is, that you
                  are a pair of swindling blacklegs."
               This aroused Miller to action again; and, keying his nasal voice into a
                  disagreeable pitch, he replied:
               "None of your slack, young man, none of your slack; remember that we are
                     officers of the law; and I might send you where you'll never
                  meddle with our rights any more." But this threat aroused Jimie, and he said:
               "You may think that I am speaking very plain, but really I believe you are both
                  d—d scoundrels," and rising from his dinner, hastily throwing down his tin-plate,
                  and stamping his foot, "They shall not pay that tax! Be off! you are
                  swindlers, scoundrels, away with you!"
               But Miller, being a politician, was very passionate, and depending upon his knives
                  and pistols for enforcing his principles, said:
               "Stop your mouth, you" (swearing violently) "foreign advocate, or I'll rip your
                  heart out," and flourishing his bowie-knife, stamping upon the ground, and foaming
                  with rage; while Jimie hastily, said:
               "You are a villain! a coward! thief! but before any more words were uttered,
                  Miller rushed upon him.
               The crowd all rushed! Charley seized Jimie; Parker and the German (before alluded
                  to) seized Miller, but just in time to prevent the knife entering Jimie's heart,
                  for the passionate youth was too enraged to fear even the weapons that were
                  glittering around him. The excitement had collected a large crowd, which now made
                  so much noise as to prevent anything being heard about the license, while they
                  kept Jimie and Miller separate. Parker persuaded the spectators, or at least all
                  who could hear his voice, that these foreigners had the richest claim in the
                  cañon, and that, as they were not willing to pay the tax, he was going to sell it.
                  Such news to those who were without claims, and who were anxious to obtain one,
                  succeeded in prejudicing a large number against the party. But for all that, a
                  decided majority were in favor of having their claim sold, yet the injured
                  minority were so enraged as to wish to settle the affair by a general battle; but,
                  before anything more serious occurred, the affrighted Uncle Thomas agreed to pay
                  for one month's license, which, together with the excitement of the enraged crowd,
                  induced Parker and Miller to take a hurried leave—leaving Charley without
                  receiving his tax. In a few minutes after this, the crowd began to disperse, and
                  soon Uncle Thomas's party were left alone, to reflect upon the unhappy and
                  provoking outrage. But nothing was so grievous to Jimie as to think that the old
                  man yielded, and finally paid the tax, against his wishes; and, for this simple
                  act, the aggrieved youth became despondent and melancholy; and in tears he
                  commenced to weep, because he had failed to protect his aged companion.
               "Uncle," said he, and his eyes were full, "I would rather you had not paid the
                  tax," and, turning his face to hide his tears, he heard the old man say:
               "If I had known it would so displease you, Jimie, I should not have paid it," and
                  in dead silence this once happy little party now sat brooding over the past, and
                  dreading the future.
               To their work they proceeded, more like statues than living men, and scarcely a
                  word escaped their lips or relieved their sorrowed minds, while in silence they
                  plied their tools, fearing that every hour might drive them from their property
                  and leave them penniless.
               The day sped by; the moon arose and stood fair over their mountain-house, and the
                  night was still and clear. Far in the distance a few hungry wolves were howling,
                  but the lofty branches of the wild forest, still as the twinkling stars, were
                  casting their variegated shadows over the noiseless cañon, where thousands of
                  wearied miners were sleeping; and naught else disturbed the melancholy gloom that
                  seemed to hover over the lonely eve. But alas! how changed were the little party
                  now from the happy one a little while
                  before! There, upon that same favorite log, they sit in calm silence, while sad
                  and dreary hours roll by, and note each fearful conjecture with a smothered sigh.
                  No pleasing tales carry memory back to their hopeful boyhood scenes; no joyous
                  laugh disturbs their quietness; no metaphysical researches excite their reflective
                  powers; no, the meditative three sit in trouble, sorrow, and in fear. They
                  retired; but, lo!, how long, how long that restless night! The fair morning
                  dawned, and the discomfited trio arose to
                  encounter still greater troubles.
               It was early, and few had arisen; but a single sound struck terror to Uncle
                  Thomas's party—it was the sound of miners at labor!
               "Uncle!" said Jimie, and his voice was excited, "uncle, our claim is taken!" and
                  ere the words had left his lips, the injured boy was flying toward their ground.
                  Charley was by his side, and Uncle Thomas was following close after.
               "What does this mean?" demanded Jimie.
               "It means that we're going to work this ground," the others replied.
               "But you can't have it—we own it—we have paid our money for it," said Jimie.
               "But you're foreigners, and won't pay your taxes," said the others.
               "Not all of us—I'm an American, and this old man has paid his tax."
               "But ain't you an Englishman?"
               "No, I am not, and I have been trying to protect these men from that infamous
                  tax."
               "Then you're no friend to your country."
               "Not if it makes me steal from a foreigner."
               "Well! you're a d—d tory, for taking sides with them in opposing the law."
               "Do you call me a tory because I will not steal from foreigners?"
               "I don't care what you are, but you're a d—d villain, or you would stand up for
                  the law."
               "Don't call me a villain," said Jimie, walking boldly forward, "or I'll floor your
                  thieving carcass—you cowardly villain!"
               "Well, you're a tory, or else you'd stand up for American
                  rights!"
               "You! the audacity to talk of rights? what are our
                     rights?—equality! If these men are foreigners, what of it? Must
                  they not hold property? Are not they as much entitled to the gold, hidden in the
                  earth, as you are? The government of this or any other country, has no right to
                  make a distinction among men—to take from one and give to another."
               "We don't care about that—it's the law; and we ain't going to see the gold carried
                  away from our country to another."
               "These men were not going to carry it away."
               "Then why don't they get naturalized?"
               "That's neither your business nor mine; they are by nature free, to live in this
                  country or any other. Neither is it wise, or safe to the country, to force men to
                  swear allegiance to it, in order to evade an enormous tax. By that very principle,
                  every foreigner who makes anything will be sure to leave the country."
               "Well, we want them to leave—they are a d—d thieving, drunken set, anyhow."
               "But we have no right to wish them to leave! for it is their right to live in
                  which country will give them the most comfort."
               "But they are carrying away the wealth of our country!"
               "So the King of China says to persons coming into his country. But why do so many
                  wealthy Americans go to France, Switzerland and Italy to spend a hundred times
                  larger fortunes than what any miner gets here—I say why does our 'free' government
                  not pass a law preventing such gentlemen from leaving, unless they will give
                  security to bring back more money than they carry away?—a pretty
                     freedom that, indeed!"
               "Well, we don't care about that—we're going to work this ground, that's the fact
                  of the business," and, continuing to work rapidly upon the claim, muttered, "d—n a
                  man that won't stand up for the honor of his country in preference to any
                  other."
               
               "You talk of honor to your country!" repeated Jimie. "You boast of
                  equal rights, and then plunder the weak! It's like the banking system—'who have no
                  money, have the biggest moths!' Poor, penniless pups are the first to boast about
                  national glory and honor! But don't you see that your baby-looking distinction
                  among the people is breaking down what national honor we have? You! talk of honor
                  to your country, and steal other people's property."
               "We don't care about that—such is the law, and we are going to stick to it."
               "Yes, it's the law, and who made it? A blackleg governor? But it was made before
                  the people got to vote upon it, and it shows just what people will do when no
                  foreign votes are present—it shows what blacklegs are after, by trying to exclude
                  foreigners from a voice? You talk of honor! you do it because the thieving law
                  upholds your taking other people's property—honor is the most distant thing from
                  your nature. It is only those who look upon all men by nature free, and possessed
                  of equal rights, and deserving of justice and protection, who can, claim an
                  honorable attachment to American freedom; and whoever denies the
                  foreigner protection, and the comforts, and the benefits of the country, is
                  himself foreign to our liberty; a dangerous and dishonorable citizen, and totally
                  destitute of sympathy to his fellow creatures, and regardless of the feelings and
                  the rights of others. Is our country to be turned into a system of piracy because
                  a majority of gamblers declare certain things to be law? and does their majority
                  make justice? What's the difference between Charley and myself, that a law made to
                  simulate Divine Justice, should take his property and not mine? The Mormons may
                  teach their young that it is right to steal from other people, but they have a
                  reason for doing so, for they claim that they are the only true heirs of God; but
                  what ground have you for claiming a right to take the foreigner's property? Has
                  the Creator been revealing some extra secrets—privileges to persons born under a
                  certain flag? Foreigners have just as much right to be the favored party, and we
                  the injured, as for the present law to be in effect. The right is exactly the
                  same."
               "We don't care about these things," said the other party impatiently, "we are
                  going to work this ground, that's the fact of the matter. We don't want to quarrel
                  with anybody. We have been a long time mining in the country, and we have never
                  had a quarrel with anybody. You are the first man who has found any fault with our
                  own business. We are peaceable folks, and we don't want to harm any man, but
                     we'll have our rights! that's the fact of the business. We won't quarrel
                  with you—an unprincipled advocate of foreign rights—that's what you are!"
               "I am a man," said Jimie, "protecting their rights; but who are
                  you?—villains, robbing foreigners."
               "It isn't robbing—the law is on our side. They have no business in
                  our country at all; we don't want to go to theirs."
               "Yes, they have business in our country. God made this country for no particular
                  nation or class of people."
               "But other countries have laws protecting their own people, and we must have
                  similar laws for ourselves."
               "That's easier said than proved. Point to the country, among any of the civilized
                  nations, which makes that glaring distinction! Who knows of any such another
                  legislation? But even if they did—which they do not—must we follow their conduct?
                  Had we typed after them in legislation, would we have been so prosperous as we
                  are? Is it not because we have extended more justice and liberty to the common
                  people than other governments have, that we have prospered more than any other? Is
                  it not these favorable inducements which have brought foreigners to the country;
                  and made her what she is?"
               "But we don't care about that—we're going to work this around; and, if you don't
                  like it, you can lump it, that's the fact of the matter."
               "No you are not," said Jimie, getting enraged, "you can't work it except you do it
                  against mine and Charley's will—we bought the ground, and we'll have it."
               Suiting the action to his words, he commenced with his shovel to work where the
                  other party were scraping out the gold. By this time the miners had, one by one,
                  and two by two, enlarged the little meeting into one of considerable magnitude;
                  and among these spectators a continual
                  hum of voices rendered the scene fearfully interesting. Uncle Thomas was standing
                  by his young companions, evidently contemplating seriously upon American riots!
                  Yes, poor soul, he carried no firearms or bowie knives, and though he was no
                  coward at heart, what could he expect to do among the "lawless
                     Americans" But with all his learning how little he knew of the real
                  American character! Like a few in our own country, he had listened to the inhuman
                  abuse of political newspapers, until he fancied that anything not born upon his
                  native soil could not possibly be good! a curious conclusion, for which a person
                  might wish to hide himself at the day of Judgment. But really, Uncle Thomas had
                  some reason to be afraid, for, in most countries, the governments are in advance
                  of the people, and are setting examples to the people in reference to their
                  conduct with each other—he had met such poor encouragement from a law made by the
                  (supposed) first people of the country, that he expected but little mercy from the
                  common laboring people; neither did it enter his mind who it was that imposed the
                  beating upon him when in his ravine claim. But we must not be too hard upon Uncle
                  Thomas, for, with all his impressions, he was a man, and, in that consideration
                  alone, he deserved protection and support to his rights, the same as any other;
                  and the government that will not give him these—his natural rights—is impartial in
                  principle, and undeserving the support and encouragement of all honest men. But to
                  our story.
               Jimie had scarcely stationed himself upon their ground when Charley and Uncle
                  Thomas also came forward to reclaim their property. "Stand by me, Charley," said
                  Jimie, "we'll route the cowardly puppies."
               "Faith I'm in wid ye, Jimie," said Charley, casting his eyes up and down the
                  pick-handle, in rather a scientific manner, as if it might soon be needed for
                  "knot"-making purposes. The other party were considerably larger, and decidedly
                  too powerful to be considered an equal match for these; but Jimie was as rash as
                  he was bold, or as he was intelligent; and he was entirely regardless of the
                  strength of the other party. However, as soon as he commenced shoveling the
                  alluvial among the precious earth, where the gold was abundant, the others were
                  obliged to desist, and one of those legal intruders called out, "Now, stop that;
                  stop that; or you may get badly hurt." "Not by you, you coward!" said Jimie,
                  advancing boldly toward him.
               "Your a d—d villain, and won't stand up for the rights of your country," said the
                  others, fiercely.
               "Robbery is not right, nor shall any of you call me a villain either," said Jimie;
                  but, at this time, voices from the crowd were saying, "Give it to 'em, Jimie: give
                  it to 'em, Jimie!" but an opposite party—who also had an eye to the rich
                  claim—were crying: "Down with the foreigners; down with 'em—we don't want 'em to
                  be meddling with our rights; down with 'em," and for awhile the noise and
                  confusion were so great that it was impossible to distinguish what was said by
                  either party. But, at this critical moment, a few resolute men rushed between the
                  parties and declared that there should be no fighting, and that the affair should
                  be settled by arbitration. This determination met the approbation of the crowd,
                  and in a few minutes sufficient order was restored to enable them to choose a
                  jury. This respectable body of twelve became seated upon a log, and the court was
                  opened, and the trial commenced. The evidence was all given—just exactly as we
                  have already related it—and, without any embarrassment, by lawyers, when the jury
                  withdrew to counsel upon the matter as seemed right in their own eyes—at least so
                  far as the law of State (for at this time it was a State) would allow them. After
                  a few minutes' deliberation they returned, and gave the following as their
                  impartial and unchangeable decision:
               "Gentlemen, this young man" (pointing toward Jimie) "is entitled to one-third part
                  of the ground; and the old man has paid his license, therefore, he is entitled to
                  another third of the ground. But this young Irishman" (pointing toward Charley)
                  "has not paid his license, therefore it is unnecessary for us to give him any
                  share, for the others can take it away according to law; but we do believe that,
                  as he has paid money for the ground, he ought to be paid back the same
                  amount."
               "He hasn't paid anything," shouted a great number of voices "the old man paid all
                  the money himself."
               
               Uncle Thomas then explained the manner in which the purchase was made; whereupon,
                  the jury decided that Charley should not receive anything, but that his part
                  should be paid to the old man. Thus ended the court, and the crowd scattered off
                  to their respective places, to eat their breakfasts and prepare for their day's
                  work.
               Jimie's youthful face was clouded; his gay, brilliant eyes no longer directed his
                  aged companion's attention to the lively scenes around him, nor to the beauties of
                  the deep green foliage of the wild forest, but, glimmering with tears, they were
                  fixed on the ground. His mild and pleasing voice was frozen, and every look
                  evinced the most depressing sadness; but this stillness expressed the dreadful
                  conflict between affection and reason. By his side sat his youthful friend, who
                  reverenced his talents, and felt as if the blood was oozing from every pore, while
                  those tears of grief were falling—and watching to learn his will, he too was
                  silent and sad. But another seemed worn down with grief and trouble. His thin,
                  white locks floated wildly about his aged face; his reflective eyes turned
                  alternately from his youthful friend to the ground of contention; but every moment
                  seemed to sever a lingering fiber of his remaining hopes, and to pierce his
                  troubled mind with renewed agony and despair.
               Thus in perfect silence they sat, and partook of their humble fare; and, while the
                  thoughts of each rambled over a long series, of misfortunes, and the woeful
                  disappointments which had followed their honest exertion among their
                  fellow-creatures, they all feared that the time for their final separation had at
                  last arrived; and each one dreaded to break the melancholy stillness, lest a new
                  series of sorrow would overwhelm their parting scene. But, at last, a timorous
                  voice broke the spell:
               "Charley, we must leave uncle," he said, and again a death-like silence ensued.
                  The poor old man grew sadder still, but his regard for his young friend was so
                  sacred, that his feeble voice could scarcely speak, and with deeply-expressive
                  eyes resting in Jimie's face, he feebly said:
               "But you will not leave me—will you?" and again they were silent for
                  a moment; but Jimie replied:
               "Charley has no place to work, and I cannot leave him." Uncle Thomas looked
                  steadily at his friend, and, while tears dimmed his eyes, he again said:
               "I would rather lose the claim, Jimie, and start poor again than to have you leave
                  me."
               "But you have an opportunity for making a fortune by staying here, and Charley has
                  not!" said Jimie, becoming cool; and, rising, he and Charley started to prepare
                  their blankets ready to move. The old man arose and said:
               "Jimie, I will forfeit my claim and follow you—I have no other friend in the
                  country." But Jimie replied:
               "Uncle, you cannot accompany us," and the old man turned pale, trembled, and
                  exclaimed:
               "O! Jimie, my friend!" and with a nervous voice, added, "have I again displeased
                  you?"
               After a few minutes' silence, our noble youth (and sample of America) too
                     hastily uttered these words, "Uncle, I have done all I could to protect
                  you; I have tried to make you happy in my country. But on several occasions you
                  have abused Republicanism; and as often have I told you that this cruel robbery
                  was not owing to the system of our government, but to the pecuniary
                  and unprincipled politicians who settle in new territory; and yet, for all you are
                  aware that the government here is composed principally of gamblers and schoolboys,
                  you still persisted that the fault was in Republicanism. For a long time you have
                  wounded my feelings upon this subject, but my great regard for you has prevented
                  me from expressing my sentiments; but remember, uncle, that, when any foreigner
                  abuses Republicanism, he is throwing a dagger at every American's heart—for the
                  two are as inseparable as the Centaur—and every word lessens his love and esteem
                  for the foreigner."
               "Jimie," said the old man, with a trembling voice, "whatever I may have said,
                  believe me, my friend, my only friend, Jimie, I never said it with malice; neither
                  was I aware that I injured your feelings; for, sooner would I part with all I'm
                  worth than have you think that I have so little regard for you. Jimie, my friend! pardon me for all I have said—I
                  cannot live!" and he seated his form upon the never-to-be-forgotten log, and
                  added:
               "O! God! am I to live alone again!" and hiding his face in his hands, his voice
                  ceased.
               Jimie and Charley arranged their luggage and prepared to leave. Again the old man
                  asked:
               "Jimie, my friend! will you not retract, and allow me to accompany you? say you
                  will Jimie, for I cannot live if you leave me!" And with eyes filled with tears he
                  looked into Jimie's cold face, and heard that once pleasant voice, now so chill,
                  say:
               "Never! uncle, I wish to leave you," and immediately the old man hid his face and
                  cried with grief!
               Charley, and then Jimie, shook his feeble hand—let go the cordial grasp, and
                  turned toward the green mountains.
               With glimmering eyes Uncle Thomas sat silently looking after their youthful steps
                  until their persons disappeared among the wild forest.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE winter was past, and the clear sky of the, approaching summer was sparkling
                  with stars, and casting a metallic luster over the glimmering bay. The pipes and
                  horns from the gambling saloons were sending their melodious tones over the
                  slumbering city, and extending their never-ending echo beyond the still water and
                  wasting among the distant hills.
               In the door of a small house, and facing the enchanting prospect, sat a fair lady.
                  Plain and neatly dressed, her beautiful form was reclining, her elbow upon her
                  knee, her pearl-white hand upon her brow, and her brown curls hanging heedlessly
                  over her rosy cheeks; but her dark-gray eyes were gazing over the silvery water,
                  and revealing the half-despondent sentiments that escaped her parted lips at every
                  throb of her aching heart.
               "Ah!" she said, "three thousand miles beyond this forest of ships, and this noble
                  bay, is the home I left—where at good father and mother are weeping for me! Ellen!
                  Mary! Martha! Bella! Ah! how oft, in years long gone by, our little arms were
                  locked in love! when we went merrily skipping, and happily mingling our childish
                  voices, lisping playful accents which even yet are dear to me, that drive back my
                  soul upon a seat of love and sorrow! Ah! would that these lamentable years could
                  all be recalled, and I once more within the happy home I left; but alas! the time
                  is past, and I am alone, a wanderer in a strange land, and surrounded with a life
                  of trouble and grief!" But approaching footsteps broke her reverie, and she
                  said:
               "Mrs. Case, I suppose this is the last evening I shall enjoy with you. Come and
                  sit in the door, and enjoy the evening."
               "Why, law me," said the good-natured fat woman, seating herself upon the greater
                  part of the door-sill, and resting her dimply-jointed hand upon Harriet's
                  shoulder, "you are really discouraged; I believe you're mighty nigh giving up in
                  despair. Why laws, if I'd a give up like you, I'd never got my John, I know," and
                  she turned her broad, laughing face upward, and backward, to look at a 'regular
                  built' man, in a blue shirt, with his knees very familiarly bracing against her
                  shoulders.
               "Ay!" said he, "there's no pity for me, I'm sure; but that's it—woman-like,
                  exactly, catch a fellow, and then blow about it, and encourage other young girls
                  to try their hands upon some poor young fellow. But I'll tell you, Harriet, if you
                  ever do marry anybody, don't for goodness' sake, don't get so fat as my wife
                  is—but try and have some regard for your husband's comfort."
               "Why, John, law me," said the fat woman, laughing, "are you forgetting that one
                  half of the year is cold weather? remember, firewood is very expensive here in
                  winter—then when you're out all day in the rain, you know."
               "O! but summer!"
               "Why law me, John, you're getting ungallant; but you know I needn't insist, for I
                  can get another husband very easily—they're cheaper in this country than any other
                  place in the world; most of the women here have two or three—and then this climate
                  is so wholesome for women, you know."
               
               "Ay, that's it, exactly so, get a poor fellow to love you, and then talk of
                  leaving—leaving him where he can't get another."
               "Hark!" exclaimed Harriet, as the report of at cannon came booming up the hill.
                  "Another Panama steamer; but I do wonder if all the people in the other States are
                  coming to California—it seems as though the people will never stop coming."
               "Why, law me, the way you jumped at the crack of that gun, I thought something had
                  bit you. You see, John, there's where fat nerves are not easily shook, like your
                  common ones are. But see! there is some one coming! Let us go into the house."
               Scarcely had they risen when a voice called out:
               "Does Harriet Lindsey live here yet?"
               "Why, law me, Mr. Parker!" said Mrs. Case, "is that you? Why come in, dear me, we
                  thought you were lost—come in, come in and sit down."
               A feeling of fear, trouble, anxiety, pleasure and pain darted through Harriet's
                  brain at the sound of his voice; and shaking with excitement she accompanied Mrs.
                  Case into the sitting-room. This was Parker's first return from his tax-collecting
                  tour, and his absence had led them to believe that perhaps they should never meet
                  him again; but, on coming so suddenly upon them, his clear voice thrilled them
                  with great pleasure and surprise.
               During Parker's absence, the country had advanced very materially; post-offices
                  had been established in many places; churches were being erected; prisons and
                  watch-houses were getting more common; poor people, thieves, counterfeiters, and,
                  in fact, the general course of civilization was beginning to be established
                  throughout the country. Merchants and bankers were breaking up, trust was less
                  common, and everybody began to look upon their neighbors—like they do in all other
                  places throughout the world with suspicion, fear, jealousy and dissatisfaction;
                  and the fair name of California was lowering to the standard of other countries,
                  lowering in her own estimation, and in the estimation of everybody else; and
                  immorality and wickedness were becoming as deeply seated in all classes as they
                  are in the old countries. Ay, the land of the West was becoming civilized! and
                  idle people were beginning to feast upon its produce by street-preaching and
                  political speeches. Therefore, under these considerations, Parker's gaudy, black
                  suit, finger-rings, gold-mounted walking-stick, and polished silver-looking spurs
                  were not at all unbecoming an officer of our great Republic, but gave
                  him an air of uncommon power and dignity. To give him his due, he was a gentleman
                  in appearance, and not so haughty and aristocratic as his naturally noble and
                  manly form actually represented him. With a graceful lift of his hat, he politely
                  bowed himself into Mrs. Case's establishment, passed the common questions of
                  politeness, and reaching his hand into one of his pockets, turned toward Harriet,
                  and said:
               "Miss Lindsey, I have brought a letter for you, here it is."
               The word letter startled poor Harriet, and she sprang to her feet and exclaimed,
                  "A letter! a letter!" and the sad thought of not having been lately to the
                  post-office, produced so much mortification of feeling that she sank back upon her
                  chair and almost fainted.
               During her stay in the city she had written a score of letters, and visited the
                  post-office as often, but, having had no word from her lover, the sad thought of
                  him not being, alive, had caused her, for several weeks past, to abandon all her
                  hopes, and resign herself to her supposed miserable condition. But the word letter brought back all her former enthusiasm, and she fancied
                  herself at last discovered, and sure to meet the object of her attachment—thoughts
                  too happy for her despondent condition.
               Mrs. Case put the letter into her hand, but lo! instead of from her intended, it
                  was from her old friend, Mrs. Ellis!
               With dejected and disappointed feelings the poor girl half read the letter, and
                  dropped it into her lap, as if unconscious of the conversation going on between
                  Mr. Case and Parker, who were commenting, at considerable length, upon "bad roads
                  and dull times."
               After a few minutes of 'brown study,' Harriet asked Parker"
               "Are you acquainted with Mr. and Mrs. Ellis?"
               "But very slightly, Miss Lindsey," said he, "I have seen them on several occasions
                  but, having heard you speaking of them,
                  I was telling them about you, and Mrs. Ellis said she would like to have you come
                  and live with her."
               "O! I am going to start there to-morrow," replied Harriet, "but I'm glad her
                  invitation has reached me; I not only know that I shall be welcome, but I can
                  easily find her. Is Marysville a pleasant place?"
               "Very, Miss Lindsey, very;" said Parker, "it stands upon an elevated piece of
                  table-land, on the banks of the Yuba. From that city you can view the Snowy
                  Mountains and the three Butes; and beside, you look over a level plain as far as
                  your eyes are capable of seeing; and then you are not troubled with these severe
                  cold winds—so disagreeable in this city. My sister likes Marysville very much
                  indeed."
               "O! your sister has arrived then?" said Harriet.
               "Yes," he continued, "she is out at last, and as I'm going to Marysville
                  to-morrow, I shall expect to introduce her to you—she is good company
                  I can assure you."
               "Introduce me to her, if you please," said Harriet, smiling at his
                  compliment.
               "Any way, Miss Lindsey, I'm not particular; but I haven't time to discuss the
                  subject to-night, I must prepare for leaving on the eight o'clock boat," and
                  looking at his gaudy gold watch, he added, "it's getting late. I suppose you have
                  had a lonesome time here this winter—no society or amusements."
               "No," said Harriet, "Mrs. Case and I, either give parties or attend some others,
                  two or three times a week, and then we have plenty of books, and plenty to talk
                  about."
               "How many ladies do you have at your parties?"
               "Well," said Harriet, "there is Mrs. Strong, Mrs. Case and myself—three
                  altogether."
               "Well, really, that is a party."
               "But," said Harriet, "the greatest trouble is, that if we all talk at once there
                  is nobody to listen to us."
               "I should like to have been the listener," said Parker, laughing.
               "Indeed," said the fat woman, "if you would have heard some of the sorry tales
                  about that foreign tax, you'd a wished you'd never been a tax collector. Why law
                  me! there was an Englishman up here from Nevada, who had all his tools broken, and
                  his house tore down, and law bless me! I don't know what all they done to him,
                  'cause he didn't pay the tax, and he had no money to pay it with. O! laws! I know
                  you wouldn't a liked our tea parties," finishing with a hearty laugh.
               "Ah! but I do not treat them so, Mrs. Case; I use mild means. We haven't destroyed
                  anybody's property since we have been collecting, except, perhaps a couple of
                  hundred dollars worth of stuff for some of these blue-faced Chinese. O! no! we are
                  not so bad as you seem to think, I'm sure. But, really, I'm over-staying my time,
                  I must go. I shall meet you to-morrow morning, Miss Lindsey," and after a few
                  social remarks, the worthy individual bid them a good-night. As soon as he
                  disappeared, the others commenced a general investigation of his personal
                  attractions. Mrs. Case was not aware that he had ever been a gambler, and she was
                  fully convinced that such a clever fellow could not possibly be a bad man. Harriet
                  viewed him very differently; and as often as a hint of him being her future
                  companion escaped Mrs. Case's lips, just that often the poor girl could have cried
                  with grief. The idea of changing her attachment caused her to tremble at her own
                  weakness; for she had too much perceptions not to perceive the change in her
                  impressions in regard to Parker; and the more she reasoned upon such an influence,
                  the more she feared that her weakness would yet be overcome—then it seemed so
                  mysterious that he should happen to be going to Marysville at the same time with
                  herself. In fact, there were so many incidents in his life that seemed like her
                  own that she was nearly frightened at her own contemplations.
               The next morning was clear. A cool wind, betokening coming summer, was gently
                  flapping the thousand sails which nestled among the forest of ships, and rudely
                  whirling clouds of dust over the wooden city. The rising tide was rushing madly
                  beneath the long wharves, and partially drowning the busy hum of human voices
                  above. All ages and colors, from China to Turkey, and from thence to "Pike
                  County," were hurrying in grand confusion among the drays and innumerable
                  "greasy-pork barrels," which seemed to
                  extend in every direction, further than the eye could see. The dense fog was
                  nearly gone, and the ever-bright-California sun was proudly dispelling the gloomy
                  misgivings that chanced to lurk in the brain of the "unlucky," by the glorious
                  contrast of his brilliant flame to the smoky, dull clouds of weary winter. The
                  same arm that protected Harriet from the (savagely polite) hotel keepers a few
                  months before, now conducted her down to the boat—a boat that presented a pleasing
                  contrast to the one that brought them to San Francisco; and one, too, that Seemed
                  adapted to the great river in which she was about to travel.
               Harriet was politely conducted to the beautiful cabins, but only to look a moment,
                  then to return and, take her leave of Mrs. Case. With those affectionate feelings,
                  only known to the confidential, kind words and wishes were spoken, the embrace
                  relaxed, and amid smiles and tears the two ladies parted.
               The boat's bell was ringing, and Harriet walked on board. The mighty wheels
                  commenced to revolve, and the noble vessel moved away. Two snowy handkerchiefs
                  were waving, but soon the smiles and tears of the fond females were lost by the
                  distance. Far out into the great bay the proud steamer wound among the crowd of
                  ships, dragging the long, gray volumes of smoke around lofty masts behind; then
                  plunging through the dimply sea, she made the glistening sheet boil wherever she
                  moved; each awful puff driving her clipper breast boldly through the dark-blue
                  waves, and every moment revealing newer scenes along the attractive bluffs. Long
                  and anxiously did Harriet continue to gaze upon the fading form of Mrs. Case; and
                  at each receding move she thought the view was closed, but anon her weeping eyes
                  regained the spot, only to cause a new flood of tears. At last the boat made a
                  long curve, and the touching scene was ended. Parker perceived her sadness, asked
                  her to pace the deck, and she consented.
               "You seem sad, Miss Lindsey!"
               "Ah!" said Harriet, "I have parted with a good friend; I am sorry to leave
                  her."
               "This traveling on a boat, Miss Lindsey, puts one in mind of our Ohio and
                  Mississippi river boats. I could wish myself back again this morning!"
               "I wish I was back!" said Harriet.
               "Then I suppose you intend to return soon?"
               "Perhaps never!" said Harriet, sorrowfully.
               "O! you are too hasty; you put me in mind of the unlucky miners; but I suppose you
                  have a great desire to see your connections?"
               "I have, but I have a poor prospect of ever getting to see them any more."
               "Why, you are really discouraged, but may I ask if you have no connections living
                  in this country?"
               "No, none," she replied.
               "But you did not come all the way to California without your relations?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "I beg pardon for being so inquisitive, but really your adventure seems so
                  wonderfully strange that it is impossible for me to resist!"
               "My life has been a hard one, at least for the last two years," said Harriet.
               "But you have manifested such a wonderful degree of perseverance! Though I cannot
                  hear of the misfortunes which drove others to this country without remembering my
                  own."
               "I can scarcely say that it was misfortune that drove me to California."
               "But you couldn't have come for the purpose of enjoyment?"
               "No, I can't say I did, but most assuredly I thought it the best I could do under
                  the peculiar circumstances," said Harriet, but Parker was watching every word;
                  and, half musing, he said:
               "Circumstances—circumstances! And you have found none of your Cincinnati
                  acquaintances since your arrival in the country?"
               But, woman-like, she was anxious for a new subject, and pointing over the bay, she
                  answered:
               
               "No, none, but see! you are neglecting to view the tops of the Nevadas! Are they
                  not beautiful?"
               "No, I was noticing them, they are."
               "Ah!" exclaimed Harriet, "I remember when I was among those mountains! I often
                  think about the Michigan Company; but ah! they are all scattered now!"
               "But do you not know any other lady except Mrs. Ellis, who crossed the
                  plains?"
               "Why," said Harriet, "there was a Mrs. Hamlin whom I knew, but I——"
               "Mrs. Hamlin!" exclaimed Parker, "Mrs. Julia Hamlin! a little black-eyed
                  woman!"
               "Yes," said Harriet, regarding him with great anxiety, "yes, do you know her?"
               "Yes, I do," said Parker, and struggling to overcome some inward feeling, he
                  asked:
               "Did you know her husband?"
               "I knew him, but I had no acquaintance with him in particular," said Harriet.
               "Do you think he looked anything like me?"
               "Well, I do not know, but—" said Harriet, but, as if pierced with some dreadful
                  weapon, her voice ceased, a heavy sigh escaped her lips, and she stood trembling,
                  and earnestly looking upon a little white dog that ran jumping about the deck in
                  defiance of all common rules of etiquette!
               From the moment that her eye first caught a glimpse of the little fellow, not an
                  instant passed but she seemed to be examining every hair on his back. Parker
                  continued to address her upon the subject above, as if that was the cause of her
                  emotion; but her answers became so wild and confused that he was about to ask the
                  occasion of her excitement, when she turned deathly pale, and holding upon his arm
                  for support, seemed about to sink in her tracks.
               "O! Mr. Parker! let me sit down," she exclaimed in broken accents, and fainted
                  upon one of the deck seats. Her eyes continued upon the little dog, but only to
                  increase her emotions. Parker then perceived the dog, but, still unable to account
                  for such a strange scene, was himself becoming alarmed. She had not been seated
                  more than half a minute when the little curly-haired dog came jumping close
                  by—speaking in his own language, but uttering such expressions as were too
                  familiar to poor Harriet. She looked quickly about the deck, as if in search of
                  some one, but again her eyes turned upon the little dog.
               "Sporty! Sporty!" said she, nearly overcome with confusion. The little dog turned
                  his yellow eyes quickly toward her face, and seemed to be puzzled.
               "Sporty!" again said Harriet, which the little follow answered by a gentle wag of
                  his stumpy tail, seeming as if trying to treasure up all his past history, and
                  apologizing for his ignorance. But very movement he made, gave Harriet additional
                  confusion.
               "Sporty! Sporty!" said she, but the little dog whimpered, and then, as if nearly
                  dying to know who was calling his name, commenced rolling over and over at her
                  feet.
               Harriet could stand it no longer, but placing her hand upon him, again called,
                  "Sporty, Sporty!" and in an instant he leaped into her lap!
               Harriet gave him a cordial embrace, which he returned according to the best of his
                  ability; but, leaping upon the deck, he commenced capering rapidly in every
                  direction, returning often to Harriet's lap, then again skipping off to divert her
                  attention. Poor Harriet would have given a world to hear that little dog talk! and
                  he seemed equally grieved that he could not.
               Harriet yet sat trembling, and looking most anxiously among the crowd of
                  passengers, but seemed desirous of concealing her emotions. Parker spoke to her
                  about the dog, but no answer to his inquiries escaped her lips. Fixed upon some
                  different subject her mind was still entirely absorbed; and yet the excitement of
                  her faculties plainly showed she was expecting something still more important to
                  be revealed.
               At a little distance were two men in conversation, to one of whom the little dog
                  made rapid visits, returning at each interval to Harriet. This gentleman was what
                  might be very positively described as a fat man. He was of middle age, and wore an
                  expression of desirable familiarity. His whole soul seemed to be resting in his face and imparting good influence to
                  whoever chanced to look upon him; in fact, goodness was pictured in his very look.
                  He had perceived the recognition of Harriet and his little dog, and, while he
                  conversed with his friend, his smiles were resting upon both Harriet and "Sporty."
                  Though all of this only lasted for two or three minutes, yet to Harriet it seemed
                  an age. She was, in fact, becoming still more confused, and although Parker
                  offered her any assistance she could have wished for, yet she seemed, to know, or
                  hear, nothing he said. The little fat man perceived her condition, and advanced to
                  inquire into the particulars.
               "Do you know that dog, Miss?" said he.
               "Yes," said Harriet, gazing wildly in his face.
               "Well, I'll declare that's strange," said he. "But I guess you'd be surprised to
                  know that dog's history. Though I don't see how you came to know him."
               "Is he your dog?" Harriet asked.
               "Well, I'll tell you, Miss, I claim him, but I am not his real master."
               "Is his master on board?" Harriet asked.
               "No, Miss, but I wish he was. I'd give a whole potato crop to know how he is
                  getting on."
               "Then you are acquainted with him?" said she.
               "No, Miss, I never seed him but once, and that was the time I got that little
                  dog."
               "And where was that," Harriet asked, scarcely able to retain her
                  self-possession.
               "Well, Miss, that's what makes that dog so valuable to me. The little fellow got
                  so tired that he couldn't follow his master; and when he stopped at my wagon, on
                  the Plains, to rest, the little dog fell asleep, and his master went on without
                  him. But I guess I'll find him sometime. Yes, Miss, he left him with me on the
                  Plains. And I tell you, Miss, his master had a hard time on't. But may be you know
                  more about him than I do?"
               "No, but I am anxious to find him; will you tell me all you know of him?"
               "Well, Miss, the most I know is, that he had a hard time on't with his mates, and
                  that he left them and went on to overtake a man and his wife who were on ahead,
                  and that it was then I seed him. But whatever came of him after that, I don't
                  know. He was very sick when I seed him."
               In a moment Harriet's excitement turned to sorrow. A deep, heavy gloom hovered
                  over her face—her eyes were directed earnestly toward the fat man, yet she made no
                  reply, and waited with inexpressible anxiety to hear him say something more; but
                  alas! he had, told all he knew. Thus, fixed in gloomy apprehensions, how gladly
                  she would have burst into tears, had she dared to make her feelings public.
               "I s'pose he's some relation of yours?" said the fat man.
               "I am trying to find him. It was on his account I came to California," said
                  Harriet, giving him one of those confidential looks so expressive of secret
                  thoughts.
               Parker was still sitting by her side, and heard her speak; but calm unconcern
                  governed his looks.
               "Here, Trimmer! come here," said the fat man, and the little dog leaped upon
                  him.
               "His name is Sporty," said Harriet, and instantly he leaped upon her.
               At this time the boat drew up at Benicia, and the fat man was about to go ashore;
                  but he had scarcely signified his intention when poor Harriet involuntarily clung
                  to the little dog as though she would rather go off herself than part with him.
                  The bell was ringing, and no time could be lost—Harriet gave her destination and
                  address to the fat man, who promised to let her know if he should hear anything of
                  the missing person. He started on shore, but the little dog remained with Harriet.
                  He looked back, first to Harriet, then to the dog, laughing, "Ah!" said he, "I
                  believe he loves you most, and I won't interfere in his attachment. But you must
                  tell his master about me, will you?"
               "O! certainly," said Harriet, pressing the dog close to her side.
               
               Again the clattering wheels commenced to roll, and the noble steamer floated away.
                  Harriet waved her handkerchief, which was answered by the fat man's
                  "wide-awake."
               During the bustle at the wharf—if, indeed, it could be called a wharf—Parker
                  withdrew, but not so far as to lose sight of Harriet's actions. For some time
                  after the boat started on, he was earnestly discussing the affairs of the State,
                  but of ten casting an anxious eye toward Harriet, who was talking all sorts of
                  conversation to her long lost friend—the dog. And even the dog seemed sensible of
                  her distress, often looking into her face as if nearly inclined to make an attempt
                  in the English language. Her excitement and gloomy feelings gradually gave way to
                  mirthful smiles, and while watching the various tricks of little Sporty, she
                  seemed to be growing happy with her success.
               The boat continued to move up the great river, sending her echoing puffs in
                  rolling swells over the watery valley; and proudly rounding each gentle curve, her
                  graceful march seemed to be surveying the great meadow through which she traveled.
                  The little willows that hung so gracefully along the banks a few months before,
                  were now floating their leafless branches in the swollen stream. Where cattle once
                  roamed the plain, now the bright summer's sun reflected dazzling rays from large
                  shallow lakes of moving water, and the great valley seemed wild and desolate. But
                  on, beyond the vale, the same mighty mountains were resting in glorious grandeur;
                  and upon their rugged peaks the silent snows of winter had piled their greatest
                  store—half way between the heavens and the earth, their glittering sides
                  contrasted so strangely with the mild and pleasant sun that their freezing breath
                  seemed to chill the soul that viewed the glorious scene.
               To Harriet the time passed more merrily than it had since her arrival in the
                  golden State. She had scarcely finished admiring Sporty's tricks when the
                  inundated city was brought to view. She looked earnestly over the place to see her
                  old boarding-house, but, alas! its frail timbers were gone, and the city—the whole
                  city—looked sad and wretched. The flood had disappeared, but still a lake of filth
                  and mud surrounded every house. The tall sycamores, where once the gentry lounged,
                  were now deserted. Hammers and saws were ringing wherever she gazed; but many of
                  the unfortunate sufferers were still encamped at the old graveyard. The unhappy
                  sight was soon closed. The boat again moved onward. Her course up the river now
                  seemed as if going among a forest. The cluster of sycamores on either side,
                  hanging their spreading branches over the stream, but following the curve, nearly
                  hid the river ahead.
               Harriet still enjoyed Sporty's society more than she did any of her other
                  traveling companions, and frequently busied herself by giving him his old lessons,
                  of standing like a biped, in imitation of the human family.
               Parker became involved in a serious discussion on political affairs, and some time
                  elapsed before he again conversed with Harriet. The scene he had witnessed between
                  Harriet and the fat man, had given him some troublesome reflections; but,
                  determined to avail himself of as much information as possible, he finally brought
                  his discussion to a close, and advanced to her:
               "Well, Miss Lindsey, you have a very desirable little companion there," said
                  he.
               "Yes," said she, smiling.
               "You have been very fortunate, to-day. I can almost envy you your happiness in
                  finding such a fellow. Come here, Sporty," said he; but the little fellow only
                  gave him a suspicious look, and then looked at his mistress for her consent.
               "I declare, Miss Lindsey, that is a lovely dog. I am sure his master would be glad
                  to get him again!"
               "Yes, I know he would," said Harriet.
               "It is very difficult to find anybody in this country, Miss Lindsey," said
                  Parker.
               "It is, indeed."
               "I think I might be of service to you, Miss Lindsey, in finding your friend, as I
                  am traveling all over the mines. If I could, I am very willing to do so."
               "I would be very happy if you would. But perhaps it would be asking too much of a
                  favor?" said she.
               
               "O! not at all, Miss Lindsey. I should be extremely happy to do so. If you will
                  give me his name, I am quite sure I can assist you to find him. I have a very
                  extensive acquaintance throughout the country and probably I have some friends who
                  already know where he is."
               "O, you are very kind, I'm sure," said Harriet, writing the name upon a slip of
                  paper, and passing it to Mr. Parker.
               "Of course you know my address without writing it?" said Harriet.
               "Certainly, Miss Lindsey, and I feel too much interested in you to forget it. I
                  may have the pleasure of meeting you often, myself?" said Parker.
               "I should be happy——" said Harriet, but, in an instant she thought of the meaning
                  of his words, and again became confused. Parker was too close an observer to
                  neglect her confusion; but it also gave him some concern, and pausing a little, he
                  said:
               "Happy for me to meet you!"
               "You have been very kind to me," said she.
               "Thank you, Miss Lindsey. But I am still in doubt as to the object of your
                  wishes?"
               "Why, I wish to find that person of whom we were speaking."
               "But I perceive you do not claim him as a relation!" said Parker.
               "No, he is no relation."
               "Miss Lindsey, do not allow me to give you trouble. I am sure you have enough
                  already; but if I can be of any service to you I will, happily. You know I do not
                  call myself a good man. You know I have been a contemptible gambler. You are
                  right—you should not think well of me."
               "O! I think you are too hasty; for I am sure I did not intend you to think so; but
                  if I said anything of the kind, I'm very sorry."
               "Thank you, Miss Lindsey, and if I have been too hasty I hope you will reckon it
                  with all my other bad qualities. You know that such is the nature of the human
                  mind, when it commences to be bad it takes delight in indulgence; and when I think
                  about my gambling life I am so miserable that I almost wish the whole State would
                  sink for the purpose of destroying the gamblers."
               "But I don't see why you allude to gambling now—you don't gamble now, do you?"
               "Gamble!" said Parker, and his noble face flushed indignant, "gamble! I don't play
                  cards any more; but what better is my business? Don't you know that I am connected
                  with the government to plunder the foreigners in the country? and that we are
                  determined to fill our pockets off of them, even if foreign nations don't like
                  it!"
               "Why, Mr. Parker! other countries may declare war against us if you tell people
                  that!"
               "What do we care! we are at the extremity of the Union, and the other States will
                  have to fight it out. The people in the Atlantic States will then begin to
                  consider the advantages of this annexing so much distant territory."
               "But if it is wrong, why do you persist in continuing?"
               "Why, well I'll tell you;—I lost all I had, through the neglect of the Government
                  in settling those land titles—do you remember my property at Sacramento?"
               "Yes, very well," said Harriet, watching his excited looks.
               "Before that I was a good man, and, to acknowledge the truth, for the injury done
                  me, I have resolved to have vengeance; and have it I will!" but his enraged voice
                  stopped; and clenching his teeth, he turned his face to hide his passion. Harriet
                  had never seen him manifest such a feeling before, and, partially through fear,
                  and feeling sympathy for his aggrievance, remained quietly patting little
                  Sporty.
               "Yes, Miss Lindsey," said he, after a minute's suspense, "yes, you are right in
                  treating me with disrespect—I deserve it."
               "Why! Mr. Parker," she interrupted, "I surely you are mistaking me. I have not
                  expressed any such a sentiment; and certainly it is the most distant wish of my
                  mind to do so. Indeed I think you are magnifying your bad disposition—I am very
                  sorry for you having lost your property; but this is a good country, for making
                  money in, and you may soon get it all back. But I don't see anything very bad in your
                  office—you were not the one that made the law against foreigners. A good time's
                  coming," and an unreadable smile gathered about her rosy lips.
               "Let it all pass, Miss Lindsey; I'll try and not be bad any more; and if I can be
                  of any service to you, I will, gladly. I must do something good to make amends for
                  my bad disposition, and also for these actions, that deserve your contempt."
               "But I do not treat you with contempt!"
               "No, but you should; I do not want any encouragement. I tell you candidly that I
                  am unfit to be your companion."
               "But I think you are very good company; I always pass the time very happily with
                  you."
               "But I should rather you did not say so; it is the most sacred wish of my heart
                  not to hurt your feelings."
               "Neither have you, but why do you say so; have I offended you?"
               "Far from it, Miss Lindsey; you have pleased me too well; you make me feel more
                  intensely my guilty life."
               "But I did not find fault with your life! ever since you have quit gambling, I
                  have endeavored to treat you as well as I could."
               "Ah! too well, Miss Lindsey, you have spoken so mildly that I have long encouraged
                  a hope that I might some day become your——. But in the midst of my flattering
                  hopes I now perceive that your attachment is bestowed upon another! Am I not
                  right?" and his intellectual eye scanned her pale and blushing face, while she
                  faintly replied:
               "You are."
               "Then, this is the person?" and he lifted the slip of paper to see the name.
               Fear and anxiety riveted Harriet's glistening eyes upon him, for he started at the
                  name, and said:
               "Nathan Simons! Nathan Simons!" and his clear, dark eyes seemed as if they would
                  pierce the trembling girl, who sat silent by his side; but his noble brow knit,
                  then fell, then knit, then fell; and his manly face turned indignant, then mild,
                  then sad, pitiful and wretched.
               "Then, Miss Lindsey, you are engaged to be married to Nathan Simons!" Harriet was
                  too confused to reply; but, in a mild voice, Parker said: "If so, I can find him
                  for you!"
               She continued to look upon him, and then faltering, said:
               "It is so," and her immovable eyes grew dim, and her fair face turned deathly
                  pale.
               "I have often heard of him, and been somewhat acquainted with him; but it is long
                  singe I saw him; though I can soon find him, and I shall try and do it," said
                  Parker; and Harriet's face crimsoned at every word; but collecting herself a
                  little she asked:
               "Then you do know him?"
               "Well, Miss Lindsey, I have seen him on several occasions."
               "Are you sure that he yet lives?"
               "I cannot say, I am sure, but I think there is no doubt about it."
               "Where does he live?" and the poor girl's heart seemed about to leap from its
                  hiding-place.
               "Well, I'll tell you all that I know about him. Do you remember the Dutchman that
                  was killed in Sacramento?"
               "Yes, I do."
               "Well, he and Nathan Simons were partners; and Simons certainly acted the part of
                  a good man toward the Dutchman."
               "Possible! but he didn't get hurt?"
               "No, he did not; but, as I was going to say, I saw him after that on many
                  occasions; the last time I saw him, he was very ill—cholera I think it was—up in
                  the mountains between the Feather and the Yuba rivers. That was shortly after I
                  commenced collecting tax, which is now a good while ago."
               "Do you think he is there yet?" said the impatient girl.
               "O no! he is not there now; for he was then talking of leaving for the city, but
                  what city, whether Sacramento, Marysville, or San Francisco, I do not know. But I
                  remember he said he was going down to live with his connections until he
                  recovered."
               "Connections! connections!" exclaimed the disappointed lady, and her face again
                  turned pale.
               "Yes, connections; a sister, I think."
               
               "O! Mr. Parker, I am disappointed—he had no connections." and her handkerchief
                  covered her face, "perhaps he said friends?"
               "No, Miss Lindsey, I know that he said connections, and I am almost
                  sure that he said sister."
               "Then it is not the same person, and I am yet disappointed!" and alone upon
                  trembling limbs she arose, walked to her cabin and sat down to contemplate upon
                  her day's experience.
               We have neglected to mention that, at Sacramento, the passengers were under the
                  necessity of changing boats, for the larger ones could not run up the Yuba. But
                  even before entering the Yuba the short crooks, stumps, tree-tops, logs, etc. in
                  the narrow river, render it not only impassable by large boats, put fearfully
                  interesting for small ones; and to the cautious and enterprising proprietors of
                  boats, much credit is due to their perseverance for forcing steam navigation as
                  far up as the little city of Marysville; for, without boasting in the least, any
                  other people but Americans would have concluded that such a stream was only fit
                  for geese and ducks, and, at the most, the smallest kind of canoes. This remark
                  cannot apply to the main Sacramento, for even a cautious Scotchman would have
                  chanced a steamboat in such a river; neither do we wish to make light of our
                  Australian brethren for being so long in getting boats to running in the Murry;
                  but if they, and our African folks, and our companions who live on the Seine,
                  choose to take these as "side-wind" hints upon the advantages of individual
                  enterprise being unfettered by government, they are at perfect liberty to do
                  so.
               After Harriet left Parker, he commenced promenading the deck, evidently in a
                  restless state of ennui; but, being somewhat acquainted, and partially trained
                  under the man who "would drink his own heart's blood for his country's good," he
                  soon entered into a political argument—whether Captain Sutter, or Benjamin
                  Franklin, or Christopher Columbus were the most concerned in bringing America to
                  her present importance? and upon this interesting question these patriotic
                  gentlemen made quotations from the speeches of Henry Clay, Daniel Webster, and
                  from the works of Byron and Guizot; and, as important as it is to the future
                  welfare of the country, and for all that they stamped their feet, chewed tobacco,
                  and used strong oaths at the two ends of every sentence, yet, the day passed by,
                  and they finally failed to decide it satisfactorily to themselves. As this
                  question and its kindred form the topic of not a few newspapers throughout our
                  country, we shall omit; the remarks of the above-mentioned gentlemen and hurry on
                  with our story.
               It was sunset when the boat fastened to some stumps on the bank of the muddy Yuba.
                  The evening was fair, but a cold wind was coming from the distant mountains, and
                  but a few yellow clouds streaked the northern heavens. Had the steep bank, and the
                  level streets been disrobed of eighteen inches of mud and water, it might have
                  been, a pleasant evening to leave the boat and ramble through the little wooden
                  city; but, as they were, the prospect was not so pleasing as many a lacework lady
                  might imagine. However, Harriet, with her hand upon Parker's arm, and with her
                  anti-Bloomer-fixing nicely raised, started, but always keeping an anxious eye to
                  the little, short-legged Sporty, who frequently stumbled upon bog-holes, and was
                  badly soiling his beautiful white covering. After a few minutes' march in that
                  formidable style, they arrived at a small, two-story frame house, which was not
                  characterized so much by its Gothic, or Greek, or any other foreign fashion as by
                  its resemblance to a plain, but unpainted cow-stable. This was where the
                  clergyman, Mr. Ellis, and lady, lived; and, as he was absent the greater part of
                  his time, she enjoyed the whole house alone. Not many years ago Mr. Ellis and
                  lady, were in flattering circumstances, and lived in the most fashionable manner;
                  but, their extravagance finally broke them down, and though they were believed to
                  be very pious, they were now in quite common, yet comfortable circumstances.
               Mrs. Ellis was a lady of considerable intelligence, but she had a most
                  contemptible way of whining and complaining about everything that chanced to come
                  into her very dignified head; and often would she comment upon her misfortune, and
                  relate the comfort in which she used to live, but never forgetting to mention how
                  ill she had been treated by different people, and how she was envied for hier
                  beauty and happiness in early life—in fact, she was one of those
                  un-entertaining creatures who are always trying to elicit the sympathies of their
                  hearers, and yet ungrateful for receiving them.
               When crossing the Plains, she was Harriet's only companion; but, for all that,
                  Harriet was more familiar with every one in the Michigan Company, than she was
                  with her. Yet, as we stated before, she was intelligent (and if that alone could
                  have made her into a human being, there is no doubt but she might have obtained
                  her diploma), and, beside, she made extraordinary pretensions to piety, and
                  generally looked upon herself as going to be two stories higher in heaven than any
                  of the rest of the human family, to whom she seemed sorry to be related,
                  especially to the—black ones. Such, she had been; but now we must follow these
                  characteristics until we find them inhabiting a tall, ungainly tabernacle, about
                  fifty years of age, and then we shall find as starchy a specimen of human nature
                  as the lean, man-like face of Mrs. Ellis indicated. Whether this lady belonged to
                  the old school or to the new school, may be judged by her white, three-cornered
                  handkerchief carefully placed round her neck, with one long peak down her back,
                  fastened by a single pin, and another peak down her bosom, fastened by another
                  pin, placed at an angle of exactly so many degrees from something else.
               Upon her head was a fixing that rather baffles our descriptive powers for a name;
                  but from its appearance, it must have had one about midway between a cap and a
                  head-dress—between a young wife, and an old woman sort of concern it was. Upon her
                  long, coarse-jointed fingers were a number of gaudy rings—these were relics of her
                  past greatness, and prized very highly because her great grandmother—who had been
                  distantly related to some English nobleman—had received them as a present on
                  account of her great beauty, and had worn them on the wedding-day that she was
                  married to Mrs. Ellis's grandfather, an incident of no trifling importance.
               From the man-like nature of this-lady, one might suppose she would have been
                  favorable to the Bloomer costume; but such was very different, for she valued her
                  ankles so highly, that it was a great mystery to her how she had escaped from
                  receiving proposals from different young men to abandon her husband, a fact which,
                  had it happened, would have been an insult to her dignity.
               Mrs. Ellis was a great advocate of woman's rights, and really a political
                  thunder-storm to the rest of her sex; and, in fact, one of those intelligent
                  creatures who could soon bring the world to rights if she had her own way about
                  it. Under these considerations, we must consider her prepared to meet Harriet—a
                  lady whom she looked upon as of amiable perfections, that is, to have sprung from
                  German stock; and, with her spectacles half-raised, she arose, walked to the door,
                  opened it, and exclaimed:
               "Well, if this ain't Miss Lindsey!"
               "O! Mrs. Ellis," said Harriet; and they very cordially shook each other's
                  hands.
               Parker did not remain to interfere in their old stories, but, promising to call on
                  the day following, he hastened off to a place which he called his sister's, of
                  which we shall speak in due time.
               Not many minutes after Harriet's arrival, she undertook to relate the manner in
                  which she received the little dog, but she became so confused in her story, that
                  Mrs. Ellis finally obtained the whole secret of her adventure—even that she had
                  followed her lover to California.
               "Ah! Harriet," said Mrs. Ellis, "you made a very immodest attempt; decidedly too
                  bold for a lady of your standing. I shouldn't wonder if you should be ruined; this
                  is a world of deception and intrigue, and everybody is giving in to the dictates
                  of their natural heart; but it was very heedless of you to undertake such a thing
                  anyhow. I shouldn't trust myself going among the men so—it's a very bad mark of a
                  lady; but then I have some of tho noble blood in my veins, and I'm sure I can't
                  break down the customs of English women—and I'm told that they never go among the
                  men—and I know that in Massachusetts—which is the principal part of America—a lady
                  shouldn't never speak to a stranger. I tell you, the nature of people is
                  wickedness, and I shan't never consider them as anything else; but why didn't you tell me about this sooner? I
                  should leave been very happy to have given you advice, how you should act."
               Harriet had felt herself considerably relieved boy divulging her secret to Mrs.
                  Case; but the instant she placed Mrs. Ellis in possession of the true story, she
                  felt that she could have given half of her interest in the world to have recalled
                  it again from such an unsympathizing specimen of humanity. Harriet remained quiet
                  to Mrs. Ellis's question; but the latter continued:
               "I'm sure you'll never find him in the world; but, if you should, it's nine
                  chances out of ten he's living with plenty other women, and his character 'll be
                  good for nothing. It's the nature of man's heart to be searching after wickedness,
                  and there's not a man in this country that I'd trust as far as I could throw a
                  stone—I wouldn't. But how could you expect to find anybody in such a place as
                  this? No post-offices, no nothing but expresses; and I know, for one, I wouldn't
                  trust my letters with the express—they're sure to read them. It's natural for
                  people to be inquisitive; and I'm sure they'd think nothing of breaking open a
                  letter to see what other people are writing. And then, when we're going to get
                  post-offices the dear knows—I don't. Congress can make great speeches about
                  proviso bills and such like, but they're determined to do nothing for the benefit
                  of California; yes, if I was a man, I'd show them a trick—a real Yankee trick. I'd
                  show them what we showed England once, that she was getting too large for her
                  boots, and must go barefoot. Things are getting just exactly like they were in the
                  glorious days of Rome. 'When she was able to conquer the world, she found some
                  difficulty in organizing and governing it upon equitable terms. So we see that, by
                  her great accumulation of cities and of states, each instituted for isolation and
                  independence, they began to secede and detach from each other, and slip the noose,
                  as it were, in every direction; and this was one of the principal causes which led
                  to the necessity of an empire;' but the folks at home can all boast about how
                  large our country is getting; just let 'em try living in the outskirts awhile. I
                  guess they'd think about children growing so fast being subject to dangerous
                  diseases—they would. It's all very nice for folks to sit in the counting-room and
                  lay great plans, but it's dreadful bad to make mistakes. The dear knows, I've
                  suffered enough from this kind of legislation. Only think of giving one dollar for
                  a letter! but that ain't what I mind, it's having my letters read by the
                  express-men—that's all I care for. I don't begrudge a dollar, but then I know it's
                  natural for folks' hearts to incline to wickedness. There isn't but one church in
                  this town, and that has no business here, I'm sure, nor it wouldn't be here if I
                  had my way about it."
               "What church is that?" Harriet asked.
               "Regular Baptists, but then I'm not saying but there may be some good
                  folks belonging to that church, but it's not the church to which I
                  belong. It's the nature of that church to incline to wickedness; they're next
                  thing to the Catholics, and I'm sure if they could get into power they'd
                  exterminate all the Presbyterians in the country—it's the nature of 'em."
               "They are not as bad as the Mormons, are they?"
               "Well, the dear knows, I don't, but then, you know, the Mormons are the wickedest
                  people in the world. I'd have them exterminated if I had my way about it. Only
                  think about them having so many wives! but I don't envy them; if women won't stand
                  up for their rights it serves them exactly right. But I neglected to ask you about
                  Mr. Case. Is he still following the express business?"
               "Yes, and I believe he is doing very well at it."
               "Yes, and there's another thing—I don't find fault with Mrs. Case, for my
                  husband—who is the only Presbyterian minister in this part of the country—told me
                  that Mr. Case had descended from people of rank, who first settled in the State of
                  Massachusetts, and that satisfies me that he's got some of the noble blood in his
                  veins; but, what I was going to say, how do these express-men make their money!
                  Shall we pay for the support of the government, and yet be obliged to pay one
                  dollar for each of our letters? Why, we had better have no government, than have
                  one that's good for nothing! But what did you say was the name of your
                  intended?"
               "Nathan Simons."
               
               "Nathan Simons! Nathan Simons—Nathan Simons, it seems to me I've heard of that
                  name before. Where was he from?"
               "Cincinnati."
               "Bad recommendation," and the old lady seemed to pity Harriet's choice.
               "There's a great many Catholics in Cincinnati, ain't there?"
               "Really, Mrs. Ellis, I never gave myself the trouble to inquire."
               "I'm sure it was a great neglect then; it's always the first thing I think about,
                  that and to see if there's any Dutch and Irish. What church does Mr. Simons belong
                  to?"
               "I think he doesn't belong to any."
               "Is it possible! and you want to marry him? I'd never think of such a thing; there
                  can't be any love when they don't belong to church; it's no use, the natural heart
                  inclines to wickedness."
               "I must have loved him, for to have ventured through so much!"
               "No, Harriet, that's not love; it's the sin of the natural heart. But why didn't
                  you ask me for advice before you started across the Plains?"
               "Because I chose to act according to my own judgment; I am an independent woman,
                  and it is my duty, and my right to love, and to manifest that love,
                  or bestow it upon whomsoever I wish; and I am sure no mortal has a right to
                  interfere, or to oppose me in my attachment."
               "Wickedness of the natural heart, decidedly," and the old lady seemed astonished
                  at such words.
               "No, Mrs. Ellis!" and the poor girl's face brightened, and her eyes sparkled with
                  intelligence, "no! that is the 'wickedness of the natural heart' to wish to
                  dictate to your fellow-mortals. I am in this world the same as any other
                     being—entitled to liberty. I am as much entitled to follow my
                  intended as you have to follow your husband. If I know him to be true to me, I
                  should be false to conceal my own feelings from him for the sake of gaining the
                  esteem of all the world. True love has no consulting to do with any church; it is
                  too sacred to permit of dictation; it is too valuable to need any particular creed
                  to sustain it; it is too dignified to be injured by a difference of religious
                  sentiments, and it is too dear to blunder upon the ills which heartless people
                  would willingly cast into its pathway, by heaping suspicion upon its devoted
                  object."
               "Why, I never knew you harbored such sentiments in favor of heresy. But, you wait
                  until you've had the experience I have; you'll not think it's all
                  gold that glitters. But your sentiments on woman's liberty are right; I hold that
                  women haven't half a chance in this world, myself; and if I had my way about it,
                  I'd fix things upon a more equal footing, it's no use."
               "Yes, but there is where many ladies stop to discuss about rights; to devise
                  schemes to enforce men to give them more liberty. And because I act with half the
                  liberty that you wish for, you are the first to censure my conduct! But the best
                  thing we can do to advance woman's rights is to induce people to investigate our
                     natural rights, without any regard to the town or country we are
                  from; without any regard to the creed or sect to which we belong, and without
                  regard to anything except our natural rights—which are the only
                  considerations that will establish the equality we desire. In fact, we must
                  discard every creed and resort to nature alone, if we wish to harmonize our
                  condition."
               "Well, I don't agree to that; I was taught to judge things according to Scripture;
                  and I'm sure it's the only way whereby we can perceive the wickedness of the
                  natural heart, it's no use."
               "I have nothing to do with that; but whose church will give the true standard of
                  human rights according to Scripture?"
               "Why, the Presbyterian, of course; but hark! that's our tea-bell. Come: now, we'll
                  go and have some supper; you must be very tired. Bring the little dog—what do you
                  call him?"
               "Sporty."
               "Come, Sporty!—come Sporty, Sporty. Did you say that Mr. Simons owned him?"
               "Yes; he was a great favorite with him. But he lived at our house most of the
                  time."
               
               "There is some one rapping at the door," said Harriet, as they returned from
                  tea.
               "O! good evening, Mr. Parker, come in, and be seated," said Mrs. Ellis.
               "No, I thank you, I have not time," said he; "is Miss Lindsey in?" and the young
                  lady walked to the door, and bid him "good evening."
               "Well, Miss Lindsey, I have been to the post-office and made inquiry for you, but
                  I am sorry to say there is nothing answering to your name."
               "Are you sure? Did you examine particularly?"
               "Very, very. I looked over everything, and labored faithfully for you, but there
                  is nothing for you—nothing," said Parker; and Harriet tossed up her hands and
                  exclaimed:
               "O! how can I bear this!" and turned toward her seat; but Parker again said:
               "I know that the person of whom I was telling you, when we were on the boat, is
                  the very identical man, Nathan Simons, you are after. I am sure I am not
                  mistaken!"
               Harriet again turned pale and trembled, but asked:
               "Do you know to what city he went?"
               "No, I do not, Miss Lindsey, but I am sure that I can find him. You can trust me.
                  There is a heart within my bosom, Miss Lindsey," and he shook her snowy hand, "but
                  I can not remain now, I have business to attend to; but if you will accompany me
                  to-morrow, at ten o'clock, I will conduct you to my sister's, where you can give
                  me a tune on the piano, if you will be so kind?" and, bowing, he waited her
                  reply.
               "I shall be happy to go, very," said Harriet, and she seemed to believe that a
                  better day had already arrived.
               Parker's gentlemanly appearance captivated Mrs. Ellis's eyes at once, and he had
                  scarcely left, when she commenced expatiating upon his probable high connections,
                  and royal blood. Upon this profitable subject, and making occasional "sidecuts" at
                  political matters, she passed upward of an hour—not even stopping to inquire after
                  the information that Parker had referred to about Simons. How great a bore such a
                  woman was to poor Harriet, in her very unenviable condition, can scarcely be
                  imagined, much less described; but if the reader has ever met some of those
                  tedious creatures of that nature, we hope he or she, will tell them about Mrs.
                  Ellis's little regard for the patience of Harriet.
               It was late when Harriet retired; for after Mrs. Ellis commenced commenting upon
                  the ill-fortune that had been her lot, and upon the "evil neighbors with whom she
                  was obliged to associate," she went like the winds, piercing every crack that her
                  fault-finding mind could discern, and continued to run after everybody else were
                  asleep. But, after all, Harriet got to bed, and sincerely repented that she had
                  made such a visit. Her room was on the second floor, and comprised one-half the
                  house. The room contained but little furniture—two beds, two chests, half a dozen
                  boxes, a saddle and bridle, a bag of beans, some potatoes and onions, two dozen of
                  Mrs. Ellis's dresses and some "unmentionable woman's ware" hanging along the
                  walls, and in front of each bed was a strip of cheap carpeting. Harriet made
                  choice of the bed which stood close by a large window, through which a full moon
                  took the liberty of making the whole room nearly as light as day. How she disrobed
                  herself and mounted into such an humble bed, of course can not be imagined by one
                  of our years; but, suffice it, she was lying in her bed, pondering over the
                  extraordinary things Of the past day, and watching the tricks of little Sporty—now
                  the dearest object to her that was in Marysville.
               In this little fellow's rambles about the house, he had discovered a pup of about
                  the same size; and with this associate he entered into a general tussling match in
                  front of Harriet's bed. Harriet had been seriously meditating over past times, and
                  felt like anything else but sleeping; and when these little dogs were trying their
                  various physical proportions, she leaned over the side of her bed, watching their
                  silly maneuvers, comparing her own unhappy condition with the nature and
                  dispositions of these little creatures. In this way a great part of the night
                  passed, and her troubled mind became unconscious of the weariness and fatigue of
                  which she had felt such a superabundance during Mrs. Ellis's lectures. But, while in this leaning
                  posture, slumber gradually overcame her, and she unfortunately lost her balance
                  and rolled out of bed! In this trifling fall, her face hit upon one corner of a
                  chair, and received a slight bruise just below one eye; however, determined to
                  have a sleep, she again entered her bed, and whether the fall had, or had not,
                  brought her to a rational settlement of her former troubles, it mattereth not, but
                  she changed very much from her wakeful mood, and fell into as sweet a sleep as
                  ever overcame a wearied person.
               "Peggy," said Mrs. Ellis to her servant, next morning, "I do wish you'd go up
                  stairs and call Harriet. It's so dreadful late; people ought to have been up an
                  hour ago. It appears to me some people like to indulge in the wickedness of the
                  natural heart. Go and tell her the breakfast 'll all get cold—go Peggy." Away went
                  Peggy; but in a minute after she returned with Harriet by her side. Mrs. Ellis was
                  like most grumbling people, an early riser, and whoever failed to rise as early as
                  herself, were subject to her rigid suspicion. She had scarcely noticed the bruise
                  upon Harriet's face, when she exclaimed:
               "Why, Harriet! what have you been doing? Have you been out last night?" and a
                  vindictive suspicion twisted her long face into frightful ugliness.
               Harriet sat down and gave her a brief explanation of her fall, and the question
                  seemed to be settled.
               "Well, Miss Lindsey," said Parker, "you see I am here at the appointed time!"
               "Yes, Mr. Parker, but I fear I shall be obliged to disappoint you. I fell out of
                  bed last night and injured my face, so that I am not anxious to go out."
               "I perceive you have a slight scar, but that is nothing; and if I was disposed to
                  be a flatterer, I should tell you that it only renders the other parts of your
                  face more beautiful, by being so great a contrast. But, laying all jokes aside, it
                  is nothing. Neither must you expect you are going to meet a lady of extraordinary
                  pretensions. I told her you were coming." Harriet studied a moment and then
                  replied:
               "I am too anxious to meet your sister to refuse to accompany you—I will go."
               After some little preparation, Harriet's hand rested upon Parker's arm, and they
                  started. This gentleman was well known by the gamblers, officials, and a certain
                  class of "private ladies" who lived in many parts of Marysville; and when
                  accompanying Harriet through the streets in her present condition, it is needless
                  to say what were the public notions entertained.
               "Well, Parker, who've you got this time? A new importation, eh? Be liberal, won't
                  ye?" were some of the questions that fell upon poor Harriet's ears as they passed
                  in front of some of the gambling saloons. But as it was a 'free country,' of
                  course those 'gentlemen' had a right to say what they thought; and, of course,
                  such saloons had a right to stand in the most prominent places—privileges for
                  which any man ought to be willing to "drink his own heart's blood" as well as to
                  be desirous of introducing into the Sandwich Islands and Cuba, lest the
                  uncivilized French or barbarous English—who do not allow such liberty—get
                  possession, and endanger the souls of the poor natives! A curious fellow is this
                  "Young America!"
               Parker and Harriet had not passed many of these "free institutions," when they met
                  the clergyman, Mr. Ellis, who had been absent for a week on the duties of his
                  profession. This gentleman was a very equal match for his man-like wife—a sort of
                  wooden man he was, with a "lean and hungry look." But, like most ugly men, he was
                  in possession of considerable intelligence, and a heart as cold and hard as
                  granite. Mr. Ellis argued that, with intelligence, that is, with a good sound
                  education, people would be much better prepared to live a happy life, than by any
                  other training. He looked upon love stories as not only trifling, but dangerous
                  things—a kind of something that hindered intellectual eminence, which he
                  considered the only meliorating principle that there was in existence. Remember,
                  this was his theory; yet if the reader will recollect, this same
                  individual did not hesitate to leave Mr. and Mrs. Hamlin when on the Plains, at
                  the time that poor Nixon was about dying. But if we judge by his mode of living,
                  and his apparent happiness, we shall
                  perceive that he, like all other stern disapprovers of love stories, employed his
                  life by a perpetual warfare with him man-like wife.
               Harriet did not make this visit because she entertained a superabundance of
                  affection for these wooden people, but, preferring to try the Marysville
                  post-offices awhile, before starting back to the Atlantic States, and, woman-like,
                  having nearly forgotten the unsociable dispositions of these remarkable people,
                  and only remembering their good qualities, she considered their habitation would,
                  at least, afford her a comfortable home for a short time.
               When she and Mr. Parker met Mr. Ellis, they halted to pass a few familiar
                  questions. Mr. Ellis made particular inquiry about the bruise upon Harriet's face,
                  and received a true answer to his inquiries. After this, Mr. Ellis started
                  homeward, and Harriet and Parker proceeded toward their intended visiting place.
                  This was on one of the principal streets of the city, and upon the second floor of
                  a good frame house. From the pavement a stairway was the means by which entrance
                  was to be gained; and although this out-of-door ascent was perfectly safe from
                  falling, yet it was so steep that to descend it with safety, some patience was
                  necessary. Up this stairway they went, and entered a room—it was a nicely
                  furnished one, and resembled a sitting-room, parlor, drawing-room, library,
                  dancing-hall and bed-room, all in one. In this curious, but luxurious, room,
                  Parker introduced a Mrs. Brown to Harriet, and, being a free-and-easy kind of a
                  fellow, a lively conversation soon commenced. Mrs. Brown was a pretty woman, about
                  twenty-five, with black curls, dark-brown eyes, arched brows, rather luxurious
                  lips, dimpled cheeks, red as roses, round snowy neck, graceful shoulders and plump
                  person. In conversation she often used the words "by jing," and generally
                  accompanied her high-heeled dancing with profusion of Mississippi phraseology—"big
                  niggers," "sweet potatoes," "fanatics of the North," "knows 'beans when the bag is
                  open," "there's more'n me that slips the rack," "yaller fogyism," "peanuts too
                  good for niggers,"—but, with all this, she laughed, played well upon the piano,
                  sung sweetly, and was, altogether, a very entertaining, if not a pleasing
                  companion. Although Harriet was somewhat puzzled by this mysterious kind of
                  ladyism, yet she entertained no doubt but that she was actually conversing with
                  Parker's own sister, and a lady of a little more fashionable life than the very
                  humble Dr. Sparks had chosen to make herself acquainted with. But the most
                  entertaining article about the house was the piano; this was a splendid affair,
                  and of sufficiently fine finish to have engaged the attention and admiration of
                  "Old Nick" himself. How Harriet and her companions enjoyed the day, and what they
                  said and did, we cannot take time to relate; but, having enjoyed a good dinner,
                  sung and talked, and laughed at their pleasure, the sun was setting when Harriet
                  and Parker started back toward Mrs. Ellis's. The evening was fair, but chilly—a
                  fact that prevented the "gentlemen" from standing in front of the gambling
                  saloons, and, consequently, permitted Harriet to pass without hearing the
                  suspicions upon herself, which she heard so frequently in the morning.
               This kindness and attention on the part of Parker, together with his faithful
                  promises to find Simons, rendered him an object of regard and value to Harriet
                  greater than he had ever been, and seemed to blot out all his gambling qualities,
                  and place him among her most trusty friends. On their way back to Mrs. Ellis's
                  Harriet was not at all backward in her thanks to Parker, for having introduced her
                  to his sister, whom she now looked upon as going to be one of her most intimate
                  companions. In this kind of enjoyment she was when they turned the corner, reached
                  the house and beheld her trunk standing upon one end on the sidewalk! Mrs. Ellis
                  was standing at her door, her cap-fixing thrown wildly back, her man-like face
                  drawn into a focus of furious hatred, her eyes were like an eagle's, her
                  long-jointed fingers like the paws of a hyena twisting in each other, her long
                  back was leaning forward, and a flame of fire seemed about to burst from her long,
                  wooley lips. But, by her side, a little in the rear, stood Mr. Ellis, the
                  clergyman. He was bareheaded, his white locks were curling with rage; his nostrils
                  were distended, his Roman nose seemed to be converted into a vulture's beak; his eyes were dilated and red,
                  and his 'lean and hungry-looking' person seemed about to crisp with vengeance.
                  Upon these human monsters—brother and sister of the human family, poor Harriet
                  looked, trembled and nearly fainted upon the arm of Mr. Parker.
               "What can it mean?" flew through her mind a thousand times in a second. "What can
                  it mean?" and she thought she saw a beast with horns trying to escape the throats
                  of the clergyman and his wife. "What can it mean?" and she saw their hideous
                  mouths open, and she heard these words:
               "Begone! begone! guilty wretches! away from my sight! you sinful, dirty things!
                  Begone! begone! begone! begone!"
               "What can this mean?" she tried again to ask, but again the inhuman mouths said,
                  "Begone! begone! begone! begone! guilty, wicked wretches! Away! away! away! away!
                  sinful creatures! Begone! begone! begone! begone from my house! Away! away!
                  away!"
               "What can this mean?" and the trembling girl leaned hard upon Parker, but again
                  they cried:
               "Take that dirty thing away! away! away! away! away with her!" cried the clergyman
                  and his wife, as fast and as loud as their voices would permit.
               "What can this mean?" asked Parker, and his face slowed with manliness, his eyes
                  sparkled with courage, and his brow knit with dignity of feeling. But again the
                  minister and his wife bellowed:
               "Away! away with her! She's filled with sin! We detest her! She's abominable! Away
                  with her! Begone! begone!"
               "But why do you not explain yourselves?" said Parker; but, although he asked over
                  and over, he received the same answer:
               "Begone! begone! begone! Take the sinful thing away! away! away! away!"
               Parker perceived that remonstrance was useless, and called an express wagon to
                  remove Harriet's trunk; and they started off in search of some other
                  stopping-place, with the abuse of the clergyman and his wife still being heaped
                  upon them.
               However low an opinion they might have formed of Harriet, and however great might
                  have been their respectability, nothing could have justified such unexplained
                  conduct, nothing could have been so little likely to produce a reformation—even if
                  she had fallen.
               This outrage occurred just after sunset, and before the moon arose, so that
                  Harriet and Parker were now left to ramble about in the dark in search of a
                  boarding-house. What could have been Harriet's feelings toward these wooden people
                  can scarcely be imagined; but, here her troubles only commenced. Parker was too
                  well known at the respectable hotels, to be permitted to bring a lady, especially
                  one with a bruised face; and, consequently, at the first half-dozen houses to
                  which he applied, he met no favors, and was obliged to hear improper hints about
                  Harriet, some of which were even plain enough for her to understand. Under this
                  most goading of all suspicions, the poor girl now felt a sting of despair that she
                  had never before known; and, while tears were rapidly bursting from her eyes—which
                  made her look still more suspicious—she could feel that every moment was piercing
                  and unnerving her almost exhausted person. After rambling about for some time
                  without any apparent success, she proposed to go and stop with Parker's sister;
                  but to this he objected, saying that the place might be too noisy, and too public;
                  and upon this he continued to assure her, until she at last exclaimed:
               "O! Mr. Parker, I can go no further! and immediately fainted. This was near a very
                  humble, half private, half public, canvas and wooden concern, in front of which a
                  small board, marked with tar, read, "PRIVATE BOARDING HERE." In this small,
                  one-story affair, Parker engaged a room and board for Harriet.
               After some kind words, and faithful promises to call again on the following day,
                  Parker left—but he left behind him a heart beating with gratitude for his good,
                  and apparently, uninterested conduct.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               WITH tearful eyes, Simons sat listening to his fair sister, and while her musical
                  voice related the happy hours of their early days, and the childish peculiarities
                  of their first associations, his mind was carried back to the last embrace he
                  received from his heart-broken mother! But when she alluded to himself being borne
                  upon the arms of their kind father toward the ship, while the weeping family were
                  clinging to his little feet and hands, and bestowing their farewell kisses upon
                  his pale face, his hand raised to his noble forehead, and, while his full breast
                  heaved with emotion, his melodious voice broke from its slumber.
               "O! sister! forbear; for I am made disconsolate and weary!" and her little black
                  eyes turned upon him, her rosy lips parted, her clear voice united with his, and
                  the air, "Sweet, sweet Home" was sung more feelingly than ever before escaped
                  mortal lips.
               "Come, brother, let us not be sad, but tell me of your lady-love, for I am growing
                  anxious to see those beautiful gray eyes that have so charmed your soul. I am sure
                  I'll love her—I know she'll make me a good sister."
               "In a few months, Julia, you shall see her, and judge of her perfections as it may
                  please yourself."
               "A happy thought! Prosperity is delightful! A few months only!"
               "Yes, Julia, such prosperity will soon enable us to return where we can live and
                  enjoy life as rational beings should."
               "How is that, brother? You hugging your wife, and I—and I—and I talking politics
                  to my husband! Well, really 'there's a good time coming,'" and her dimpled hands
                  swung him into a polka, her musical tones went warbling round the hall like
                  ministering angels, and her girlish laughter burst forth at every turn, happier
                  than that of which the poet can sing.
               He withdrew into the sitting-room, where many people were reading newspapers, or
                  conversing upon the common affairs of the times, and of their own fortunes, or of
                  the misfortunes of themselves and everybody else. His attention was directed
                  toward two red-faced, good-looking, curious sort of young men. Whatever he said,
                  they watched exceedingly close; whatever he did, they looked upon him, and in a
                  few minutes their gaze became riveted. If he raised his hand they watched it; if
                  he moved his lips they watched him; if he turned his eyes they noticed it; neither
                  did a moment elapse, without their stare becoming more serious and fixed upon
                  him.
               "Have I ever seen these men before?" flew through his mind, at every unconcerned
                  glance of his penetrating eye. "Why do they watch me so? and his manly form was
                  bent in study while his brilliant mind, stole back upon days of the past.
               "Surely they cannot be enemies to me!" and he looked again, but the
                  same wild stare was riveted upon him. "Certainly, I have seen those faces before?"
                  and grief resulted from him deficient memory. But again he looked, and he saw one
                  of them cramming; his hands deep into his pockets; he saw a smile gathering over
                  his broad face; and, as the curious mall arose and came toward him, he felt his
                  heart fluttering, and his want of recollection became painful in the extreme.
               "Who can they be?" and the same sad deficiency in memory began to
                  overburden his manly person, and nervousness took possession of his silent lips.
                  But the curious man stood before him, and said:
               "I think they ca' ye Mr. Simons?"
               He continued to look at the curious man, find immediately a smile played upon his
                  features, his eyes darted from one to another, and his full voice exclaimed:
               "You are the Scotchmen who carried me upon the mountain! God bless you! my
                  friends!" and he shook them cordially by the hand and wept.
               In the golden days of California, that is, in its most glorious days, many of the
                  miners would often accompany their friends, (who were returning to their homes
                  with fortunes) as far as Sacramento. This not only gave them an opportunity of
                  having a recreation from mining, but afforded the advantage of depositing their gold dust with some banker, which
                  would avoid the necessity of carrying it while in the mines. Upon this errand the
                  two Scotchmen had accompanied Wattie to Sacramento—to see him safely off, and to
                  deposit their little fortunes with a certain Mr. Lee, where they wished it to
                  remain until they made another trial at the mines. Fortunately they stopped at
                  Hamlin's Hotel, and afforded an opportunity for Simons to bestow the thanks and
                  gratitude upon his preservers, for which he had so often prayed. This was in the
                  summer season, and Hamlin was again prospering. After the flood disappeared he
                  proceeded to his vacant lot, in company with his little black-eyed wife, and after
                  a serious consultation, they resolved to mortgage the property, in order to
                  purchase lumber for the erection of another hotel. In this they were successful,
                  and fortune was soon smiling upon them. Mrs. Hamlin had resolved never to permit
                  her brother to leave her again, and, although he had recovered from his long
                  illness, yet she had witnessed the entire fall of all her relations, and clung to
                  him with as devoted affection as ever a sister had for a brother, and could
                  scarcely endure the thought of being again separated from him.
               "Weel, Mr. Simons," said Chips, "come and sit ye doon, and we'll tell ye what'll
                  do yer sowl guid."
               "Certainly," said Simons, "but I am already under too many obligations to
                  you."
               "Nonsense! maun, ye're no welcome to gie us sa many thanks, for I'm sure ye'll
                  some day meet an opportunity to do some ither folk a kindness to balance the
                  trifle we did for ye. But sit ye doon and hear what I'm going to say 'til ye;
                  ye're na sa bad-looking, Mr. Simons, since ye recovered front the cholera."
               "Ha! maun," said Willie, who stood in silent admiration, looking into Simons'
                  face, "I ne'er tho't ye'd turn out sic a fine stout fellow. Often I think I see ye
                  lying in the burnin' sun upon that high mountain."
               "Supper is waiting," said Mrs. Hamlin, and Simons conducted his friends to the
                  dining-room, where, in true American fashion, he left them to the enjoyment of
                  their repast, undisturbed by conversation. Simons was anxiously awaiting to hear
                  the good news which Chips was going to relate; and he was well prepared to have
                  him commence as soon as tea was over. But, in this he was disappointed, for they
                  all stated that, as it was the last night they should enjoy in company with
                  Wattie, they wished to stroll through the city in search of amusement. This was in
                  the palmiest days of gambling, and a more excellent treat was never known than to
                  have an evening promenade through the streets of that young city. Some of the
                  first musicians from every nation in the world were playing in the gambling
                  saloons, which stretched along nearly every street; and such a variety of airs
                  bursting forth in every direction, swelling and echoing among the tops of the
                  sycamores, and making more harmonious music perhaps than ever before was made by
                  the mingling of so many different players, produced an impression upon the mind
                  which words cannot express. Then too, such moonlight nights! The air, so mild and
                  still that even the moonbeams seemed to be filled with departed spirits! But when
                  nearing the corner of J. and fourth streets, the Italian, German, French, English,
                  and American music sent forth their thousand chords, in loud peals of
                  never-ceasing grandeur and sublimity, which made it look like the happy but
                  long-distant period when "war shall be no more!"
               Ah! proud indeed should the American be to think that his country is the grand
                  asylum for the whole world! and the first in prompting good-will among men. But no
                  wonder that his heart beats with pride, dignity, patriotism and enthusiasm when he
                  still hears faint voices breathing eternal hatred against Republicanism—voices
                  from the lips of those who were serfs at home—who saw, but never entered fine
                  palaces—who were ruined by ecclesiastical administration, and yet are anxious to
                  have its almighty grasp introduced into a position where its publicity would
                  occasion a perpetual warfare among neighbors, and demand a guillotine to divide
                  the public school fund.
               "Come, Chips," said Simons, after having promenaded, the streets for some time,
                  "come, let us enter the Eldorado. I wish to point out Mr. Warner, the man who
                  murdered the German."
               "I dinna ken aboot going in," said Wattie, seeming to think that a gambling saloon was not just exactly what it
                  should be:
               "What do you say aboot it, Wattie?"
               "O! certainly, we must go in," said Wattie, and in a minute more they were
                  promenading the great hall.
               "Here," said Simons, "this is the man, with those white eyebrows trying to climb
                  his forehead." Here he pointed to the man whose mouth was still marked with
                  tobacco-juice, but holding a long cigar, while his misty-looking eyes were
                  carefully examining the gold and silver which his long, awkward hands were in the
                  act of stowing into a large buckskin bag—evidently, he was about quitting for the
                  night.
               While they were thus looking upon him, in came Mr. Parker and Mr. Miller, and
                  their meeting with Warner seemed to be a chance more pleasant than they had
                  expected: accordingly, they shook each other's hands heartily, and sat down to
                  converse. In a moment Simons recognized them to be the same men who had so
                  heartlessly burned the butcher's brush-house; but neither of them noticed him. Our
                  three observers now drew closer, to hear the conversation of these three
                  gamblers.
               "Well, Parker," said Warner, "I've licked them in pretty well since you've been
                  away. I fleeced a miner last night; a real big green un, into the tune of seven
                  hundred dollars."
               "Well, that was something of a haul; but did you do it by fair means?"
               "Certainly, Mr. Parker. I called him on a little at a time, so that before he got
                  drunk I had half of it, and then, you know, it was easy enough to fix him up.
                  Another month or so is all I want at this business—I'll grind out a fortune some
                  way or other."
               "Then, you have given up running for the legislature this season, too?" said
                  Parker.
               "O, no—I am only getting ready. You see, my opinion is, that next year gambling
                  won't be very good—there is too many in the business, then, beside, nearly all the
                  miners has got skeered at betting since the Legislators and Governor, and them's
                  got at it; for I tell you some of them are mighty smart fellers."
               "Well, then, if you are going to run, you must soon start out to stump it?"
               "Certainly, Mr. Parker," said Warner, drumming on his breast, while the same white
                  eyebrows were trying to ascend his forehead with as much perseverance as in days
                  of yore. Certainly, I propose starting out as soon as Mr Miller there thinks it's
                  advisable. But I s'pose a month 'll be plenty soon enough?"
               "Yes; I think so," whined Mr. Miller.
               "Well, don't put it off too long—mind, this State's business must be attended to.
                  You couldn't guess what a haul Mr. Miller and I have made this time. We came near
                  frightening all the foreigners off the mines. Miller, though I am sorry to say it
                  of him, has had a good many fights," said Parker, jokingly, looking at Miller.
               It will be observed that Parker assumes a great many different appearances, as
                  indeed all accomplished villains do. From some of his conversation among our
                  personages, or within their hearing, it would seem as though he had repented of
                  his sins, and reformed his conduct; and then, again, as though his mind was
                  continually plotting the wickedest of crimes.
               "But I guess I left a few sore places on some them I fought with," whined Miller,
                  whose voice was now recognized by the Scotchman, as the person of whom they had
                  heard so many different foreigners complaining; and the same to whom they paid
                  their tax. Not having ever seen such officials, they drew close in order to hear
                  the strange conversation of our republican men of honor; cramming their hands deep
                  into their pockets; with their astonished eyes stretched wide open, they gave an
                  interesting gaze, and grow wonderfully silent.
               "How did you make it?" Warner asked.
               "Steward! steward! bring a half-dozen champagne here, forthwith. Come, put up your
                  bank, Mr. Warner; we'll have a blow out—it is no use to be hard upon time," said
                  Parker, becoming playful.
               "Well," he continued, "Miller and I have made as much as any ten gamblers in
                  Sacramento, that is, during the same length of time. I tell you, sir, I would put
                  tax collecting against any other
                  business in California. And too, I will put Mr. Miller and myself against any
                  other two men in the country for collecting it. It would do your soul good, Mr.
                  Warner, to see us rake the Chinese. They are industrious, and they always have
                  plenty of money. Here, steward, hurry along. How much for a half dozen?"
               "Never mind, Mr. Parker, I'll stand this whack," said Warner, handing the money to
                  the steward.
               "Well, Mr. Warner," Parker continued, "I actually thought I would die laughing,
                  one day, when Miller got after a Chinaman. You see, the Chinaman first told us he
                  had a license, but when we asked him to show it, he had none. Then he told us he
                  had no money; but when we commenced to break his cradle, you ought to have seen
                  him bring out his purse. A thundering swag he had. Well, he paid us one month's
                  license, and we were about starting on, but says Miller, 'That man never made so
                  much money as that in a month—here, by G—d, I'll fix him,' and then said he to the
                  Chinaman, 'Here, let me see your purse,' well, the Chinese are as afraid of an
                  officer, as they are of God himself, so he very agreeably handed it over—'Now,'
                  said Miller, looking him firmly in the face, 'now you have told a lie—the Great
                  Spirit says you have been here longer than a month—now, sir, you have lost all you
                  had. Remember, and don't lie any more, or I'll have your head taken off'—so, the
                  Chinaman, nearly frightened out of his senses, commenced changing his Celestial
                  brown into a purple-white. Miller pocketed the gold and stamped his foot at the
                  Chinaman two or three times, and the poor fellow scampered off to his tent to cry
                  about it."
               "Hugh! they're a perfect baby set," said Miller.
               "Burt," said Parker, "I did not want to take it all, but after Miller told me
                  about how little good it would do him in China—all heathens, you know—I concluded
                  it was a cease that didn't need much pleading—especially as it suited us very well
                  in another way. That is good champagne! That is real champagne!"
               "'Tis so—it's jam-up," said Warner.
               "But it is not all sunshine, Mr. Warner," said. Parker, we have some rough times
                  with the d—d English and French."
               
                  
                     CHRISTIANS EXTORTING MONEY FROM THE HEATHENS, ACCORDING TO LAW.
                  
               
               "Yes," said Miller, emphatically, "them d—d English, I don't like them. They're
                  getting d—d saucy; some of 'em are beginning to think they have as much right in
                  our country as we have! Preposterous! What do they know about the laws of our
                  country—as ignorant as the day is long! Why, some of 'em have told me to my face,
                  that they didn't think the foreign tax was just! How dare they to meddle with our
                  free institutions. Them! brought up in monarchy dictate about our
                  country!" and, dashing his tumbler, violently down, waited for a reply. To give
                  them justice, they had been drinking before, and were now somewhat influenced by
                  the spirited demon.
               "Ah!" said Parker, assuming a philosophical appearance, "I can't agree with you
                  there, for it does my soul good to see a spirited fellow. Yes sir, if I was to
                  have my choice, I would rather see every foreigner in the country refuse to pay
                  that tax; it would show at better spirit, and by G—d, you know I would rather see
                  a regular, good spirited fellow, than these sleepy-headed ones, who think an
                  officer or a priest is something akin to divine power. Take your glass, Mr. Warner, you are very
                  delicate about drinking, to-night."
               "O! no, I think I'm doing mighty well; but Mr. Miller ain't drinking his
                  sheer."
               "By C—t you wouldn't have a feller make a beast of himself, would you?" said
                  Miller, whose eyes were a very true interpretation of his apprehension.
               "What do you mean?" demanded Parker. "Do you mean to say that Mr. Warner and
                  myself are making beasts of ourselves?"
               "No, not at all," said Miller, swinging his head heavily; "but if my words meant
                  that, by C—t, I'm very sorry for it—but here's luck to us all,"—emptying his
                  tumbler.
               "No apology is necessary, I know you are all right—everything is good that ends
                  well, you know," said Parker. "But let me see—what were we talking about
                  before—I'm blamed if I don't begin to think there is not much sham
                  about that article; for my head is getting to be d—d near as big as that
                  table!"
               "Why you's a talking about foreigners paying their taxes," said Warner.
               "Ah! I recollect; thank you, Mr. Warner. Well, well, we made a good haul off of
                  'em this time—didn't we? And we've got the money, Mr. Miller, haven't we? And
                  we'll keep it, Mr. Miller, won't we? Possession is nine points of the law all the
                  world over, but it's ten points in California—ain't it, Mr. Miller? By G—d we know
                  how to butter our bread—don't we, Mr. Miller? But you mustn't mind, Mr.
                  Warner—we're going to annex the Sandwich Islands, and you shall have a turn with
                  us—sure 's you're born—shan't he, Mr. Miller?"
               "I heered they wasn't a-going to be annexed."
               "Who said that, Mr. Warner," demanded Miller, rising and swinging his fist over
                  his head. "I say who said it? Who is it that dares say the Eagle
                  isn't going to stretch his wings round the world? Some d—d fanatic, I'll bet! Some
                  d—d tory to his country! Who was it?" and the poor politician choked with
                  rage.
               "Why I've seen it in the papers," said Warner.
               "You've seen it in the papers? Tell me who the d—d scoundrel is, that's publishing
                  such d—d f—y, G—d d—d heresy as that?" and his full, bloodshot eyes glared with
                  political vengeance upon Mr. Warner.
               "It was the London Times," said Warner.
               "The London Times! Is it running in opposition to our country?" continued Miller,
                  striking heavily upon the table. "Them d—d, G—d d—d English'll get a drubbing yet.
                  By C—t we can't do nothing but what they're sticking their d—d noses in it. But I
                  say the Sandwich Islands shall be annexed, and our glorious Stars and Stripes
                  shall rescue them from bondage!"
               "Shall rescue them from bondage!" joined Warner and Parker, and immediately they
                  drank prosperity to our "free country!"
               "Yes, sir," continued Parker, "and when they are annexed I wouldn't take my chance
                  in the President's chair as quick as to get some little office out there. There'll
                  be few candidates there to run against, and almost any feller can get elected.
                  There'll be some good fleecing, Miller?"
               "You are right," replied Miller, "but you mustn't let the cat out o' the bag;
                  though I'm d—d if I don't believe you're getting drunk!"
               "No," said Parker, striking upon the table, "no, I'm as sober as I was the day I
                  was born; and I never do get drunk; by G—d, I'm too much of a gentleman for that.
                  But about these d—d foreigners, some way my ideas are d—d wild to-night. I expect
                  that champagne is some d—d rubbish—poison-stuff, I expect. Here, steward! here! I
                  say, take that d—d trash away, and bring us a pure article of French
                  champagne."
               "That's a pure article, sir," said the little greasy-headed steward, bowing, "it's
                  the very best champagne, sir; it's the pure French champagne, sir: the very best
                  in the city, sir, I can assure you, sir."
               "Well, let it be then, we 'll finish it somehow or other," said Parker.
               
               "I'll bet we will," said Warner.
               "Yes, and as much more," said Miller.
               "Well, Mr. Miller," said Warner, after having spent some time over the qualities
                  of the liquor, "when do you think we'd best start out to stump it? I'm afeered if
                  we don't start mighty soon, somebody else'll be for running!"
               "Let 'em run and be d—d; what in the h—ll do we care for 'em? I know of a d—d
                  sight better chance, anyhow. I know of more'n a dozen men that have made
                  independent fortunes this summer."
               "What's that Mr. Miller?", they both asked.
               "Well, I'll tell you. You know James B. Marten, don't you?"
               "Superintendent of the government stores at Benicia?" said Parker.
               "Yes, the very same. Well, sir, by G—d, that feller told me with his own mouth,
                  that he had made a cool hundred thousand this summer."
               "A hundred thousand dollars in one summer!" exclaimed Warner and Parker.
               "Yes, it's a fact, sure's I'm born," said Miller, striking the table and looking
                  greatly astonished.
               "Why, how did he do it?" questioned the others, nodding their giddy heads over the
                  table, and anxiously waiting a reply.
               "Well, I'll tell you how he done it. Do you know about them mules sent out for the
                  service?" and Miller leaned calmly over the table.
               "Certainly, certainly," the others replied.
               "Well, you ask J. B. Marten what he done with them mules, and then you'll
                  understand how he made his money."
               "Did he sell them?—did he, though?"
               "He did that, and, what's more, he's" (patting upon his pocket) "got the money,
                  too."
               "But won't the government find it out?"
               "The government of this State are in cahoot with him."
               "But Congress?"
               "And how'll Congress find out?"
               "Make inquiry what's become of the money?"
               "But who'll they make inquiry of?"
               "Of the officers of this State, to be sure."
               "Ha, ha, haw!" exclaimed Miller, striking the table, "and that'll be the end of
                  it. Ha, ha, haw! But how many beside J. B. Marten have made a hundred or so
                  thousand, do you think?"
               "More! how many more!" exclaimed Warner and Parker, earnestly.
               "Yes, how many more?" said Miller, becoming in a better humor.
               "None, I say," answered Parker.
               "None, none! ha, ha, haw! Why there's not a man connected with them stores but
                  what's got his d—d pockets as full as they can hold. Every whit of provisions sent
                  out for emigrants and for the Indians was sold, and they pocketed every red, every
                  d—d red—they did."
               "Yes, and by G—d," said Parker, "there's where I tell Warner; just let the
                  Sandwich or the West Indies, or any other Islands be annexed, and if we don't have
                  some——"
               "Careful, careful," exclaimed Miller, "there's always some d—d fanatics banging
                  'bout to ketch up things, you know," and he turned his snakish eyes about to
                  observe who were watching their remarks.
               "Here, steward!" called Warner, after having held a little private consultation
                  over something, "here steward!"
               "Yes sir, Yes sir," said the little man with the greasy head.
               "Open that other bottle, steward."
               "Yes sir, yes sir, yes sir," said the steward.
               "Well, here's luck, Mr. Warner," said Parker, reeling right and left in
                  good-humored style, and emptying his glass; and then Miller said:
               "Here's to h—ll with the London Times, and every d—d foreigner in the country.
                  Here's God-speed to the Sandwich Islands and to Cuba; and to h—ll with every d—d
                  fanatic that opposes the progress of our 'free institutions.' Here's to the Wilmot
                  proviso, and Webster's speech; and to h—ll with every abolitionist. Here's to the land of the 'free, and
                  home of the brave,' and to the extermination of every d—d foreigners that won't
                  pay his tax, or offers to open his mouth about the laws of our country—yes,
                     to h—ll with 'em. And above all, here's to ourselves, officers of
                  the government, by G—d," and down went the champagne, amid the shouts of Parker
                  and Warner.
               "Come, now," said Warner, "let's go over to the New Orleans. The Secretary is over
                  there this evening."
               "The Secretary is?" exclaimed Miller.
               "Yes," said Warner, "he's opened a new bank—faro I believe."
               "Thunder and lightning! Has he though? But why on earth didn't you tell us before?
                  I'm off. by G—d. Come on," said Miller, and he staggered out of the house,
                  followed by Warner and Parker.
               Although these men held an important position in California, and were the
                  particular friends and associates of the Governor, and every other official, yet,
                  their language was accompanied with so much profanity, criminal threats and
                  abuses, that the reader can scarcely imagine the difficulty under which we have
                  labored in order to convey an idea of their actual degradation, and yet have our
                  story fit to be seen. Indeed, it is painful in the extreme to have our story
                  soiled by introducing such low characters, but, as they were, and finally got to
                  be among the first officers of that golden territory, we are obliged to relate
                  their conduct, and the better quality of their language, so far as it came under
                  the observation of our friends.
               
               "Come," said Simons, "let us follow them over to the New Orleans. The Secretary
                  and several of the legislators are over there, come!" and they arose and again
                  went into the street.
               "Mr. Simons," said Chips, "whae is this Secretary they are talking aboot?"
               "Secretary of the State," said Simons.
               "Ay!" said Chips, "I dinna ken rightly what a' they were saying, but I tho't they
                  seemed nearly daft aboot something. But d'ye ken that ane whae whines sa like a
                  sick wife? he's the maun whae pullet doon so many houses, and broke so many
                  tools."
               "Many houses?" said Simons.
               "Ay! a good many houses. Ha! they are awfu' wicked folk, but that ane is the very
                  deil himsel'. But, Mr. Simons, I'm astonished to find sa ill-will against the
                  foreigners. Why, everybody tellet me that in America folk were allowed their
                  rights; but I'm sure this is na fair, for to be ane law for the Americans, and
                  anither for the foreigners! I ne'er tho't sic a silly folk as we could mak' ony
                  trouble in sic a free country as this!"
               "Neither do you," said Simons, "I'm sure you are as welcome in our country as we
                  are ourselves. That is one of the proudest claims our country possesses."
               "Ha! maun ye are surely not aware what deeds are done in the mines."
               "Yes, I know all about it; but I did not allude to the tax; I meant the public
                  feelings throughout the country."
               "But I dinnat rightly understan' the ways o' yer country, but tho't the laws were,
                  based upon the will o' the' people."
               "So they are said to be; and so they are in our well-regulated States; but in a
                  new country like this, the common people are too much engaged in making money to
                  pay any attention to the government. And, as nearly everybody comes here for the
                  purpose of making money, they will uphold any law that promises them a fortune.
                  There is the danger of us annexing so much territory—the men who will settle in
                  such places would nearly uphold piracy itself if they could fill their pockets in
                  some petty office by it. It's not so with a monarchical country, for the officers
                  are appointed by the home government, and they have national character to sustain;
                  but here they are elected only for a short period, and they want a fortune, and
                  then they intend to go somewhere else. So it is with that foreign tax; no real
                  American, I mean any man who advocates justice and equal rights, can wish to
                  maintain such a system of taxation upon any other than low, selfish purposes. The
                  officers who enforce it live well upon it, and there are always plenty of
                  unprincipled men in any country to take advantage of such a law—when it
                     protects them for taking the
                  foreigner's property; and, in reality, a large portion of our people are perfectly
                  regardless of the difficulties into which they may involve the nation."
               "Well, ye're a clever maun, Mr. Simons. I can na see how so many of ye Yankees are
                  all acquaint with the manner of government, and no be able to mak' better laws for
                  'us poor foreigners! But never ye mind now, for ye ken I was going to tell ye some
                  guid news aboot the mines?"
               "Certainly, and I am anxious to hear it!"
               "Ay, well as ye're a fine, clever maun, I'm anxious to tell it ye soon."
               "But don't stop to compliment me so much, but go on with the news."
               "Ay; maun, but what little I'll say till ye, will ne'er mak' ye ony the worse.
                  D'ye ken us ignorant Scotch will have our ain ways, and we're no skillet in late
                  fashions, so we tak' the dictates o' common nature, and, like our dumpy land
                  sitting awa' by itsel', we stand alane frae all the world."
               "But, are you not going to give me the news?" and Simons was growing
                  impatient.
               "Weel, I'll tell ye, but d'ye ken, us bashful folk ne'er gang muckle in company,
                  and we hardlys ken how to speak to sic a maun as ye. But tell me, is this the New
                  Orleans?"
               "Yes that's it; now perhaps I shall have an opportunity to point out to you the
                  Secretary and the Governor of the State. This is where they usually stop."
               "Ay, then I'll no tell ye aboot the mines till after we leave. It's no so wise to
                  say owre muckle when so many ears are gaping after sic rare news," and in another
                  minute they entered the saloon.
               "Ha! maun! what a bonnie hoose!" said Chips, as they commenced to promenade the
                  great hall, which was really magnificent. Unfortunately, they had tarried along
                  the street until our official gentlemen had departed; but, as they were not
                  pressed for time, they halted to enjoy the music of the band; but scarcely had
                  they become seated, when the, conscientious Willie observed the painting and
                  pictures hanging along the walls. Taking an unusually long breath, and cramming
                  his hands deep into his pockets, he exclaimed:
               "Ha! what wicked folk! I ne'er tho't sic would be allowed in ony country!"
               "Neither would it," said Wattie, "if the people were half civilized. But what can
                  we do when even our said-to-be-Christians throw morals altogether aside, and hold
                  up their hands, and boast, and pray for national glory? when you can't get an
                  intelligent and Christian public to pay any attention to such crimes; when the
                  hundreds of murders committed about these saloons fail to bring the common people
                  to observe the manner in which crimes are suppressed in other countries when life
                  itself is made valueless; and the extension of the country becomes a desire so
                  morbid, as to induce Christian America (if necessary) to take up arms to prevent
                  other countries from assisting in the cause of enlightenment, by the principle of
                  annexation! Glorious state of affairs indeed!"
               "Ha!" said Willie, and he drew an exceedingly long breath, "I wad no like
                  Republicanism, if it allows sic things as this. In auld Scotland the folk are all
                  growling, but the poor souls ken but little aboot how well they are off. It tak's
                  mare money to support our Queen, but I wad no gie her for all sic governments as
                  this. But if ye like, Wattie, I would rather gang back till our hotel than sit
                  here, it's dreadful immoral!" and they arose and departed, disgusted with the
                  outrageous immoralities of our Christian nation!
               
               Close by a small stove in the dining-room sits the little black-eyed wife. Her
                  pretty foot rested upon a billet of wood, her eyes were watchin her needle, and
                  her little dimply hands were fastening buttons upon her husband's pantaloons. In
                  half-broken whispers her musical voice was humming; and in happy contemplation her
                  mind was devising the comfort of her husband and her brother. It was late, and
                  frequently she noticed the sinking candle, or looked upon the bright, open field
                  which stretched in front of the house, and which was lighted so brilliantly by the silvery moon. The door opened,
                  and in came her brother.
               "Julia, sister," said he, "you sit up late, but I am glad of it, for I wish to
                  speak with you about something serious!" and he drew his chair to her side. Her
                  keen, black, eyes looked into his face, her lips were moved by a smile, and her
                  distinct voice laughed. and said:
               "Is it about your gray-eyed lady-love?"
               "No, Julia, but it is about getting your consent for me to leave you again!" and
                  immediately her smiles departed, and sorrow overshadowed her rosy face.
               "Simons! you will not leave me?" and her hands dropped upon her work, her bosom
                  began to heave, and her attention was riveted upon her brother.
               "I will leave it entirely to you, Julia!"
               "Brother, you mustn't go!" said she, and her person seemed as if turned to
                  marble.
               "Julia, these Scotchmen have told me of an opportunity to make a fortune by
                  joining with them. How can I lose such an opportunity?"
               "Nathan Simons!" said Julia, and her voice faltered a little, "you are the only
                  relative I have in this world? you are my brother!" and she hid her face.
               Simons laid his hand upon her head, and said:
               "Julia, I shall not leave you, if it is your wish?" and she turned her tearful
                  eyes upon him, and said:
               "Brother, you shall do as you wish; but you will not remain long away from me,
                  will you?"
               "No, Julia, two or three months; but I can come often to see you.
               
               The Scotchmen, Mr. Wattie, Mr. Hamlin and Simons were in the sitting-room. They
                  were conversing about steamships, and the difficulties of a voyage homeward. It
                  was very late, and they were soon going to retire for the night. Footsteps were
                  heard approaching, and in a moment the door opened. Three men entered, they were
                  Parker. Miller and Warner, and asked for lodging: for the night. Hamlin arose to
                  meet them, and to inform them that they could be accommodated; but scarcely was he
                  upon his feet, when one of the three—it was Parker—cried aloud:
               "O! my God!" and quicker than thought he turned round, opened the door, and fled
                  down the street, followed by his companions.
               "Who is that man?" cried Hamlin, "I'm sure I know that voice."
               "That is Parker, the collector of foreigner taxes," said Simons.
               "Parker! Parker! Parker! I don't know any man by that name," said Hamlin.
               "But that's his name," said Simons, "he is a noted black-leg."
               "Parker! Parker! Parker!" said Hamlin, pressing his finger upon his forehead, "I
                  never knew anybody by that name before! But I'm sure know this man! Then, he knows
                  me! Why did he exclaim so, and immediately run? I know of no enemies to me! and
                  yet I know that I am familiar with that voice!" but the mystery was inexplicable,
                  and they retired, wondering at so strange a proceeding.
               The following morning was beautiful indeed, but a heavy gloom seemed to linger in
                  the tones of the bells—they were the bells of the steamer on which Wattie was
                  about to leave. They were standing upon the deck, and shaking hands, for the last
                  time.
               "Simons," said Wattie, "you will find some difficulty to protect these men against
                  the unprincipled 'jumpers' who seem to think a foreigner has no rights; but do all
                  you can for them, you will find them to be two of the best men you ever lived
                  with." And, turning toward his Scotch companions, he said, "Willie and Chips, I
                  must now leave you! Good-by! good-by!" and he shook their hands, "but if I shall
                  see you no more on earth, let us try and meet in Heaven! We will all be foreigners
                  there. God will care but little whether we are from Scotland or America—He has but
                  little to do with the monarchical or the republican governments of men: but we
                  shall all be measured by the same rule.
                  I wish it was so here; but my government will not allow me to look upon you as an
                  equal with myself. 'Stand back, for we are more holy than thou'—for we are 'free,'
                  is the spirit that is ruining my land! for so firmly is this feeling becoming
                  rooted that public attention cannot be directed to the removal of crimes and
                  slavery from our midst! and so deeply is this demon spirit, becoming instilled
                  among the people that the whole nation is becoming a despot and a tyrant against
                  all others! But, Willie! and you, Chips, I must leave you! Good-by, good-by!" and,
                  pointing his hand toward the clear sky, he added, "let us meet there! my friends!
                  good-by!" and the good man burst into tears.
               "Good-by, Wattie, good-by!" they both replied. "Remember, Wattie, our warmest
                  prayers shall be for the maun we love. Ye have been a guid maun to us, Wattie, and
                  we'll no' forget ye. For all your hard struggles to base your laws upon mare noble
                  principles, I'm sure the Lord will remember ye, Wattie. He kens full weel that ye
                  love your fellow-maun, or else ye wadna plead for the rights o' sic poor
                  foreigners. Nay, Wattie, the Lord'll no forget ye; and, should we meet ye in that
                  land o' rest, ye shall be our delightful companion. Na mare laws shall divide us
                  then, Wattie! and na mare hard feelings shall arise frae our birthplace! Ay!
                  Wattie, we'll remember ye, and our prayers when we live amang those wild moontains
                  shall be for ye, Wattie. May God bless ye, Wattie! ye're a guid maun! Good-by,
                  good-by!" and they shook his hands, and, as the bell was ringing for the last
                  time, they added, "Tell your guid wife and your little anes, that we love them
                  too—will ye, Wattie! tell them that the Scotch have hearts that love. Good-by!
                  good-by, Wattie!" and the tones of the bell still lingered as they unloosed the
                  cordial grasp. The great wheels of the noble steamer commenced to roll, and the
                  fond associates were separated.
               
               "It is a favorite spot, Julia." said Simons, "and has been long known for its
                  richness. These Scotchmen were acquainted with it last fall, and only deferred
                  working it on account of high water; but this summer the water has disappeared, so
                  that we can construct a dam, and work the ground."
               "But if you get a fortune very quick, you will return to the States to meet your
                  lady-love, and then I'll have no brother!" said Julia, and a smile played upon her
                  lips.
               "Do you think I shall not be your brother after I am married? But do
                  tell me, Julia—you know that women always understand each other—what in the world
                  can be the reason I get no letter from her?"
               "I expect her mother won't permit her to write!" said Julia.
               "But don't you think she could steal an opportunity of sending me a letter?"
               "Not if her mother is true to our sex—she couldn't. Brother, you don't know how
                  sharp an old woman's eyes are. Mr. Hamlin's brother, a doctor of the very best
                  standing, fell in love with a pretty girl they called Josephine Wardle, and a girl
                  never loved anybody better than she loved him—and for all he bailed the old man
                  for a great debt, and got broke up by it, yet her guardians managed to get her to
                  marry one of her cousins. But it so distracted him that he ran off, and has never
                  been heard of since! No, Simons, you must not mind about getting letters; I'm sure
                  she'd write to you if she had an opportunity."
               "Thank you, Julia; it does me good to hear your encouragement. But the time will
                  soon roll round; and if this happens to be a successful hit, and you continue to
                  prosper here, in your hotel, we shall soon be in Cincinnati again!"
               "Then you will not remain until after dinner? you are off, right now?"
               "Yes, Julia, we must go," said Simons, rising and shaking his sister's hand.
               "Tell the Scotchmen I wish them well, tell them I like to hear them talk—it sounds
                  so funny—will you?" said Julia, and she affected to laugh although in tears, as
                  her brother turned and started for the mountains.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               "O! TELL me not that such is the nature of woman's heart—for the idea has within
                  itself something too oppressive for my weak state, and nearly causes my soul to
                  despair under the woeful misfortunes that have befallen me—but say that the
                  customs and fashions of society have so changed the nature of woman's true
                  character that she dare not bestow the kindness upon the distressed that her own
                  soul feels inclined to give, lest she too be ranked among the most debased of the
                  human race. Has not this simple bruise upon my face taught me to know how
                  miserably neglected are the fallen females upon whom the best part of society turn
                  the cold hand of scorn and contempt? taught me to see how difficult it is for the
                  poor creatures to reform, while the strong arm of society is so inhumanly nerved
                  against every feeble attempt they make? taught me to look upon the so-called
                  Christian world in a light in which I never viewed it before, and brought to my
                  comprehension phases among the mass, of which I was so long ignorant? and taught
                  me to fear that, at no distant period of my life, I too would have
                  refused to bend my ear to hear their pitiful whispers? Ah! why should I complain
                  of my distressed condition, and of the scorn and contempt which these
                  half-educated ladies are heaping upon me? Where could I go to better my condition?
                  Have I not been shamefully treated by the minister and his wife? Would not a great
                  portion of the female world treat me so, if they were also suspicious of my
                  character? But ah! it's no use for me to waste my words in soliloquy; the great
                  human family will still continue to point daggers at the woman who is said to have
                  fallen!"
               "Well! upon my word, Miss Lindsey, if I didn't hear every word you said! Why, you
                  are really recovering—not only sit up in bed, but make speeches upon the moral
                  condition of society—well!"
               "Ah! Mr. Parker, anybody could make speeches upon the immoral condition of society
                  if they had encountered the treatment that I have. Sad reflection is the offspring
                  of bitter experience ence, and clear ideas the result of dark trouble; and both of
                  these are the only crystal through which we are enabled to see our fellow
                  creatures."
               "Why, you are really philosophic, Miss Lindsey. But tell me how you are getting
                  along. I can only remain a short time, I'm under obligation to meet a friend at
                  Sacramento this evening. You will not suffer if I leave you for one night, will
                  you, Miss Lindsey?" and the gambler laid his hand upon her forehead.
               "I am recovering, but really, Mr. Parker, I scarcely see how I can live if you
                  leave me. To be candid with you, sir, you are the only friend I have about this
                  house, and you are valuable to me."
               "That is a compliment, Miss Lindsey, the more prized as coming from you; but, tell
                  me, do they not treat you any better?"
               "No, Mr. Parker, they are continually telling the boarders how kind they are to
                  me, to allow such a thing to remain in their house. But if it is necessary for you
                  to go to Sacramento I can not say no."
               "It is really necessary, Miss Lindsey, or else I should not go; but I think you
                  will soon recover—you look much better?"
               "I think I shall; but why do you not tell your sister to come and see me?"
               "My sister started for San Francisco this morning."
               "Possible! I wish I had known it, I wanted to send word to Mrs. Case."
               "She was off before I knew it, or else I should have informed you. But may I ask
                  if you had any particular communication that you wished to make?"
               "I had."
               "Well then, Miss Lindsey, I am sure that I can comfort you, for I apprehend your
                  condition—you are nearly out of money, and do not know what to do for funds?"
               "That is it, but how did you know?"
               "I knew where you were working last summer—knew about how much money you had—and
                  knew that it must be nearly gone. It is for that purpose that I inquired into your
                  condition," and Parker reached is his hands into his pockets and drew forth a bag of doubloons: "but here, take this,
                  and allow no care to disturb your mind, and you will soon recover; take it," and
                  he placed the gold upon her bed.
               "Mr. Parker!" and strange feelings were manifested in her frightened and blushing
                  face, "I cannot take this! You know that my regard for your kindness is more than
                  I can express; but I cannot accept this."
               "Miss Lindsey!" and his former manliness seemed to return, "a disinterested man is
                  presenting you with this money because you need it, and for no other purpose.
                  Accept it as you would from a father or husband, but do not harbor a thought that
                  I am doing it with any sinister motive, and permit me to believe that at least one
                  mortal is not suspicious of my benevolence. I cannot listen to your not accepting
                  it" and, before she could collect herself to reply, he shook her pale hand and
                  departed.
               Harriet's ejectment from Mrs. Ellis's resulted in bringing on a serious fever,
                  which, considering the bruise upon her face having prevented her from entering
                  anything like a comfortable house rendered her condition altogether unenviable,
                  and darkened her present reflections by more than one unhappy apprehension. This
                  house was anything but comfortable, and if Europeans are right in saying that
                  Americans are sickly and short lived because they live in poor houses, then, most
                  assuredly the Marysville people were visiting a curse upon their present and
                  rising generation for which they will never be able to answer; for a more
                  miserable lot of wooden and canvas fixtures never was erected among a civilized
                  people. With some boards, and canvas, Harriet's room was surrounded; and with the
                  exception of two of the rooms, the floor of the whole house was composed of terra
                  firma, and not of at too clean appearance, for that 'eternal fat pork' had made a
                  few sad-looking pictures along the favorite walks, and particularly around the
                  table.
               Harriet occupied a long room, which contained nothing more than her bed and her
                  bandbox. The persons who had charge of this house were two ladies, one of whom was
                  an old maid—that is, fretful and peevish—and the other was her sister, called Mrs.
                  Marshall, upon whom marriage no doubt had had the desirable able effect of
                  preserving a small portion of good-humor. But the old maid, Mary Black, was one of
                  tho scythe-handle creatures made crooked and lean by downright fault-finding. She
                  had never seen a good person in her life, and she did not intend to be the first
                  in setting the example. Like Mrs. Ellis, nobody would trust her, and she was not
                  going to trust anybody. She believed all mankind were wicked and bad, and she was
                  determined not to permit them to run over her; and, to render herself safe from
                  the wicked world, she had firmly resolved to be the first one to commence
                  fingering for a share of the spoils. Indeed a fac-simile of one nation against
                  another was the closet-learned and 'rigid wise' old maid. She hated everybody, but
                  she hated gamblers and fallen females worse than she did the devil; and, no matter
                  how unfortunately they had been driven to such a life, she believed it was her
                  duty to show them no favors, and help to destroy what little character they still
                  possessed.
               She had made up her mind what Harriet was, and if all the world had sworn to the
                  contrary yet the fact would have only been removed still further from heir belief,
                  and she would have been convinced that such a thing was done expressly to blind
                  the public. If her sister carried tea to Harriet, she always administered a
                  precaution upon the subject of character—something which, in her eyes, was of far
                  greater value than what little reward she might gain from the Creator when she
                  would, get to heaven, by doing "such a thing" a favor. "Keep yourself unspotted
                  from the world" was her particular motto—a sentence which she supposed prevented
                  her from speaking or associating with those whom "she knew" to be her inferiors.
                  "Character" was the principal word by which she was governed, and she believed it
                  to be the only real thing that a woman could have; and to protect that character
                  she advocated the right of young men to carry bowie-knives and revolvers, and to
                  "shoot down anybody who dared to say that she had ever spoken a familiar word with
                  Harriet," for, she felt sure that the latter had lost her virtue, and deserved her
                  abuse.
               To our readers, such a character on the part of a female, may seem to be
                  exaggerated, but, if so, we only hope that they may turn their glasses to view a few of the facts that
                  are daily occurring in the principal cities of England and America—in both of
                  which countries a fallen woman is treated worse than a beast—hissed at, abused,
                  shunned, trampled down and ill-treated by nearly every (so called) respectable
                  citizen—even by the strictest of church-members they receive abuse
                  continually.
               It was by reflecting upon this wretched defect in society, that poor Harriet burst
                  forth:
               "O! tell me not that such is the nature of woman's heart." But alas! poor Harriet
                  could not prove her purity, and she was obliged to be goaded with their malicious
                  suspicions at their pleasure. There was also another mysterious personage
                  connected with Harriet's condition, and one, too, which shows how erroneously
                  society is acting, when it too hastily condemns a man's outward appearance—this
                  was our friend and philanthropist, Mr Parker. Now, at this length of our story, we
                  know this individual to be one of the first blacklegs of the country, and in
                  principle but little better than a robber; but, as may be perceived, Harriet knew
                  but little of this man which was deserving of censure, and had good reason to
                  believe him to be an honorable man. Immediately after Harriet's illness, this
                  gentleman deferred all his business, and stood, like a brother, to watch and to
                  administer to her every want—ay, he was as kind as it was possible for man to be.
                  And as the old maid and Mrs. Marshall had deserted her, Parker was her only real
                  friend and benefactor; neither were his actions indicative of the slightest degree
                  of self-interest, nor did he manifest any further inclination to win her
                  attachment; but, on the contrary, he did it as a benevolent act, and he also
                  promised her, that as soon as she should recover, he would assist her to return to
                  her native city. At this time, she had almost entirely despaired of Simons' being
                  alive; for, having advertised so long at San Francisco, during which time, we are
                  aware, Simons had been confined with the cholera, when he never saw a paper, she
                  concluded that the person of whom Parker had told her, could not possibly be
                     the person she was in search of. Parker helped her to believe so,
                  too.
               Harriet was very ill for a long time—scarcely able to leave her bed for many—many
                  long weeks!"
               Here we must dismiss her for a little while, and watch the progress of Simons
                  hurrying to make a fortune, to return with to Cincinnati.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               ACCORDING to the rules among the miners, in the early period of gold digging, the
                  first to obtain possession became the rightful owner of a claim. Therefore, Simons
                  and his Scotch companions reached their valuable piece of ground in time to
                  entitle them to be the legal owners; but, scarcely were they upon the place, when
                  a great number of miners reached it, also to lay claim to it. It was entirely,
                  optional with Simons' party, who they chose to admit to join them, in forming a
                  company to construct a dam; but among the different anxious persons to enlist were
                  our two friends, Charley and Jimie. In the course of conversation, Simons
                  recognized Jimie to be an acquaintance of his sister and Mr. Hamlin—having come
                  from the same settlement in Indiana—which soon established an intimacy, sufficient
                  to amalgamate them into the favored party. Bound by no organization, more than
                  good-will, this party of five now commenced the construction of their dam, of
                  which, in order to judge correctly of their legal rights, we must give a passing
                  description in as few words as we possibly can.
               To construct a wing-dam properly, is a matter requiring more ingenuity than most
                  people would imagine. A wing-dam is that peculiar kind of dam which crowds the
                  river over to one side—making it flow in about one-half its usual breadth. But, as
                  the bottoms of these rivers are lined with large bowlders, it is very difficult to
                  make them waterproof. They are constructed of stone, wood, and sand. The first
                  part of the operation is to commence at the upper end of the valuable ground, and
                  lay a row of stones directly
                     into the middle of the river; then, directly down the
                  middle to the lower end of the claim. After this row of stones is laid, quantities
                  of sand are deposited around them, to fill the interstices. After this, a row of
                  boards is driven down along the wall or dam, to protect the sand, which is
                  afterward covered with clay.
               Chips was elected to the occupation of preparing the boards; and the others
                  commenced their masonic part of the dam, each one trying to show the greatest
                  skill in his new employment. Chips made his first attack upon a huge pine, a
                  little way off.
               His first day was put in faithfully, indeed. The next morning, Jimie was passing
                  near by where he was at work, and called to see how he got on with the boards. But
                  lo! what was his astonishment to find Chips hard at work at the same tree, which
                  he thought never would fall. Poor Chips! carpenter as he was, he could not handle
                  the ax. Jimie took a good laugh at his awkwardness, then took the ax, and in a few
                  minutes felled the tree. Chips laughed to think how awkward he had been; but the
                  joke assisted to make them intimate. After this, Jimie did the cutting and
                  splitting, and Chips finished up the boards. While this was going on, the others
                  were laying the foundations of the dam. The water at the edge of the river, was
                  very shallow, but near the middle it was about three feet deep. This water was
                  kept up by the melting snow not far above, and, consequently, was but very little
                  above the freezing point, although the weather was remarkably warm. To be wading
                  in and out of such a place all day, was no very pleasing task. But merely wading
                  in it was not all, for they were obliged to stoop down in the water, in order to
                  adjust the stones. To say nothing about the weight of the stones, the pinching of
                  fingers, or the slipping and falling a hundred times a day, in the water, it could
                  not be considered a desirable occupation. And, when it is borne in mind, that
                  three months of such labor must precede the obtaining of any gold, some notion may
                  be formed of the persevering spirit with which the inner labors; but, lest too
                  sanguine thoughts are entertained, it becomes necessary to bear in mind, also,
                  that all of this labor is prospective and that the miner does it only in
                     hopes of something. Under such considerations, the miner occupies
                  a position that will test his perseverance, equally as well as though he was a
                  favored lord riding a steeple-chase, or a duke or a general commanding an
                  army.
               The old notions, that only particular positions can test the good qualities of the
                  human mind, are beginning to yield to the more enlightened ideas in regard to the
                  philosophy of the mind. For a man to commence such an enterprise and then despair
                  of success, and abandon his intention, would show just as much fickleness of
                  disposition, as for a nobleman to lay down in the field of battle and declare
                  himself a coward; and it is only by illustrating common occupations that the real
                  nature of man can be studied. Therefore, let those who will keep pace with the age
                  in which we live, remember it is the man, and not the
                     occupation, which the world is beginning to admire.
               Not many days passed before a general intimacy was established among our little
                  party, and diverting stories formed a happy relief among them. Charley, as well as
                  the Scotchmen, improved in speaking English, and began to assume many of the
                  peculiarities of American phraseology. To speak plainly, the Scotchmen had had
                  little opportunity for learning, but Wattie, their former companion, though an
                  American, could speak and understand broad Scotch as well as they could; and
                  during his stay with them they generally conversed in that strange, but
                  affectionate language. But now the old habit had to yield, for Simons and Jimie
                  could not speak it at all, and found some difficulty in understanding it. Many of
                  the old scenes with which we are familiar, were related during their evening
                  sittings around their camp-fire, and many a good laugh burst forth at the relation
                  of something funny. Many jokes about youthful tricks, or school-day joys, where
                  each had been at tedious burden to their persevering teacher, rendered their time
                  not at all unpleasant. In addition to merry stories, the philosophy of the gold
                  deposit formed a subject to test their learning. In this, Jimie held the
                  advantage, and generally came off the victor. But in reference to the system of
                  taxing foreigners more than other people, they all held an indisputably high
                  position. Charley and Jimie had arrived
                  at that point of determination to declare, that it ought not to be paid, and that
                  he, Charley, should dig gold, but should not pay it. The Scotchmen,
                  whose license had run out, stimulated by the enthusiasm of the others, also
                  concluded never to pay it again. However, much time elapsed before they would
                  agree to such a determination, for, although they were the last men to throw away
                  money, yet, fearing that they were violating the law, they looked upon such a
                  resolution as close akin to something wicked, if it was not really a sin.
               Such is the difference between persons brought up under different governments.
                  Brought up in subjection, the one scarcely has the energy to oppose a principle
                  which he knows is wrong; but the other becomes a law breaker. The Chinaman boasts
                  of worshiping his common officer; the Briton boasts of his
                     loyalty; but the American boasts of his right to
                     disobey any law which seems unjust He laughs at the Briton
                  for his weakness; but he pities the Chinaman for his heathenism. The Chinaman
                  abhors the wickedness of an Englishman for not worshiping the queen; but he is
                  pained in the extreme at the wickedness of the common citizen of America
                  attempting to come so near his Creator as to take part in framing laws. The Briton
                  declares both are wrong. He says the Chinaman is superstitious for worshiping his
                  common officers; and that the American is a lawless villain for not obeying even
                  such laws as he knows are unjust. Now, whether the Chinese are too
                  superstitious, and whether the Britons have a little of the same—under the name of
                  loyalty—or, whether the American has not enough, can only be judged by that which
                  gives the greatest amount of security and happiness to the common man; and as all
                  of them claim this, and are satisfied with themselves, it is very wise to let them
                  remain so—suffice it, that through the influence of Simons and Jimie, the two
                  Scotchmen finally concluded that they had a right to refuse to pay the foreign
                  tax. Under such circumstances, it is very evident that Simons and Jimie felt some
                  responsibility in protecting the property of their three companions.
               We have now before us, the general conditions of our five young men, but the
                  particulars of their fiddling, singing, talking, cooking, washing, laboring,
                  laughing, etc., must be filled up by imagining as jovial, and good a lot of young
                  men together, as ever lived among the wild mountains of California. And even those
                  lofty prominences must be left to the imagination, which can easily supply the
                  Scotch poetry that made, many an attempt at describing their altitude, but only
                  brought forth bursts of laughter, loud and long. Here, we have them for one month.
                  Their work had progressed finely, and hopes of success began to dawn. The water in
                  the river had greatly decreased, and many miners were crowded along its stony
                  sides. Wing-dams were being constructed in every favorable place, for many miles
                  up and down the river. White tents were crowded along the banks of the river, like
                  a continuous village of canvas, but winding around the mountains to hide their
                  beauty behind the rocky prominences. In the day, the clash of tools, the felling
                  of trees, the rattling of cradles, the blasting of rocks, the whooping and
                  yelling, the singing, whistling and laughing of the merry miners rendered the
                  scene one of the most animating imaginable. But at night, how changed it was! As
                  an amusement, among the many, fiddling and dancing expressed their happiness; but
                  then at an early hour all was changed, calm and still. No fighting or drunken men
                  to disturb the repose of the wearied miners; but all was hushed so still that the
                  little blazing fires alone indicated that there slept the moral and the brave! Ah!
                  how mild that deep-yellow moon looked down between those wild mountains to where
                  these honest men were sleeping! How proudly she seemed to grow while her pale rays
                  rested, upon the only nation in all the world where the wealthy could lay down and
                  sleep without a throng of soldiers or police to watch for thieves! Ah! well indeed
                  can the American's bosom heave with pride when he casts a wistful eye over the
                  great world around! Well indeed can he feel himself insulted when his morals are
                  compared with those of the subjects of anything living! Well may he
                  watch, with an eagle's eye, every attempt to disturb the moral rights that have
                  raised his fellows from serfdom to citizenship! but lo! how dreadful would it be
                  to lose slight of the principles which have created his pride and glory, by a too
                  sanguine tenacity to religious
                  prejudices! Ah! it was pleasing indeed to look upon such an encampment, and to
                  know that not only life, but property—valuable property, strewn all through the
                  village, was safer than in any other country under the sun!
               But there is another picture necessary to illustrate the growing principle which
                  has, in a later day, assumed a more tangible appearance; and to illustrate this we
                  must abandon our enthusiastic conceptions, and refer to the only sound
                     argument—facts. It will be remembered that our party's wing-dam
                  was a triangular concern, and extended into the river half its breadth. Now then,
                  a little examination proved that on the opposite side of the river the ground was
                  also exceedingly rich; and, accordingly, another company commenced building a dam
                  on that side, which, if completed, would not leave any place for the river to run.
                  Certainly this was exceedingly rash, but when it is remembered that a great
                  fortune is lying where a little exertion and perseverance will gain its
                  possession, its rashness does not seem so extravagant as it otherwise might.
                  Beside this company (which went under the name of the Pittsburg-boys,) there were
                  companies in close contact on both sides of the river—so that the poor river had
                  enough to do to convey the war of words that continued to gallop across its
                  troubled waters.
               As we stated before, the first claimant is the legal owner; and accordingly, our
                  party had a right to proceed with their work, and to entreat the other party to
                  postpone their right until after they had finished. After some serious
                  contemplation among Simons' party, they resolved to give the Pittsburgh-boys a
                  notification of their rights.
               "Gentlemen," said Simons, one day to them, "we consider it is impossible for both
                  of us to proceed, and, as we have been at work for several weeks, we think it is
                  nothing more than right for us to continue to work out our ground; but, as you are
                  only commencing, we consider that you should defer your work until another
                  season."
               Evidently the Pittsburgh-boys had expected such a notification, and they very
                  civilly replied:
               "O! we are not going to do much, we are only trying to do a little in the edge of
                  the water, here; we do not intend to interfere with your rights at all. O! no, no,
                  you are entitled to proceed; we would not, for the world, disturb your progress.
                  O! no, no; go on with your work, you are in the right."
               Thus ended the first interview. But the Pittsburgh-boys, the awful
                  Pittsburgh-boys, kept on working. Further and further their dam extended into the
                  river. Again Simons' party began to apprehend serious trouble, and again addressed
                  them:
               "Gentlemen, I thought you were going to put off damming, this season?" said
                  Simons.
               "Yes, we are only going to work this small bit of ground here," they replied.
                  "Never mind us, we will not interfere with your ground; as soon as we finish this
                  small bit we will quit."
               So ended the second interview. But, as before, the Pittsburg-boys kept extending
                  their dam further into the river. Serious consultation among Simons' party was
                  beginning to occupy their idle hours. At this time they had spent about six weeks
                  on their dam, which was about half the labor it would require. But the
                  Pittsburgh-boys had only spent about two weeks on theirs, and, as yet, it was only
                  a small affair.
               "Gentlemen," said Simons, "you still continue to build your dam?"
               "Yes, but it does you no harm yet, does it?" they replied.
               "No, but if you raise it much higher it will back the water on to us."
               "But we are only going to strip out this little place; we do not intend to disturb
                  you at all. O! no, no; but we think we are entitled to work out this ground."
               "But you can not work that out without injuring us, I am afraid!"
               "O! yes; we can do it, easily—anyhow, we will try."
               "I am very much afraid you can not, and when you can perceive the gold, you will
                  not like to abandon it."
               "O! not at all, sir; we are sure we can work the ground; and if we can not, we
                  will yield to you, that is if you have the best right to
                  proceed!"
               
               "Then, already you begin to think your right to proceed is as good as
                  ours?"
               "Well, I do not know, but that must; be settled after this."
               Thus ended the third interview. But now, peace no longer dwelt between the two
                  parties, and a fearful contest was beginning to appear. In each camp the evenings
                  were occupied in laying plans for battle. However, for another week, no more was
                  said by Simons' party to the other, which continued to work at their dam with the
                  same perseverance as before.
               "Gentlemen," said Simons, again, "I wish to know, now, whether you intend to
                  proceed with your dam this season—if so, we will be obliged to stop, for already
                  the water is beginning to rise against our dam?"
               "We can't help the water running," they replied, with rather an uncivil air.
               "Then you intend to proceed?"
               "Yes, we do. We consider we have as much right here as foreigners!"
               "And why did you appear so civil at first, if you intended to proceed?"
               "We were not aware that your party were principally foreigners."
               "Then, because they are foreigners, you are willing to break your word and rob
                  them of two months' labor?"
               "Certainly; but it is not robbing them. We are preventing them from robbing our
                  country—they have no business here."
               "Then you are determined to continue, and abide the consequences?"
               "Yes, we are," replied the others emphatically, "and we inform you to be careful
                  about damming the water against us—we are not children."
               Thus ended the fourth interview, but Simons' party had their dam so complete that
                  they could now discover gold literally strewn all over the bottom of their claim;
                  and in eight or ten days more, they could prepare their pumps and commence mining
                  the ground. But the alarm of their little party was now serious, indeed.
               "What!" said Simons, "for the sake of twenty dollars a month, shall we be in
                  danger of losing all our ground? Would it not be better to pay fifty or a
                  hundred?"
               Such was the manner in which conversation was introduced into their camp on the
                  evening after their last interview with the Pittsburg-boys. In this instance our
                  little party were seated about their camp-fire, gazing anxiously upon each other
                  to hear some plan devised whereby their rights might be protected.
               Ah! how like a band of brothers those young men looked upon each other! The same
                  kind expressions beamed forth from every eye, and the same silent spirit seemed to
                  be passing among them and speaking from every heart, that "the law which separates
                  us shall perish! Woe! be to such pecuniary legislation, and eternal curses upon
                  such mockery to equal rights! Hurl us into monarchy and despotism, and then
                  declare we shall not live upon equal terms with those we love; but woe! be to the
                  same principle cloaked under another name."
               "Curse that infamous tax," said Jimie, springing to his feet, "I detest the idea
                  of them paying it. I hate to yield to such a contemptible scheme. But they'll take
                  our claim if we don't. I declare I don't know what to say about it!"
               "Faith, Jimie," said Charley, "I think we had bether pay the tax. D'ye see, now,
                  we have lost a good deal of time, and it'll be more wise to take the plan which
                  will make us the most money. D'ye see, now, if we had paid our tax when we were
                  along with uncle—God bless the poor ould soul, for a betther man never drew the
                  breath o' life—it would have been the wisest for us, and that's my candid opinion
                  upon it, Jimie."
               "That is true, Charley," said Jimie, "but I hate so confoundedly to yield, after
                  saying that I would protect you against the tax," and Jimie's eyes sparkled.
               "Faith, Jimie," said Charley, and his broad face glowed with feeling, "ye have
                  done more for me than I deserve. I'm only an Irishman—bad luck to the name—and ye
                  must never think I cares for anything that tries to separate ye from me! No,
                  Jimie, if ye will but yield this time to Charley, ye shall never suffer—the Lord
                  preserve me—so long as the world stands!" and the young Irishman held up his face, and tears rolled down his cheeks.
               "Ay," said Chips, "I think it would be full as weel to pay the tax. It's no so
                  much but what we can stand it. I ken it looks awfu' cowardly-like, too, for to
                  have our determinations breaket after all our tho'ts have been wasted; but I
                  believe it's the wisest plan to pay the tax."
               "Ay" said Willie, "d'ye ken, it's no sa often we find groond like this; and, for
                  ane, I'm sure I should rather pay the tax, than to risk holding our claim.
                  Perhaps, my fear leads me astray; but, d'ye ken, it's better to mak' sure of a
                  little, than to run after sa muckle, and get nathing ava.'"
               "Yes," said Simons, "I think it is advisable to pay it—it's not much anyhow. Three
                  times twenty are sixty, and five into sixty goes twelve times—O! it's only twelve
                  dollars each—a mere trifle."
               "But," said Chips, "ye surely canna' expect to help us pay our ain tax?"
               Simons arose as if an arrow had pierced his heart, his brow raised, his eyes
                  sparkled, his face brightened, and the obligations he owed toward Chips and
                  Willie, for carrying him off the mountain during the last summer, seemed as if
                  nearly convulsing his soul with emotion.
               "Your own tax!" he repeated. "Am I not your partner, and are you not my equal?
                  What difference is there between you and me, that you should pay twenty dollars a
                  month, and I pay nothing? Is it because you have worked two months in an American
                  river? Must you support a lot of gambling officials in money to buy ice-cream,
                  mint-julep, egg-nog, or something of the kind—perhaps to be expended at houses of
                  a still less character? Your money, which you procure by such labor
                  as this, be squandered by such idle officers and beardless boys! Look what immense
                  sums they have collected, and what a paltry trifle they have given to the
                  State!—and you talk of bearing it alone!—never! never! They may make
                  laws as they like; but that tax shall not come off you any more than it does from
                  me. The government gives you nothing in return; for the right that it pretends to
                  give to you for twenty dollars, is your right anyhow; and, as it is a scheme laid
                  to take advantage of foreigners, under a plea that they are ruining the country it
                  is, not only my will to bear an equal share with yourselves, but my duty to help
                  you to withstand so unprincipled a plot against you while you are in my country.
                  It is really a poor indication of morality, for a neighbor to plunder his fellow,
                  the moment he finds him away from home; and, though the whole world should try to
                  screen such a nefarious scheme, by cloaking it under political dogmas,
                     I will stand by you, and help you to bear the grievances under
                  which you labor—I will help to bear the oppression which has been
                  heaped upon your natural rights—I will help you to bear the
                  misfortune which has resulted from your having no voice in the government, which
                  you are obliged to support, and I will stand up for your natural
                  rights, though the whole of my country desert you. No, you shall not pay it
                  alone—never! I care not what any man says; but I say you shall not bear it
                  alone—never! never! You know my obligation's to you!" and immediately after his
                  voice ceased, the party became so still, that the little snapping fire was all the
                  sound that could be heard in their midst, and not an eye dared to look upon
                  another.
               On the following day, Chips started for Sacramento to procure their
                  passports—alias license. The distance would require nearly two weeks to go and
                  return, and in the hottest days of summer, it was a journey very fatiguing; but
                  knowing that the result of his speed might yet save their property, he put forth
                  all the exertion that he could possibly endure, and neither hill nor valley,
                  plains nor mountains, clouds of dust nor drought, hindered his progress.
               "Ah!" said Jimie, "if they apprehend that Chips is after a license, they will
                  endeavor to beat us off the ground before his return."
               "But we'll no tell them," said Willie.
               "Faith," said Charley, "if they try to take the advantage of us that way, we'll be
                  afther brushing their jackets, we will, so sure as the knot on my head."
               
               "I think we shall be the gainers yet, if Chips only meets with no detention," said
                  Simons.
               The Pittsburgh-boys became alarmed at Chips' absence, and they sat about their
                  claim, fingering bits of clay and whittling sticks. Their hawkish eyes rolled
                  sneakingly in their sockets, and stole sideling glances at the "foreign
                  intruders"—alias their brethren, even the children of the same God!—and eternal
                  hatred seemed to be issuing from their mouths at every low murmur that escaped
                  their compressed lips. And when they venomously cast little pebbles at their feet,
                  volumes of smoke arose from their midst, and the words, "we have more rights than
                  foreigners" could be seen upon the horns of a beast enveloped in the midst of
                  darkness.
               "Why do the Pittsburgh-boys quit working, and sit about their claim so?" now began
                  to be asked by the different ones in Simons' party; but no satisfactory answer
                  could be given. But, in order to make themselves safe against any trouble, they
                  applied their hands with all the energy that they could possibly put forth; every
                  part of their dam was strengthened, and every hole was being stopped, and hopes of
                  success again brightened their future.
               Day after day, the Pittsburgh-boys continued to loiter about their ground as if
                  nearly persuaded to abandon their attempt. About their fire, late at night, they
                  were to be seen clustered together, as if contriving some plot, whereby to wring
                  the claim from their foreign brethren, and to place themselves in possession of
                  the whole river! Frequently they were seen counseling with a few of their
                  neighboring camps, and whispers—indistinct whispers—seemed to be organizing a clan
                  to carry out the law which was so admirably adapted to their unholy desires.
               "Do you see the gold?" said Jimie, one day, pointing to the ground.
               "Ha! maun! but that's fine!" said Willie, and he stooped to examine their
                  promising fortune.
               "D'ye see," said Charley, "if ye're after looking for gold, the Pittsburgh-boys
                  will smell a rat, sure! It's best not to let them diskiver our ground is so rich,
                  or they may be afther doing us some mischief."
               "O!" said Simons, "if Chips is spared a few days more, all will be well!" and they
                  applied themselves with renewed energy, and their pumps, cradles—everything was
                  being constructed with all possible speed.
               "Hark!" said Jimie, one morning before daylight, "hark! hark!" and the sound of
                  his voice aroused his companions. "Hark! hark! hark!" and in breathless anxiety
                  they sprang to their feet—they rushed from their tents, and looking through the
                  dim light, they beheld the Pittsburgh party tripled, and hard at work!
               "I perceive their design," said Simons, "they are going to raise their dam so
                  high, that the water must breaks ours!" and manly fire flashed from their eyes,
                  and in a moment they were clothed and at work upon their dam.
               The Pittsburgh-boys were now a strong party, and their labor caused the river to
                  rise every hour; and ere the night arrived, the foaming water was surging hard
                  upon both their dams; and one or two days more was sure to bring the contest to a
                  close.
               "O! that Chips would return!" Simons exclaimed, as they seated themselves by their
                  little fire late at night.
               "Faith, he'll be here before another night, I'll wager," said Charley, "it's at
                  pity his legs are so short—bad luck to it," and the young Irishman seemed to be
                  grieved.
               "If it was no' sa dark, we might work at night," said the considerate Willie.
               "Hark!" said Jimie, and he sprang to his feet, "hark! If I don't hear Chips
                  whistling! I know it's his voice!" and Jimie gave a shrill whistle.
               "I ken it's him!" said Willie, and he threw some leaves on the embers, and in a
                  minute more, the smiles upon the broad face of the young Scotchman were illumined
                  by the blazing camp-fire.
               "Weel, Mr. Simons," said Chips, reaching his hand into his pocket, after having
                  received a hearty welcome, "here are our passports—American passports for us foreigners!" and he handed over the strips
                  of paper to his companions.
               "But hold ye still, Mr. Simons," he continued, and still reaching into his
                  pockets, "I have bro't ye what'll do your soul mair guid than that. D'ye ken,
                  ye're no forgot yet—I expect it's frae your lassie, 'cause it's sa like a woman's
                  haund. I can no find it—it's in my pocket somewhere! Here's ane I received, frae
                  my ain lassie, but I dinna ken where I put your one, but it's in my pocket, I'm
                  sure," and the Scotchman's good humor, and searching in his pockets for a letter,
                  caused Simons to become nervous.
               "Ay!" exclaimed Chips, holding up a small letter, "here it is! here it is! I'm
                  sure it's frae a lady, and she writes a bonnie haund," and laughingly he handed
                  the letter into Simons' trembling fingers.
               "Here, Jimie," Chips continued, "I have had a paper sent to me frae Australia; and
                  as ye're a fine haund at the reading, ye can amuse yoursel' over it, while I have
                  another bit peep at my lassie's guid letter," and he handed the paper into Jimie's
                  hand, and then turned his large eyes upon his own interesting epistle. Charley and
                  Willie were examining their passports, and, bending their heads toward the fire,
                  counseling upon the fortune that was now sure to fall upon them.
               "It's the Melbourne Argus," said Jimie, turning the paper over toward the light,
                  "well, let me see now if it is actually true that gold has been discovered in
                  Australia?" and he bent his head carefully over every piece, and made an anxious
                  search.
               Simons read his letter over, and turned his face away from his companions. Again
                  he read it, but still his face was not to be seen; and without speaking a word he
                  read it again and again. He drew a handkerchief from his pocket, and leaned his
                  face upon his knees, but no sound escaped his lips. Charley touched Willie, and
                  silent sympathy was bestowed upon Simons from all of his companions. Mysterious
                  glances were cast from one to another, but they endeavored to converse upon
                  unimportant subjects. Again Simons raised it, read his letter again, and pressed
                  his hand upon his forehead.
               "Did you not cross the Plains in the Michigan Company?" said he to Jimie.
               "Yes, I did."
               "Did you know one Harriet Lindsey?"
               "Yes; a young lady from Cincinnati."
               Simons remained quiet, but Charley remarked:
               "Faith, and a better girl never trod shoe-leather, than that same Harriet Lindsey.
                  And sure she's the cleverest woman I ever met in all the days of my life; it was
                  to save her that I tried to 'knot' a Mormon's head—the blackguard, he had no more
                  principle than the instigathors of this passport; but, faith, I toppled his
                  rainbow wife, I'll wager," and the party burst into laughter.
               We can not give Simons' letter; but let it suffice, that it was written by
                  Harriet, a few days before she left San Francisco, and she stated that she was
                  intending to live with Mrs. Ellis, in Marysville. As Simons was so situated now
                  that he could not possibly leave, for at least a few days, he immediately wrote a
                  letter to his lady, to the care of Mrs. Ellis.
               "See here," said Jimie, turning his paper toward the light, "allow me to read you
                  a little news from Australia."
               "Faith, I have some cousins in that country, and no bad fellows they are," said
                  Charley, but Jimie continued:
               "From our Balarat correspondent we learn that 'the yield of gold is still
                  increasing, and that the escort is not able to bring it down in consequence of the
                  quantity. The commissioner asks for more police; says that, they now have
                  thirty-five thousand ounces of gold on hand, and that the roads are so very bad he
                  is obliged to retain it until the escort is increased. The state of society still
                  continues good, and sickness is unknown among the diggers. No doubt but this will
                  be good news to our friends in California, who are complaining so bitterly of the
                  treatment they are receiving from our republican brethren in that 'land of equal
                  rights.' Nothing would give us greater pleasure than to see our friends returning;
                  and, from our California correspondent we learn, that the treatment of foreigners
                  has been so outrageous that many are even returning again to the 'old country;' consequently, we have every reason to
                  believe that in a few months our arrivals from California will be very great. it
                  is painful in the extreme to every Englishman to see that the great Republic is
                  becoming so clannish that poor people are obliged to return again to the 'old
                  country,' where they can scarcely earn the bread that will keep them alive—a
                  spirit that is likely to stain the American character even worse than slavery.
                  Yes, friends, come home! Come where your rights can be protected! Come where you
                  can make a fortune without being treated like cattle! Bring a few of Jonathan's
                  boys along, and we will endeavor to give them a lesson upon equal rights.' What do
                  you think of that, Chips?"
               "Weel, Jimie, I'll tell ye—I tho't if our claim had been jumpet while I was awa',
                  I'd gang right straight 'till Australia. I wadna like to stop in this country ony
                  longer, when I ken I'm no liket. I'm na beggar yet, and I have na great liking
                  'till any country that'll treat me as sic. I can earn my bread in the docks o'
                  Glasoow yet, and I'm no beholding to this nor ony other country for the wee morsel
                  that a maun deserves in this world."
               "O!" said Jimie, again directing attention to the paper, "every part of the
                  country is yielding immense quantities of gold. It seems as though this escort is
                  some kind of a military band, kept to convey the gold from the mines down to the
                  cities—not a bad arrangement either—it'll be apt to prevent a great deal of
                  robbery. 'Thirty thousand ounces brought down from Bendigo this week.' Well surely
                  there is something doing. I don't understand how they'll work the mines! Will they
                  be obliged to pay a certain share to the government, do you think? The
                     British, yea know?"
               "Ye will see it on the ither side, Jimie!" said Chips, "I was reading it where I
                  stopped for dinner the day."
               "I noticed a sketch here stating that the license, seven dollars and a half a
                  month, was put on for the purpose of keeping up the police, and for to make the
                  roads; but surely that is not all, can——"
               "Ay," said Chips. "that's all. D'ye ken the miners wha ha' went frae here, they
                  are all speaking well o' the arrangements?"
               "Faith," said Charley, rising to his feet, "let's go to Australia, Jimie? What
                  d'ye say? I believes we will have betther luck. D'ye see now, the sun shines
                  backward on the south side of the world."
               "How far is it 'till Australia, Charley?" said Willie.
               "Faith it's as far as it can get, and I'm towld it's right on the road to
                  purgatory."
               The day was dawning, and the villagers were yet sleeping. At such an early hour a
                  collection of miners upon the contested ground seemed strange indeed; and their
                  loud voices and hurried conversation rendered, it wild and animating. Running
                  hither and thither, cramming in boards and stones, wading and splashing in the
                  water, and bracing and holding against the dam, indicated that the people were
                  fearfully excited. The water was surging, swelling, roaring, heaving and dashing
                  in great waves over the wall, and every moment rolled a stone and opened a new
                  gap; but one mighty tide came rolling down its broken channel, heaved a moment,
                  burst the dam and swept its frothy sheet through the Pittsburgh claim!
               
               The days of Lynch-law passed away, and the settlements were nearly all supplied
                  with magistrates and constables. Gambling houses—or, properly, tents—were erected,
                  and houses of still more immoral character were becoming common. Difficulties
                  among the miners were settled before these magistrates, instead of referring them
                  to a jury, as in earlier days. In this settlement a very respectable gambler was
                  the people's 'justice of the peace.' The name of this individual—who, no doubt,
                  laid claim to being one of the human family—was Lewis Campbell, but for
                  convenience sake he was generally called Squire Longlegs, a name that was very
                  fitting his personal appearance. But had his long finger-nails and broken teeth,
                  and his tobacco-looking mouth been included in his name, it would have been
                  entirely too foreign in appearance to have been introduced into anything but an
                  English novel—a species of literature that is 
                     eternallly
                     eternally
                   heaping insults upon our language by failing to express the author's
                  ideas without stepping beyond its 'very unlimited capacity' and introducing squibs of Latin and
                  French. Like our friend, Mr. Warner, Squire Longlegs assumed a certain important
                  position, which looked very like an inverted V, and although the poor fellow could
                  not change his ungainly proportions, yet, when we, see the little regard among the
                  matrimonial community to improve our sickly, puny, gaunt, short-lived stock of
                  human creatures, we feel quite like making sport of the pitiful Squire Longlegs'
                  long-legged appearance.
               Squire Longlegs had been too sickly to follow any laborious occupation, when he
                  first arrived in California; and having no money, and having been brought up a
                  gentleman—that is, to play cards, smoke and chew tobacco, drink rum, mix
                  Shakspeare and Byron with common conversation, and taught to believe himself
                  talented—he resolved to live by his wits. Accordingly, he commenced with a
                  dice-box to try his skill in the field of chance; and being exceedingly fortunate,
                  he was soon enabled to open a faro bank of no ordinary capital. This gave him
                  still greater opportunities to make money, as well as established his reputation
                  for being an honest and enterprising gambler; and the consequence was, that in a
                  few months he had a great fortune; after which he quit shuffling the cards
                  himself, but kept a number of skillful players employed to attend to his different
                  banks. Holding such a position in society, the gambling community nominated him as
                  their 'available' candidate for magistrate; and, as the miners were regardless of
                  what was going on, because they all expected to return to the other States soon,
                  this gentleman was elected by a very great majority. In this new calling, he could
                  not be seen in full fashion—that is, a cigar in his mouth, and his hands in his
                  breeches—striding from one gambling tent to another; or, in a more fashionable
                  style, riding in company with some Of THE ladies—a species of female creatures who
                  fashioned their dresses, alternately, after the Bloomer style, or the style of our
                  own sex—both of which styles seemed better adapted to the prosperity of their
                  "profession," than were the long dresses worn by modest women.
               As soon as the Pittsburg-boys' claim broke—which was owing to its poor
                  construction—they sued Simons' party before Squire Longlegs for "damages and
                  unlawful possession;" and immediately an injunction was drawn up, to prevent any
                  further work being done until the matter should be investigated. A general
                  excitement prevailed among many of the people, and when court was about sitting,
                  an immense concourse of miners were clustered about Squire Longlegs' official
                  tent—all snarling and barking like so many hungry wolves.
               The principal reason for so many persons hanging about the office was that if,
                  after the decision of the court, there should be any valuable ground lost by
                  either party, they were in readiness to "jump it," which was sometimes a very easy
                  manner of obtaining other people's property.
               The court was soon in order, and the very important Squire Longlegs, seated in
                  quite at consequential China chair, was prepared to hear the pro and con of the
                  subject before us. The evidence was all brought out—the time that each party had
                  been working; the time that license was procured; the cause of the dam breaking,
                  etc., etc., were all given in and properly recorded.
               The lawyer for the Pittsburg-boys then opened his plea, by referring to the
                  glorious destiny of California. For his part, he liked to see quarreling and
                  contention—it was characteristic of all great places, it showed that the
                  inhabitants were a spirited people. He could look into the great future, and see
                  this golden California ranked not only among States, but kingdoms and empires! He
                  could see the Eagle spreading its wings from the east to the west, its tail and
                  neck reaching from the north to the south, and its mighty form covering over the
                  western hemisphere, and in its powerful beak he could see it waving the "Stars and
                  Stripes" all around the world, and proclaiming "freedom" to all men.
               During his sublime effusions about the coming greatness of our "free" land, the
                  audience became greatly moved—his own talents were acknowledged by loud cheering,
                  and his judgment in regard to the word "freedom," was crowned by
                  hyena-ous frowns cast upon the foreign defenders; and around the crowd went a word in chilly
                  whispers—"foreigners! foreigners! nothing but d—d foreigners!"
               Throughout our country, a man is generally said to be a "free" man, who is not
                  under the influence of a monarch; and, as most of our people are under the
                  impression that subjects of monarchs are maintained in subjection by
                     force, (instead of from choice) they have great sympathy for the
                  oppressed subject! As much credit as other nations bestow upon us for our American
                  literature, it is doubtful whether they have yet stimulated our people to
                  investigate that principle comprehended in the little word freedom,
                  as much as they should.
               After carrying Squire Longlegs' mind away upon California paradise, the lawyer
                  commenced upon the character of the real American. He thought that such a nation
                  must adopt decided measures, in order to have character. He knew that all other
                  countries had a pride to protect, and he considered that such a national character
                  as ours which was universally admired for its freedom—needed protection, by
                  showing to foreigners that we know our standing, by a particular act on the part
                  of the legislature. He was astonished that our country had maintained its
                  character so well as it had, without using coercive measures; and he regarded the
                  dilatory conduct of our people, in not using active means against foreigners, as
                  one of the greatest errors that ever possessed the land! He did not believe in
                  foreigners holding rank and liberty the same as American citizens. He only looked
                  upon them as subjects, at most; and, although they might declare themselves in
                  favor of Republicanism, the greater part were Catholic in principle, and subjects
                  to the Church and to the priest. But he thought that it was very different with
                  the real American; he would sacrifice his opinion to no man, priest nor church,
                  nor was it possible for him to do so, and still be a real Republican; and he
                  sincerely hoped that there might be something more done to check foreigners from
                  coming to the country. He considered the country was ours—our fathers fought for
                  it, and we ought to maintain their principles—and we ought not to permit
                  foreigners to dictate about our affairs. While dwelling upon the
                  above sentences, he was continually applauded for his noble principles and
                  patriotic disposition; but, occasionally, from different parts of the crowd
                     gamblers could be heard:
               "D—n 'em, they're foreigners, anyhow. Let 'em go to their own country if they want
                  to dig gold. They must have a face to try to stand suit in such a plain case! The
                  Squire knows a thing or two, though."
               It was gratifying, indeed, to see that most of these inhuman sentiments—which fell
                  upon the good-natured Scotchmen more heavily than could have a two-edged
                     sword—emanated from the gambling part of the audience; for if the
                  question had been referred to miners alone, a very different feeling would have
                  been manifested.
               Reader, you must bear with us here a little, for when we remember the vicious
                  hatred which some of those cigar-smoking gamblers, and even beardless boys, heaped
                  upon those poor Scotchmen, our pen feels very like jamming through the paper, and
                  our desk seems about to rise up for vengeance! While they sat praying to Almighty
                  God for security and protection, they turned deathly pale, and shuddered at the
                  demoniac grinning and squinting which passed between the gamblers and the Squire,
                  and their very hearts seemed to quake with fear!
               After the lawyer had brought forth all the hatred that he possibly could against
                  the foreigners, he then tried to prove the justness of the tax, by showing the
                  manner in which they were carrying gold out of the country, and really carrying
                  away what he considered as the property of Americans. Then he brought his grasping
                  mind down to the subject of contention. The evidence proved, he said, that those
                  foreigners had been working two months before they had procured a license—that
                  they had no license when the Pittsburgh-boys commenced—that all the time they were
                  working without license; did not amount to anything—and that, consequently, the
                  Pittsburgh-boys were the first legal possessors. His speech, for it could not be
                  called anything else, was very long, but its general features are retained in the
                  above.
               Jimie was chosen by the other party to reply upon the question, which he did in no
                  unpolished style. The first point he
                  touched upon was in reference to the justness or unjustness of the foreign tax. He
                  was willing to admit the valor of our fathers in establishing America as an
                  independent nation, but he could not see that that act entitled us to be the only
                  rightful owners of what was hidden in the ground; for, to apply the same argument,
                  he considered that, the descendants of those who carried arms in the revolution
                  would be the real possessors of everything in America! an idea that was
                  preposterous! Nations might have conquered other nations at a remote period, but
                  that did not entitle the Indians to be the owners of the California gold. He could
                  not see that an American had any better right to the gold than a foreigner had. He
                  considered that God gave one man as many privileges 
                     a she
                     as he
                   did another, and he could not see why one man, or nation of men, acting
                  according to justice, could assume the right to declare certain things to be their
                  own, which God had created as much for one man as another. He was willing to admit
                  that California was under our government, but, as our government was merely the
                  voice of agreement among the people from whom it derived its support, it was not
                  really the possessor of anything. And, for the government of California to declare
                  that foreigners had no right to prosperity in the country was merely the people
                  taking possession, taking forcible possession of what rightfully belonged to
                  anybody. He maintained that as God had given man a power to change his abode at
                  pleasure, he had a right to do so, even to roam over any country he wished; and
                  that, if the government would not permit him to do so, it would be violating his
                  natural right. It is the nature and privilege of man to live wherever he wishes;
                  otherwise, God would not have given him the desire to do so. Every man was
                  entitled, by nature, to the result of his own labor. If a foreigner dug gold out
                  of the ground; it was his. There was no right by which anybody, or anything, could
                  demand a portion of that man's gold. God never made man to labor for any other;
                  and any government that made him do so, was robbing him of his natural right. And
                  after a foreigner dug the gold, it was his; and he had a natural right to take it
                  to any other country he wished. If we do prevent him from doing so, we are
                  usurping his right, and violating the principle of liberty. Therefore, he
                  maintained, the natural right of any foreigner was, to come to California if he
                  wished; to labor as he wished, the same as any other man; to be entitled to the
                  profits of that labor, and to do with such profits as he wished. Such was the
                     natural right. No government had a right to violate any man's
                  rights. Man's natural right is the essence of all government, and not to be
                  forfeited as government dictates. His natural rights are the first things to be
                  consulted. He then maintained that, as foreigners had a natural right to come, and
                  to labor among us, they had rights to be adjusted and settled, when interests
                  seemed to conflict. Such difficulties could not be properly investigated, if, one
                  party alone, assumes the power of doing it; therefore, the foreigner had a right
                  to argue, discuss and explain his own rights as well as anybody else. And, if so,
                  how could we, how do we assume the right to tax and to abuse him at pleasure? The
                  foreigners had just as much natural right to demand three, ten or
                  twenty dollars a month, off us, as we had off them. We only do it because we have
                  the power, and not because it is our right to do so. Further, he
                  believed, the nobler, the more liberal, the higher regard we pay to man's
                     natural rights, was the wisest and strongest foundation upon which our
                  government could stand. He then read a few extracts from the Australian paper,
                  upon the abuse of foreigners in California; he also read the tax of that country,
                  which has since caused a rebellion there; that that tax was, at that time, thirty
                  English shillings ($7 50) per mouth, and made no distinction between native
                     and foreign residents; but that tax has long since been lowered to ten
                  English shillings, and the California foreign tax has been lowered to
                  three dollars.*
                  
               
               
                  *The present capitation tax upon Chinese in California, is fifty dollars.
               
               Jimie then referred to the time they commenced working, and the time they procured
                  license; and as they had their license before the damage occurred, they were,
                  accordingly, the legal possessors before that period. But, even if they were, not
                  the legal possessors, he could not see why the Pittsburgh-boys complained of them?
                  for the damages resulted from their own
                  negligence and want of caution in the construction of the work.
               But he did not believe anybody was so lost to a sense of justice as to entertain
                  any notion that the damage was occasioned by any breach of right on the part of
                  his party. He only looked upon it as a clue whereby the Pittsburgh-boys and the
                  gamblers seize an opportunity to wrest the ground away from his party. The
                  foreign-tax law might have been enacted with no very evil designs,
                  but he thought it showed how little a foreigner's rights could be protected when
                  the law afforded such an opportunity for plunder; that it showed exactly what
                  politicians were after by excluding them from having anything to say about the
                  administration of the government. Upon this argument he dwelt for some time, and
                  then he referred to the character of Parker—and to the probable whereabouts of the
                  taxes that had been collected. He did not believe in paying taxes into the hands
                  of gamblers, they had no right to demand tax. He looked upon gamblers
                  as unlawful persons at large; and as such, they did not deserve money to defray
                  their expenses. His remarks upon this point nettled the Squire's passions, for it
                  was too personal not to be observed by a man of his sagacity; and, rising to his
                  feet, he bellowed out:
               "Do you mean to insult this court?" and, pouting his lips into an important
                  figure, he re-seated himself, and received a loud shout of applause from the
                  spectators.
               Including some excitement and confusion, the court was brought to a close; but the
                  main features of this outrage have now been related in this brief description.
                  After a very few minutes the Squire decided. It is, perhaps, needless to tell our
                  California friends, who have seen similar scenes, how this case was settled; but
                  as there are others unaware of what is going on, where the poor foreigner receives
                  no protection by the law, we must write the decision, which will, doubtless,
                     fall under the observation of foreign nations, and cause many an
                  honest American's heart to bleed with shame and grief!
               Simons' party lost their ground! and were obliged to pay the costs of suit!!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               "O! HOW can my unguarded words be recalled, and the friends for whom my heart is
                  dying, be again restored to my presence? Will not some silent spirit transmit my
                  sorrow and anguish, my prayer and repentance, and entreat their noble hearts to
                  forgive the utterance that overcame my weakness and injured their happiness and
                  peace? O! why could my tongue be so listless, when my very soul was controlled by
                  love? when their attachment was more valuable to me than all the sentences I have
                  ever spoken? when with them I wished to live as long as I shall sojourn upon
                  earth! O! why could I have been so heedless of their feelings?" and the speaker
                  buried his face in his handkerchief, and while reflecting upon his lonesome
                  condition, and the unhappy prospects that surrounded him, his grief and sorrow
                  pierced his feeble frame with renewed anguish, and a death-like weakness stole
                  over him, which was more terrible than anything he had ever before
                  experienced.
               He arose, and upon feeble limbs he proceeded to join his present companions; but
                  his weakness was too great to allow him to do an equal share of labor; and, to
                  place themselves in possession of the valuable property, his companions complained
                  of his feebleness, and heaped insults upon his native land—they told him he was
                  English!—but in the tone of the sentence was a poisonous accent and an indignant
                  feeling, that made him pray for death to relieve his troubles! To avoid their
                  malice and abuse, he returned to his camp, forfeited all his right to the
                  property, and in the evening he laid down alone! a beggar! and cried with
                  grief!
               
               A single ray of light shot across the universe, and in its brilliancy glowed a
                  hope so promising, that the feeble and despondent sung praises to the Author of
                  all things, and even the dead arose and wandered through the wild mountains!
               "Come, come!" said a hidden spirit, "beneath thy burden thou shalt climb these
                  rocky hills, and thy frail limbs shall
                  nearly fail to bear thee up; but beyond these thou shalt wander, and when forests
                  of pine, and of nutmegs, and of thorns, shall be thy companions, thou shalt find a
                  treasure of greater value than hath ever before been known to thee!"
               O! how wild and lonesome was that brushy cañon! On either side, the huge, black
                  mountains, covered with an almost impenetrable forest, arose so high, that one
                  could not gaze toward their summit without shuddering; and so closely hemmed in
                  was the narrow cañon, that the sun seldom reached its bottom! But the water that
                  came flowing down the rocky channel had, in its heavy rumbling and splashing, a
                  peculiar romance that mingled so strangely with its own echoing, and with the
                  wheezing and humming of the dense forest, that even its solitude seemed sweeter
                  than paradise! and as the sparkling water trickled over the ridges of rocks, its
                  innocent and perpetual murmur seemed to converse with unseen spirits, upon the
                  troubles of earth, and at each drop, to be noting the lapse of time, and recording
                  the follies of ambition.
               
               A little tent stood beneath a thick cluster of evergreen oaks, to screen it from
                  the oppressive heat of summer. It was the only dwelling-place in that canon where
                  man lived, and a single inhabitant was all that lived within it—this was Uncle
                  Thomas. Prosperity again smiled upon him, and he was the discoverer of another
                  "rich cañon." Week after week passed away, and his fortune seemed as if about to
                  return; but the same unhappy thought of being alone—alone! rendered his wild home
                  burdensome indeed.
               Time rolled on; months passed by. Sitting by his little tent, his elbow upon one
                  knee, his hand supporting his forehead, his white locks flowing about his neck,
                  his eyes resting upon the result of his day's labor, and escaping his lips in
                  broken accents were the words:
               "One ounce, one ounce! and nearly worn down with fatigue. A pitiful old man,
                  indeed I am. Wearing out my existence by working for such a material. A worthless
                  metal! No, not so fast: it is indestructible! I am destructible! Yes, I am. This
                  flesh and bones shall soon fall to pieces! The gold will not. But that can not be
                  why I search for it? No, this gold mining seems to be a sort of 'cut off' on the
                  road to affluence—and to its kindred associates, things which Uncle Thomas was
                  once acquainted with—desirable objects, too. But, ah! they are all gone now—gone,
                  gone! and I, too, shall soon go—I shall go! My kindred are all
                  gone—some of them are sleeping in England, England! O! God! how that name crowds
                  upon me! and even my boyish days are associated with it—England! England! It must
                  have been the happiness that I enjoyed in that country which makes me love it, for
                  the country itself is nothing! Perhaps I shall see England again! see England
                  again! see England again! O! heavens, if I could see England again!" and Uncle
                  Thomas sprang to his feet, and wrung his hands with delight.
               "Hark! hark! I hear voices! Could some one have wandered through these wild hills
                  beside myself? If I mistake not it was an unseen spirit that conducted me hither!
                  Is the same one bringing others? Surely there are voices!" and the old man
                  startled, and looked cautiously up the mountains.
               "I can see no one! but, in the tone of those voices, visions flit across my mind
                  so like an accidental surprise, that really I fancy my young friend, Jimie, is
                  darting down the mountain. Hark! hark! am I deceived? Do my eyes fail me! Surely I
                  saw him climbing around those rocky precipices! It is Jimie! I know it is Jimie!"
                  and, before his words were finished, a loud shrill whistle from the young man ran
                  echoing through the brushy cañon, and in its frankness the old man knew that his
                  words had been forgiven, and his young friends made happy. They came and met him;
                  their meeting was as happy as ever occurred.
               "Well, uncle," said Jimie, "we have called to take our farewell—we shall remain
                  over night with you, and then we leave again—perhaps, forever!"
               Uncle Thomas started, and gazed with surprise upon his friends.
               
               "Why, why," said he, "why do you say forever—you are not going
                  far?"
               "Yes, uncle; we are going to Australia."
               "O! why do you tell me so? surely you are not intending to go so far?"
               "Yes, uncle; gold has been discovered in that country, and in great abundance,
                  too."
               "But I have valuable ground here; you and Charley might remain with me. There is
                  some chance for a fortune here!"
               "No, Uncle; two of our friends—two young Scotchmen—have made us promise that we
                  should meet them at Sacramento, and proceed direct to Australia."
               "And because they are your friends you can not promise me any comfort?"
               "But they are going, and Charley is going, and I must go with them."
               "But you and Charley might remain with me—there is a good chance for a
                  fortune!"
               "The Scotchmen will go; and Charley is anxious to leave the country."
               "O! why is that?" said Uncle Thomas to Charley.
               "Faith uncle, an' it's as plain as the knot on my head. Do ye think that an
                  Irishman—bad luck to the name—is not made with human feelings?" and his broad face
                  colored with evident emotion.
               "Why, Charley, to what are you alluding?"
               "Faith I'm afther telling ye that I should rather a man would break my head with a
                  shillellah than to be, sticking his nose at me bekase I am unfortunately a son of
                  Erin. If I can't live here without having people insult myself and my religion,
                  merely for political purposes, and even take my property away from me bekase they
                  consider that God has given everything in the country to themselves, I think it's
                  high time that I be afther leaving. The blessed Creator made the Irish, and he
                  intended for them to have the value of their own labor, and everybody that takes
                  the same from them is a robber! He gave the Irish tongues to speak with, and in
                  every country they have the right to speak, and whoever takes that right away from
                  them is also a robber! Bekase they have been robbed of that right at home the
                  people here are saying to them that they 'don't know enough' to have the right to
                  speak! But why do the people say so? Faith, and I can tell ye. They are afther
                  money. Divil the bit they cares for the 'equal rights' they're afther speaking
                  into everybody's ears. Faith, if a man, is ever so ignorant, or ever so foreign,
                  he has rights and property that must be protected, and do ye mean to tell me that
                  he can have justice when he is not allowed to advocate his own rights? But some of
                  the people are afther saying so, and so they said on the Yuba, and they very
                  clearly proved, too, that themselves had a right to our summer's labor!"
               "Why, how was that, Charley?"
               "Did they not prove by the law itself, that themselves had a right to drive us off
                  from our claim afther we had it all prepared to get the gowld—and for near upon
                  three months had we been working in the cold wather. Divil take their hides, but a
                  judgment shall fall upon them sure," and Charley's fists became clenched, his
                  broad face colored indignantly, and a spirit of independence and noble feeling
                  beamed from his dark-brown eyes.
               The morning was still and clear. The bright sun shone upon the mountain-tops, and
                  birds were singing in the forest. From the long branches and green leaves large
                  dewdrops were falling, and sorrow and sadness seemed to be chiming in the
                  melancholy sounds that stole listlessly along the deep cañon—warbling and echoing
                  in gentle strains all around the brushy-wild home.
               Close by the little tent stood the three friends—they were separating, to meet on
                  earth no more! Their hands were locked and trembling, their tears were flowing
                  uncontrolled; in broken and half-pronounced syllables they were uttering words,
                  sentences and prayers, too sacred to be written! and yet failing to express what
                  their hearts were feeling!
               Slowly and reluctantly their grasp was loosened—their farewell was had, their
                  voices ceased; the young men turned toward the mountain, and the old man sat down,
                  gazing through a dense mist at the disappearance of his best friends on earth! In
                  a few minutes the brushy cañon was more
                  desolate, and sad than ever seemed the lone home of mortal man. Uncle Thomas was
                  so overwhelmed with grief and sorrow that he prayed for death! Here we leave him,
                  for the present.
               
               In the sitting-room at Hamlin's hotel, plenty of newspapers were scattered about
                  on the different tables, or in the hands of miners, merchants and gamblers,
                  sitting around the room—their feet elevated, their faces covered with
                  perspiration, and their loose collars thrown wide open. Some of the people were in
                  conversation, and the subject of Australian gold mines was being considered by
                  many. The two Scotchmen, and Charley and Jimie were present, and the fact of them
                  talking of leaving for that distant land was what brought the question before the
                  present persons. Many different notions were entertained in regard to John Bull's
                  management of a gold-mining country—some thought that the work would be done by
                  the government—some thought that Victoria's children would receive the most of the
                  gold—some thought that the subjects would be taken as slaves to dig
                  the gold, for the benefit of the crown—some supposed that there would be armies
                  stationed about the mines, to oblige the laborers to kneel when the lords of the
                  land passed that way—some considered that gold would be a curse to any country
                  except a free country (like ours)—some thought that foreigners would not be
                  permitted to go near the gold fields at all; it was the policy of the British
                  Government to oppress her subjects as much as possible, and there was
                  no knowing how severe she might be upon foreigners; and some were fully resolved
                  not to risk their necks under John Bull's clutches: but here were a few who
                  entertained very different notions from any of the above suppositions—and they
                  too, were persons who ought to have known—they were persons from that country.
               While this public conversation was going on, two middle-aged men, seated at one
                  side the room by a table, were engaged in very serious, guttural mumbling, which
                  might for convenience sake, be called private conversation. Before them and upon
                  the table, were a few porter bottles, some were empty, and some contained a fluid
                  nearly the color of the broad faces of the two men, and not any more sparkling
                  than were their eyes. At frequent intervals their huge fists would rise slowly and
                  fall emphatically upon the table—seeming to be confirming some point of the
                  subject where the language was inadequate; but the color of their faces, the size
                  of their fists, their guttural dialect, and the presence of porter, are facts
                  quite sufficient to explain what kind of men they were, and where they were
                  from.
               One of these stout-looking men turned his red eyes and still redder face upon
                  Jimie, and, like a great planet escaping an eclipse, the longer he looked the
                  brighter he grew. Jimie passed near the table, and the man with the red face said
                  to him:
               "So you are about leaving California, too?"
               "Yes, I am; I am going to Australia."
               "Well, I can congratulate you upon that—God knows, I'm anxious enough
                  to get back. We'll be where we're not afraid to tell people that we're
                  English."
               "Why," said Jimie, "have you been afraid here?"
               "Certainly I have; haven't you?"
               "No, but I am not an Englishman, though."
               "Then, I beg pardon, sir, but I supposed you were an Australian—you look like a
                  native," and the red-faced man bowed his head to apologize for his over intimacy;
                  but Jimie now took interest enough in him to pursue the subject a little
                  further.
               "No apology is necessary, Sir, but permit me to ask if you have really been afraid
                  to tell the people here that you were an Englishman?"
               "Then, sir, since you have asked me, I shall not take pains to give you an
                  indirect answer. In two respects I have been really afraid: I have been afraid of
                  being abused and hated; I have been afraid of having my property taken away from
                  me."
               "I am sorry you have found things so, but I suppose you are alluding more
                  particularly to your having come from Australia?"
               "If they knew I was from Australia," and the red-faced man leaned over the table,
                  and lowered his voice, "entre nous, they would
                  seize upon the most trivial matter and hang me; but, even when they know I am
                     English, it is almost impossible for me to have a hearing. No, sir the system is rotten—it's
                  rotten; before I came here I was as thorough a republican as ever breathed; but I
                  am not one now—I'm done with it, it's rotten. If people can't be republican
                  without being clannish, and evil-disposed against other nations, the system is
                  rotten—it's rotten; the country is turning into one great clan of robbers—to rob
                  other nations, and to enforce slavery. They won't allow a foreigner to speak, lest
                  he advocates something that's dangerous to their slavish institutions,
                     that's it exactly; the system is rotten. A foreigner's notions of
                  liberty are a little different from a man-trader's notions,
                     that's it, exactly—that's why they are so clannish against
                     us foreigners. And if we attempt to say we are not anxious to see these
                  slavish, and clannish institutions spreading over other countries, 'Down with him,
                  down with him, he's a foreigner, he's a foreigner, and wants to dictate about our
                  country, down with him,' and if they wish, they can hang him upon a tree! and oh!
                  it's all right, he was served right; and, the first thing you know, the men who
                  done the deed are up for the Legislature or Congress—they are 'smart
                     fellows, they are smart men.' No, sir, the system is rotten—it's rotten,
                  it's rotten," and he let his fist confirm it, by falling upon the table. Like most
                  of our countrymen who have not lived among any of the foreign nations, Jimie had
                  supposed that everybody acknowledged the freedom and liberty of his own nation;
                  and, under such a conviction, he little dreamed that the ill-treatment of
                  foreigners in California would be sufficient to array different people against
                  Americans in general, and even against Republicanism itself. The fact of its being
                  a republic, and that nearly everybody were entitled to vote, had led him to
                  believe that it was not to be compared with any other system; he had neglected to
                  consider that the principal object of any government ought to be to protect
                     the rights of the weak. Indeed, it is a great misfortune that even
                  intelligent people overtook the object and the effect of the thing itself, and
                  become blinded by the name under which it lives. But it is impossible for us to
                  relate the conversation of Jimie and the Englishman, which was quite similar to
                  the sample we have given.
               Soon after Jimie was engaged in talking with this man, the two Scotchmen went out
                  to attend to their money—which they had deposited in a bank about three months
                  previously. And, while Jimie was yet conversing upon political matters, in came
                  the two Scotchmen—their eyes wide open, their broad faces were excited, and their
                  motions quick and hurried. Chips had scarcely entered when Jimie arose to meet
                  him, asking:
               "What's the matter, Chips? what's wrong?" In breathless haste and trouble, Chips
                  replied:
               "Mr. Lee, our banker, has failed! we've lost all our money!"
               "He has!"
               "He has; we can't get a penny. Willie and I will scarcely have enough to carry us
                  'till Australia."
               Charley was sitting near, and no quicker heard the sad news than he arose to his
                  feet—changed from his fun making disposition—showed an indignant feeling in his
                  stern features, and assumed an independent appearance, yet thoughtful and
                  grieved.
               "Blast the counthry," said he. "They permit any swindler to open a bank that
                  chooses. He can take other people's money and break up rich, and be called a
                  gintleman for it—bad luck to such a system."
               "But it's a free country; and any man has a right to open a bank that wishes,"
                  said a by-stander.
               "Blast such freedom," said Charley, and he became fierce, "I don't want
                     such freedom. It's too much freedom. Give me the counthry that
                     punishes such freedom—for taking a poor laboring man's money. It's
                  the business of the government to see that such rascals are punished, and not
                  permitted to open banks and impose upon the likes of these men, who had no way to
                  find out whether the banker was good or not. Faith, I believe ye will advocate
                  stealing bekase it's a free counthry jest!"
               "But they had no business to put their money into Mr. Lee's hands!"
               "Sure and they done it bekase they placed confidence in him; and he has stolen
                  their confidence, which—to say nothing of the money—ought to stretch his neck.
                  Would ye have these Scotchmen look upon every man as a thief, and, carry their own
                  money and be robbed, when ye have a government that ought to look afther these things for the good of the public—bad
                  luck to such freedom—give me owld Ireland before such freedom. I don't want such
                  freedom at all, at all—it's swindling all the laboring men in the country."
               As most of our people are acquainted with this firm's bankruptcy, we shall not
                  comment upon the liberty of such establishments, any further than Charley has
                  expressed himself, trusting, that he has uttered a few sentences upon banking
                  privileges, which could not have been better had they fallen from the sky.
               But to add to the mortification of the poor Scotchmen, and to cause their ideas of
                  a Republican form of government to be still lowered, right here, in the midst of
                  their vexation, in came Mr. Miller and Mr. Warner, with about a dozen political
                  gamblers, all exclaiming:
               "Hurra! for Miller! hurrah! for Warner! two of the best men running—men of sound
                  principles—honorable and available candidates!"—and the whole crowd
                  roved about through the bar-room, more like madmen than enlightened
                  Christians.
               "And, who are you goin' to vote for?" said one, slapping Charley upon the
                  shoulder.
               "And, faith, I'm not going to vote for any!"
               "Not going to vote! Nonsense! why the very salvation of the country may be made by
                  your vote. The other party are using all the means in their power, and we're
                  obliged to 'rally,' or we'll be beat."
               "Faith, it's divilish little I cares for that."
               "But you may care when it's too late—I tell you the other party are using all the
                  intrigue they know of."
               "I don't care about their intrigues at all, at all."
               "Why you are foolish, man! It's just such men as you that's dangerous to the
                  country. Won't enjoy your privileges!"
               "If it may plase your honor, I've enjoyed too many privileges already."
               "But, Warner and Miller are both good men! They will represent our interests!"
               "Faith, my interests have all been represented."
               "The other party are going to raise the salaries, and run the State into debt; but
                  if we succeed in getting Miller and Warner elected, the salaries will be lowered
                  and we'll avoid such a burdensome debt!"
               "It's little I cares for the State debt."
               "'Shaw! you're foolish."
               "Faith, I have been, to give one year's labor into other people's pockets."
               "Then you won't vote for Miller and Warner?"
               "If it may plase yer honor, I have no right to do the same."
               "Makes no difference—we've concluded to take everybody's vote. Miller and Warner
                  have the only true principles—and they're statesmen too, very smart men!"
               "Bless yer sowl, and am I not afther leaving for Australia to-morrow."
               "O! you are going away, eh? Well, of course you can't stay till the election,
                  then."
               "Faith, I am afther leaving the counthry—and glad of it. Ye can make a great row
                  about getting votes for to save the country, and all the time ye are afther
                  electing blacklegs!"
               It's not the men we must look at, it's the
                  principles—principles-PRINCIPLES."
               "Faith, and did ye ever know a bad man to have good 
                     princiciples
                     principles
                  , or the conthrary? D'ye know what ye're talking about? Did I not tell ye
                  that I was going to start for Australia to-morrow? and do such men as ye try to
                  stuff politics down my throat, and think yerself betther informed upon such humble
                  subjects than meself? D'ye not feel ashamed to be teaching people about the
                  'salvation of yer counthry?' D'ye suppose that bekase I'm from ould Ireland, that
                  yerself is better prepared 'to make the salvation of yer counthry than I am? Ye
                  can take our money, and cringe for votes, and then declare yerselves better judges
                  of foreigners' rights than themselves are! Ye can talk loudly about foreigners
                  having no rights bekase they are ignorant, and ye can talk about yerselves having
                  all the rights, bekase ye are gamblers and blacklegs! Morality has nothing to do
                  in the subject! But when the election is coming, ye're glad to make a tool out of meself, for to cut my
                  own throat! Blast such liberty and governments—if the people won't pay no
                  attention to morality. If ye had of had good laws, I should have been worth
                  something; but d'ye think, after receiving such treatment, that I'd turn my hand
                  over for to save the counthry from sinking?"
               "Well, you're going to Australia, ain't you?"
               "Faith, I am."
               "Well, you'll get tired enough of living under 'John Bull's clutches,' I
                  guess!"
               "Faith, I've been tired all my life, but it's little good the same has done to me.
                  A government is a government, and it's the poor laboring man's money they are all
                  afther getting."
               "'Shaw! you are foolish," and the politician turned to address the Scotchmen and
                  Jimie, which he did after the same style, and received about as much satisfaction
                  as he did from Charley.
               
               It is very difficult for persons who have not witnessed California electioneering
                  schemes, to imagine with what spirit and ambition some of the gamblers (who, as a
                  matter of course, were great politicians, for the two principles are almost
                  inseparable,) advocated the rights and privileges which
                  would result from the election of their gambling friends—each proving, beyond a
                  doubt, that, if the opposite party should be elected, it would inevitably result
                  it the downfall of the country. But as principles, and not men were
                  the favorite arguments, we shall pursue a few of these items in another chapter;
                  for our two very conspicuous persons, Warner and Miller, are to be caught in a
                  still more dreadful crime—one too, with which many of our California friends are
                  intimately acquainted.
               Scarcely any grief and dissatisfaction could have been greater than was that of
                  the two Scotchmen. They had been driven from their property according to law, and
                  finally swindled out of the money that they had so hardly labored for, by a person
                  who "failed with a fortune," and who was allowed, by law, to hold out inducements
                  to gain the confidence and the money of persons who could not possibly learn
                  anything about his responsibility sibility—persons who were obliged to place their
                  money in some banker's hands; for the State had no such banks of deposit for the
                  protection of the stranger, or of the ignorant, who deserve more protection and
                  sympathy than any other.
               
               "Weel, Mr. Simons, we must start to-morrow."
               "Then you have decided to go direct?"
               "Ay, we'll no stay ony longer in California."
               "It has been an unfortunate country to you."
               "Ay, it has been very different from what I expected to find it; we came here for
                  the purpose of settling in the country."
               "Of course, I needn't ask you if you like the country?"
               "Weel, Mr. Simons, I do like it fine. If you mean the country, the climate and
                  such like, I like it fine; but it's no use for me to like the country—I must leave
                  it."
               "Then you are sorry to leave?"
               "Ay, maun; I am sorry to leave; I ne'er expect to find sic anither country."
               "It is a good country for to make money in."
               "Ay, I will be obliged to work hard if I return to auld Scotland again."
               "I am sorry that you have been so unfortunate here."
               "But I would rather work hard all my days in Scotland, than to be coming in 'till
                  this country when I'm no liket. I didn't have the choice o' my ain birthplace, and
                  I canna bear to hear folks insulting me because I was no born in America."
               "But I think the most of the people in this country are not so far lost to good
                  feeling as that."
               "Perhaps no; but d'ye ken that when the law turns against us, the folk generally
                  copy their feelings after the law! The more distinction the law makes between maun
                  and maun, the more will the people make."
               "That's very true, Chips; and that's to be feared as one of our greatest troubles.
                  This difference of feeling upon several subjects is more likely to overturn our
                  government than is all of Europe. There is an old saying, 'a house divided against
                     itself will never stand,' which
                  seems as if in another half century will need some assistance."
               "Ay. and other countries, who are envious of the prosperity of Republicanism, will
                  seize upon the opportunity of sidling with either party for the purpose of
                  crushing the whole,"
               "Faix yer politics!" exclaimed Charley, coming forward, "let's have a ramble
                  through the city and, see the ladies, and those fine pictures in the gambling
                  houses! Ye know, Mr. Simons, I'm going to leave ye to-morrow, so come on and take
                  what advice I can give ye before I lave ye to yerself althegither."
               Charley's pouty spell had fled, and he was once more the life of the party. During
                  their ramble through the city, Simons and Jimie became somewhat isolated from the
                  others; and here, Simons acknowledged his matrimonial engagement, made all the
                  inquiries after Harriet that he could think of, and received from Jimie all the
                  assurance of her amiable and attractive qualities that he could have wished to
                  hear, and also received encouragement to meet her as soon as possible.
               It was, perhaps, prudent for Simons to make some inquiry of Jimie previous to
                  informing him of his engagement to Harriet; but, whether it bore any semblance to
                  suspicion or not, certainly he adopted that plan; and to his great delight he
                  heard of more good qualities than he had ever supposed her to possess.
               From the time that he received the before-mentioned letter, which was only three
                  days before he made the present inquiry, the fact of having received no letters
                  since that period—for he was expecting a number of old ones, at least—made her
                  California life seem exceedingly strange and doubtful. But upon this subject he
                  was firmly resolved to learn from her own lips, as well as to hear of her
                  troubles; and also to have a share of her 'ups and downs' the balance of his
                  days—for he should not be under the necessity of asking Dr. Sparks anything upon
                  the subject. In such an agitated condition he could scarcely wait to see his
                  companions start for Australia, yet he could not break away in order to fly to his
                  lady; consequently, the way he was praying for the next morning nine-o'clock-boat,
                  might have made his friends jealous of his attachment. But after all his anxieties
                  the time finally arrived. The boat was ready and the bell was ringing. He
                  accompanied his four young friends to the river; he saw the vast crowd hurrying
                  here and there; he heard the boats'-runners calling and shouting, and, at half
                  backward and half forward turns, he saw the great wheels moving and rolling. The
                  parting moment had arrived—the moment when he was separating from his friends
                  perhaps to meet no more! There was bustle and confusion—a few words half spoken.
                  Their hands were fondly shook, and in a moment they were separated! A struggle and
                  a heave, and the noble steamer moved out into the river. Simons stood upon the
                  bank, and saw his jovial associates borne down the river. But as the boat glided
                  away, the red-faced Englishman groaned three groans for American 'liberty and
                  equal rights,' and prayed God to forgive the people! and, as long as man's voice
                  could be heard, his whole-souled prayer continued to issue from his porter looking
                  face, wasting itself upon the indignant crowd.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               IT was late in the summer, the fruit was falling, and the prudent were providing
                  for winter. A man and his wife were roving through the moods along the American
                  river. He was of short stature, dark complexion, and ruddy appearance; his wife
                  was very similar, but of less dimensions. Their hair was uncombed, their faces
                  unwashed, their feet were bare and filthy, and their simple blanket-dresses were
                  more filthy still. They were not pretty and beautiful, according to the common
                  manner of testing and interpreting these qualities; but they followed their
                  occupation with so simple good-will that, even in their native wildness, the
                  philosopher might have been puzzled to know whether they, or their money-making
                  brethren, were the true Christians. In simple innocence they trusted their souls
                  to their Creator; but they were ignorant, and worshiped nothing. They believed
                     that the Great Spirit which sent
                  them into this world would take care of them in the next. They laughed, and talked
                  in their own language, and, to the looker-on, they seemed as happy as their white
                  brethren; but, whether they really were we shall be better able to say when we
                  ourselves, get to be as unsophisticated as the Indians.
               From oak to oak they proceeded, they set their baskets down, gathered the acorns,
                  and seemed to be considerately preparing for winter. This man and wife evidently
                  loved each other, for they pursued their occupation with great regard to the
                  feelings which either might possess, and not a syllable of displeasure escaped
                  their lips. When looking upon each other, a confidential smile was observable on
                  their faces; and in their employment, frequent bursts of unfashionable laughter
                  indicated a familiar acknowledgment of each other's talent at wit, or the
                  sincerity of reciprocal feeling.
               They halted beneath a large oak, they stood beside each other, and their attention
                  became directed to two of their white brethren approaching on horseback. A little
                  astonished at seeing such finely dressed gentlemen galloping through the open
                  forest, they stood beside their baskets, and gazed in uncouth wildness upon their
                  lordly visitors. Their suspense and curiosity was only for a few seconds, ere the
                  gentlemen were by their sides, dismounted, and proceeded to hitch their
                  horses—these were our friends, Mr. Warner and Mr. Miller.
               Without any introduction, Warner advanced and addressed the Indian lady; but she
                  was not acquainted with his language, and seemed to be puzzled with his queries;
                  whereupon, Warner commenced to demonstrate his wishes without words altogether.
                  But when he laid hands upon her, she became frightened, gave a terrible scream,
                  and flew toward her husband. Her husband was enraged at such wicked designs upon
                  his affectionate wife, and rushed boldly forward to rescue her. Pistols and
                  bowie-knives glittered in the bright sun! A clash! a scream! the report of a
                  pistol!—'twas the same that murdered poor Hance—a desperate groan! and the husband
                  fell at the feet of his fainting wife! After satisfying themselves in the foulest
                  of all wickedness, the gentlemen mounted their horses and galloped away.
               The poor, injured widow arose, trembling, flew upon lightning's wings through the
                  woods, reached her native village, and told the tale. Quicker than thought an army
                  of Indians hurried after the legislative candidates, determined to be avenged for
                  their fellow-companion. With bows and arrows they rushed madly on—they climbed the
                  hills, they tore through the brush, they took advantage of every crook, they ran,
                  they leaped, they cried with rage!
               The sun was setting, but on they went, running, leaping, howling, gnashing their
                  teeth, and at every step gaining upon the murderers, and at every breath
                  increasing with rage.
               The road circled round a mountain, the gentlemen followed it; the Indians stole
                  over the hill! A shrill warwhoop, a demoniac cry for vengeance, a shower of
                  arrows, a broken voice cried out, "O! Miller, I'm a dead man!" and immediately two
                  bodies tumbled from their horses! and the Indians returned to their native home,
                  leaving Warner dead and Miller groaning with pain!
               In the morning, a few miners were traveling from Placerville to the American
                  River; in the road they found the corpse of Warner, and a little to one side,
                  wrapped in saddle-blankets, lay the great politician-he was not "spilling his
                  blood for the good of the country," but, weak and trembling, he lisped a few
                  feeble words, groaned, and repented of his inhuman guilt.
               The miners carried him away, nursed and doctored his hundred wounds; but, when the
                  sun stood just above the tops of the trees, his voice strengthened a little, and
                  he said:
               "Boys, I 'm going to die! I hasten to tell you, that, should anybody wish to blame
                  the Indians for this, tell them that we have met the punishment we deserved. My
                  life has been nothing but crime continually, and I deserved to die long ago. But
                  my time has come at last! Will you give me a little water?" and immediately water
                  was placed to his lips, he supped a little, then continued, "Do all you can, boys,
                  to prevent the people from pursuing the Indians. I am a hardened villain; but I
                     know that when I am gone, the report
                  will be, 'murdered by the Indians.' Tell the people that Warner and I died in a
                  drunken spree—will you? Will you give me some more water? O! my God! I feel the
                  blood flowing in my breast—I feel my arteries bursting!" and he turned his pale
                  face toward the sun. "I see something coming toward me! It's a blaze of fire! O!
                  my God! save me."
               The by-standers turned him over, and placed some water to his lips—he shivered,
                  his eyes glared wildly, and he seemed as if overwhelmed with fear.
               "O! boys," and he struggled and clenched his teeth, but in a moment he began to
                  relax, and his power dwindled away.
               "Boys, will you promise—" but his voice was obliged to rest a little, "promise to
                  prevent the—the—the people— O! God!—from taking up arms against the Indians—will
                  you?"
               The by-standers assured him that they would, but before their sentences were
                  concluded, he struggled and again feebly exclaimed, "O! I see something coming at
                  me! It's coming—it's coming!" and he turned his eyes upon his wounds, and viewed
                  the blood flowing away—he cringed-he shook with fear. "O! save me, boys, save me!
                  It's coming at me! It's coming! it's coming! O! ho—ho—" and a delirious quiver
                  issued from his trembling lips.
               "O! it's coming at me! Save me, boys! O! it's got me! it's got me! I must go! I'm
                  going!" and his voice ceased, his eyes turned wildly in their sockets, his system
                  shook, convulsed and gradually relaxed, and finally ceased to move!
               Thus ended the two great politicians. Their bodies were interred at Placerville,
                  Eldorado county.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               "FIVE weeks, and Parker has not yet returned from Sacramento!" Harriet exclaimed,
                  and arose from her seat and walked to the bed in which she had been so long
                  confined. "Two more doubloons, and my money is all gone! O! what shall I do if
                  Parker doesn't return?"
               Harriet still labored under the same suspicion and hatred from Mrs. Marshall and
                  Mary Black—the peevish old maid—that she had experienced previous to Parker's
                  departure; and it was with the greatest difficulty, and by paying exorbitant sums
                  of money, that she could secure as much attention as was necessary to furnish her
                  with bread and tea.
               To persons who have never experienced the suspicion of their neighbors or
                  associates, when they were perfectly innocent, the mortified feelings of the
                  person suspected, are far more oppressive than might be supposed. In fact, this
                  suspicion of character, and eternally watching of each other, is the cause of more
                  trouble and mischief in society, as well as a severe punishment to an innocent
                  person, than any other grievance under which the public are laboring; even at this
                  moment for walking with a respectable lady down to the steamboat, the writer of
                  these words, has had sour and suspicious frowns cast upon him by persons who style
                  themselves Christians, and who do it for no other purpose than because we differ
                  in religious sentiments. How people can commit this sin, as it were, be
                  "eaves-droppers," and let fall dishonest hints, talk about "late hours," "other
                  men's wives," and yet have the audacity to style themselves Christians, is a
                  mystery which has never been so satisfactorily explained to the writer as to
                  prevent him from suspecting such suspicious personages. But we must not be too
                  personal, for the weakest dilution sometimes contains more remedial properties
                  than do severer medicines. But to our subject.
               Harriet finally recovered so that she could take short walks through the little
                  city of Marysville; but still she was far from being a well person, and had she
                  been in her native city, everybody would have declared she was not able to leave
                  her room. But, day after day, she continued to recover, and erelong she expected
                  to be once more able to engage in some useful occupation. Parker, her only friend,
                  had promised to be only one day absent, but had not been heard of for many weeks;
                  and his mysterious absence gave her some anxiety on his account. She was
                     confident dent though, that she did
                  not love him; but she had scarcely any hopes that Simons was living, and she felt
                  in duty bound to respect the many kind attentions of Mr. Parker. She felt that he
                  was her only protector, and to him she wished to relate her troubles, and from him
                  alone she expected assistance.
               "O! if Parker would come, and provide me with a comfortable situation, where I
                  could engage in light employment!" she often exclaimed, and pressed her thin, pale
                  hands upon her forehead, or hid her face on the pillow. But the time rolled on,
                  she recovered slowly, and faint traces of color began to brighten her cheeks, and
                  again she exclaimed:
               "Only one half doubloon remains! What shall I do?" and pressing her hands upon her
                  face, she was absorbed in forming a resolution. "I am weak, but I must go in
                  search of employment. I must 'do or die!'"
               She arose and walked along the street. She saw no acquaintances, and but few
                  ladies; she feared to enter houses and ask for employment, for she feared that
                  everybody had the same suspicions of her that her hostess had; and, in fact, a
                  world of trouble seemed to crowd upon her mind at every step she made. She soon
                  became weary, and was just turning a corner to return to her boarding-house, when
                  she met Parker's sister, and seizing her by the hands, exclaimed:
               "O! Mrs. Brown, I'm so happy to meet you!"
               Mrs. Brown seemed astonished and confused to know who was addressing her.
               "Why, Miss, by jing, you have the advantage of me!" and Harriet thought Mrs.
                  Brown's eyes glistened strangely; she thought that some of her beauty too, had
                  faded, and those beautiful arched brows of Mrs. Brown's seemed to be lowered and
                  sad.
               "My name is Harriet Lindsey; I once came to see you, in company with Mr. Parker."
                  Mrs. Brown smiled a curious smile, struggled a little with her memory, and
                  replied:
               "O! I mind now; by jing, why couldn't I remember?" and she shook Harriet's hands
                  heartily, and seemed to be sad with some hidden memory. She pulled at Harriet, and
                  said:
               "Come up into my room; come, you look tired."
               They walked a few paces, climbed up the steep, narrow stairway, and entered Mrs.
                  Brown's parlor—it was the same parlor where she had passed such an agreeable
                  afternoon previous to receiving the abuse from the clergyman and his wife. Harriet
                  noticed a considerable change in the dress of this young woman, and feared that
                  some sad story was soon to be related; but, when entering the parlor, a still
                  greater change in the furniture and luxury of the room, struck her that all was
                  not right. The piano was gone, the chairs were damaged, the window-curtains were
                  torn, torn ribbons were scattered over the rich, but stained carpet, and the
                  absence of a broom seemed everywhere observable. Mrs. Brown tossed her gaudy,
                  broken bonnet upon the table; Harriet's eye followed the motion, and observed a
                  revolver lying upon the table. She endeavored to dispel her strange apprehensions,
                  and asked:
               "When did you return from San Francisco, Mrs. Brown? I was very sorry that I knew
                  nothing of your going—I wanted to give you an introduction to Mrs. Case, I think
                  she is one of the best women in the world."
               The words seemed strange to Mrs. Brown, and her glistening eyes seemed to wander.
                  She threw herself carelessly on to a chair, and replied:
               "Return from San Francisco? Why I haven't been to San Francisco."
               "Why, I understood that you went?"
               "No, by-jing, no such news," and her thoughts seemed scattered and loose, but she
                  continued, "nor I never expect to see that place again. But where have you been
                  stopping so long?"
               "At Mrs. Marshall's, on L— Street," Harriet replied, but her attention was
                  cautiously directed to a closet in one corner of the parlor—the door was half open
                  and bottles were standing within.
               "Are there many of you there?" asked Mrs. Brown, and she commenced to gape and
                  yawn; she then drew a bunch of cigars from her pocket, and asked Harriet to take a
                  smoke. Harriet declined and began to have strange impressions; but she pursued the
                  conversation.
               
               "No, there are no ladies there except myself—that is, beside Mary Black, an old
                  maid."
               "Is it a good house?" said Mrs. Brown, drawing some matches from her pocket and
                  lighting her cigar. Harriet paid more attention to those glistening eyes, she
                  fancied that she discovered a dimness; and an exclamation, can it be possible! was
                  checked, and she again replied:
               "No, it's not a very good house; I intend to leave as soon as Parker returns. I
                  should not have remained there so long, but I cannot well leave."
               Mrs. Brown's cigar would not light, she twisted it a little, then threw it across
                  the room. At the mention of Parker's name she colored, and asked Harriet:
               "When will Parker be back?" Again she commenced to gape and yawn, and seemed to
                  turn quite sleepy; but Harriet replied:
               "That's just what I intended to ask you? I supposed you would be sure to
                  know?"
               "Why, how should I know?" and again Mrs. Brown gaped and yawned.
               "Brothers generally tell their sisters," said Harriet, but the sleepy Mrs. Brown
                  arose, proceeded to the closet and brought out a bottle of champagne, still
                  repeating her own question:
               "How should I know, how should I know?" Again Harriet replied:
               "Brothers generally tell their sisters everything?" Mrs. Brown started a little,
                  and looked steadily upon Harriet:
               "Brother!" she said "why who on earth put that nonsense into your head, child?"
                  Harriet was beginning to feel alarmed, but replied:
               "Why, he told me that he was your brother."
               "He did? The good for nothing r—l how dare he talk so? Just let him show his face
                  in here again! I have this laid away for him," and Mrs. Brown seized the revolver
                  and swung it about like a warrior.
               Poor Harriet was frightened at such female bravado, and considered now that all
                  her suspicions of Mrs. Brown were true. The cause of her expulsion from Mrs.
                  Ellis's flashed upon her in an instant, and she felt like leaping from Mrs.
                  Brown's room; she was unable to make any reply, but remained trembling in her
                  seat.
               Mrs. Brown laid the pistol down, and raised a large knife to cut the cork of her
                  bottle of champagne; and at that very instant foot-falls were heard coming up the
                  stair-way; and, in a second after, without knocking or giving any signal, the door
                  opened, and in came two well-dressed, gentlemanly-looking young men.
               "Well, Sally," said one of them, laughing, "my dear, we're just in time for the
                  champagne, eh?" and he hopped across the room, took Mrs. Brown (whom he called
                  Sally), into his arms, hugged and kissed her very affectionately; which she
                  returned by quite as much freedom, and by even a greater abundance of kissing.
                  This gentleman was scarcely through, when the other advanced to Sally, and did the
                  same. As soon as they were through squeezing Mrs. Brown, they turned toward
                  Harriet, and said:
               "Halloo! who's this?" and proceeded to give her a similar embrace.
               When these gentlemen first entered the room, Harriet had arisen, and was about
                  taking an unceremonious leave; but, before she was aware of her critical
                  situation, one of the fashionable gentlemen had her enfolded in his arms, and,
                  amid her screams and struggles, attempted to take one of his social kisses. The
                  other gentleman noticed her refractory disposition, and rushed forward to assist
                  his friend in his diabolical amusement; but he reached the place just too late to
                  miss his hold. The door was standing open, and the poor girl, wild with fear, had
                  made one desperate leap, cleared the door and tumbled down the stairway on to the
                  side-walk! But in her rapid flight, the gentleman who had hold of her, was also
                  overbalanced, and tumbled down the stairs also, but unluckily escaped receiving
                  any injury. Sally and the other gentleman remained up stairs, evidently satisfied
                  that nothing strange had happened.
               He assisted Harriet to rise, but when she tried to escape, he tried to force her
                  up the stairs, and to get relief, she screamed for help, and in a few minutes a
                  great crowd of gamblers were about
                  her—laughing at her and the young man's struggles. Among some of the modest
                  phrases which these gentlemen uttered in Harriet's presence, were a profusion of
                  words which are too base to be written; but, of course, as it was a "free
                  country," it was all quite right, and quite an argument in favor of extending our
                  Christian dominions—even at the risk of having a war with European powers.
               "O! gentlemen, why do you not help me?" the poor girl cried, and attempted to free
                  herself from the fun-making gamblers; but the spectators laughed, and some of them
                  said:
               "She's one of 'em, I'll bet;" but others said:
               "She's blamed good-looking, though! Who brought her? I never seen her before! Sam,
                  do you know who she belongs to? She's been fighting. See how her face is
                  bleeding!" but others said:
               "Served her right to fall down stairs. I hope all such characters will break their
                  necks;" but there were others, who said:
               "O! George, don't hurt the girl; see, she is crying. I'm sure you must be mistaken
                  in that girl; I've not been galloping about so much for nothing. I can tell by her
                  looks that she is not one of 'em. I know she ain't." During this time Harriet was
                  crying:
               "O! help! gentlemen, help! help me! for God's sake, help me." This occasioned the
                  crowd to increase, but yet they all stood coolly watching "the fun." Harriet, it
                  must be remembered, had only lately left the sick-chamber, and was only strong
                  enough to take a short walk; and, certainly, she was in a very poor condition to
                  struggle with a large young man. As he continued to push her up the stairway, she
                  would cling to the railing, and endeavor to hold herself close down to the steps;
                  but, in a little while, her bonnet was torn off, her hair was rumpled and dangling
                  over her face, tears and perspiration blinded her, and her dress was being torn to
                  ribbons. Her weakness continued to increase, and she found that the gambler's
                  strength was fast gaining upon her. Still she cried:
               "O! gentlemen, for heaven's sake, help! help!" and still the crowd continued to
                  laugh, and make light remarks. But the gambler seemed to delight in his tussle,
                  and during all the time, kept up an affected fit of laughter, or made indecent
                  compliments about her desirable attractions. Harriet felt her weakness rapidly
                  gaining, her hold to the railing was beginning to give way, her limbs were
                  sinking, and even her courage for contending any longer, was nearly gone! But
                  still she continued to scream:
               "O! my God! are these men so destitute of morality? O! heaven! protect me!
                  Gentlemen! is there not a man among you who will release me from this monster?"
                  But the gambler began to have the ascendency, and already had her up several
                  steps.
               "O! heavens! must I be ruined?" she screamed. "Will no man protect me until you
                  learn my innocence? Gentlemen! for heaven's sake, protect me!" but her hands began
                  to feel numb and dead; first one and then the other let go its hold, and she
                  rested in the gambler's arms, crying:
               "O! my God! what will become of me? O! my God!" and the gambler commenced to tug
                  her up the stairs. But at this moment there was a great bustle and confusion among
                  the crowd. Everybody was pushing and shoving, and everybody seemed to be talking.
                  But one voice, louder than the others, cried out:
               "Stand back, here! Stand back! Let me pass! Stand back!"
               Though the crowd was so dense that the speaker found great difficulty in passing;
                  for every one seemed anxious to crowd up to the foot of the stairs, yet, just as
                  the gambler got Harriet at the top of the stairs, a large, well-dressed young man
                  broke through the crowd and rushed up the stairs after them; he drew a revolver
                  from his pocket and pointed it at the breast of the gambler.
               "Release that lady," he said, "or you are a dead man! Release her in a moment! Not
                  a word!" The gambler let go his hold and put on a sheepish smile, but stood
                  aghast. Harriet turned to look upon her preserver, her face was covered with
                  blood, her hair disheveled. and, looking into his face:
               
               "O! Parker! Parker!" she exclaimed, "may God bless you!" and she tossed up her
                  hands, and threw her arms around him.
               
                  
                     HARRIET'S RESCUE FROM A LEGALLY TOLERATED FREE INSTITUTION.
                  
               
               As soon as Parker came to her rescue, the affair assumed an entirely new
                  character. Everybody now looked upon her as a good woman, and deserving of
                  protection; all were anxious to their willingness to 'respect woman's rights,' and
                  to assist Harriet to get away from the crowd—which at this instant had become
                  prodigious in number, and composed of both Jews and Gentiles, and of every color
                  and language that exist—but Parker assumed the honor of accompanying her, and in a
                  few seconds he hurried her away from the noisy crowd. What were the impressions,
                  the conduct, the opinions, etc. of the people, after Harriet and Parker left, we
                  cannot relate, but we must follow her back to her boarding-house. She had scarcely
                  been able to speak, after meeting Parker, until she reached her own room; and,
                  half sitting and half lying upon her low bed, she took a general view of her torn
                  garments, shuddered a little, then turned her tearful eyes upon Parker; she looked
                  steadily for a moment, then buried her face upon her pillow. Parker had not yet
                  lost the noble feeling that still beamed in his face; but nearly overcome with
                  sympathy for Harriet's unfortunate condition and trouble, he asked, in a mild
                  voice:
               "You would like to be alone, Miss Lindsey?" Harriet startled, and looked at him—he
                  seemed more than mortal—and she exclaimed:
               "O! Mr. Parker, how can you leave me?"
               "I only meant for a few minutes. You are too weak to talk now. I think you had
                  better compose yourself and rest a little. You are perfectly safe now—nothing
                  shall disturb you any more." A feeling of confidence and safety stole over
                  Harriet's mind—giving her more courage and hope than anything she had known for
                  several months.
               "Then you will not go out of the house?" she asked.
               "No, Miss Lindsey, no. You can rest perfectly safe. Try and compose yourself, and
                  you will soon feel better. I will call in, in about two hours, and see you," and
                  he drew his watch, looked at the time, arose, shook Harriet's hand gently, and
                  left the room.
               "Sporty! Sporty!" said Harriet, after Parker left, for the little dog seemed to be
                  attached to Parker's personal appearance, and nearly disposed to follow him
                  away.
               When Harriet fell down the stairway, she unfortunately disturbed her index of
                  human sympathy, and caused it to bleed and disfigure her personal attractions; but
                  in other respects she was scarcely injured save the griping and pinching which she
                  received during her struggle with the gambler. With her nose bleeding, her dress
                  torn, and her character nearly gone, she felt some timidity in returning to the
                  boarding-house where she had already received so much abuse. When she and Parker
                  returned, the two women, Mrs. Marshall and Mary Black—the maid with the dried-up
                  face—were standing directly in the door, really as if watching to see whom they
                  might injure by casting out hints upon 'character.' Of the pair, the old maid
                  undoubtedly possessed the most attractive qualities. She was tall, and shaped
                  exactly after the fashion of a scythe-handle. Like Willie's wife of
                  Linkumdoddie.
               
               
                  
                     "She's bough-hough'd, she's hein-shinn'd,
                     Ae limpin' leg, a hand-breed shorter;
                     She is twisted right, she is twisted left,
                     To balance fair in ilka quarter:
                     She has a hump upon her breast,
                     The twin o' that upon her shouther."
                  
               
               This tawny creature had cultivated her frowning capacity until her withered face
                  had turned into malice and suspicion; and to give herself a still higher position
                  in it "her virtues," and to place herself above all suspicion,
                  although, perhaps, the worst gambler in California could not have been hired to
                  touch her, chose her tongue as the instrument with which to put others down and to
                  elevate herself.
               Being acquainted with this lady's weapon, Harriet had no sooner perceived her
                  standing in the door than she felt an oppression and fear quite as severe as she
                  had in the struggle with the gambler; for such a battery as had the old maid, was
                  without any counteracting agent, but, acting in secret and unknown paths, could
                  circulate a suspicion, too serious to be effaced by any argument, which could
                  extend among everybody throughout the city.
               Shortly after Harriet met the abuse from the minister and his wooden wife, this
                  old maid took the pains to run over to Mrs. Ellis, and ascertain, if possible,
                  whether she could find any clue whereby to expose Harriet's conduct; but whatever
                  information she gained she took particular caution always to relate to anybody
                  else but Harriet or Parker; but, as Mrs. Ellis and the old maid met twice in
                  church every Sunday to worship God? and to cultivate their spite and hatred toward
                  their fellow creatures, and to learn all about the "last suspicious" reports in
                  reference to some other ladies' characters—it is not at all likely that they
                  arrived at any very wholesome conclusion about Harriet. This granite lady assumed
                  a dignified holiness when she saw Harriet and Parker returning, and she looked as
                  though the words "served you right" were just on the eve of escaping her leather
                  lips; but, turning haughtily, as much as to say thank God, I am yet
                  holy," she swept her stiffly starched calico along the greasy ground floor, and
                  went into another room. As soon as Harriet entered she washed the blood from her
                  face, and seated herself upon her low bed to talk with Parker, as we before
                  mentioned. As we are aware, Parker only remained a few minutes, and promised to
                  call again in the course of two hours' time. Now then, as soon as Parker withdrew,
                  for he did leave the house, this granite maid seized her bonnet and sallied forth
                  to learn the news about Harriet's misfortune, not even asking one word upon
                  Harriet's side of the question. Harriet saw her leave, and from the direction in
                  which she went, and the indignant manner in which she walked, Harriet at once
                  apprehended the object of the old maid's search; and, knowing the happiness of
                  this granite machine upon learning the evil reports against anybody, she very much
                  feared that the said granite lady might hear some hard story and finally turn her
                  away from the house—which, without money, might yet drive her to ruin or
                  starvation.
               Reader, starvation is a hard word to be used in our country; but, both here and in
                  England, the woman who has been trampled down by slanderous reports can only
                  escape starvation by submitting to be ruined! This family, that family, nor any
                  other family will have anything to do with them, unless it is to add a little more
                  evil to the reports, and to push them still further under water; and too, the lady
                  herself, different from man, begins to fancy that everybody is acquainted with the
                  report, and her own modesty causes her to shrink from public gaze and observation.
                  Whoever she sees, she fancies they are looking at her and contemplating upon her
                  own reported condition; and, instead of becoming enraged and resolved to be
                  avenged as man does, she becomes timid, resistless, despondent, and is more easily
                  taken advantage of. In this manner, the 'rigidly religious,' who persecute and
                  avoid, shun and neglect, instead of pity and comfort, assist ad protect, have
                  caused thousands of fair females to be ruined!
               Now, reader, lest you think this representation is too extravagant to be true, we
                  will refer you to your own town, to your own street, to your own house, and to
                  your own self, to see if you have not seen this same persecution and neglect
                  toward the female who is said to have
                  fallen. But, reader, you must not take it as anything personal, for you and we,
                  you know, do not belong to that class of persecutionists, nor do we intend ever to
                  join them.
               Just at the period of this great falling, Harriet knew of but one person in the
                  city who considered her above suspicion—that was Parker; and to him her
                  obligations knew no bounds, nor had she words sufficient to express it. And, too,
                  she now feared that an "alliance" might spring up between them, which she could
                  not possibly interdict; and, although she had but little hopes that Simons was
                  still living, she felt that her hand could, never be given to any other. But when
                  Parker left her this last time, he pressed her hand strangely—she felt an electric
                  shock, vibrating throughout her person, and in his noble, dark eyes, she saw
                  affectionate expression beaming upon her, and she felt that she could have burst
                  into tears, and thrown her arms around him. Musing upon this subject, as well as
                  upon the mad-like absence of the old maid, she lay down on her bed, hid her face
                  in the pillow, and, weary and fatigued, she fell into a deep sleep.
               It was late in the afternoon when Parker called, but near the time he had
                  appointed. The house was quiet, and seemed. to be nearly deserted. Little Sporty
                  met Parker at the door, and seemed to invite him into the room. Parker stooped
                  down, patted him a little, then proceeded toward Harriet's room—he opened the door
                  gently, walked beside her bed, and stood, looked upon her innocent face, sighed to
                  himself, "She sleeps, she sleeps sweetly!" and, pressing his handkerchief upon his
                  noble brow, appreciated more intensely than ever the unworthy life he had lived; a
                  mist seemed to crowd before his eyes, he turned and walked quietly to the door,
                  looked back a moment, then passed out and walked away.
               It was late in the evening when Harriet awoke, but just as she was awaking, she
                  was thinking to herself whether it was because she fancied she had a protector to
                  guard her, or whether it was from some other cause that she slept so soundly—ay,
                  she was reasoning upon the advantages of a married life. But her contemplations
                  gradually changed—she thought she heard somebody body arguing upon "character,"
                  and she thought the voice sounded like that of the granite old maid. Slowly
                  indeed, did she awake, but it was night—and those voices, too, were real voices,
                  arguing upon woman's "character." "O! what a dream I had!" she exclaimed to
                  herself, and she fancied that her past day's experience had been only a dream.
               "But how did I lay down without changing my dress? This seems strange indeed!" and
                  she commenced examining her clothes. "This is strange!" and she pressed her hand
                  upon her forehead. "I can not be dreaming now! Sporty! Sporty!" and immediately,
                  the little white dog skipped to her bedside. "No, I am not dreaming, and this
                  exposure of which I was thinking, must have been real! But where is Parker? O! I
                  remember! I remember!" and she arose, struck a light, and placed her candle upon
                  the stand—a sort of broken box covered with brown muslin. She then seated herself
                  upon her bed, to hear the earnest conversation going on between the old maid and
                  Mrs. Marshall; but, in their hatred and malice. they even masticated their own
                  words—bit them off, so that no one could have distinguished what they were saying.
                  Satisfied that she could gain no information, as to whether they were arguing upon
                  her own character, she arose and started out in search of a cup of tea, and, if
                  possible, to explain the whole of her misfortune to the wooden ladies. Now, there
                  were beside Mr. Marshall, generally about five or six men boarders, but not
                  lodgers, who feasted upon the humble fare prepared by these sisters, and who were
                  all aware of the old maid's rules. One of the rules which this lady enforced, was
                  even more arbitrary and binding than what our Christian brother, Mr. Dickens. has
                  so very curiously represented to be common to our country. That was, that every
                  boarder must be on hand exactly at the moment the bell was rung for the breakfast,
                  the dinner, or the supper. When any failed to be there according to this rule, the
                  old maid drew her lean face into a sour shape, moved the chairs or stools quickly,
                  bit her words, griped the bread, or the knives and forks with her long, lean
                  fingers, and kept her lantern jaws so firmly shut, that it was with the utmost
                  difficulty she could eat her meals. Harriet iet was acquainted with this rule, and when rising,
                  to go in search of something to eat, naturally enough expected to receive a volley
                  of epithetical looks and sarcastic glances from the old maid's cat-like eyes, the
                  very moment she came into her presence. Under these impressions she ventured
                  forth, and, until then, she had not been aware how severely she had been bruised;
                  for her whole person seemed as if wounded and about ready to fail her, in reaching
                  the dining-room. However, she accomplished the task, entered into the presence of
                  her female friends, found them just dropping some needlework, and in the act of
                  closing business or the night—Mr. Marshall had already retired.
               "Is there any tea left?" Harriet asked, but neither of the ladies looked up,
                  though the old maid answered, "I think there is, but supper is past. We can't be
                  getting supper all night."
               Harriet made no further questions, but proceeded to a box-fixing, lined with
                  calico, so as to look like a cupboard, brought a teapot, and placed it upon the
                  stove to heat up.
               "I slept later than I intended," said Harriet. Neither of the ladies replied, but
                  turned their needlework carefully over.
               "Is it very late?" Harriet asked. The old maid looked at Mrs. Marshall, and
                  said—
               "How do you intend to work the sleeves? like this of mine? I never like to see
                  ruffles—they are a bad sign."
               "It'll make a very nice dress," replied Mrs. Marshall, then gaped, and said, "I
                  think it's bed time."
               "I'm not to be done," thought Harriet, and she again said:
               "I suppose there are no particular fashions about sleeves in this city, are there,
                  Miss Black?" The old maid looked toward a different part of the room, and
                  replied:
               "Some of the ladies wear ragged ones." No greater hit could have been made, for
                  Harriet's sleeves had been nearly torn away by the gambler, and it was to her the
                  old maid referred.
               "Yes," said Harriet, "but have you learned why they wear them? Good people are
                  sometimes unfortunate and ill treated!"
               "I've learned something, and I'll learn the balance to-morrow, I guess," said the
                  old maid.
               Harriet now felt somewhat easier; she had the subject fairly introduced, and was
                  resolved to relate the ill-treatment which she had just received.
               "Now, Miss Black," said Harriet, "you are aware that every story has two sides,
                  and all I ask is, that you will not decide upon the treatment which I have
                  received to-day until you have heard 
                     my
                     me
                   explain 
                     me
                     my
                   side of the story."
               "I'm not going to be biased by anybody's story," said the old maid, shortly;
                  "there were enough people seen what was going on."
               "But," said Harriet, "why would you not as lief hear my side as the other side?
                  I'm sure you have never seen anything wrong in my conduct—have you?"
               "I suppose you think we didn't see that gentleman going into your room this
                  evening, when nobody was about—eh!" said Mrs. Marshall.
               "This evening," repeated Harriet, "why there was no person in my room this
                  evening."
               "Now, how dare you deny that? Didn't I see him with my own eyes?" said Mrs.
                  Marshall.
               "O!" said Harriet, "you are alluding to Parker coming home with me?"
               "No, I am not—no such a thing. I know that you had a gentleman, and I expect he
                  was a gambler, too; I didn't get to see his face rightly, but I know he was in
                  your room this evening."
               "Mrs Marshall, you are certainly mistaken."
               "Never mind," interrupted the old maid, "we'll find these things out to-morrow. I
                  know a thing or two already, and I intend to know more, too."
               "But won't you permit me to tell you how badly I have been treated to-day? I now
                  know why Mrs. Ellis turned me away from her house; but if she had given me a
                  hearing, I could have satisfied her that she was under a very wrong
                  impression."
               "You are a very pretty thing to be censuring our minister's wife! You suppose I
                  haven't nearly found out where you've been to day, eh?" said the old maid, and she
                  walked stiffly away.
               
               "If you will permit me, I will tell you where I have been to-day, and how
                  fortunately I escaped with my life and character."
               "Character!" repeated the old maid, "you had better eat your supper, and go to
                  bed, that's the kind of a story you ought to be thinking about."
               "But I wish to tell you how I ventured into a house of ill-fame, through a
                  mistake, and—"
               "Mistake!" repeated the old maid, "mistake, I dare say it was a mistake—a sad
                  mistake."
               "Yes, Miss Black, a mistake. It was where I had had an introduction the day I was
                  driven from Mrs. Ellis's, and I don't want to hear any of your stories. Only a few
                  minutes ago you denied about that gentleman coming into your room alone. How can I
                  expect the truth from you?" and the old maid walked stiffly out of the room.
               "Well," said Mrs. Marshall, rising; to follow her sister, "well, this affairs must
                  be looked up to-morrow. I'll examine into it myself. I don't intend to have the
                  character of my house injured for nobody, I don't. I hope you'll eat your supper
                  now and go to bed. I should be very sorry, after all our encouragement and care of
                  you, to find that you no sooner recover your health than you take to the same life
                  again. Sister," addressing the old maid, "sister have you the Bible, or did I
                  leave it in my work-box?" and the lady, Mrs. Marshall, also left the dining-room,
                  leaving Harriet to ponder upon human nature. Harriet did not yet despond, as
                  perhaps many a lady might have, but sat tearless, perplexed, provoked, injured,
                  and abused, contemplating upon some manner to regain the position she so honestly
                  deserved; and, while mincing over her cold supper, an idea entered her head—to sue
                  for ill-treatment, and to break up the house where "Sally" lived.
               "Yes, I can get plenty of witnesses," she said to herself. "It will show, too,
                  that I am innocent; but whether it will do me any good or not, it will at least
                  prevent any other young lady from being taken in there. Parker will be a good
                  witness. O! I remember, he was to call in two hours to see me. It must have been
                  Parker whom Mrs. Marshall saw come into my room. O! why could I not think of
                  that!"
               The idea of suing the gambler for abusing her, and of breaking up the den about
                  that house, now occupied her whole attention. She returned to her bed, weighed all
                  the pros and cons of the whole subject, and after passing several hours of hard
                  study, she again fell asleep, and slept soundly.
               A young gentleman, about twenty-two years of age, lived upon B. street. He was
                  exceedingly tall, but moderately good-looking; wore a sickly moustache, and a
                  goatee of a milky-brown color—was rather limber and sprightly, with a pale, but
                  sanguine face, straight flaxen hair, an effeminate voice, and altogether of quite
                  a boyish appearance. He dressed in good black cloth, wore large rings upon his
                  fingers, a splendid watch, a striped vest, smoked cigars with good grace, and, in
                  fact, appeared to be the making of a fashionable gentleman. His education was
                  moderately good and it as reported that he had 'rubbed his back against a
                  college,' and even elevated his feet in a lawyer's study-room. In common
                  conversation, he used quite a number of those hard words which have been so great
                  a burden to us in writing this story, by not being privileged to write them. It is
                  really oppressive to think that society is overrun by persons who use so much
                  profanity that even their language cannot be written! This young gentleman was
                  said to be the best quoit pitcher in California—and that he has "rung his stake"
                  three out of five, for hours together. At this laudable amusement he could be seen
                  on the shady side of the street nearly all day, pitching quoits with young men of
                  about the same standing as himself. When he first arrived in Marysville, he was
                  put into the office of public administrator, but, as the reader may not know what
                  that office was in California, we must relate some of its characteristics. Almost
                  everybody had friends or relations who went to California, and must take some
                  interest in information of this kind, for we will state the matter so that no one
                  can mistake our meaning. Among those friends and relations who went to that golden
                  land, were some of the most honest and virtuous of American citizens. They had
                  good wives, children, parents, brothers
                  or sisters who were depending upon them for support, and who lived back here in
                  our civilized States waiting anxiously for the dear one to return. Unfortunately,
                  these adventurers, were not adapted to the climate, and, after a few months' toil,
                  many of them were called to their eternal home! The cholera, and a chronic
                  diarrhea, and some of the fevers, swept these good people off in a few hours after
                  the attack. In this hasty exit, they very frequently failed to settle up their
                  earthly affairs as they wished—scarcely saying good-by to the strangers around
                  them. Almost all of these persons who died, were in possession of a few hundred
                  dollars, and some of them had several thousands; but one of the wealthiest that
                  ever came under our own observation, was a David Ward—a colored man, from the city
                  of Boston—who had about eighteen thousand dollars, principally in gold dust. Now
                  then, to attend to the property and the money which had been in the possession of
                  these deceased, to settle the accounts, and to transmit the money to the friends
                  or relations of the departed, was the business of these administrators. But the
                  deceased seldom, and scarcely ever had any friends or acquaintances to see that
                  the business was fairly settled; and, as the administrator was generally a
                  gambler, it is scarcely necessary for us to mention what became of the money.
                  Imagine, reader, a young, man of twenty-two, a gambler, a quoit pitcher, taking
                  charge of the gold dust in the pockets of your deceased brother or husband! See
                  that young man soon become the wealthiest in his city, and, know too, that you
                  have never heard of the property or gold dust which belonged to your brother or
                  husband! Imagine all of this, reader, and then you may have some idea of a true
                  state of "doing up" things in California—you will have, too, a correct impression,
                  an impression which the writer utters in defiance of all the
                  booby-boy-gambling-officials in the golden State! Here, reader, permit us to state
                  that, if you are a good Republican, you can perceive why you should not advocate
                  the annexation of any more territory; for these gambling officials have no regard
                  for the persons who are remaining back in the other States, nor for foreign
                  nations. So that if our territory becomes much larger, the officers of these
                  distant places must be appointed from the other States, in order that we can have
                  justice, and act in concord with each other, and accord with other nations. But as
                  these distant places will not submit to have their officers appointed, secession
                  will be the result. This was the first great cause of the Roman Republic changing
                  into an Empire. And, although you gather these words from a love story, they are
                  worthy the consideration of every one who cherishes a love of Republicanism. But
                  to our story hoping that things are now better conducted in California than they
                  have formerly been.
               The young gentleman whom we have partially introduced, became a man of wealth and
                  influence while holding the office of administrator, and was soon considered an
                  "available" man for the magistracy. The election was favorable, and we now
                  introduce this boyish gentleman to the reader as Squire Harris. Squire Harris's
                  office was a small wooden building, close to the place where he was generally
                  found pitching quoits, and was not a very bad sort of house. As a magistrate,
                  considering his years, he was generally acknowledged to be a "smart man," and one
                  who acted promptly and justly. As he was one day, about two o'clock, in company
                  with a few companions, pitching quoits, a young lady neatly dressed, approached
                  and asked:
               "Is Squire ]Harris about?" He suspended business, walked close up to her, and
                  answered:
               "That's my name, Miss; what do you want?"
               Harriet—for it was no other—was a little daunted by such ungallant speech and
                  promptness on the part of a gentleman of his years, and in a moment she feared
                  that even he might have heard of the suspicions which the old maid had endeavored
                  to spread abroad.
               "I want to speak with you," said Harriet.
               "Very well, Miss, speak on!" and he seemed to be noticing a scratch or two about
                  Harriet's face, which she, naturally enough, seemed to try to conceal by her
                  handkerchief.
               "Have you an office near by?"
               "Yes, Miss; but what do you want to speak to me about—to sue somebody—eh?"
               
               "I wish to speak privately, sir, if you please?"
               "O! certainly, Miss, I like to speak with women in private—I always did, it's kind
                  o' natural," and the Squire turned and walked towards his office, followed by
                  Harriet. Just as they were entering the office, one of the Squire's companions
                  said:
               "Spunk up to her, Squire!" but what the phrase meant, we leave every one to form
                  their own conclusion.
               "Well, Miss," said the Squire, and he pushed her a seat, and shut the door. A
                  thought flashed through Harriet's mind in a moment:
               "Why should he shut the door in such warm weather as this? Surely I can have
                  nothing to fear from the magistrate? I must be growing suspicious!" But the Squire
                  addressed her:
               "Well; what's the nature of your grievance?"
               "O! Squire, I have been most shamefully treated. Even my life has been
                  endangered."
               "But never mind, Miss; I can't hear your case. I only want to know what is the
                  nature of your complaint? and what redress you wish to sue for? The case cannot be
                  heard until both parties are present."
               "Well, sir," and Harriet's face brightened with courage and independence, "I was
                  severely abused yesterday, by a young man called David Smith."
               "Well, what did he do to you?"
               Harriet their related a sketch of her visit to "Sally's"—her falling down the
                  stairway, and the cruel attempt of the gambler, David Smith. The Squire sat
                  patiently until she was through with the whole story, then asked:
               "Were you not in company with this Parker several months ago, in search of
                  boarding at the Tremont House?"
               "Yes, sir, I was."
               "You can open a suit against this David Smith, by paying five dollars as security
                  of costs; but really, Miss, I should advise you to drop the matter. I should hate
                  to see a lady of your appearance attempting to prove your story before a
                  court."
               "But, sir, am I to be subject to such treatment, and to have my character injured
                  without any redress?"
               "Just as you say. Five dollars, Miss, is what it will cost you to open a suit."
                  Harriet withdrew her purse, but the Squire continued:
               "I should really hate to see such a beautiful creature before the court, Miss,"
                  and he drew his chair beside hers. Harriet arose. She looked the Squire full in
                  the face. The whole earth seemed to quake, and the human family seemed to be robed
                  in darkness! She felt her heart throbbing, and nearly fainted with weakness; but
                  she summoned her courage, and replied:
               "What do you mean, to treat me with this familiarity, sir?"
               The Squire smiled and said:
               "O! no harm, Miss—no harm—no harm!" and he arose to stand by her side, "we're on
                  good terms, Miss, I hope?" and he raised his hand to take hers. Harriet turned
                  quickly toward the door, seized the latch, opened it, and took a hasty leave—the
                  last words the Squire said were:
               "Mind now, you can't prove nothing." Thus ended Harriet's suit for damages.
               On her way back to her boarding-house, she experienced more mortification of
                  feeling and intense trouble than she had ever before known. To find such a boyish
                  fop acting as magistrate, and to meet such an insult from the place where alone
                  she had expected security and confidence, gave her an entire new view of her
                  wretched condition. Sooner than she expected, she found herself once more near her
                  boarding-house. But, O! what a change in the appearance of things since she left!
                  Precisely as if the old maid had been taught under the care of Mrs. Ellis,
                  Harriet's boxes were cast out of doors! The old maid and Mrs. Marshall were
                  stranding in the door, as if expecting to be met by an army of Russians. A single
                  glance told Harriet that pleading was utterly useless; for she knew that the old
                  maid had determined to make her leave the house. However, when she neared these
                  granite creatures, she asked:
               "Will you not hear me relate all my troubles before you turn me away?" The old
                  lady replied sarcastically:
               
               "No, we don't want one word, not a word. We don't intend to have our characters
                  injured by keeping such a thing about the house."
               "But, even supposing I am a bad woman, how can you refuse to hear what the nature
                  of my case is?"
               "Take your things away, and don't say one word to me—we know all about you," and
                  the old maid "scraped her feet at the door," and went into the house, followed by
                  Mrs. Marshall. Harriet was left standing upon the sidewalk—she felt a death-like
                  weakness stealing over her person—it was a strange feeling! Her eyes turned toward
                  the heavens, the sky seemed to glimmer, and strange figures were written along its
                  deep-blue ridges—she had never seen anything like it before! The injured lady
                  turned upon her feet—the same little feet that bore her over the Great Desert more
                  than a year before—she looked about the city, it seemed to vibrate and grow dim—it
                  was a strange dimness! She raised her hand toward her face—but that hand had never
                  seemed so pale, never trembled as it now did! She gathered her shawl, but she
                  heard something beating within her bosom—it was not excitement, but seemed as a
                  strange warning! She started to walk; she said to herself, "I must search for
                  protection and peace!" but she noticed a numbness in her person—it was a strange
                  feeling that seemed to pervade her entire system—to chill her mortal frame! She
                  moved along, but the streets seemed to be clouded, the earth grew unsteady, and
                  strange sounds echoed in unseen places. She saw a little river; she heard its
                  gentle murmurs; she seated herself upon its banks. Heavy clouds gathered about her
                  face, and that river seemed to invite her into its mellow ripples!
               "Sporty!" she said; and the little dog pressed his face to hers! "Sporty!" she
                  said, and she pressed him to her bosom! "Must we now separate, Sporty, forever?"
                  and immediately her eyes were covered with darkness, and involuntary motions
                  placed her at the brink of the river. "Sporty!" she said, and the little dog
                  pulled at her clothes, and tried to counsel with his fair mistress! She pointed
                  toward the water—that strange-looking water—so different from what the Yuba had
                  ever seemed! She raised her hands, and all the earth was still as the house of
                  death! "Almighty God! I'm tired of earth! Let me come unto thee, O my God!" and
                  immediately she turned, and said: "Sporty!" and the little fellow pulled hard at
                  her clothes, "Sporty, I must go! It's calling me! It has come for me! Good-by,
                  Sporty! Good-by, Sporty! My only friend! If you alone could talk to me, I would
                  yet live! Sporty! Sporty! good-by! good-by! May God preserve you, Sporty! I will
                  soon be with your master—he is in heaven, Sporty!" and she turned her dim eyes
                  toward the river—that river had no terror—it seemed sweeter than paradise! and
                  even its murmur seemed like the voices of angels, spreading before her vision a
                  kingdom of eternal glory!
               She withdrew her handkerchief; there were two names upon one corner, she pressed
                  one of them to her lips, but even her lips began to grow cold and numb! She
                  removed her bonnet, and her hands involuntarily raised the handkerchief to her
                  head. Those beautiful brown curls were folded and bound down by the snowy-white
                  handkerchief, and she spread her shawl by her side.
               "Here, Sporty," she said, "I give this to thee," and Sporty laid upon it—he looked
                  into her face, he seemed resigned to his mistress's will. She drew a piece of
                  paper from her pocket, and wrote, "Flow, gentle Yuba! flow sweetly o'er the body
                  that chooses thee as the last friend on earth, and leave no stain upon the virtue
                  of the woman whose purity is unsurpassed even by thine own sparkling water;
                  conceal the body beneath thy murmuring blue ripples; bid the heartless world ne'er
                  touch the virgin form that chooses to sleep in eternal darkness—rather than be a
                  slave or a beast to her fellow-creatures—with the glorious hope of eternal
                  felicity. Sweet Yuba! one plunge, and the mist between me and darkness is broken!
                  Thy little waves shall roll o'er an injured woman, and thy soft murmur shall chant
                  the love she wished to bestow, but could not. Lovely Yuba, thy voice is too
                  inviting. Mary Sparks cannot write more—she will join with thee!" Harriet arose,
                  pinned the paper to the willow leaves,
                  and again kneeled by little Sporty's side—her voice was in faint whispers.
                  "Sporty! Sporty! I must go—I must go to another world! For you, even such a
                  friend, I nearly fail! Good-by, Sporty, good-by!" and while not a living thing
                  disturbed the awful stillness, our fair lady walked slowly to the water's edge,
                  turned her eyes for the last time toward heaven; her lips moved, but no sound
                  escaped their pale borders; she leaned far over the deep river, dropped her eyes
                  toward the blue ripples, and said, "'Tis done!" and immediately her balance gave
                  way.
               There was a rustling among the willows. A man sprang forth—it was quicker than
                  thought. His strong arm encircled her waist—she screamed:
               "O! Parker!" and fainted in his arms.
               The gambler laid her death-like person upon the shady green; he acted not like a
                  gambler then. He unfolded the snowy handkerchief, he dipped it quickly into the
                  river, he bathed her temples, his hands trembled. He perceived her struggling for
                  breath; he moved her, and exclaimed;
               "O! God preserve her! she is dying, she is dying! Great heavens! give her
                  strength—life! For her sake, O! God, give her back the soul which has been ruined
                  by thy pretended followers; let her once more smile upon earth, and help her, O!
                  God, to attain the peace and comfort which she so fairly deserves," and he watched
                  the gentle pulsation stealing over her pale forehead—color seemed to be returning.
                  "O! she lives, she lives! Fair lady, O! come to life again—happiness awaits you.
                  But breathe and live and you shall know no more trouble—no more cruel censures—no
                  more secret malice—no, no more cold suspicions shall molest your pathway. Arouse,
                  noble woman! Arouse, adventuress of the west! Dispel this darkened gloom—dispel
                  these impenetrable clouds, and behold the arm that will shield you, shield you
                  until you meet one more worthy. Harriet Lindsey, Mary Sparks, look up, see, you
                  are safe, you shall be comforted, if man can comfort!" and he saw tears glistening
                  in her dark-gray eyes, he saw her bosom heave. Again he dipped the handkerchief in
                  the river, he bathed her temples, and he saw bright colors stealing over her face.
                  He stooped his ear, he heard her whisper:
               "Is father near, or my mother?"
               "O! can it be," exclaimed Parker, "that she has lost her reason!" and again he
                  listened to her whispers, for she seemed wild.
               "Tell them I still believe that Nathan Simons lives; and that, live or die, my
                  heart is ever his. Tell them that though stars may fall, the moon and sun grow
                  dim, the very earth fall to pieces, here, and in eternity, my heart cannot change.
                  'Tis woman's pledge. Tell them that the gentle Yuba is less constant, nor shall my
                  prolonged existence ever break my vow; neither is there in mortal or spiritual
                  existence the power that can change my love. 'Twas my heart and hand I pledged on
                  Walnut Hills; and though the Queen City, upon which he and I looked with tearful
                  eyes when our pledge was sealed in heaven, sinks to rise no more, that pledge
                  never shall be broken!"
               Harriet's face brightened, she looked strangely upon Parker; he was upon his
                  knees, his hand pointed toward heaven, his eyes, those noble eyes, seemed riveted
                  to the skies, and strange feelings were manifested in that brow, that noble, lofty
                  brow; and more than mortal existence beamed in his unheard whispers, to be
                  recorded in the world above. He acted not like a gambler then. Large tear-drops
                  rolled down his manly cheeks—those full, manly cheeks; his heart beat hurriedly,
                  his lips—those slightly curled, firm lips, parted at every move of his silent,
                  full breast, and around his reverential form there seemed to be floating a scarce
                  perceptible electric fluid, that had power to unnerve the fair lady by his side.
                  He arose, dipped the handkerchief in the river, bathed her temples and her
                  forehead—the fair forehead on which he had so often placed his hand—that
                     hand had a strange touch—when she was so long suffering upon her little
                  low bed; he examined her pulse, he watched her eyes, he seemed not like the
                  'rigidly' religious old maid then.
               "Have courage, Miss Lindsey," said he, "you will soon recover. Strive hard to
                  dispel your troubles, a bright world is yet before you. Courage, Miss Lindsey, courage!
                  Happiness yet awaits you," and Harriet perceived a mildness in his voice—it seemed
                  like the voice of a Christian then—it contained a power sufficient to raise her
                  trembling form. "Would that all the world were gamblers such as thee!" Harriet
                  thought, but, turning her tearful eyes upon Parker, she asked:
               "What does all this mean, Mr. Parker—you are my friend, are you not?" Her voice
                  seemed more natural than before, and Parker smiled, and replied:
               "Certainly, I am your friend—your friend against anything that lives. Be not
                  afraid, nothing shall harm you while I have a drop of blood in my veins. Believe
                  me, I am your friend, and nothing shall disturb or annoy you. Be of good heart,
                  you shall soon be yourself again." Harriet was in a sitting posture, she looked
                  wildly around her, and asked:
               "Are they gone—did you drive them away?"
               "Drive who away, Miss Lindsey, who?"
               "I don't know," and the poor girl seemed as if lost.
               "Who, Miss Lindsey, who were they, and what did they to you?" and he placed his
                  hand upon her forehead. She looked strangely into his face, and replied:
               "They brought me here, and threatened to drown me, but I was saved by the old
                  maid."
               "O! no, Miss Lindsey; you surely are mistaken in the person, who saved you—I claim
                  that great honor, myself."
               "And are you not 'Squire Marshall, then?"
               "O, no, Miss Lindsey; I am your old friend, the gambler, and collector of foreign
                  taxes."
               "Parker! O! I remember! You shook the post-office clerk in California, I shall
                  never forget you, Simons," and a troubled smile played over her face, she was
                  deranged!
               "O! no, Miss Lindsey, Mary Sparks; my name is Parker, Parker. Simons is the person
                  to whom you were engaged to be married. A fine young fellow he was, from
                  Cincinnati."
               "Cincinnati! Cincinnati! Walnut Hills! O! I remember! I remember! 'twas there we
                  pledged eternal love!" and the faithful ful woman rose to her feet, her face
                  rested upon her heaving bosom, she leaned upon Parker.
               "It is all plain to my mind now, Mr. Parker. The truth has all flashed upon my
                  memory. Conduct me hastily from this unhallowed place. Conduct me where it seems
                  proper to you—you know better than I do. But do, do not let my reason escape me
                  again, guard me well," and she sobbed upon Parker's arm; they moved slowly away;
                  little Sporty followed.
               "Miss Lindsey, I think I had better restore you to your friend, your good friend,
                  Mrs. Case. in San Francisco. What say you?" In broken sobs she replied:
               "I should be happy."
               "Well then, let us continue up the river to the boat. You can remain on the boat
                  until I bring your boxes down. You can trust me, Miss Lindsey. Be of good courage,
                  and you shall soon be beside Mrs. Case."
               In a short time they were aboard the boat; and, after giving the captain orders to
                  keep an eye to Harriet, Parker started after her luggage. The boat was to leave in
                  a few minutes, and, without explaining anything upon the subject, Parker took her
                  boxes, hurried them on to the boat, and was soon at Harriet's side. In a few
                  minutes the boat was off, moving down the river, on her way to Sacramento.
               
               Shortly after Harriet had left Mrs. Marshall and the granite old maid, Parker had
                  called to see her; but, hearing that she had started away, he supposed her to be
                  in search of another stopping place, and, to assist her, he followed after. From
                  different inquiries he ascertained that she had been seen going toward the river;
                  and, following after, he perceived her at the moment she was spreading her shawl
                  for little Sporty. Fearing to rush upon her, lest she might leap into the river,
                  he stole cautiously among the willows, and just succeeded in reaching her as she
                  was about making her fatal leap!
               
               It was early next morning when they reached San Francisco. But few of those
                  bull-dog hotel keepers were out, and Parker and Harriet met but few annoyances. During the
                  journey, Harriet asked Parker to conceal her suicidal attempt, to conceal it
                  forever, to divulge it to no living mortal—never, never! and he faithfully
                  promised to comply with her wishes. Under such obligations Harriet felt but little
                  timidity in meeting her old friend. It was the same little house, the same door
                  where Harriet had sat on the evening previous to her departure for Marysville. She
                  knocked at the door, it opened, and the fat woman stood before them.
               "Why law me! if this don't beat! Harriet Lindsey!" and she seized the smiling girl
                  in her arms, she covered her delicate face with kisses, the good fat woman cried
                  with joy! She gave Parker a hearty welcome, and ushered them both into her little
                  parlor.
               Mrs. Case was a good woman, a fine woman, a pretty woman, a woman with as friendly
                  a smile, as warm a heart, as good a soul as ever lived; and, thus far, she had
                  made their introduction very happy. But what do you think followed? You couldn't
                  guess? Well! if she didn't run to her bed, and that too as soon as Harriet and
                  Parker were seated; she jerked down the clothes, she jerked out something; she ran
                  to Harriet, and she said, "See what I've got while you were away!" and behold!
                  there it was! a little swaddling baby!! the only serious fault that the good woman
                  ever committed—to introduce such a little thing as that was to Harriet and Parker!
                  The poor little baby was so young that it could scarcely see with its own eyes,
                  hear with its own ears, or eat with its own mouth. A little fat thing it was.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               ONE of those lovely autumnal suns of bright California, had just lowered behind
                  the great mountain to the westward of the little village, but its glorious
                  brightness still reflected its thousand beautiful tints upon the deep-yellow hills
                  to the eastward. The refreshing shade from the western mountains, spread over the
                  entire slope on which the village stands, and circled round to the base of the
                  mountains beyond the South Fork of the American river, rendering the broken-like
                  valley more pleasant than an English twilight. A vast assemblage of persons were
                  seated and standing, a little to the east of the village. They were about
                  two-thirds gamblers, and one-third miners and honest men. One of the men was
                  elevated upon a large pine stump. He was a moderately good-looking, well-dressed
                  young man. When he mounted the pine stump. the people shouted:
               "Three cheers for the Governor," and immediately went up such a noise, as would
                  have been a great novelty in that same place when, and where, gold was discovered,
                  nearly three years before. While this noise was being made, the gentleman on the
                  stump bowed politely, removed his hat, and prepared his throat. The noise ceased,
                  and the gentleman on the stump said:
               "Fellow citizens, gentlemen, I come not to make a glorious speech. I come not to
                  comment upon the splendor, riches, prosperity that await our young, growing State.
                  Neither have I come to dictate and control the affairs of our great Pacific coast.
                  No, gentlemen! I am here to execute your own wishes in regard to the protection of
                  our just rights. (Cheering.) Well, gentlemen, you are aware that two of our most
                  respectable fellow-citizens have been cruelly, willfully murdered by the Indians.
                  It is not, fellow-citizens, because these unfortunate gentlemen were
                     my particular friends and associates, that I am anxious that
                  active measures be taken to bring these savages to justice, but because we all
                  must have security and protection. (Loud cheering.) True, they were men whom we
                  should all be proud of—they were laboring for our great common good. They have
                  been cut off in the prime of life—they have been murdered! Warner, well known in
                  Sacramento for his indefatigable labors to elevate the principles of our nation,
                  and to extend the great American commonwealth, is deeply mourned by all who knew
                  him. Miller, whose very name strikes every one of us as the first of politicians,
                  the first as a writer and speaker, with which our glorious State has ever been
                  honored. Yes, gentlemen, these men were found, one of them dead, the other filled
                  with arrows so that he died—murdered by
                  the Indians! Well, then, shall we let all this pass without demanding Justice?
                  (No, no, NO!) Very well, gentlemen; I have had a petition forwarded
                  to me, asking a right to organize a company, in order to drive the savages further
                  back into the mountains. That petition has been signed by some of the first
                  citizens of Eldorado County."
               We must here state, that the term first citizen, does not mean the
                  oldest settler; for, almost universally, in California, in Oregon, and in every
                  other new settlement, not only in America, but in the British colonies, the first or earliest settlers always live agreeably with
                  the Indians. Upon this subject we pen our remarks without the slightest fear of
                  contradiction from any person who has ever investigated the facts. We know
                     them to be true. And it is almost always just such persons as Miller and
                  Warner who give rise to the Indian disturbances. In fact, wherever the Anglo-Saxon
                  settles, he is by far too apt to consider himself entitled to more privileges than
                  any other "breed of people." It is a weakness, a selfish, an unchristian spirit
                  that exists as much among the educated and enlightened, as among' the most
                  ignorant of our "breed." We use these plain words for the express purpose of not
                  being misunderstood. But to the Governor's speech, remembering that first citizen, means persons of wealth, notoriety, and stump-speaking
                  abilities.
               "In reply to that petition, I am now before you. In order to insure safety, it is
                  necessary that the Indians be driven further back in the mountains. To do this, I
                  have appointed a Colonel to proceed at the head of a sufficient body of militia,
                  and drive them from their deals. The young man appointed to that honorable office,
                  is well-known to you all, and acknowledged by you all, to be the best enforcer of
                  the law that we have—that person is Elias Parker. (Three cheers for Parker.) Mr.
                  Parker will open a list for enrolling names this evening, and upon your love of
                  liberty, your patriotism, your courage, I depend for volunteers." (Immense
                  cheering.)
               Here set up a confusion of voices, some asking what pay would be given to the
                  soldiers, some declaring that they wanted nothing, some laughing, and some
                  swearing, so that it was difficult to ascertain what was the public sentiment.
                  After a few minutes, they again quieted, and the speaker proceeded.
               "I am glad, gentlemen, that you have mentioned that subject, for I thought I had
                  finished my speech (great laughter). Well gentlemen, you shall all be paid. Uncle
                  Sam pays all his debts. And you shall be well paid; for we shall not accept low
                  wages. Californians don't do business for nothing. We shall place your pay at
                  least at one hundred dollars per month; and if the other States do not acknowledge
                  our bills, we will give them to understand that California is not under very many
                  obligations to them for their attention, anyhow. (Hear, hear, with one or two
                  voices crying shame, shame.) If we must defend our own rights, we shall have our
                  own profits; and if the other states don't like it, they can lump it. (Good,
                  Governor, give it to 'em—laughing and cheering.) Yes, gentlemen, volunteer to
                  defend your rights; rout the savages, and, depend upon it, you shall be well
                  paid." (Cheering and laughing.)
               The gentleman then descended from the said pine stump, and the meeting dispersed.
                  Two hours after the meeting above referred to, a greater one assembled about one
                  of the celebrated gambling saloons. Many of them were intoxicated, and nearly all
                  were in a jolly good humor, some talking politics, some commenting upon Parker's
                  ability as a commander, some lamenting over the loss of their esteemed Warner and
                  Miller, and, altogether, presenting a scene which was painful and disgusting. In
                  the next morning's paper appeared an article which read as follows:
               "At the meeting last night, the utmost order and civility was observed. One
                  hundred and forty of our first citizens enrolled their names beneath the 'banner
                  of honor,' to venture their lives among the savages. We were highly pleased to
                  learn that the noble Elias Parker, well known for his untiring services to the
                  State, and as being an intimate friend of the murdered Mr. Miller, has been
                  appointed to head these valiant soldiers; and if we were to find any fault with
                  the appointment, it would be that such an invaluable statesman should be placed in
                  such a hazardous position. We understand that about one-half of the soldiers will have horses, and that every one is
                  to be well furnished with bowie-knives, revolvers, rifles or muskets, and plenty
                  of ammunition. They are to leave at ten o'clock, and we hope they will make a
                  clean job of their work, and gain the renown they so justly deserve."
               Ten o'clock arrived, and, in broken file, the soldiers marched toward the
                  woods—accenting every step by furious oaths, or boasting what their fire-arms or
                  knives would soon do; many of them were intoxicated. But, as we shall have
                  occasion to speak a little of this affair after awhile, we must now dismiss them,
                  and imagine ourselves in Hamlin's Hotel, just after the Scotchmen, with Jimie and
                  Charley, left for Australia.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               IT was ten o'clock. The brother and sister were alone. In her hands was a letter,
                  it trembled a little. Her blacks eyes darted quickly along the lines, her face
                  crimsoned, then turned pale; her appearance was closely watched by her silent
                  brother.
               "Why, I saw this Harriet Lindsey on the Plains!" exclaimed the little black-eyed
                  woman, as her sympathizing face turned toward Simons. "O! I remember her very
                  well—very well! and she's in Marysville, too, with Mrs. Ellis."
               "And what would you recommend me to do, to go immediately to meet her, Julia?"
               "Most assuredly, Simons; you shouldn't lose a moment. O! she'll be so glad to see
                  you! But why didn't you come that way from the mines? I don't believe you love
                  her."
               "Julia!" said Simons. Julia's face colored a little.
               "But you should think how hard she has tried to find you!" and she looked
                  imploringly into Simons' face.
               "A boat leaves at eleven, Julia; I shall go. I shall reach Marysville during the
                  night."
               "O! I shall be so glad. Can she sing?"
               "No, Julia, she can not; but she plays well."
               "Plays what—plays with you?"
               "Don't jest, Julia; I fear all might not be right."
               "How's that? She won't have you? Don't you be afraid of that. Girls are as glad to
                  get married as men are. Will you bring her right down here and spend your
                  honeymoon at our house? O! delightful!"
               "Ah, Julia, you are not aware of the troubles and difficulties a woman has in this
                  country."
               "Ain't I, though? Washing and scrubbing, and burning my face—my pretty face, you
                  know—over that glimmering, greasy stove. O! dear, I wish the people would quit
                  eating so much of that greasy pork."
               "But these are not difficulties and troubles. Go and walk along the streets
                  unaccompanied by your husband—pass near these gambling saloons, and notice the
                  remarks of these gentleman gamblers as you pass—go where you will, not accompanied
                  by a gentleman, and you will soon see the position you will be ranked in;
                  difficulties that will be new to you."
               "But she will be in company with Mr. Ellis, when she walks out, and, you know,
                  nobody will dare say anything when he is present."
               "Perhaps so; but do you remember, on the Plains, about Mr. Ellis leaving you?"
               "Poor Nixon!" said Julia, and she walked to the window. But the time for his
                  departure soon arrived.
               "Remember, now," said Julia, to her brother, "I shall have a roasted duck ready.
                  You must come here to get married—I'll have a 'Squire waiting for you."
               "I hope so, Julia."
               "Why, really, I believe you are afraid to get married. It won't hurt you."
               "Julia, I don't like to hear you jest so. But I must go, good morning."
               "Good morning; now mind those pretty gray eyes, you know. Give my love to Mrs.
                  Ellis, and ask her how soon she expects to make her fortune," and Julia, laughed at her
                  brother as he moved toward the boat.
               "Come, now, Mr. Hamlin," said Julia, "it's quite late enough for us to shut up,
                  and you have not rested those short legs since morning. Come, I want to tell you
                  all about Simons' wife!"
               "I am not tired, Honey," said Hamlin, "but I suppose it's time to shut up; I can't
                  expect to make any more money to-day. But about Simons' wife, I don't see why you
                  should want to talk so much about her to me. I have one now that's quite
                  sufficient, I think. Halloo! what's this, Julia?" and Hamlin cast his eyes hastily
                  over a newspaper. "The Indians! why, Julia, dear, that gambler, Warner, has been
                  murdered by the Indians, and his friend, Mr. Miller, too, while on an
                  electioneering tour through Eldorado county. O! here, I must read this:
               "'Colonel Parker and his militia presented such a bold appearance that their first
                  day's march was unsuccessful, in consequence of frightening the Indians further
                  back into the mountains. This is to be very much regretted; and some of the papers
                  are already blaming the Colonel for not stealing upon them at night; for, in such
                  a proceeding, the greater number of the Indians might have been killed with far
                  less expense than it can now be done. The Colonel is marching toward the Silver
                  Fork, where some sharp work will soon follow. The Colonel's health was good. The
                  air in the mountains appeared to agree well with him.'"
               "Why, husband," said Julia, "isn't that Colonel Parker the same man who came into
                  our house so strangely last spring?"
               "I cannot say, but that, sounds like the same name. Parker, yes, Parker; that was
                  it. I do wish I could see that man. I am almost confident that I know
                  him. But I am not sorry that that contemptible Warner is dead—he deserved
                  shooting."
               "O! husband!"
               "Yes, he did; I'm sure he's been meddling with the Indians. These confounded
                  rascals are slipping round among the Indians, selling them coarse beads for their
                  weight in gold, or selling them beef for five dollars a pound, and the poor Indian
                  doesn't know the value of gold, and gives it without knowing any better. I'm sure
                  he's been playing some such tricks on 'em; there's plenty that does; and I expect
                  the Indians have retaliated."
               "Well, there now, shut the door, and let's go to bed, and then I'll have a chance
                  to tell you all about my new sister; come, dear."
               
               Day was breaking. Simons walked up to the little house of cow-stable appearance.
                  He rapped at the door, it opened, a wooden woman stood within; he asked her:
               "Is Mrs. Ellis present?" The proud lady stretched open her sunken eyes, smiled
                  with a dignified, idiotic air, and replied:
               "That's my name, sir; but you seem to have the advantage of me. Come in, and be
                  seated. Peggy! Peggy! get up, get up, it's daylight. I can never get my servant
                  girl up. It appears to me that that girl likes to indulge in the wickedness of the
                  natural heart. Folks ought to have been up an hour ago. Did you come up on the
                  boat?"
               Simons thought the house seemed to be turning somersets, and that somebody was
                  beating upon his breast—that breast had never beat so before, and he feared that
                  some serious disease had seized upon him—even his breathing became difficult, and
                  a disposition to swallow was perfectly ungovernable. He entered the house while
                  Mrs. Ellis was speaking; he seated himself, but continued to look anxiously about
                  the house, and attempted to answer Mrs. Ellis's question, and ask another.
               "Is there a young lady, Harriet Lindsey, living with you?" The wooden woman looked
                  electrified, or badly insulted, and anything but pleased.
               "No, sir, she isn't;" and she gazed with a political air toward Simons, who became
                  more calm, and asked again—
               "You know her, I suppose?"
               "I did," and the wooden woman moved not a muscle.
               "Did she not live here awhile? She wrote me a letter to that effect."
               "One night she did."
               "And where did she go from here?"
               "To Mrs. Marshall's."
               
               "And is she there yet?"
               "There yet!" and the political lady smiled with a "rigidly" religious
                  air; and continued, "No, thank goodness; they got rid of her, and she's gone where
                  she'll not injure anybody else's character. Just exactly as I predicted—the
                  wickedness of the natural heart, decidedly."
               Simons trembled and turned pale at the iron-hearted woman's remarks; but she
                  continued:
               "I told Mary Black about Harriet's character, or else, perhaps they wouldn't have
                  got her away in time; but she's done at last. I told her about the
                  wickedness of her natural heart, but she wouldn't listen to me at all; she
                  supposed she knew everything; but I hope God will forgive her. But may I ask who
                  you are, as you seem to feel interested in that strange girl?"
               "My name is Nathan Simons," but his fine voice faltered; his power was failing.
                  The "rigidly" religious lady's wooden heart was still unmoved, but her eagle-like
                  eyes grew big with astonishment to see that so fine looking a young man should be
                  making inquiries after such a "thing" as Harriet; and, at the mention of his name
                  her dried-up face seemed to shrivel with more contempt than ever.
               "Nathan Simons!" she repeated, and again became silent and dignified.
               "Yes, that's my name; but, if you please, will you give me what information you
                  can of this young lady, Harriet Lindsey?"
               "And are you not the young man she was engaged to, to be married?"
               "I am."
               "Well, I'm sorry to tell you that you made a bad choice, and, I suppose, you may
                  as well know it at first, as well as at last. The very moment she talked so much
                  about nature, and natural rights, and such things, without any regard to
                  Scripture, that very moment I knew that the wickedness of her natural heart was
                  leading her astray; but I hope God will forgive her. But suppose a person who
                  commits suicide can't be saved, and there isn't any doubt but she's floating
                  somewhere in the Yuba—I'm sorry for her parents."
               Simons turned paler than ever; he had never heard such cruel words, words that
                  communicated sadder news than he had ever known, words that seemed to be spoken
                  with spite and hatred toward one as dear to him as was his own soul. But the
                  long-faced woman continued:
               "I suppose you haven't heard of it before, you seem to be astonished to hear it! I
                  always thought she was a pretty good girl when I first knew her; so I sent an
                  invitation to her, to come up from San Francisco and live with me, for I knew that
                  she was a good girl to work, to give her due justice. So, up she comes; and she
                  brought a little dog, which I suppose you used to have, and over that little dog,
                  Sporty she called him, she doted more than ever I saw anybody before dote over
                  such a thing; but whether she doted over the dog because you once had him, or
                  whether it was because her mind ran after such nonsense, 'like birds of a feather
                  flocking together' or not, I don't know. But the very first night she staid with
                  me she slipped off somewhere, I don't know where, but she remained in her bed next
                  morning until almost dinner time, and she was very ashamed to come down; for when
                  she went out at night, she got to fighting, and got one eye blacked, com—"
               "O! hush!" exclaimed Simons, and he tried hard to believe the words spoken to him
                  were false; but the iron-hearted woman continued:
               "You shouldn't let it affect you, it's the natural heart: you should cultivate a
                  love in Christ. But you needn't to mind, she's gone now, drowned herself in the
                  Yuba! And, as I told Mary Black on the following Sunday, never did anything
                  surprise me so little as to hear of that thing jumping into the
                  river!"
               "O! my God! Mrs. Ellis, is this possible!" and Simons bowed his head to his
                  knees.
               "Certainly, it is. She wrote a few lines and pinned the paper to the willows, and
                  it was published in all the papers. But the wickedest feature in the condition of
                  her natural heart was, that she claimed
                  to die a virgin! and she was so long laying under the doctor's hands! Nonsense! I
                  don't know what possessed her!"
               "O! woman!" said Simons, "for God's sake tell me about her, but do not censure her
                  conduct. Leave me to be my own judge."
               "I'm sure I have been telling you, and I expect you could see the writing she
                  scribbled down, yet, if you'd go to some of the printing-offices. And I can assure
                  you that that's the end of her. The day before she drowned herself, she went to
                  'Sally's' and got to drinking and fighting, and she and one of the gamblers fell
                  down stairs and nearly broke their necks. People talk about Lynching, I think if
                  they'd go to work and hang the gamblers—every one of 'em—for I have my doubts
                  whether any of their number will be of the elect; and if they were away from among
                  us we might have some satisfaction."
               And while the wooden woman ran on after the above style, the overburdened young
                  man arose and departed, intending to further the awful investigation by applying
                  to more humane people. To do which, he now called upon Mrs. Marshall and the old
                  maid. But with these women he met a still less civil or sympathetic account; and,
                  nearly despairing that he should obtain a correct statement of the facts, he went
                  in search of the article said to have been written by Harriet. This little paper
                  was found in the possession of one of the printers, of whom Simons learned the
                  particulars of the place where she had been supposed to make her fatal leap. This
                  little paper though gave him an entirely new and more favorable impression of the
                  life she had lived, and of the difficulties that had driven her to the woeful
                  end.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               THE sun was setting. The brother and sister were seated in the dining-room, and
                  conversing upon the dreadful end that had befallen his intended bride. They were
                  aroused from their solemn emn reflections by the approach of some one, rapping
                  violently at the door. Mrs. Hamlin arose, opened the door, and was asked:
               "Is Mr. Hamlin present?" by a loud, bass voice in a tone of authority, which came
                  from among a heavy crop of black beard, the lower end of which rested on his full,
                  broad breast.
               The coarseness of his features, the harshness of his voice, and the boldness of
                  his address, told at once that he was a man of business, and after something of no
                  little importance. Mrs. Hamlin eyed him with some curiosity, and replied:
               "No, sir, he is not, but he will be here in about an hour after this. Perhaps I
                  can answer your wishes, sir?"
               "No, madam, I must see him on particular business. I will call in exactly one
                  hour," and the beardy man looked at his watch, turned upon his heel, said "good
                  evening," and hurried away, and was soon out of sight.
               "Simons, do you know that man?" Julia asked, returning to her heart-broken
                  brother's side.
               "No, Julia, nor can I imagine what he wishes to see Hamlin so particularly for.
                  Hamlin has no particular business with any one. Perhaps, to confirm some other sad
                  news, Julia?"
               "O! no, brother you should not think so. More likely it is some good news—perhaps
                  he is the man who has been speaking about purchasing this property? If so, we
                  shall soon be on our way to Cincinnati! Cincinnati! You shall have no more trouble
                  then brother. Four thousand dollars will purchase you a comfortable home there,
                  where you shall be surrounded by good company, happy and agreeable people."
               "Ah! Julia, Cincinnati has long been the locality of my private contemplations,
                  but now—now—now! Julia, there is no point whereon I can concentrate a single
                  thought with pleasure. I hear some one in the bar-room, Julia; I think Hamlin has
                  returned." Hamlin entered, and his wife asked, laughing:
               "Did you see a big, black beardy man hunting you—a fashionable sort of a fellow he
                  was?"
               "No, I did not, who was he?"
               "Goodness knows, I don't, nor I shouldn't think that any one person ever could get
                  acquainted with such a figure as he was."
               
               "Did he say what he wanted to see me for?"
               "No, but he had an armful of papers, and I supposed he was on some business or
                  other."
               "And he didn't say anything about his business?"
               "No, nothing; but he is to be here in an hour."
               "What kind of a looking man was he?"
               "Why, didn't I tell you, a coarse, beardy sort of grizzly-bear-looking,
                  middle-aged man."
               "Did he seem to be in a hurry?"
               "Very much, but why do you inquire so directly?"
               "Confound it," and Hamlin stamped his foot.
               "Why, husband, what's the matter—has anything serious happened?"
               "Nothing yet, dear, but something is likely to."
               "O! husband tell me what it is? O! here comes that man again," and in an
                  unceremonious manner the beardy man entered again, and took a seat.
               "Good-evening, Mr. Hamlin," said he, unfolding some of his papers, "I didn't
                  expect to come so soon, but I saw a man out here, who told me that you had just
                  returned. This is lovely weather, Mr. Hamlin, business rather dull though. Ah,
                  here it is, my papers are mussed a little. A little business with you, if you
                  please, Mr. Hamlin?"
               "Certainly," said Hamlin, evidently prepared for the surprise, "I am at your
                  service."
               Mrs. Hamlin, in breathless anxiety, was leaning on her husband's shoulders, while
                  Simons, sitting to one side, seemed as, if predicting the misfortune which was
                  brooding.
               "Well, sir," said the stranger, "I have been at great trouble and expense looking
                  this business up, much more than I expected. But, sir, do you know that this
                  property once belonged to Capt. Sutter, and that, through him, it has fallen to
                  one John Lake, and that your title is good for nothing?"
               "I heard such word about an hour ago."
               "Well, sir, it is true. When Capt. Sutter came here, he got a grant of this land
                  from the Spanish Government, and, according ingly, a title through him is the only
                  legal title upon this property."
               "But, was Capt. Sutter's title approved by the General Government?"
               "The validity of his title, sir, can only be tested by the U. S. Land
                  Commissioners, and they are not appointed yet, and probably will not be for a
                  twelve-month."
               "But how can you think of driving me off before the Commissioners arrive?"
               "Why, sir, Sutter's title is the best; in appearance, therefore, he is better
                  entitled to hold possession until the Commissioners arrive and settle the matter,
                  than you are."
               "But what is the reason that the Commissioners are not appointed at once?"
               "That, sir, is one of the misfortunes of a large territory under one government.
                  Little States like this, are sure to be neglected by the General Government."
               "Then it would have been better for me, individually, if California had been a
                  separate State."
               "Yes, sir, and for a thousand more. But, sir, I have no time to waste—I am
                  authorized to order you away from this property. You can have three days to
                  leave."
               "What! the whole of my property?"
               "Yes, sir, according to law, you are not entitled to anything."
               "Why, not to my house?"
               "No, sir, you had no right to build your house on other people's property; but,
                  the three days are given, in order to allow you to move your furniture."
               "But, suppose I refuse to go?"
               "Then you will be put out according to the law. You will be obliged to stand suit,
                  and if you lose, of course you will be obliged to pay all the expenses."
               "Well, then, I'll stand suit."
               "Very well, sir, just as you like. Then, here is your summons," and be placed a
                  slip of paper into Hamlin's hands.
               "Then you were expecting me to stand suit?" and Hamlin cast his eyes on the paper.
                  "Halloo! what's this? Sue me for
                  unlawful possession and detention of landed property before a
                     common magistrate! Why, how can that be?"
               "Well, sir, it is twisting the matter a little, to be sure, but it is the best we
                  can do in a new place like this."
               "But, sir, consider what a temptation it is to 'Squire McNab, who already owns so
                  much property under Sutter's title! How can he be expected to decide a case of
                  this kind so as to dispossess himself? Why, it is the most outrageous affair I
                  have ever heard of! Such a 'Squire cannot be expected to do justice."
               "Well, sir," said the beardy man, rising, "there it is, you are commanded to
                  appear before 'Squire McNab, and defend your title. If you can prove its validity,
                  the property is yours; if you can not, the property is John Lake's. But, I must
                  go, good-night, sir," and straight away walked the beardy man.
               "Now, you know why I inquired so particularly after that man," said Hamlin to his
                  wife.
               "But you don't think we shall lose our property, do you, husband?" and the little
                  woman was nearly bursting into tears.
               "I can not tell yet, Julia; but I have heard of more than a dozen families being
                  turned out during the day."
               "O! husband!"
               "Yes, Julia, dear, poverty again threatens us. But I must search after Sutter's
                  title. Perhaps there's a flaw somewhere. I tell you, I must go and see lawyer
                  Hargrave to-night; no, I'll go now," and away went Mr. Hamlin in search of
                  advice.
               "Ah! Julia, sister, just as I expected. The cold, stern hand of unseen misfortune
                  again waves in unfeeling hideousness before the dreary future; and all our little
                  hopes are prostrated by the threatening aspect of renewed disappointment, by the
                  approach of the common enemy of all men—poverty, poverty, poverty!" and Simons
                  bowed his face to his knees.
               "Simons, brother, do not despair so soon! Success attends the just and the brave.
                  I still feel confident we shall hold our property. Surely, nobody would be so
                  hard-hearted as to take it away from us—it's ours?"
               "Trust nothing, Julia. There is not a person in all the world that can be trusted.
                  Nobody has any regard for anybody else. No, Julia, it's all up with us, we're
                  ruined! I shall never try any more, never!"
               "O! brother do not despair so. Remember that your troubles prevent you from
                  viewing things in a favorable light."
               "Julia, have I not tried faithfully for several years? and have I not already, too
                  long cherished the hopes which have brought me this trouble?"
               "O! Simons, do not despair. Some unforeseen fortune always follows our darkest
                  days. If we lose our property, I shall only feel the more convinced that a still
                  brighter fortune will again smile upon us. Like the rise and fall of nations, each
                  fall places the next rise upon a more exalted standing."
               "Why, Julia," and Simons looked into her face with surprise, "I never heard you
                  speak so philosophic as now; why is this?"
               "Brother, 'tis the office of woman to encourage men to bear trouble. But you, but
                  you—ah! you've driven away my philosophic powers, I can't think what I was going
                  to tell you," and laughing, she added, "but don't despair until after I get
                  supper, and, I'll cure you. It's growing late," and away went Julia, leaving
                  Simons alone. His eyes turned upon her as she hurried toward the kitchen, and he
                  muttered to himself:
               "Ah! woman, you only make me feel more intensely the great loss that has befallen
                  me. The charm of woman's voice has been withheld from me nearly all my life; and
                  now, the great future seems to be devoid of it, and I am to be my own sympathizer,
                  encourager, and everything else, as during the past, until I am numbered among the
                  unknown! Ah! why should I wish to live, to struggle, to labor and contend against
                  misfortune any longer? all to meet an unmourned death. Blessed, indeed, are they
                  who have woman's kindest attention, sympathy, love! Well, poverty again, poverty,
                  poverty, the common enemy of man—poverty, poverty! I will go into the sitting-room
                  and seek diversion," and he arose and entered. Here, were a fine lot of men,
                  indeed. It was growing late in the evening, and some transient people, were
                  waiting for supper. Some of them were miners, some merchants, doctors, lawyers,
                  and a host of gentlemen-gamblers. A few
                  were sitting by one window, a few by the doors, and some in the middle of the
                  room, and nearly every one occupied two chairs—one for the feet, and one for the
                  purpose of sitting upon. In this official-looking position, some were reading
                  papers or using them for fanning purposes; some were leaning upon each other in
                  that ever-peculiar, American fashionable familiarity, and conversing quietly upon
                  something, known best to themselves; but a decidedly greater number were engaged
                  upon a spirited and important public discussion of land titles, occasioned by the
                  aforesaid visit of the beardy man to Hamlin, to warn him to leave his own
                  property. A single glance among these disputants, struck one with surprise, to see
                  that the gamblers and government officials all vindicated Sutter's title so
                  strongly—a peculiarity that never has been explained—and at mysterious kind of
                  sympathy which looked, in Southern language, "mighty suspicious." But we do not
                  intend to be personal at all, we might insult some of those official gamblers,
                  only we wish to represent the facts, and the facts we will represent. One of the
                  forms that the question assumed was, that according to the regulations of our
                  general government, one man could not be the legal owner, of so much wild land,
                  and that, there was Captain Sutter, said to be the owner of several leagues, three
                  of which were in that vicinity.
               Some argued that the United States would not allow him to own more than half a
                  section, unless he had it under improvement. They did not believe the government
                  ever would grant such a monopoly to one man—it was contrary to anything they ever
                  had done. But the other side argued that Captain Sutter had bought the land in
                  good faith, and that the government would sustain him. They thought no government
                  ought to violate an individual contract. To this, the others replied that, even if
                  Captain Sutter had bought it in good faith, it did not entitle him to actual
                  ownership. If the Spanish or Mexican government had given the whole of California
                  to Captain Sutter, would he have been the legal owner of California?
               "Yes," said the others, "he would have been the only legal owner."
               But they answered this argument, by supposing Captain Sutter refusing to sell any
                  of the land of California, or, of his forbidding anybody to settle in the country!
                  Then, under such consideration, he would be the monarch of California, annexed and
                  protected by a Republican government!
               They could see no difference between such a landed owner and the Emperor of
                  Russia—if one was the legal owner, the other was equally so—and if the title of
                  the Emperor of Russia was granted by some one who had no right to grant so much
                  territory to one man, they could, just as well, object to the right of the Mexican
                  or Spanish governments granting such an immense tract to Captain Sutter.
               However, the others contended that, as Captain Sutter had paid his money, he ought
                  in justice to have it—they considered that anything a man paid his money for, was
                  his.
               The others said that such an argument was real British, and that, if it contained
                  any evidence, it would uphold the right of buying and selling anything, even of
                  men selling each other. The British argue that if a man buys fifty
                  miles of country he is the rightful owner! Just as though buying it
                  covered the sin of sterling it away from the poor! Just as though, by paying the
                  Crown a certain sum of money, they had a right to thwart the wishes of the
                  Creator, by driving poor people away from the country!
               But the other side could not see why the land did not belong to Captain Sutter
                  just as well as if the grant had contained only half a section—a grant was a
                  grant, be it little or much.
               The others objected to the right to grant more land to one man than
                  he could improve. Such grants as comprised a greater quantity were opposed to the
                  general principles of Republicanism; and, if Republicans attempted to copy their
                  administration after natural rights, they were bounds to advocate an
                  equal distribution of wild land among their citizens.
               The other side still clung to the fact of Captain Sutter having paid his money in
                  good faith; and also, that when the country was annexed our government had
                  promised that such grants should be respected; and they did not want to see such a
                     promise invalidated, neither to see
                  such a good man as Captain Sutter ruined.
               The answer was, that the purchase of the land in good faith, was no argument at
                  all, or else it would cover the right to hold men as property, just as well as
                  land. As to ruining Captain Sutter, they did not advocate that, but if anybody was
                  to be ruined, it certainly was advisable to ruin Captain Sutter, rather than the
                     thousand men whom he was depriving of land.
               But if the government had promised to maintain such grants as were made by the
                  Spanish or Mexican governments, it only proved how little the American people knew
                  of the country they had annexed. They often thought about these difficult
                  questions, some time or other, causing a State to secede. They were satisfied that
                  if such countries, or islands as were proposed to be annexed, should ever be, that
                  these very troubles would soon cause them to be separated.
               But the other side did not care about that—they would rather, now, that California
                  was a separate State, controlling all her own affairs. The Atlantic States had not
                  showed them very much affinity anyhow—they looked upon California as a good place
                  to get gold; but they hadn't time to legislate for her. It would be their happiest
                  moments, to see California take a decided stand, and declare herself a separate
                  government.
               Here, another party set up:—they looked upon the union of States as sacred—they
                  considered that no State had a right to secede. They thought that any man who
                  advocated a secession was a dangerous citizen.
               But the others said that it was a 'free country,' and that a man had a right to
                  advocate anything he wished. They thought that any man who talked so much about
                  the sacredness of the Union was the last man to remove the present evils that
                  exist in our legislation. Neither did they care; people might call them what they
                  chose, but, with all their preaching so much about its sacredness, they could not
                  prevent Americans from advocating secession, unless they remove some of the
                  grievances under which we live, grievances which are already dividing our nation,
                  grievances which cannot be maintained by a whole nation of warriors, while an eye
                  of justice, demanding natural rights, looks down from above.
               Nights passed away, days slipped by; the mighty wings of threatening ruin cast
                  their long, dreary shadows over the peaceful family, and rested their future
                  prospects upon the result of the present day. Simons, ruined so often, began to
                  look upon the glowing promises of his former hopes as deep laid plots to plunder
                  the prime of life, by secreting the sad realities of actual experience.
               The glowing visions of other days were turned to ridicule and shame; and even the
                  lowest wishes were cheered no longer by the meanderings of hope, but hissed from
                  every side, like a culprit running the gauntlet, scored at every advance, and
                  tripped at every halt, until ambition, to try again, comes from the galling lash
                  of the unfortunate present.
               But Hamlin, ever ambitious and enthusiastic; ever a good husband, industrious man,
                  jovial neighbor, with a human heart, surrounded by many warm friends, now
                  experienced the dejected mood, of which he was always before ignorant.
               In thoughtful sadness, his eyes rested at his feet, his bushy head reclining, his
                  brows knit, lips compressed—devising means to retain his hard-earned property. But
                  his wife, a happy woman, formerly whispering of the bright future, or gayly
                  singing, now sat melancholy and sad. Her heavy waves of black hair hung in
                  mournful folds down her troubled face, her black eyes were turned to the open
                  window, but at every throb of her aching heart, tears rolled down her rounded
                  cheeks, but left her troubles still. She remembered the often repeated cheers with
                  which she had encouraged the companion of her heart; but now, how could she plead
                  again while scarcely a ray of hope promised succor.
               After the excitement about titles commenced, every day dispensed with a number of
                  suits, and nearly, if not quite all, were decided in favor of Sutter. The
                  magistrates, as might be expected, were large landed proprietors under that title;
                  and, however proper it would have been to try such cases before such a court, but little else could be
                  expected, where such an interest was at stake; but even if the magistrates had
                  owned no land, what an imbecility of the general government not to have sent out
                  the Commissioners of land titles to have settled these affairs, before such little
                  courts assumed the responsibility—a decision which might be changed afterward.
               But that was not all. The decisions of these little courts were believed to be
                  guided by a secret plot among the gamblers; and good citizens did not feel like
                  yielding to such decisions; but were devising schemes, to be protected from what
                  looked like a system of robbery cloaked under the color of law.
               Sutter's title seemed to have no evidence of validity; and persons desirous of
                  homes, settled upon the city grounds without paying anything for it, believing it
                  to belong to the government. But the other party wished to drive them, away,
                  though they gave them no evidence of title; and in this, though they existed in
                  office, they were as much the violators of justice, as were the others for trying
                  to maintain the ground. Nevertheless, serious times were approaching. Guns and
                  pistols were rapidly rising in value; and secret meetings were often convened. But
                  the steam was not up long, when, true to the American fashion, lo! "it burst the
                  boiler."
               In this sad affair, which is familiar to everybody, several good citizens, and the
                  mayor of the city among their number, went to their eternal home! where,
                  doubtless, their souls are still heaping curses upon the dilatory conduct of Uncle
                  Sam.
               We must beg some indulgence here, for we were among the unfortunate losers of
                  property upon that occasion, and we have not yet forgotten it.
               
               Time rolled on. The day for Hamlin to have his right to his hard-earned property
                  tested, arrived. The day was one of those sunny, calm, lovely ones of which
                  California summers are generally composed. The dizzy tops of the great Sierra
                  Nevadas were sending down soft, cool breezes, at frequent intervals, to refresh
                  one after the languid strokes of the glimmering heat, and hurrying through the
                  tall sycamores, waving their beautiful green leaves in the most inviting
                  loveliness, and adding a charm to the young city, which impressed the resident
                  with emotions never to be forgotten.
               Carts and carriages, buggies and wagons were whirling through the streets; but the
                  sidewalks were covered, crowded with people of all the nations of the earth,
                  speaking in all languages, dressed in every fashion—from the big-collared,
                  peak-tailed blue, to the wide-trowsered Chinaman—from the coarsest wide-awake to
                  the finest beaver—from the Bloomer to the skirt that swept the dust—from the
                  finest silk to the modest woolen blanket—ladies of fashion and ladies of Indian
                  blood, all, all were moving—each intent upon different objects. Ah! how little
                  they knew of the affairs of each other. How seldom they compared their own hopes
                  or troubles with those who surrounded them.
               But let us turn a little to one side of the great, noisy throng, and behold the
                  large mob about the office of Squire McNab. Here, as on the sidewalks, we perceive
                  all sorts of people, but moving about with more excitement, and seeming to be
                  expecting some dreadful collision; some are leaning their heads close upon each
                  other, as if counseling upon some desperate scheme; but coming closer, we perceive
                  squires, lawyers, doctors, and the first men of the city, with pistols and
                  bowie-knives lashed upon their belts, or thrust carelessly in their bosoms.
               Such, was the exterior of the body of men, who were waiting to hear the result of
                  Hamlin's suit; but on closer examination, their faces all seemed strange with
                  these lawful weapons about their persons. Cool indifference, combined
                  with unflinching terror, showed at once that it was the defensive side of
                  questions which was the most likely to bring their dangerous weapons into play;
                  but, beside this, there was a look which indicated that they did not consider but
                  what the place where they were living, was the safest and best-governed part of
                  the globe, a look which seemed to say, that it was perfectly right and natural to
                  carry pistols, and bowie-knives to guard oneself from his neighbor—a look that
                  seemed ignorant of the fact, that such weapons would be unnecessary in many other
                  countries.
               
               To an American, such a body of men presented no unusual appearance; but how vastly
                  different they seemed to the people from foreign lands. With what trembling limbs
                  they walked about our republican representatives, and made the sad contrast
                  between the land of their adoption and their native homes! With what gaping eyes
                  they viewed the, citizens of our "free land," keeping at a safe distance, becoming
                  more frightened the more they gazed! With what exceeding wonder they beheld such
                  an armed body about a civil court; but, smiling at such a ferocious people
                  boasting about extending their civilized liberty at the price of blood, they
                  walked coolly away, confirmed and sickened with disgust. But money, and not their
                  love for the institutions, bound them to try our land. Of course it was all right,
                  quite right; it was a pretty scene. Such were the outside spectators; but in
                  Squire McNab's office was one of strikingly similar appearance, though of less
                  dimensions.
               This office, or court-room, seemed to be some man's contracted notion of making a
                  public place have the appearance of private, by contracting its size into
                  nonsensical littleness, and choking the poor inmates with heat and darkness.
               Behind the low wooden railing sat the Squire—a man of moderate size, but extremely
                  boyish in appearance. From the soft-looking "furze" which began to appear on
                  different parts of his face, be might have passed for twenty—-no older—but the
                  manner in which his greased hair was sleeked down his thin lantern jaws, he would,
                  in general, have been taken for an overgrown boy. His dress was of excellent
                  blacks; and, had not an immense breastpin and a few huge finger-rings accompanied
                  his dress, he would have presented an appearance closely resembling some rich
                  man's son who had been somewhat used to good society; but in his bold attempt at
                  jewelry, any observer could see, in an instant, that he was decidedly of different
                  caste, and probably a man—or boy, rather—who had made a fortune within a few
                  months past. His usual mode of sitting was by elevating his feet, and making
                  himself into a half circle, resting upon his back, with a cigar in his mouth, and
                  his books at one side, his face grinning as though he had detected a blunder in
                  somebody's conversation, and was expecting to meet the approval of some friend. In
                  this condition he sat to hear the present suit. Close by him sat the lawyers, pro
                  and con; but as they were men of excellent appearance and moderate pretensions,
                  living by their talents, we will not comment upon their quiet, gentlemanly
                  behavior.
               On one side sat Mr. Lake, complainant. The appearance of this gentleman at once
                  decided him to be one of the first gamblers in the city. In positive coolness, his
                  lips pouting beneath his heavy moustaches, just as though the cigar had been
                  withdrawn when he was meditating too seriously to think of closing them, or as if
                  he could yet, see the volumes of smoke still pouring out; but in absent glare his
                  eyes indicated an old hand at chance games; and when they turned in their sockets,
                  a wink at some bystander showed that some understanding existed between him and
                  the Squire.
               On the other side sat Mr. Hamlin, his wife, and Simons, all in the dress of
                  business people. True enough, they presented a very humble appearance compared to
                  the others; it was prima facie evidence that
                  they were not likely to be shown many favors when judgment was to be given. Beside
                  these, the little court-room was crowded with anxious spectators, the greater
                  number of whom were exceedingly well dressed; and had not nearly every one been
                  accompanied with bowie-knives and revolvers, they might have passed for people
                  from some of the Christian nations: but as they were, with cruel, heathenish
                  features, thirsting for blood, with a total disregard for human life, we can only
                  compare them to some unenlightened tyrant enforcing certain religious creeds and
                  certain forms of government by the sword, declaring they are the most liberal and
                  free on earth. It is true, an American can look upon these and declare that there
                  stands a body of men who neither lie nor steal. He may turn in just hatred from
                  the person who doubts the words of an American; but how can he pray for the
                  extension of territory, without acknowledging that such an extension would be
                  endangering the lives of some of his fellow-mortals? Does the American ever take a
                  peep into other countries to see if, in a civil court, the common people are
                  required to carry such weapons for self-defense defense? Does he, who is acknowledged to have more
                  esteem and regard for woman than any other man living, ever think about women
                  going into the presence of men who carry such weapons? Can he, with Christian
                  humility, put on a long face and pray for the annexation of territory for such
                  purposes as these—to gamble and kill at pleasure? Has our Christian republic laid
                  aside all religious and conscientious scruples for the sake of national
                  wealth—national glory? Ah! will there not some indignant hatred burn in the bosoms
                  of some, when they see this little curb to their unholy desires? Perhaps they will
                  muse a little, then declare that foreign capital controls this pen. But let every
                  man remember that, beside freedom and liberty, protection to life and
                     property should also be one of the most prominent features of every
                  government, and that, unless such a principle accompanies the new settlement
                  (which it never does), no honest man can wish to see such harbor incidentally
                  made.
               The court was not long in arranging business for the suit, for in that fast
                  country preliminaries generally found but little favor; but the main subject was
                  approached with a spirited determination to see the end as soon as possible.
               The evidence, for and against, which failed to prove either title, and really
                  amounted to no evidence at all, unless it was that a few speculators had
                  endeavored to "bend Captain Sutter's grant," so as to make a fortune, by seizing
                  other people's property, was all soon disposed of, and the pleading commenced.
               The defendant tried hard to show that such a suit could not come before such a
                  court; but to this the magistrate declared he knew the law, and that he was
                  determined to "stick to it, too." Such remarks generally brought forth a laugh,
                  which diverted many of the gamblers with the Squire's conceit at wit.
               During the plea made by the complainant, a title granted to Sutter, about thirty
                  miles above Sacramento, was clearly proved to be the title to the ground in
                  question! and upon this grant he rested his proof to ownership. The defendant then
                  tried to prove that a grant made to a piece of ground thirty miles above the city,
                  a piece of ground. too, only three leagues in extent, could not possibly reach
                  thirty miles, which it would be required to do, in order to cover the ground in
                  question. Before he had finished his plea, the young Squire called him to order,
                  and declared the suit in favor of Lake!
               Such a hasty, outrageous decision called out loud peals of laughter, which were
                  directed in ridicule and mirth, derision and rejoicing, upon the unfortunate,
                  injured Hamlin, his wife, and Simons. The court-room became mirthful, and, amid
                  loud talking and laughing, they all hurried off to a gambling saloon, where Mr.
                  Lake agreed to "stand treat," considering that he had "made an excellent
                  haul."
               Hamlin and Simons had been somewhat prepared for the defeat, by having heard of so
                  many of their neighbors being driven off before by the same course of law.
               Slowly and sadly indeed did they walk back to their valuable property, which had
                  now fallen into the possession of a band of gamblers by one of the most outrageous
                  schemes ever perpetrated among a Christian people.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               "SEE here, Harriet," said Mrs. Case one day taking a newspaper and intercepting
                  Harriet's needlework, "news from the Indian disturbances. Read it, something there
                  about Parker."
               "Mrs. Case," said Harriet, seriously, "you don't know how strangely your remarks
                  affect me. If you knew my obligations to Mr. Parker, and my anxiety to think of
                  him only as an invaluable friend, you would not allude to him in that manner. I
                  cannot tell you all—"
               "All what, dear?" and the fat woman placed her finger beneath Harriet's chin and
                  laughed.
               "Let me see the paper," said Harriet, and she took it and read, "The Indians are
                  still dangerous, and seeking after opportunities to murder the miners; but, as
                  yet, they have not murdered any since the death of our Statesmen, Warner and
                     Miller. Colonel Parker is still
                  pursuing them up to the South Fork; but they have not destroyed but a small number
                  of the savages since our last; and, of the Indians killed, it is to be lamented
                  they were nearly all squaws or children, or some who were too sick to run into the
                  mountains. They have now driven them about thirty miles further into the
                  mountains; and, as they will not come to battle, the Colonel declares his
                  intention to drive them to the summit, where they will be obliged to come to terms
                  or starve. The Colonel is a man of his word, and in possession of a sufficient
                  degree of courage and patriotism to execute his laudable determinations. His
                  health still continues good, and, through his kind attention to his soldiers, they
                  are all in excellent health; and, so firmly are they attached to their noble
                  commander, they would wade through rivers of Indian blood to follow him. The
                  statement in the Eldorado News, since in the Placer Times, and in The News of the
                  Week, in reference to Parker's declining to run for Senator, is not true; but it
                  is, probable that he will yet decline. In a letter to his esteemed friend, Squire
                  McNab, he says, 'Yours of the 17th inst. was duly received, and I should have
                  replied ere this, but my duties in the camp, together with the inconveniences of
                  expressing my own sentiments when obliged to write upon my knee, have caused me,
                  to defer it thus long; and even now I am unable to answer your many questions in
                  reference to the Pacific railway, and to the annexation of the Sandwich Islands.
                  Let these difficult questions suffice for the present, for the only promises that
                  I can now make, that is, should I consent to run for that very honorable office,
                  are, that the interests of California would be my particular study and heartfelt
                  desire; but, further than that, I can not make any promises which might cause me
                  hereafter to commit myself before the public. But as I have a great anxiety to
                  return to the Atlantic States, it would be my pleasure not to harass my mind
                  further with the affairs of State, believing, as I do, that there are many more
                  competent men than myself who would be anxious to get the office. Yours, etc.'
                  From this it seems that he has not yet declined, and that there is still a
                  probability of him coming before the public, where, doubtless his availability
                  would award him the honor he so justly merits. It is to be hoped that he will not
                  decline."
               Harriet dropped the paper and waited for Mrs. Case to reply.
               "Didn't I tell you there was some good news about Mr. Parker."
               "Do you call that good news, Mrs. Case?"
               "Why, law me! did I ever hear such a question! Good news! How do you think I
                  should feel if my John should be talked of for Senator? I do believe I shouldn't
                  sleep a wink for a month!"
               "But did you observe what the remarks were about the Indians 'killing squaws, and
                  little children, and sick ones, who were too weak to run into the mountains?'"
               "But they are going to murder the miners. He's obliged to do it for safety, you
                  know."
               "I don't know, Mrs. Case," and Harriet again took up her sewing, and watched her
                  stitching.
               "Only think of it—Senator!" and Mrs. Case burst into a fit of laughter.
               "Mrs. Case," said, Harriet, and her feelings beamed in her fair face, "forbear,
                  for my sake, do not speak to me of Parker in this manner. If there were no others
                  living, still I could not marry that man. I have promised another, and, if he is
                  not living, I shall die single."
               "Why, law me! just as if the girls had all been taught in one school; every one
                  talks and thinks their love must always go according to promise. Why, law! When I
                  was twelve years old I was engaged to nearly all the boys in our school; but you
                  wouldn't think, for all that I'm a pretty good old woman, for you know mothers
                  never can be considered young women; but what I was going to say was, that I broke
                  all my engagements, every one, and finally got married to my John, whom I never
                  knew a few months before in my life. But, to tell the truth, I was getting old;
                  twenty-six, you know, is next thing to being an old maid; well, I couldn't bear
                  the idea, so I just made up my mind that I would try the first man that offered to
                  marry me, for I was always persuaded that a man must love a woman some for to have the face to ask her to
                  marry him. Well, I don't believe if I'd a hunted all the world over that I could
                  have got another such a man as John is; and all I'm sorry for is, that I didn't
                  find him five or six years sooner."
               "You have been more fortunate than some others; Mrs. Ellis, for instance, says she
                  would never marry, if she had her life to live over."
               "But I expect Mrs. Ellis don't try to love, so she doesn't know the satisfaction
                  of having a loving husband, like I do."
               "Perhaps she can't love her husband."
               "Why, laws! how strange you talk. Why I could make up my mind to love anything, if
                  I'd try. Folks don't allow themselves to love as much as their own inclinations
                  want to; that's the reason they don't love one another as much as they ought. No,
                  I'm sure if a woman will try, she can love almost anybody."
               "Ah! Mrs. Case, these are the great differences in the happiness of people in this
                  world. Persons who are fortunate in marrying, and who meet with a partner whom
                  they can really love, and who really loves them, are apt to consider that this is
                  a world of love. They seem to become blind to the troubles and griefs, the
                  darkness and despondency with which unfortunate people are overburdened. But, on
                  the contrary, those who fail to make good matches become blind and unsusceptible
                  to the joys and happiness of life. The whole world seems darkened and sad, and
                  even the happiness of others is envied and hated; and the unfortunate person loses
                  ambition to storm the difficulties that befall her struggles, and ceases to wish
                  for happiness; permits sorrow and dejection to rise, and even indulges pleasure in
                  contemplating an early death."
               "Why, law me! do you believe anybody ever has so much trouble as all that?" and
                  she fixed her eyes in astonishment upon Harriet, who seemed closely bent over her
                  work.
               "That can only be known to those who have experienced it. The organization of
                  every person is nearly the same; and what now seems impossible for you to wish
                  for, might easily become the most powerful of your mental anxieties. The persons
                  who look upon the different manifestations of the mind as being the result of
                  organization alone, have had but little experience, or witnessed but few of the
                  great changes that can be wrought upon themselves by being placed in different
                  circumstances. There is some one calling you at the door, I think; I thought I
                  heard a voice."
               Mrs. Case arose, but in a moment she was met by "her John," who had just returned
                  from an express tour through the upper country. No meeting was more familiar and
                  happy than that of this husband and wife; the latter, however, had a very womanish
                  fashion of sticking her little baby up into his face, and telling him a great many
                  trifling things about how the little thing grew, etc., etc., which, of course, a
                  young man of our experience cannot be expected to relate half so correctly as some
                  of our sweet readers could; therefore, while we have Mrs. Case and "her John"
                  pulling at the baby's little feet, and trying a thousand maneuvers to produce a
                  few smiles with its wide-open mouth and fat cheeks; while all this is going on,
                  imagine Harriet, who had shaken hands heartily with John, and again seated
                  herself, asking him as many questions as though he was also her husband; and while
                  she pressed her questions after that fashion, and received broken answers, imagine
                  her to startle a little; as though she heard a faint whisper from John's lips into
                  his wife's ear. So it was. Harriet heard that whisper, and it caused her whole
                  person to tremble as an aspen, but she tried to conceal her agitation and continue
                  with her sewing. She had long thought that Simons was no longer living, but she
                  now heard an indistinct whisper that nearly palsied her faint hope. Then Harriet
                  felt a death-like paleness stealing over her face, but her heart commenced to
                  flutter as in former days. She listened! Mr. Case and his wife walked into another
                  room, but as they left, Harriet looked after them; her hands fell into her lap,
                  her sewing rolled heedlessly to the floor, and she solemnly exclaimed: "O!
                  heavens, have my ears deceived me! Did he not whisper that Nathan Simons yet
                  lives—lives in Sacramento? I have a right to know, and I will know," and she
                  started after Mr. Case.
               Now, when Mr. Case and his lady entered another room, he had taken a paper from his pocket, and was
                  directing his wife's attention to an article in reference to Hamlin and Simons'
                  ejectment from their property in Sacramento. He had discovered that Simons was
                  still living; but he feared to make the communication direct to Harriet, and he
                  chose his wife as the instrument to do it. But, just as he had his wife's
                  attention directed to the name in the newspaper, in came Harriet, exclaiming:
               "O! for heaven's sake, tell me, tell me, does he live? Did I not hear the whisper
                  in which you pronounced his name and life? O! say, say, keep me in suspense no
                  longer!" and her eyes caught a glimpse of the article in the newspaper, just as
                  Mr. Case said, "Yes, my dear girl, Nathan Simons is yet living!" Harriet seized
                  the paper, pressed it to her heart, and exclaimed: "Thank heavens, he is yet
                  living! he is living! he is living! and I am happy!"
               Harriet now resolved to proceed direct to Sacramento to meet Simons; but after a
                  little consideration, she concluded that she had better send him word that she was
                  coming, for she yet supposed Simons was not aware of her being in the country.
                  Here, again, we must return to Simons, promising to give Harriet a call as soon as
                  she makes a move.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               MUCH time had now elapsed, and Hamlin and Simons were somewhat put to their wits
                  to know what to attempt next. They were in possession of a few hundred dollars
                  only, and the idea of making any further exertion to acquire a fortune, seemed
                  quite as ridiculous as to think of returning to the Atlantic States without one.
                  This was late in the dry season, and to make an attempt at the mines, seemed not
                  to be a very wise undertaking; and yet they had not sufficient capital to enter
                  into any business of importance in the city. Simons was heartily tired of the
                  country, and began to think of returning to his old trade in Cincinnati, and
                  through his influence, Hamlin and wife were convinced that there were as good
                  opportunities for a fortune in the other States, as in California. Accordingly,
                  after a few days' deliberation, they all concluded to leave the country. Hamlin
                  settled up his small accounts; his wife visited her only lady-friend, for at that
                  time there were very few ladies in Sacramento, and separated, to meet the next
                  time in some of the other States. This was in the evening, for on the following
                  morning, this lady friend was going into the country, to spend a few weeks with
                  some connections, and could not return soon enough to see Hamlin start, which was
                  to take place on the following afternoon.
               While sitting about Hamlin's hotel late in the evening, conversing upon their
                  departure, a rough-looking middle-aged man was observed to walk into the
                  sitting-room, take a chair, and seat himself close to the window. He was quite
                  fleshy, and seemed to experience the burden of warm weather upon his system. His
                  beard covered his face and rested upon his still more beardy bosom, but its
                  darkness gave an excellent color to his deep-red face. His eyes were dark and
                  small, and seemed to be watching every person in the house, turning stealthily
                  from one to another; and, as Mrs. Hamlin arose to enter the kitchen, his eyes bent
                  upon her as if trying to call the past to memory, then immediately relaxed, as if
                  disappointed. His dress pronounced him at once to be one of the oddest geniuses
                  that ever lived. A light summer hat, old, and none the better for its cleanliness,
                  was wrapped by a deep-pink, but faded sash, the tassels of which were partially
                  stuffed beneath the thick folds and hidden from view. He wore a single
                  blue-flannel shirt, the collar of which rolled far back on his broad, full breast;
                  a pair of good, black pantaloons, held in their place by another sash, but one of
                  a deep-green color. After resting himself in the chair, which kept up a continual
                  squeaking, in consequence of his weighty proportions, he removed his hat and used
                  it to fan away the large drops of perspiration, which oozed out all over his broad
                  face.
               There were some half-dozen persons in the house, beside those mentioned, and upon
                  each of these, this stranger seemed to have his attention firmly riveted, eyeing
                  them from head to foot, and noticing
                  every voice that escaped any of their busy tongues. He spoke to nobody, seemed
                  bold, yet bashful; seemed to be looking earnestly for somebody, yet afraid to ask
                  any questions, and, altogether, his timidity and mildness contrasted so strangely
                  with his rough-looking features, as to render him one of the most strange yet
                  pleasing men one could wish for.
               For convenience sake, we have said rough-looking features, for so they seemed at
                  first glance, but a little closer inspection would discover finely-marked lines
                  and points, indicative of as nice a sense of human feeling, as were ever wrought
                  on the face of man. Lines and points indicative of a heart that had once loved and
                  experienced the sad separations of mortal existence—it was a peculiar sensitive
                  expression, shrouding the face of an almost uneducated fellow-creature, but one
                  who was considerate of others. After looking closely over the different persons,
                  he arose and departed; but in a few minutes after, he returned to the same seat
                  again, and seemed to mutter something to himself, as if sadly disappointed.
               It was growing late, and Simons arose to make preparations for retiring to bed;
                  but, the instant he was on his feet, the keen eye of the stranger darted upon him.
                  And when Simons started to the door, the stranger arose and followed, and timidly
                  asked:
               "Den you don't know me?" It was the first he had spoken since entering the house,
                  and many eyes turned upon him, which occasioned a bashful smile, a sense of doubt,
                  to steal over his face. Simons turned familiarly, and looking at him, replied:
               "I dont know that I do, I don't remember you."
               The stranger seemed to let all his hopes fall, grew sad with disappointment, and
                  felt embarrassed at his bold manner; and, raising his hand to his breast, seemed
                  nearly bursting into tears, when he said:
               "O! Got, my, my d—d wicked heart will die before I find my frien', my frien'!"
                  Simons' face colored in a moment, and he asked:
               "Are yon not the butcher, Bullock, who took care of me in the mountains?" The
                  stranger startled, and exclaimed:
               "O! my great Got! den dis is my frien', my frien'! My poor, sick frien'!" and,
                  throwing his arms around Simons, his words became indistinct with joy. He had
                  scarcely released his Spanish embrace, when in came Mrs. Hamlin, whom he clasped
                  in his arms, exclaiming:
               "O! Got, hab I come once more to meet my frien's! O! my goot frien's, I thought
                  neber, neber I shall see you no more. O! my Got, bless my frien's, my
                  frien's!"
               Many of the spectators were laughing, and as soon as Mrs. Hamlin, who was half
                  frightened, was released, every one, even the butcher, commenced to laugh, and in
                  fact such a general laughing time is seldom witnessed.
               "Den I am so glad," the butcher commenced, after the house quieted a little, "I am
                  so glad to come to you. I hab been all the city through and through, and I could
                  not find you where you lib. Den I neber know your name, nor your house, nor your
                  nothing, so I thought I shall neber more see you, and den I come in here; I t'ink
                  Got has come to my d—d wicked heart and brought me to see you, I t'ink so. O! my
                  Got, I am so glad I come to my frien's!"
               This strange man had only been recognized a few minutes when the good woman had
                  him seated at a wholesome supper, where he found some difficulty in eating, in
                  consequence of his desire to express his happiness to meet his friends. When they
                  left the sitting-room the other persons departed, or retired, so that, while the
                  butcher ate his supper, Hamlin and wife and Simons were his only companions. In
                  friendly style they helped him to all the different dishes, and encouraged him to
                  eat until he finally declared that he had eaten plenty. Pushing his chair back
                  from the table, wiping the perspiration from his face, and, placing his fleshy
                  hand upon Simons' shoulder, he said:
               "Den, my good frien', I hab come to bring to you some good news. O! I am so glad I
                  hab found you where you lib. All through and through de wild woods I hab been,
                  always thinking from you, neber forgetting may be you might die—dead before come
                  no more to you; and den I t'ink I see you in de dark night when de coyote is
                  crying for his supper, and den I not
                  know whether you lib, or whether you die—dead. Den I hear de city is yet drowned,
                  and den I t'ink my poor frien' he too is got drowned. But den somet'ing come to me
                  in de mountains in de dark night; I t'ink it was Got come to my d—d wicked heart,
                  I t'ink so; and den he say to me, 'you shall yet see your frien's sometime,' and
                  my d—d wicked heart not hardly beliebe I neber shall see you no more, neber,
                  neber! But den I am now come to you, and I am so glad I shall not know how I shall
                  lib when I go once more into de wild woods! I t'ink I will die—dead, and go to see
                  my poor wife in heaven, I t'ink so. And my poor little boy she is in heaven by his
                  poor modder, I t'ink so, O! I t'ink so;" and while he continued to speak of his
                  wife and child, tears flowed as freely as ever moistened a Christian cheek. "Den
                  you remember when we used to sit togedder in de wild mountains, and den I t'ought,
                  may be you will die—dead; and I not know how I shall lib alone widout you. And den
                  some d—d wicked men come and burn all up my house, you remember?"
               "O! very well, I remember all about it, but did you know that one of those wicked
                  men has since been killed by the Indians?"
               "O, no, I not know dis, neber."
               "Yes, one of them has been killed by the Indians."
               "O! my Got! Possible!"
               "Well, I'm not well acquainted with the facts, but I know one of them has been
                  killed."
               "O! my Got, I am sorry!"
               "Why, you needn't be sorry; they were bad men, gamblers and swindlers."
               "Den their wife and children?"
               "O! they were young men, they had no wives."
               "Den they hab fadders and modders."
               "But they were bad men."
               "Den, may be their hearts were wicked, and they could not help it—I t'ink so. But
                  den I am come to bring to you good news, and I nearly forget it, 'cause I am so
                  glad to see you, my frien's. Den you remember you had lose your mules when you had
                  de cholera?"
               "Yes, I lost four mules."
               "Den, well, I hab found to you your mules; so dis is why I now come to you. I
                  remember all your brands, so I went, and went all t'rough and t'rough de wild
                  mountains, and I say to myself, if I die—dead—I will find de mules for my poor
                  sick frien'. And den I went to dis ranch, and to dat ranch, and to ebery ranch,
                  and I thought neber, neber I will find de mules; and in de last, Got came to my
                  d—d wicked heart, and he said to me, 'you shall go yet to one more ranch,' and den
                  my d—d wicked heart nearly believe I shall go for not'ing; but den I went and went
                  away t'rough de wild woods, and I come to one ranch, and dere I found to you your
                  mules; and den I come away t'rough de wild woods, so I shall bring to you de news
                  where is your mules."
               No news could have been more unexpected, or much more pleasing to Simons; neither
                  would it have been possible for him to have the same feelings toward any other as
                  be now had for the butcher, whose conduct showed not the slightest degree of
                  selfishness, but seemed to be controlled by as pure feelings of friendship as a
                  mortal ever possessed. But this unexpected news gave an entire new resolution to
                  their intentions, and, as we shall hereafter see, proved to be one of the most
                  fortunate incidents that ever came across Simons' difficult pathway.
               It is scarcely possible for us to relate the details of their evening's
                  conversation, therefore, suffice it, that, after some little counsel, Simons
                  concluded to accompany the butcher on the following morning to the ranch in search
                  of his long lost mules. At that time, good mules were worth from one hundred and
                  fifty to two hundred dollars each, which made a consideration of rather pleasing
                  anticipation.
               The next morning was cool and fair. The butcher, Simons, and Hamlin, started for
                  the said ranch. Their course was along the open valley of the Sacramento and the
                  Feather rivers, but finally bore off to a small, creek, called Mitchell's Run,
                  where they found a ranch, about one hundred and thirty or forty miles from
                  Sacramento, and which they reached after a tiresome journey of five days' hard
                  walking.
               
               This ranch comprised several miles of the country, and really had no boundary, but
                  extending up and down the little creek as far as the mules and horses saw proper
                  to graze, and as far on either side of the creek as the distant bald hills saw
                  proper not to interdict the growth of wild grass. Near the middle of this ranch,
                  that is, considering it had had a boundary, stood a small clap-board house,
                  surrounded by a few deer-skin and beef-hide sheds, or, fashionably speaking,
                  modern porches. About this uninteresting house, were three or four dogs, two
                  calves, a pet coyote, some greasy pork barrels, some flour sacks, beef bones and
                  horns, some axes, saws, guns, blankets hanging in the sun, and enough perfumery to
                  have scented all the silks and satins in Cincinnati, but it happened to be of a
                  very different odor from that in general use, and not quite so pleasant as one
                  could desire.
               At a little distance from this one story cabin, stood, or laid, rather, the
                  corral, it was a little field, about two acres, fenced in with a high wall of
                  brush, where the mules were housed during the night.
               When Simons' party approached this wild settlement, no person was to be seen and,
                  had not the hungry-looking doors set up an impolite conversation at the top of
                  their voices, one might have thought that they, themselves, were foreign to such a
                  foreign-looking habitation.
               It was nearly sunset, and our little party were aware that the herdsmen would soon
                  be driving the mules into their nightly habitation; and, accordingly, they seated
                  themselves about the cabin, fanning away the mosquitoes and perspiration,
                  determined to ease their wearied limbs until the inhabitants should return.
               "How in the world did you ever find this out-of-the-way place?" Hamlin asked the
                  butcher.
               "Den I not know; I t'ink Got bring me here, I t'ink so, I don't know."
               "Why, what makes you think so?"
               "Well, den you see, about one-half year ago I hear some people whisper to me, dat
                  somebody must be stealing all de mules, and all de horses, and all de beef, and
                  all eberyt'ing; so, I says to myself, dis is somebody what must lib far in de
                  woods, to be doing all dis t'ing: and den I commence to t'ink of all de place from
                  where I hab neber been to; and I know dis is all, so I comes right straight to dis
                  place and found de mules."
               "And is that what makes you think that God brought you here?"
               "O! yes, for sure, it couldn't be de devil; I t'ink so, I don't know."
               "Then," said Simons, laughing, "you think that whatever God doesn't do, is done by
                  the devil?"
               "O! yes, I t'ink so, for sure, yes—yes."
               "But, perhaps, it was your own curiosity that brought you here?"
               "Curiosity—no, no; what for you come?"
               "O! I come to get my mules."
               "So I come to get de mules for you:" and, as though he considered the argument at
                  an end, he lighted a cigar and commenced smoking. Simons was too well acquainted
                  with his good disposition and uneducated nature to wish to harass his
                  philosophical powers, and turned upon the subject, and said:
               "Then you have heard about the people, who keep this ranch, stealing mules?"
               "Hush!" said the butcher, cautiously; "Yes, I t'ink so, but den we must not tell
                  de people, or may be dey come and hurt de man what keeps de ranch."
               "But then they ought to be punished if they steal mules and horses."
               "What you do to him?"
               "Why, the law of the State punishes the crime by hanging horse thieves."
               "O! you not say dis!"
               "Yes, that is the law of this State."
               "O! I not t'ink dis."
               "Yes- it's so."
               "Why make dey dis law? de man has no harm de mule nor de horse by stealing
                  him."
               
               "But he has injured the owner of the mule."
               "How much?"
               "Well," said Simons, puzzled a little, "he has injured the owner to the value of
                  the mule."
               "Two hundred dollar?" and the butcher again puffed away at his cigar, as though he
                  had closed the argument; but Simons replied:
               "Yes two hundred dollars loss to the owner."
               The butcher withdrew his cigar, looked at Simons a moment, smiled, and asked:
               "Den suppose you hang dis man; de owner get his two hundred dollar back?"
               Simons resorted to the common turn of this argument, and said:
               "No, he will not get his money back, nor will anybody be benefited by hanging him,
                  but, if he is hung, then he can never steal any more mules or horses."
               "Den you no hang him for what he has done, but what he will do sometime?" and
                  again he puffed away at his cigar.
               Simons was staggered a little at this question, and finally replied:
               "Why, partly for both; for what he has done, and for what he is likely to do."
               Just as though the butcher had argued this important question for a lifetime, he
                  coolly asked:
               "Den you say nobody get some money, nor no good for hanging him, den why you hang
                  him for what he has done?"
               "Why, crime must be punished."
               "What for you punish crime?"
               "Why we must set an example to others."
               "Ha! ha!" laughed the butcher, "so my d—d wicked heart wish to do, too; but den,
                  tell me dis, suppose you set some example for to forgive to him what all he has
                  done, den is dat no good example?"
               "Why, we should have the country overrun with criminals under such a law."
               "Den you can't do not'ing with them, but for to hang him dead?"
               "But prisoners always will get out of prison."
               "Den you will hang him 'cause you can't make no strong prison?"
               "Well, it's the easiest way to dispatch them at once, then there are no tales
                  told."
               The butcher laid down his cigar, and calmly replied:
               "O! I am sorry to hear you say dis, my frien'. May be de man what keeps dis ranch
                  has one d—d wicked heart, and can't help dis; I t'ink' so, O! I t'ink so. Den, may
                  be, after while he will be good; I t'ink so; and den I no want to tell nobody
                  about what I hear from dis ranch—stealing, 'cause I'm so 'fraid some d—d wicked
                  men may come to him and hang him, and den neber more he can see his wife and
                  leetle children, neber when he is hanged, neber, neber!" and hanging down his
                  head, he again commenced to smoke; but instantly he started to his feet and
                  exclaimed:
               "I hear 'em! I hear 'em! De mules will soon come now, very soon."
               They all looked up the valley of the little creek, and a cloud of dust seemed to
                  envelop about a thousand head of mules and horses, all galloping furiously toward
                  the corral. Immediately behind these were two Spaniards, or rather, Mexicans, and
                  the proprietor of the ranch, all mounted on good mules, swinging their lariats,
                  and yelling at the top of their voices—these were the herdsmen, and such was the
                  manner in which they commanded obedience from such a vast collection of almost
                  wild horses and mules. They soon reached the corral, and were nicely tricked into
                  it by two immense wings of brush fence which joined with the little creek. As soon
                  as they were in, the herdsmen dismounted and closed up the doorway, which left the
                  mules and horses scarcely room enough to walk among each other, so crowded they
                  were. Simons and his party now marched down to have a look at the mules; but when
                  he reached the bars, or doorway, he was met by the proprietor of the ranch, a
                     moderate-sized sized, black-beardy,
                  unclean-looking man, who held out his hand and said:
               "Halloo! Simons, is this you—I heard you were dead?" Simons looked steadily at him
                  a moment, and replied;
               "That is my name, but I can't recollect you. Your voice seems familiar, but I
                  can't recognize your face."
               "You don't know me?"
               "No, I do not. I think if you were to mention where I saw you I might then know
                  you."
               "You do?"
               "I think I would."
               "Well, then, have you any enemies?"
               "Not that I know of; I never have had but one, and he has been lately killed by
                  the Indians."
               "Was that Warner?"
               "It was, but will you tell me who you are?"
               "Upon one condition, I will."
               "Name it, sir?"
               "That you will not treat me as an enemy."
               "Then most assuredly, I will not; I never have, have I?" The stranger eyed him
                  sharply and replied:
               "No, but I'm afraid you will."
               "I promise, you that I will not treat you as an enemy for any former grudge
                  whatever; and if you are acquainted with me you know I will not break my promise.
                  Now then, tell me who you are?"
               "I'm glad you are not dead, as I heard you were, for I always felt that you were
                  entirely ignorant of my real feelings toward you. Then you don't know me?"
               "I do not, nor can I imagine."
               "Well, Simons, my name is Mitchell, whom you traveled with on the Plains!"
               "Possible!" exclaimed Simons, eyeing him from head to foot, "but your hair and
                  your beard was not so black as this on the Plains."
               "'Sh! 'sh!" whispered Mitchell, "another time will answer. But tell me, now, will
                  you forgive my conduct toward you on the Plains—it's all I ask?"
               "Certainly, I forgive you; for I always believed that Warner was the principal
                  cause of it all."
               "And who are these?" asked Mitchell, pointing to Hamlin and the butcher who were
                  now busily looking at the mules.
               "One of these is Mr. Hamlin, my brother-in-law."
               "Your brother-in-law! Why, I thought you always said that you had no
                  connections?"
               "So I thought, but, the second day after we were separated on the Plains, I found
                  this man, and his wife, my sister. But do you remember the boy who helped me
                  across the Platte river—he was my own brother!"
               "Possible! He was lost! I have always felt that I was to blame for that boy's
                  death. We ought to have helped you out of the water, instead of standing on the
                  bank and see such a delicate fellow as he was doing it. But it's all past now.
                  That's what I was induced to do by being with a bad mate; but I wish that was all
                  I had ever done. Who is the other man?"
               "The other man usually goes by the name of Bullock, or the butcher. He is a man
                  who took me into his charge nearly a year ago, when I was about dying with the
                  cholera. He nursed me during the winter season up in his mountain-home, where he
                  used to butcher cattle, and jerk the beef for the miners."
               "On Brown Mountain?"
               "That was the place, exactly."
               "Ah! then my herdsmen ought to know him—they used to drive beeves to him."
               "Perhaps so, but, as I was going to tell you, when I was taken with the cholera I
                  lost some mules, branded N. S. on the left shoulder; and this man, the butcher,
                  says he has found my mules in your ranch, and it is for them that I have come to
                  this place."
               "Well, I don't know, perhaps there are such mules here. I am not acquainted with
                  half the mules in my care; but if they are here you shall have them. What color
                  were your mules?"
               
               "Two mates, cream color; one black, with a light saddle-spot, and one iron-gray,
                  with a dark stripe along his back."
               "Ah, there are such colors here, plenty of them; and we must see if we can find
                  those brands you spoke of, upon such colored mules," and they both moved down
                  toward the mules.
               "Well," said Mitchell, "how have you been making out in this country—nearly made a
                  fortune?" It was never regarded as too great an intimacy in California to ask
                  another how much money he had made; and even for strangers to do so was not at all
                  uncommon; but, whenever two acquaintances met, they usually asked that question
                  before all others, and where it was neglected, it looked as if the person so
                  neglecting to ask, felt himself to be of too much importance for his
                  fellow-neighbor.
               "Very bad, Mitchell, very bad. I have been beaten in every attempt I have made,
                  and now I only stand a few hundred dollars ahead. I am going home as soon as I
                  can."
               "What! going home—to Cincinnati?"
               "Yes, I'm heartily tired of the country."
               "And only made a few hundred dollars?"
               "Yes, about five hundred dollars only."
               "Well, now, see here, Simons," and Mitchell halted short, "here's an opportunity
                  for a great fortune. This ranch. I'm going to leave it. I've made enough for to
                  keep me comfortable the balance of my days, and I'm going to quit. Here's one of
                  the best opportunities I know of."
               "But I cannot purchase such a ranch as this."
               "No," said Mitchell, and he seemed to be trying to look into Simons' very heart.
                  Simons mistrusted that all was not exactly right; for, for a man to say his
                  business was very good and yet be talking of leaving, seemed to be inconsistent
                  with the actions of most men; and he immediately remembered what the butcher had
                  been telling him about the ranch keeper being suspected of stealing mules. Now
                  there had been a great number of mules and horses stolen for a few months past,
                  and some of the people in the country thereabout had lost three or four of a
                  night; and it was generally supposed that these stolen mules were herded somewhere
                  among the mountains, in order to fatten up, and be driven off to some of the
                  distant settlements for sale. All these things coming into Simons' mind at the
                  very instant Mitchell looked him so earnestly in the face, brought to his 
                     recolletion
                     recollection
                   that, on the Plains, this same Mitchell was suspected of stealing a
                  horse and running away from Andrew; and the whole of this perhaps made some
                  mysterious movement in the muscles of his phiz while Mitchell was eyeing him,
                  whereupon Mitchell continued:
               "Never mind what you have heard; all I ask is justice. God knows, these reports
                  are all false, every one of 'em. But I must leave here; I'm in danger of losing
                  all I've made, and perhaps my life itself."
               "Why, what do you mean?" said Simons.
               "Ah! you know it all," replied Mitchell, "I perceive that you are acquainted with
                  all the facts; and would that I had such men as you to investigate the whole
                  matter—I could then have a hearing. But I don't know what moment a gang of
                  Lynchers might come upon me; and the people all know that I am a foreigner, so I
                  can't expect any mercy at their hands."
               Mitchell was an Englishman by birth, and having been brought up, as many young
                  Englishmen are, unfit for any kind of business, and with no money to help him
                  along, had been furnished with sufficient means to enable him to go to Australia,
                  where he lived about seven or eight years: and, true to his countrymen, getting
                  homesick to see "Old England" once more, he worked his passage on board a ship,
                  and landed on his native isle, penniless.
               He was welcomed to his father's home, and was again clothed in comfort and
                  decency. After spending a year at home, he became anxious to, "try again;" and
                  again his kind old father furnished him with money sufficient to come to America.
                  In this country he fell among that class of people who frequent the Ohio
                  Canal—persons who are known as horse-jockeys, politicians, and fighting men, and
                  as men of honor. Here he became the proprietor of a boat; and, after two years'
                  active business, sold out, and with something over a thousand dollars he proceeded
                  to St. Louis, where he commenced a commission business; but not being exactly skilled in trading as well as some of
                  his neighbors, he made a few "unlucky hits," and finally resolved to go to
                  California. Now, at this period, there was a great enmity toward the people from
                  Australia; for, from that country, came a great number of wicked, thieving
                  persons, who doubtless had been runaways from Van Dieman's Land, and who were so
                  numerous as to injure the character of all the people who sailed from Sydney.
                  These runaways, we mean, had been committing theft and robbery, and even murders,
                  in different parts of California; but particularly for stealing horses and mules
                  they seemed to have a highly educated nature, which they put into practice at
                  every favorable opportunity, and from the number of these privileged characters,
                  Americans came to the too hasty conclusion that any person from Australia was a
                  thief, robber, and, perhaps, murderer. As we have since lived in Australia, we
                  shall never forget the mortified feelings of the good people of that country upon
                  hearing that they themselves had lost character among the natives of America, for
                  whom they had always cherished the most cordial feelings; but when hearing that
                  Americans were condemning everything from Australia, without considering that only
                  a small portion of the people were convicts, they seemed to lose their entire
                  confidence in the citizens of our country; and so honestly did they express their
                  sorrow and grief, to think that Americans would not investigate the common history
                  of their distant land before deciding against them, that we really felt ashamed to
                  think that we belonged to the great Republic.
               So great was this suspicion in California, that any person in the country, who had
                  come from Australia, was under the necessity of denying his land to avoid being
                  Lynched; but how this suspicion may affect the native of Australia, who is just as
                  like the native of this country as is one brother like another, can only be known
                  in after years.
               Under such a consideration, Mitchell's condition could not be considered a very
                  desirable one; hence his anxiety to close up his business and change his
                  residence.
               Reader, suppose you were in some foreign country, and heard a man say to you: "In
                  your country I was a foreigner, and in danger of losing my life," would you not
                  feel ashamed of your country, especially, if you knew his words to be true?
                  Suppose an American citizen were to return from some foreign country, and say: "I
                  had my property taken away from me, and I was obliged to fly to save my life,
                  because I was a foreigner," would not all the newspapers of the country condemn
                  our Congress for not declaring war against the said country? Though we must not
                  speak too much upon this subject, or else we shall injure the sale of our book!
                  But again to our story.
               
               "I'm not so sure that I know it all," said Simons, "but I have lately heard that
                  many mules and horses have been stolen, and that some of the ranch-keepers are
                  suspected."
               "Well, sir, that's it, exactly, and that's all of it. But the people have only to
                  learn that I have once lived in Sydney, and my time is all over; and as many
                  people already know that I was once in that country, the matter could be very
                  easily traced up. That's why I'm anxious to quit as soon as possible. Now, see
                  here, can't you take charge of the ranch, and I'll set a price upon it, and when
                  you have made the money you can pay me?"
               "Well, I don't know, but I will consider the matter over, and in the meantime let
                  us look at the mules—the butcher is calling me," and away they went, searching for
                  the brands N. S.
               Mitchell called the two Spaniards, and described the said mules, and they soon
                  pointed out the very identical property of Simons; and, afterward, stated that,
                  when driving beef to the butcher last summer, they saw these mules on Brown
                  Mountain and had driven them in, to prevent them from starving. The butcher patted
                  Simons upon the shoulder, and congratulated him very much upon his success in
                  obtaining his property. This business all arranged, they marched up to the little
                  clap-board house, and the two Spaniards set themselves about preparing supper,
                  which they did in such haste as even to forget the premonitory delicacy of washing
                  their hands.
               Simons, Hamlin and Mitchell were conversing upon the various ups and downs they
                  had experienced in the country; and
                  sitting close by, was the butcher, who spoke alternately to the 
                     Spainards
                     Spaniards
                  , to the others, or to his cigar, which seemed not to smoke so well as he
                  wished.
               In a few minutes the supper was ready, and it consisted of whet-stone bread, six
                  parts, hard, raw beefsteak, three parts, and fat, greasy pork, one part, all
                  smoking hot, setting on the ground, in tin dishes, accompanied by a kettle of
                  strong green tea, well boiled, which was to be drunk out of tin cups, none the
                  better for woman's absence. Around this humble fire, they seated themselves with
                  right good-will, upon buckets bottom-side up, upon stools, or billets of wood, or
                  in fact, anything that seemed convenient; and the way they commenced to eat, would
                  have been rather discouraging to the medical profession, if any of that class of
                  people had been present. The business of this ranch was, to take mules, horses,
                  and cattle from different persons, and graze them for so much a month, which was
                  at that time, four dollars for horses and mules, and two dollars for cattle, that
                  is, each, per month. And when any person brought a horse to the ranch, to be
                  grazed and taken care of, for a few months, the proprietor always gave a receipt
                  for the animal received; so that when the owner wanted his beast, he presented
                  said receipt, which contained a description of the beast.
               While this little party were seated in the aforesaid manner, enjoying their
                  gustable repast, Mitchell commenced and said:
               "There was a man here this morning to get a mule, which he said he put into my
                  ranch about two months ago; but, as he had no receipt, I couldn't let him have the
                  mule without he would bring some evidence of it being his. He flew into a dreadful
                  passion and said he would have it; but I was not aware who he was, and of course I
                  wouldn't allow him to do so, which I had no difficulty in preventing, because he
                  couldn't throw the lasso, and I would not allow the herdsmen to lasso it for him.
                  But he went off in a dreadful rage, and swore he'd have satisfaction some way; and
                  I expect, likely he may make an attack on the corral to-night," and while he was
                  yet speaking, a party of thirty or forty men were seen coming up the valley. Some
                  were on horseback and some were on foot; and, at the head of their party Mitchell
                  recognized the man who had been after his mule in the morning—he was on foot,
                  swinging his hands and talking loudly to all his companions. Mitchell sprang to
                  his feet, and said:
               "I'll bet he's told them that I have stolen his mule and won't give it up; and
                  these men are coming to play the d—l with my corral, or perhaps me!"
               Simons and Hamlin assured that they would use their influence to prevent any harm
                  being done. Their suspense was only at moment, for the army were upon them; and
                  their leader, a red-headed, 'lean and hungry looking man,' with a red shirt, the
                  sleeves of which were rolled above his elbows, and skirt of which was stuffed into
                  a pair of moleskin pantaloons, whose bottoms were stuffed into a pair of
                  red-topped boots—yes, this man with a freckle-face, sunken eyes and prodigiously
                  humped nose—smacked his fists, and said to Mitchell:
               "You d—d Sydney horse-thief, we've got you now, we've got you now, we've got you
                  now, you scoundrel. We'll fix you, by—" and finishing with a furious oath, he
                  stamped upon the ground and seemed desperate with rage. The crowd were mostly
                  around our little party, and every eye was turned upon Mitchell, who, guilty or
                  not guilty, could not refrain from evincing signs of fear, which some of the
                  spectators declared were signs of guilt; and, in a moment, through the crowd was
                  to be heard:
               "Hang him, hang him, hang the d—d Sydney thief, hang the d—d foreigner," but
                  Simons and Hamlin endeavored to stay their wrath, which had been encouraged to a
                  great pitch by spirited liquors, until a fair investigation could be had upon the
                  accusation. But, above their voices, the said red-headed man declared:
               "I do swear by all that's black and white that he's the man that stole my mule.
                  And I do swear by all that's black and white that I know he's a Sydney man, he's a
                  Sydney man!"
               Mitchell made a few attempts to speak, but failing to be heard, and seeming to
                  think his condition was precarious, slipped out at one side of the crowd and took
                  to his heels. He was followed a short distance, and fired at with some pistols,
                  but escaped without receiving any injury.
               
               As almost everybody has heard of this man, we will here state that, being afraid
                  to return to his ranch, he struck across the Plains and reached Sacramento and
                  finally San Francisco, where, having but little money, and falling in with bad
                  society he took to stealing and robbing, and was finally hung in the streets by
                  the much noted Vigilance Committee; but as that part of his history is known to
                  every end of the earth, we will not comment upon it, but leave everybody to form
                  their own opinions in regard to the cause of his crime.
               The infuriated debauchees remained about the ranch during the night, thinking that
                  Mitchell would return; here they amused themselves by drinking what liquor they
                  had, and what they could find about the cabin, and by singing and dancing merrily;
                  and, sorry we are to add, that our good friend, the butcher, partook of their
                  fluid and soon became shockingly inebriated.
               After a long, noisy night, a fair morning finally arrived; and as no Mitchell had
                  yet returned, many of the people grew weary, and would not remain any longer, but
                  struck off for Feather river, where they either gambled or mined, according to
                  their various inclinations.
               Before turning the mules out, the Spaniards lassoed the one that the red-headed
                  man claimed, and also Simons' four mules, which were, in jockey language, "as fat
                  as fools, and wild as wolves."
               Simons sold them immediately, and he and Hamlin, in company with the butcher, who
                  was nearly sober again, took their leave of this strange, wild habitation.
                  Whatever became of the ranch, and the Spaniards, and Mitchell's books, on which
                  there was a credit of several thousand dollars, we are not able to inform our
                  readers; but it would not be at all presumptuous to conclude that some ruffian
                  drove the Spaniards away, and then, for his "patriotism and availability," got a
                  seat in the Legislature.
               Simons tried hard to induce the butcher to accept a reward for his very valuable
                  services; but, with all he could say or do, he could not persuade this strangest
                  of all strange men, who, doubtless, was very short of money, and who lived a
                  miserable life, to accept a single dollar.
               "Den, I don't want de money. De money is your money. De mules was your mules, so I
                  don't want de money," he would say, patting Simons' shoulder, and laughing in the
                  most friendly manner. After walking awhile he became sober, and again complained
                  of the heat.
               About five miles brought them to where a half-blind trail crossed the one they
                  were traveling. It was in the woods, and quite comfortable beneath the tall pines,
                  the shade of which completely covered the ground. As soon as they reached this
                  trail, the butcher halted, and said:
               "Dere, stop my frien';" they all halted, and the butcher seemed almost unable to
                  speak further, but finally added, "here I must leave you, my frien's! Dis is my
                  road, dis," pointing to the dim trail. "Far out dis road, away in de wild woods, I
                  lib. Den here I must leave you my frien's, and neber see you no more, neber,
                  neber!" and shaking his head, burst into tears.
               "Why can't you go with me to the city," Simons asked, astonished at so sudden a
                  communication.
               "Den I can't neber come to de city no more, neber, neber! and holding down his
                  head, seemed to be solving some difficulty. "No, I can't go to de city no
                  more."
               "Do you live far from here?"
               "Yes, far in de wild woods!" and he pointed into the dark forest, then sat down on
                  the ground, and said not a word.
               "I would like to have you accompany us to the city—I thought that was your
                  intention?"
               "No, my frien'. Got does come to my wicked heart, and he does say to me, 'you
                  shall neber, neber, go no more to de city, but you shall go into the wild woods,
                  where the coyote lib, and den you shall hear de words from your poor wife, and
                  your leetle boy,' and so I must go away t'rough de mountains."
               Simons had made previous inquiry in reference to the butcher's habitation, which
                  was of similar construction to the brush-house that Miller and Parker burned
                  because he would not pay his tax. And the idea of having so valuable a friend live
                  in such a miserable way was really a burdensome thought; for there was not the
                  slightest doubt but that his attachment to his wife and child, who had died in the "wild woods"
                  somewhere, was the principal cause of his melancholy disposition, which gave the
                  solitude of these lonely regions so many charms to his poor, uneducated mind. As
                  Simons never expected to see him any more, he nor Hamlin could leave him sitting
                  boy this trail, weeping, without being sensibly moved by his seemingly sacred
                  feelings.
               "Den you shall go, my frien's, and leave me to sit here, and I shall long t'ink of
                  you, my frien's; and den, when I am done t'inking of you, I will go far into de
                  wild woods, dere where my poor wife will come to speak to me in de leaves and in
                  de wild noise ober my head; dere where my poor child she does seem to me in de
                  barking of de wolves, and in de young coyote who is wid his modder, and wid his
                  fadder, and dey does love one another. No, my frien's, I can neber, neber, no
                  more, come to de city, neber, neber! I t'ink Got will soon come and take me to
                  heaven to my poor wife, I t'ink so, O! I t'ink so; and to my poor, leetle boy,
                  too, I t'ink so. I wish soon Got will come to me—I wish to go!" and, pressing his
                  hands upon his face, sobbed pitifully. Simons and Hamlin endeavored to comfort
                  him; but the same feelings and inclinations were too deeply imbedded in his nature
                  to be affected by any ideas they could advance.
               After spending about an hour with him, Simons and Hamlin took their leave, leaving
                  him in the same setting position, gazing upon them as they wandered upon the
                  lonesome trail; but never were the same impressions entertained by man as those of
                  Simons toward this poor, despondent butcher, who possessed more of the real soul
                  of man than the majority of the human family do, and who was more the pattern for
                  pure religion than half the priests in Christendom. Certainly, we cannot approve
                  of his extraordinary desire for solitude; but all who have ever investigated the
                  cause for that desire are well aware that it arises from not meeting among their
                  fellow-creatures the sympathy and love, the purity of principles, the refinement
                  of natural religion, which the minds of all good people need to enable them to
                  battle their way among their fellows, who are wasting their existence over certain
                  creeds and ceremonies, which in themselves cause society to be divided, and
                  cherish a hatred from one church to another, entirely neglecting the great
                  principles of benevolence and love. Yes, this was Simons' impression when leaving
                  the poor butcher sitting in the wild woods the last he ever saw of him.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               "NOW I have been successful—I shall move from my solitary abode and camp, on the
                  banks of the Yuba, where I will settle for a few weeks to regain my health and to
                  recruit from my long toils, to forget the various fortunes and misfortunes that
                  have so long and so often variegated my melancholy pathway. I shall erect my tent
                  in the cool shade of those spready oaks, where I can hear the sweet murmur of the
                  golden stream—where I can see the great throng of people traveling toward the
                  mountains, and toward the cities of the valleys—where I can read the papers—where
                  I can work a few hours, or follow whatever my pleasure seeks after. And when I
                  have once more regained the buoyancy and spirit of former days, I will arise and
                  fly to my native home, and live in quiet and peace," and Uncle Thomas arose and
                  climbed over the mountains, bearing his tent and his tools upon his back; he came
                  to an even country, where a large road passed close to the banks of the Yuba,
                  which seemed to wind among the open forests of evergreen oaks even more
                  beautifully than ever before flowed a clear, sparkling river.
               Many birds were singing; the water was enlivened with ducks and fish; the road was
                  filled with travelers, and the dust was borne over the glimmering Plains in broken
                  clouds.
               "Ah! here," said he, "I will spread my tent. Unknown charms and dreamy revelations
                  seem to point me to this spot, as the most sacred and fortunate on earth," and he
                  prepared his habitation; but while he was doing it, he said:
               "Why is it that I came? Why is it that I am taking more pains in the neatness of
                  my humble residence than ever before? Am I becoming superstitious? Possible! But
                  why did not these presentiments ever
                  before steal over me? Why do I look after every traveler to see if I can recognize
                  an old acquaintance? Ay, why did I come so near this road at all? Strange, this,
                  indeed! but I'm not superstitious, it can not be."
               Nevertheless, he continued to fit up his tent, to sweep, and to ornament his
                  homestead finer than he had ever before. When the night came, he laid down to
                  sleep; but strange dreams, happy dreams, continued to crowd upon his mind. When
                  day came he arose early—the sun seemed fairer and more beautiful than ever
                  before.
               "Surely," said he, "I am getting superstitious! or can it be because I have been
                  living so high in the mountains that this exceeding purity strikes me so
                  forcibly?"
               After finishing his breakfast, he again said: "I will now take my dish and amuse
                  myself a few minutes on the bank of the river," and he marched slowly down to the
                  water's edge caring but little whether he discovered any gold or not; though,
                  scarcely had he moved the loose stones, when he perceived a richer bed than he had
                  ever witnessed.
               "Surely, some supernatural power brought me here!" he exclaimed, and sat down to
                  contemplate upon his great fortune. "But I'm not superstitious, I know I'm not. It
                  was by mere chance that this fortune has smiled upon me. It is to balance the many
                  mishaps that have so long embittered my existence. It is a kind of wisdom that
                  Providence has manifested in the rude elements, to make man thankful. But I'm not
                  superstitious." Though instead of amusing himself, he wrought hard until late in
                  the day, and then he returned to his tent to take his dinner and to rest. The
                  night followed as dreamy as before.
               "Surely," said he, "I am getting superstitious! These strange feelings steal over
                  me by night and by day, and some still greater revelation will come to me. My
                  anticipations are beginning to give me trouble." On the following day he repaired
                  to his labor, and the same success attended him; and often, when at work, he would
                  exclaim:
               "Why does success so often smile upon me? and even it seems to warn me of some
                  unexpected news! I wish I could rid myself self of these superstitious notions."
                  The following night he was still more wakeful, and in the morning he further
                  soliloquized:
               "If these superstitious visions don't cease to haunt me, I fear my health may be
                  affected; I can scarcely rest."
               After another day's successful labor, he sat at his tent, pondering over his
                  strange feelings. He was sitting on a small log, with his face toward the setting
                  sun, enjoying the gentle breeze that played so softly among his hoary locks. Such
                  was Uncle Thomas, and while in this melancholy mood, a little boy, apparently
                  about eight years of age, came along the road, singing out:
               "Newspapers, the latest English newspapers for sale!" and the tone of his voice
                  had already acquired such an auctioneer's twang, that, for one of his size, it
                  sounded' so odd, as to be really interesting.
               
                  
                     LONDON BOOT-BLACK SELLING NEWSPAPERS.
                  
               
               Along this road, he traveled toward the "upper mines," to make his fortune by the
                  very creditable business of distributing knowledge among the rest of his race; but
                  whether he was aware of the importance of his occupation, is extremely doubtful.
                  However, he had newspapers—English newspapers—and, forthwith the old man
                  determined to have one.
               
               "Halloo, my little man; bring me some papers," and, anxious for trade, the boy
                  skipped through the dust, and soon stood by the old man.
               "What is your name, my little man?"
               "Geordie Dowell; do you want to buy some papers?" and he eyed the old man
                  sharply.
               "Yes, Geordie, but what paper's have you?"
               The boy took a full breath, and repeated the following in a single sentence:
               "The very best newspapers in the world; I have all sorts of English newspapers,
                  London, Edinburgh, Glasgow, the Times—the queen of newspapers and guide to the
                  whole literary world; Punch, the masterpiece of wit and common sense; North
                  British Mail, the most ably written political advocate in favor of British
                  oppression that has been published since the dark ages; the Witness, published and
                  edited by the self-educated, Scotch stone-quarrier, the wisest and most remarkable
                  man of modern times, and too religious to eat on Sunday—all these papers, sir,
                  contain the very latest European news, and all about the great Mr. Kossuth, one of
                  the most thorough advocates of radical Republicanism since the days of liberty
                  began," and, halting a little to obtain breath, he added:
               "Want to buy some papers sir, only half a dollar, and reading matter enough to
                  last you a month, and digest all the political and religious topics which are
                  confounding the nations, and endangering the liberty of man—only half a dollar,
                  buy some papers, sir."
               Uncle Thomas could withstand such a battery no longer, but took a heartier laugh
                  than he had taken for years. Geordie's pronunciation was excellent, which added to
                  his good language a peculiarity highly interesting; but the rapidity with which he
                  spoke, together with his pretty face, rendered him an object remarkable among ten
                  thousand; and he so completely captivated Uncle Thomas, that he determined to
                  learn a little more of his occupation, etc.
               "Have you no American papers?"
               "No, sir, I don't sell them."
               "Only English papers, then?"
               "Yes, sir, that's all; can't I sell you some—you are an Englishman, I think!"
               "Why do you think I'm an Englishman, Geordie?"
               "I don't know, but I thought so; you look like one—won't you buy some papers?"
               "O! yes, I'll buy some papers; but you need be in no hurry, you can't go much
                  further to-night. But why don't you keep the Delta, and the Tribune, the Boston
                  Journal, and the Herald—they are as good as English papers!"
               "'Cause I'm not acquainted with 'em."
               "Not acquainted with them! why how did you get acquainted with English
                  newspapers?"
               "'Cause I'm an Englishman," and the little fellow stretched up his head, so
                  characteristic of the English self-esteem, that the old man became electrified
                  with his boldness.
               "You are from England, Geordie, what part?"
               "London, sir."
               "Give me your hand, my boy—I'm from London also," and the old man took the boy's
                  hands into his, and was about pronouncing a blessing upon him, when Geordie
                  partially withdrew them and said:
               "But if you are an Englishman, you would have told me when I asked you
                  before!"
               "Why, my boy, what makes you think so?"
               "'Cause an Englishman always likes to tell that he's English."
               "Then you don't believe I am English?"
               "I don't know—but won't you buy some papers? Do, now; these are all I have
                  left!"
               "O! yes, I'll buy some; but tell me where you will stop to-night, Geordie?"
               "I don't know; but I always stop with some of the miners, 'cause they don't charge
                  me anything."
               "Well, can't you stop with me? I want to talk with you, about London."
               "Then you are an Englishman?"
               "Yes, Geordie, I am from London."
               
               "Then why didn't you tell me before?"
               "I only wished to see how you judged me to be English?—that's all, Geordie."
               "Will you buy some papers?"
               "O! yes; if you will stay all night with me, I will buy all the papers you
                  have."
               "Buy 'em all?"
               "Yes, I'll buy them all; six, are there?"
               "Yes, six; but why can't you buy them now?"
               "O! yes, I'll give you your money now; but tell me, if you are English and I am
                  English, can't you trust me?"
               The little boy eyed him steadily in the face, and replied:
               "If you was a Yankee, I'd trust you."
               So unexpected an answer rather staggered Uncle Thomas' calculations, for he had
                  asked the question merely for mischief, and had expected an affirmative
                  answer.
               "Then, Geordie, you think Yankees are nearer honest than English people are?"
               "I don't know, but they're better to sell papers to—I know that."
               "How long since you left England, Geordie?"
               "Six weeks—no, I mean, I've been six-weeks in California, but we was three months
                  and fifty days coming on the ocean."
               "And where are your parents now?"
               "They have been dead a great many years, but—ain't you going to buy some
                  papers?"
               "O! yes, certainly, Geordie, here is your money," and he handed the boy some coin,
                  "but are you not going to stop all night with me? I want you to, you look
                  tired."
               "Yes, I'll stop if you like!" said the boy, smiling, and counting the money
                  over.
               "Certainly, I want you to stop; I've not seen any one from England for a long
                  time. But tell me how you came to this country?"
               "I come on the ship 'Bald Eagle,' commanded by Captain Barker."
               "With your brother, I suppose?"
               "No, sir, I have no brother; I come as a passenger," and the little fellow seated
                  himself on the log beside Uncle Thomas, evidently very tired with his day's
                  work.
               "But how did you pay your passage?"
               "The captain brought me to black his boots."
               "But how came you to get such an opportunity, did somebody help you?"
               "No, sir; I heard of the gold in California, and I wanted to come; so I went down
                  to the East India docks one day, and asked Captain Barker if he'd take me if I'd
                  black his boots, and he said he would; so that's the way I arranged business."
               "Why, you astonish me! but, pray, what did you follow in London?"
               "Black boots, sir."
               "Don't you wish you were back in London?"
               "No, sir, I wouldn't go there again; would you?" and tears immediately flowed into
                  his large, brown eyes as he waited for the old man to answer.
               "O! yes, my boy, I shall be glad to get back."
               "Was you poor in England?" and his tears increased.
               "No, Geordie, I was rich there; but why do you cry, Geordie? were you poor in
                  England?"
               "Yes, sir," and his sobs burst forth, "I was very poor in London, and my mates are
                  there yet—very poor! When I get some money, I am going to send for them. I
                  promised them I would; but I am afraid they will think I'm dead!" The little boy
                  could control his feelings no longer, but cried most sorrowfully.
               "Then you should write to your little friends, and let them know you are
                  living."
               "But I can't write," sobbed the boy.
               "Then you should get somebody to write for you."
               "But my little mates can't read."
               "They could get their parents to read it."
               "They haven't any."
               "Then they are orphans?"
               "Yes, sir, we was all orphans, blacking boots together."
               
               "But how can you expect to send your money to them if nobody can read for
                  them?"
               "I'll send it by express."
               "But the express will not know who to deliver it to; they are not acquainted with
                  your mates."
               "O! no, but they say they can find 'em."
               "Then you have been making inquiry?"
               "O! yes, sir, I have been to see Mr. Adams about it, and he told me he would 'tend
                  to it as soon as I got the money. Mr. Adams is a rich American."
               "But, perhaps they will cheat you out of your money?"
               "No, no; rich Americans won't cheat poor people, they only cheat rich ones."
               "And is there any difference between a rich American and a rich Englishman?"
               "O! yes, there is a great difference."
               "In what way?"
               "I don't know, but when I used to go down along the Thames the rich folks and the
                  police used to kick me and strike me but here I can ride on the boats in company
                  with other people, and I am only charged half fare 'cause I'm little. No, I'm sure
                  Mr. Adams will be glad to 'tend to my business—he said he wouldn't charge me so
                  much as common."
               "Then you don't like Englishmen as well as you do Americans?"
               "Some I don't, and some I do. Some Americans likes to see me make money; but some
                  is always making fun of me 'cause I'm English. They call me a foreigner, and
                  ignorant, and everything because I can't read. They think it's 'cause I'm lazy;
                  but they've never had to work like I have, or they could not read, neither; and
                  when I tell the folks 'bout bringing my little mates, they say they don't want any
                  more ignorant foreign boys here; but I don't care, I'm going to fetch 'em out
                  anyhow, 'cause there is room enough here."
               "But do you hate to be called foreigner?"
               "But I ain't a foreigner, I'm an Englishman."
               "But do you know the meaning of the word foreigner?"
               "I don't know, but I 'spect it means something about whigs and democrats."
               "O! no, my boy, it only means that you belong to some different country."
               "Don't it mean nothing bad?"
               "No, nothing whatever."
               "Then, when they say they don't like me 'cause I'm a foreigner, they mean it's
                  cause I's born in England."
               "Yes, that's the reason."
               "But, I couldn't help it."
               "O! they don't blame you for that;—it is because you came away from there to live
                  here."
               "But I was nearly starving!"
               "Then I suppose you do not like England?"
               "No, I don't, I only like my mates, that's all—do you like England?"
               "O! very much, indeed; I love England."
               The little boy eyed the old man with a very strange mixture of feelings, evidently
                  he was trying hard to solve the cause of such an attachment to England; but
                  brightening up a little, he asked:
               "Do you love England, or do you love your mates?"
               "I love both," replied the old man, a little puzzled at a question that never
                  before came into his mind.
               "But you can't make money in England?"
               "No, my boy, but it is a good place to live."
               "It wasn't very good for me, 'cause I's poor."
               "Then you would rather live in California?"
               "Yes, when my mates come; wouldn't you rather live here if your mates were
                  here?"
               The old man, supposing that the little fellow meant his particular friends,
                  scarcely knew whether he should answer in the negative or affirmative, for, as we
                  have before mentioned, he had been making money extremely fast for some time past;
                  but after a moment's hesitation, he said:
               "Though, I suppose, Americans won't allow me to bring my mates out?"
               
               "They can't hinder you; 'cause you can take some police along."
               "But suppose the police will not go?"
               "They must go, if the Crown says so, though."
               "Ah! my dear boy, the Crown has nothing to do with American police."
               "But the Queen will help you if you want to get your mates out, won't she?"
               "But she can not do it; she has no control over the affairs of America."
               The little boy looked very sad, when he learned this new fact, and already began
                  to doubt whether he should ever be able to get his little mates to California; but
                  when again overcome with tears, a remarkable fact seemed to flow instantly to his
                  uneducated mind. Ah! perhaps it was a theory taught him by his own mother before
                  her soul departed, or perhaps the God of nature guided his young intellect, and
                  looking up into the old man's face, while tears rolled down his cheeks, he
                  said:
               "But if it is better for our mates to come here, God will help us to fetch 'em
                  out, won't he?"
               The old man, considering the boy was tired, merely gave him to hope that it would
                  all be right soon, and that, in all probability, he could yet get his little mates
                  to California; and then, as the sun was setting, provided something to eat, soon
                  after which, the little fellow went to bed, and in a few minutes soft, sweet sleep
                  stole over his fatigued system, leaving not a spark of trouble marked about his
                  soul-confiding features.
               At first sight, an observing man would pronounce this boy one of superior
                  qualities. Compared with American boys, he was rather small of his age, but not
                  inferior in strength and activity. His complexion was very fair, his hair nearly
                  white, with very light-brown eyes, standing out almost as far as his silver-tinged
                  brows, which formed most beautiful arches on his bold forehead. Like most boys of
                  his age, he was straight as an arrow, but, characteristic of his countrymen, his
                  head, so upright, was expressive of an abundance of self-esteem, which, in a boy,
                  controlled by pleasing manners and an apt tongue, is sure to win the favor of
                  nearly all good men. it gives them a manliness which contrasts so strangely with
                  their size, that everybody breathes forth prayers for their success and
                  prosperity. It was under such feelings that the old man had devoted a portion of
                  the evening to him, instead of reading the papers; but as soon as the boy was
                  asleep he stirred up the coals and commenced feasting upon English news.
               "Well, my little man, how did you sleep last night?" asked Uncle Thomas, as they
                  met at breakfast next morning.
               "O, very well, I thank you," he replied, pulling up the collar of his flowered
                  shirt, and endeavoring to make the most of himself. By-the-by, we have neglected
                  to mention the fact that he had adopted the habits of Young America in dress;
                  which, in California, was, a calico shirt beneath a blue flannel one, both stuffed
                  into the top end of a good pair of black pantaloons, which were retained in their
                  place by a deep-red sash wrapped several times round the body, with its tasseled
                  ends dangling carelessly down on each side. The collar of his blue flannel shirt
                  was turned back, leaving his clean calico shirt, with its bosom and collar,
                  exposed to view. In such a dress, he looked very little like the boot-black's of
                  London, of which the old man had seen some thousands, and with all his good
                  qualities, had scarcely ever before stopped to think whether these poor creatures
                  had souls or not; but now, to see such a change effected in only a few weeks,
                  brought up a series of reasoning which had ever before escaped his notice. Like
                  the slave owners in our "free land," he had formerly looked upon these little boys
                  as useful things; but further than that he had never given them any
                  attention. From his own misfortunes, he had ever delighted to cherish a hatred to
                  republicanism; and his only prayers had been for a little money to carry him back
                  to England; but now, with all his bitterness to "American Institutions," here was
                  a system of elevation to the unfortunate beggars of other countries, which
                  overthrew all his former prejudices, and made him look upon the strenuous efforts
                  of Americans, to suppress monopoly, with inexpressible delight. There sat before
                  him, a boy who, had he been giving him shelter in England, would have almost
                  ruined his character; but now, a
                  fine-looking youth he was, made from the very lowest of his own land, and
                  promising to stand among the first ranks of his race. Had he remained in England,
                  in all, probability, he would have stood in the cold rains in London, begging to
                  black boots, until he became grown, when he would have swept the streets until old
                  age faded away, living and dying but little superior to the brute. But there he
                  sat, not clothed in the old filthy rags picked up where old beggars hive died, but
                  dressed like a little man, acting like a man, talking like a man, feeling as a
                  man.
               As we have before stated, the old man was given to reason, and true to the whole
                  Anglo-Saxon race, disposed and willing to acknowledge good qualities belonging
                  even to enemies; and in perceiving the wonderful effect that such an emigration
                  would have upon the human family, he was perfectly willing to acknowledge the
                  incomparable standing of Young America in her laudable endeavors to furnish those
                  poor with happy homes; and this concession was only brought about by the presence
                  of this little boy; but now, new motives were beginning to dawn, and the old man
                  began to consider in what way he could forward the little fellow's wishes.
               "I think you told me you had been selling newspapers about six weeks?"
               "O, no;" said the boy, "I tried the boot-blacking for three weeks in San
                  Francisco, 'cause I thought I couldn't do nothing else; but then I commenced to
                  sell papers."
               Here was another fact of ignorance which struck the old man very forcibly; but to
                  an American, such a state of ignorance as to be unconscious of one's own natural
                  capacities, can scarcely be conceived; and yet, three-fourths of the laboring
                  people in Europe are in that unfortunate condition, not knowing that they can
                  follow more than one occupation.
               "And how did you find out that you could peddle newspapers?"
               "I didn't find it out; a man told me that he wanted me to help him; but I told him
                  I couldn't, and then he said he would learn me how to do it, so I went with
                  him."
               Here, as on former occasions, his feelings accompanied his pleasing voice, and, as
                  if in gratitude to that man, he was nearly ready to burst into tears.
               "He was a good man to you, I am sure."
               "Yes, sir, him. and the Captain are the first good people I ever saw—I don't know
                  how I'd a lived if it hadn't been for them. I intend to pay them well when I get
                  to be a man."
               "Are you doing business for that man now, or are you for yourself?"
               "No, sir, when I staid one week, he said I had money enough to start on, so he
                  sold the papers to me, and I sold them again to other folks. But after that he
                  quit business, and then he gave me a recommendation to Mr. Adams' Express, so I
                  get the papers sent to me now very cheap, and Mr. Adams keeps my money for
                  me."
               "I suppose you could sell papers much better if you could read?"
               "O, yes, sir, but I get a lesson from George Davis every time I go to the Express
                  office, once in every three days. Are you acquainted at the Express office?"
               "No, I am not; but they must be good fellows to be so kind to you."
               "Ha! I thought you didn't know much about Americans when you asked me if I didn't
                  want to go back to England."
               The old man felt the truth of the remark, too well to look upon it as impudent,
                  for the boy seemed honestly impressed with the idea, that his liberty allowed him
                  the use of the same language that he heard others using.
               "Then, I suppose, your business is profitable?"
               "Yes, sir; I make about fifteen dollars a week, now, since I get the papers so
                  cheap."
               "And don't you think that you might make more money at something else?"
               "O, no, sir, I don't know how to do nothing else but black boots and sell
                  newspapers."
               "Well. look here, my boy, I am in need of some one to help me, for you see I am
                  very old and weakly, and I can not get men to help me; but you can dip water nearly as well as
                  a man; now, my business is very profitable, and if you wish you can come and help
                  me."
               "But I don't know how to be a miner."
               "O, I will soon teach you how."
               "But will you pay me anything?"
               "Certainly I will pay you, though why do you ask me that?"
               "If you was an American I wouldn't."
               "Why, do you think all the English people will cheat?"
               "Yes, sir, all except the poor people. They never pay the poor people
                  nothing."
               The boy had been treated, so far, very kindly by Americans, and his attachment to
                  them was as immovable as the hills; but, on the contrary, his life in England had
                  been a hard one, and not anything could induce him to say that he loved any of his
                  own country people, unless they were of the very poorest class. With such he had
                  associated, and been accustomed to sympathize; and, in consequence, whenever he
                  thought of England, scenes of wretchedness were the first in his mind.
               "I am sorry you have such a poor opinion of the rich people in England, but I
                  would like you to come and live with me."
               "How much will you give me?"
               "O, I should rather give you a share of what we dig, and if we get much gold, you
                  will have a great deal to your share; and if we do not get much you must be
                  satisfied with less."
               "How much can you make by yourself?"
               "I generally make from fifteen to twenty dollars per day, but it is very unhandy
                  for one to work alone."
               "How much do you think I could make after you learn me to be a miner?"
               "O, it is very uncertain, but I suppose you and I together could make twenty-five
                  dollars, and if we could, I would give you one-third of it, that would be about
                  eight dollars."
               "And when would you give me my share."
               "O, every evening, that is the way we miners always do—divide the same day."
               "But I must go and tell Mr. Adams first, or else he will not know where I am."
               "How long will it take you to go there?"
               "Two days and a half to go and come; but if I come to help you I can't learn my
                  lessons from George Davis."
               "O, I will learn you to read and write if you will come with me."
               Soon after breakfast the little boy started, but still brighter hopes now lay
                  before him; the very road grew pleasing, and his manly heart nearly leaped from
                  his bosom with joy; knocking the dust with his little feet he was soon out of
                  sight. The old man doubted very much whether the little fellow would ever come
                  back, but his presence had been an invaluable lesson to him, and should he see him
                  no more, he was not likely to be forgotten soon.
               True to the little boy's word, "two days and a half" found him by the old man's
                  camp with an armful of newspapers, ready to commence mining. We shall not give the
                  news of which he said the papers contained the latest; but, obedient to the old
                  man's wishes, he brought some of the California papers, and also, two of not
                  unimportant ones from the Atlantic States; and in one of these there was an
                  article which we will give a passing notice; for it is a right guaranteed by our
                  'free press' for a man to advocate the cause of oppressed humanity. This is an
                  article which interests our two associates in a very different manner.
               As old as was Uncle Thomas, it wounded his pride to hear the little boy relate the
                  hardships of a life in England, or the character of rich gentlemen. Although the
                  old man was really benevolent, yet he could have almost wished that Geordie had
                  remained a beggar in London, rather than to be where he was, injuring the fair
                  fame of England. Many people will perhaps consider this a great weakness on the
                  part of Uncle Thomas, but if they do, let them halt a moment, weigh well their own
                  national pride, and consider what evils that accursed love (pride it is) has
                  entailed upon nearly every nation, even to induce them to conceal their evils and
                  crimes from public scrutiny! See the slave owner from our own 'free land' when in
                  Australia, listening ing to some
                  escaped slave relating the truth of his life in America, and oh! how the said
                  slave-owner wishes he had a cat-o'-nine-tails, wouldn't he warp him though! So it
                  was with Uncle Thomas, only on a very minor scale. If Geordie had been telling no
                  other it would all have been right enough, but, not far away were a few neighbors,
                  and this very communicative child told them some very hard stories about living in
                  London. But we have seen also that, from the ill fortune which had attended the
                  old man's struggles in California, he had but little reason to be attached to our
                  Republicanism; but with Geordie a fortunate life had given him an entirely
                  different impression of American people. Under such a view, it is easily imagined
                  what kind of national conversation both parties resorted to, to prove that each
                  nation of people was the better. It was several days after the boy's returns when
                  the old man first noticed the article in the newspaper alluded to; but as it was
                  in the evening, it opened quite a conversation, of which we shall give a small
                  portion.
               "See here, Geordie," said the old man, "you think the Americans are so fine, just
                  look at this—it is not like old England. A new bill before the house to prevent
                  foreigners from coming to America at all. What do you think of that, Geordie? you
                  will never got to see your mates now."
               "But may be that ain't true, it doesn't say anything about Englishmen," said
                  Geordie.
               "O! yes, Geordie, Englishmen are foreigners in this country as well as anybody
                  from any different country. But it has not yet become a law; they are only trying
                  to make it into a law."
               "What does the paper say about it?"
               "Well, here, I'll read it—'We notice that the latest papers from California are
                  filled with the names of foreigners coming to that land for the
                  purpose of working the gold mines. We have often wondered how Americans could
                  stand still and see these half civilized creatures coming among them to enjoy the
                  benefits of our 'free country'—which were obtained by our blood and by our
                  money—without paying more than twenty dollars per month extra: but such is the
                  sluggishness of Americans that they are even neglecting the glorious means which
                  the All-wise Ruler has placed into their hands. Many of these foreigners make
                  considerable fortunes, and forthwith pack off to some other country, carrying away
                  our own wealth! But happily, at last, their eyes are opened, and they are about
                  introducing a new feature, to prevent their corning at all unless they will
                  declare themselves as adopted citizens. This is a wise and wholesome law, for the
                  richness of our gold mines will be such an inducement to them, that they will
                  readily consent to become citizens rather than return as beggars to their own
                  countries, thereby increasing the size of our nation, as well as securing
                  protection under our Republican government for themselves. Had this been the law
                  when the mines were first opened in California, many foreigners might have been
                     forced to become citizens, who are now living in luxury in some
                  other country; but so heedless are our Pacific brethren of their
                     rights that they are neglecting to extend the cause of
                     freedom! But this is not all. We are told that some are actually
                  advocating that foreigners should have an opportunity to mine the same as
                  Americans! Pretty American citizens, these! We have heard of the
                     Inquisition, we have heard of Lynch-law, but we have
                  heard of nothing sufficient to punish such treasonable citizens as these. What!
                  won't stand up for American Liberty! Taking sides with uneducated
                  foreigners! A pretty state of affairs indeed! If we had our way we would show
                  these friends to foreigners the one end of the bayonet, and give them the quick
                  choice of yielding to freedom, or of tasting the steel! But enough of
                  this. The right is beginning to rule, and, as foreigners have no vote, they
                     can pass the bill to their own liking. The substance of the bill is
                  this—'that, in consideration. of the influx of people from foreign countries, we
                  deem it our right, as free men, to prevent the wealth of our country
                  being carried away, by declaring that, henceforth, no foreigner shall be admitted
                  into our land—the only free land—unless he will become naturalized
                  and remain in the country.' 'We congratulate our Pacific brethren on their
                  determination to maintain our national honor, by showing foreigners that if they
                  want freedom they must expect to pay for it; and it gives the citizen something to
                  be proud of—to enjoy blessings that
                  foreigners cannot. This will give us character as a nation; and we wish them a
                  hearty success.' There, Geordie, that's the piece. That is what the American paper
                  says about our coming here."
               "But doesn't it say if we agree to stop here, that we can come if we like?"
               "Yes, Geordie, but consider how tyrannical to say that we must!"
               "Ah! but I don't care, I'm going to stop anyhow; and, when I get so I can read and
                  write, I'll tell the Americans how bad off the poor people is in London, and then
                  they'll try to help them to come here."
               "Don't you believe that, Geordie; they can tell you more hard stories about London
                  than any man in the place; and although they wish to extend their freedom over
                  other countries and Islands, they are unwilling to give shelter to the poor people
                  of London! No, Geordie, selfishness is at the bottom of their boasted
                     freedom, and pure liberty and equal rights are the least of their
                  concern."
               "But may be they are the Irish and Dutch Americans that makes this law?"
               "O! surely not, my boy; they would have a disposition like you, they would be
                  wishing to get their relations or their friends out. O! no, they must be
                  Americans, Geordie, it is just like them; they haven't got one spark of the noble
                  feeling of English people."
               "Yes they have, too, 'cause they learn all their little boys to read, and they
                  don't kick poor people."
               "But if they would have taught you to read, they would also have taught you to
                  look upon yourself as above every other nation. Suppose you had been taught to
                  hate everybody who were born in a different country, would it not have been better
                  that you had not been taught at all?"
               "Ah! but American boys don't hate me."
               "But when they get to be men perhaps they will; and then, I think, you already
                  told me that some boys said you had no business in this country."
               "O! but them was Irish and Dutch; but the Yankee boys took my part. We gave a
                  couple of 'em a pounding last week for their sauce."
               "O! you have already been trying to suppress the freedom of speech, by rioting in
                  the streets! Why you are a real Young America!"
               "But they had no business to interfere with our rights."
               "Your rights! Why, you astonish me. Have you not been told that when
                  another person meddles with your rights that you must sue for
                  justice, and not fight in the streets. Why, you are not fit to be called an
                  Englishman."
               "But that was the quickest way for us to fix 'em."
               "The quickest! Well, you will do for a Yankee, sacrifice everything to time and
                  money. But do you remember my words, Geordie, that that law may prevent you from
                  ever seeing your little mates in this country."
               "I don't believe it, though, 'cause, if they know how poor they are, I'm sure
                  they'll not make such a law. Then I don't think God would let 'em make such a
                  wicked law, 'cause he knows some way to prevent it, when he sees how hard they
                  have to work, and get so little for it."
               "But how can he prevent it, Geordie? See, they are disregarding both the opinions
                  of other nations and the will of God. These Republicans grow up destitute of
                  reverence; you can not persuade them that the government based upon moral law is
                  the surest to stand. They have been used to acting as free men until
                  they begin to think they are above divine reach. Only a few years more and they
                  will begin to dispute with the Creator which has the best right to America. O!
                  Geordie, you can not compare these wicked people to Englishmen." But on turning
                  bis face, he was surprised to see Geordie in tears. He had appreciated the old
                  man's remarks, and felt himself unable to defend the American character.
               "If George Davis was here, you wouldn't talk so, I'll bet," said Geordie,
                  passionately.
               "O! Geordie, my dear boy, I did not intend to hurt your feelings."
               
               "But you knew some of the Americans were good, and you talk like as if they were
                  all bad. They are better than English people," and the boy gave a finale to the
                  argument by a decided pronunciation of the last sentence, and walking with a
                  dignified air along the log before-mentioned. They had many national arguments
                  similar to the above, but Uncle Thomas always came off triumphant, for which
                  Geordie blamed his own ignorance of reading and writing, accomplishments he was
                  now receiving.
               Mining suited Geordie exactly, and scarcely a crooked specimen of gold was
                  discovered but what he could see in it a resemblance of some curious work of art
                  or nature—he found pieces that looked like monkeys, like elephants, cabbages,
                  leaves, men's faces, children's fingers, etc., etc., and in fact, there was not a
                  speck of gold which he did not search in order to ascertain what order of animal
                  or vegetable kingdom it seemed most nearly to resemble. But scarcely an hour of
                  the day passed that he did not speak of his little mates in London, and, of his
                  prospects of getting them to California. This attachment may be accounted for by
                  the fact of him having no connections; and although they were boot-blacks, they
                  were to him the dearest people on earth.
               Uncle Thomas had nearly recovered from the rheumatism, and often thought of
                  bringing his California expedition to a close, and of returning to England. But
                  with Geordie, such a separation was anything but pleasing; for he was entirely too
                  small to work alone, and he could see no favorable opportunity of making money
                  enough to assist his mates to California, consequently he looked upon such a
                  separation as a serious obstacle to his noble intentions. When conversing upon
                  this subject one evening just before retiring to bed, the old man remembered his
                  dreamy visions, which had so puzzled his wits previous to little Geordie's
                  appearance,,and at once he wondered why these curious presentiments had all left
                  him so suddenly. And, as trifling as it may seem, he immediately commenced to
                  relate these visions to little Geordie; but he had not proceeded far when two men
                  came up, one of whom asked:
               "Can we remain all night with you? We have been lost, and we are very hungry and
                  tired."
               "Certainly, gentlemen," said the old man, "you are heartily welcome to anything I
                  have. I have scarcely bedding enough, but, I think, by building a good fire, and
                  huddling close together, we can sleep comfortably. And if you will sit down on my
                  log I will make you some tea. Geordie, will you bring a kettle of water,
                  please?"
               "Yes, Uncle," said Geordie, skipping after a kettle, and darting toward the
                  river.
               "I think I have seen you before?" said one of the strangers, as they seated
                  themselves on the said log.
               "Perhaps so," said Uncle Thomas, and instantly the said superstitious vision
                  flitted through his mind. "Plague the thing," be thought, "am I going crazy?" But
                  in a second after something went ka-chug into the river.
               "Geordie's fell in the river!" the old man screamed, and flew down the bank,
                  followed by the strangers.
               "O! it's nothing uncle," said Geordie. "just wet myself a little, so I'd sleep
                  good," and the boy climbed up the steep bank, laughing at the cold bath he had
                  been taking.
               "Now, you have muddied the river, Geordie," said Uncle Thomas, playfully, "so it
                  won't do to make tea of!"
               "It'll still make better tea than I ever got in London," said Geordie,
                  laughing.
               "Then you are from London?" said one of the strangers, laughing at Geordie's
                  wit.
               "Yes, sir," said Geordie, "and I should think folks might be glad to drink tea
                  made out of the water where a Cockney bathed, it would give 'em some new ideas of
                  purity. But seeing that you are strangers, gentlemen, I'll go a little higher up
                  the river and get some that's not been graced yet by a London boot-black; it may
                  suit your notions of democracy a little better," and away he ran, and brought some
                  water from above where he had taken his plunge. But his aptness excited the
                  curiosity of the strangers, who made a few remarks upon his promising
                  appearance.
               Again they were seated by the camp-fire, and listened to little Geordie telling
                  how his foot slipped and threw him into the river. The boy pressed some of the
                  water out of his clothes, hung them
                  before the fire, and then went to bed, where in a, few minutes he was sound
                  asleep. Uncle Thomas soon provided some tea and beefsteak, and the strangers sat
                  at their meal, with no dainty appetite.
               "So you have been lost, gentlemen?" said the old man.
               "Yes," said one—a young man of fair complexion and genteel appearance—"we have
                  been yesterday and to-day wandering among the mountains; but for all we say lost,
                  we have not been traveling so much out of our way as we were thinking."
               "You have been mining up the river, I suppose, or in some of the upper
                  country?"
               "No, sir, we have been living in Sacramento, and we have been up to Mitchell's
                  ranch after some mules. But to make my story a little plainer: I was about a year
                  ago, engaged in packing provisions to the mines, but when on my way to the mines
                  one time, I was taken with the cholera, and confined a long time in the mountains;
                  and while I was there, my mules strayed off and were lost. Late in the winter, the
                  Swiss butcher took me to Sacramento, where I have since been living. Well, not
                  long since, that same butcher found my mules in Mitchell's ranch, and came all the
                  way to Sacramento to inform me of it. We immediately set out to Mitchell's ranch,
                  and, sure enough, we found the mules. Well, we left there, and came part of the
                  way with the butcher, but the trail was so dim, that we finally lost it
                  altogether; and where we all have been I don't know, though we are all right at
                  last."
               "Ah!" said Uncle Thomas, "you put me in mind of an incident that occurred last
                  summer, a year ago. I had a claim jumped by a party of ruffians, and among the mob
                  I came nigh getting my head broke, but only for a young man who was packing
                  provisions, I don't know how in the world I should have ever escaped. And whenever
                  I hear of a packer, I always think of that young fellow; he was a
                  very large young man, so well as I recollect. He was a noble fellow, and if it
                  wasn't for him, I should have long since condemned every American I saw. But you
                  were very fortunate to find your mules after being lost so long!"
               "Very fortunate indeed; but tell me about that young man you speak of. Have you
                  never seen nor heard of him since?"
               "No, never. I even neglected to inquire his name and business, and I never was so
                  sorry for neglecting anything in my life. But I was in too much trouble to think
                  of anything at that time. That penurious tax so disgusted me with Republicanism,
                  that I studied nothing but opposition to it, it was all I thought of."
               "You are an Englishman, I suppose?"
               "Yes, I am descended from the ancient Britons, I suppose," and a vain pride stole
                  over his aged face, which kindled an unobserved smile in the face of the two
                  strangers.
               "You don't like America as well as England?"
               "I don't like some of the things so well. The opportunities for making money are
                  much better, but when that's said it's all said."
               "But do you not think that the government is better than the English
                  government?"
               "Why it's a good government for Americans, but not for foreigners."
               "Then why is it, do you think, that foreigners flock so much to this country?"
               "To make money, I think, is the principal reason."
               "And what is the reason, would you suppose, that there are better opportunities
                  for making money in America than in other countries?"
               "So much territory, such fine lands."
               "But there are plenty of countries—especially some of the English colonies—which
                  have as fine lands as America. Don't it look as though the government gave more
                  privilege to settle and to cultivate their lands?"
               "Well, really, I never thought of that before. But it does strike me very forcibly
                  that the principal inducement for foreigners to come to this country, must have
                  its origin in the nature of the general government. I don't know why I never
                  thought of that before. But I thought the grand delusion under which people
                  labored was, that the right of voting was something thing so great, something wonderful! Ay, this is a
                  new theory. Well, but you do have some outrageous laws in this country."
               "That is very true, but the general principles of 'equal rights and the greatest
                  good to the greatest number' are at the bottom of all our legislation. And
                  although little boys, and gamblers, and other trifling people, often disgrace our
                  offices, yet our country is thrown open, and any man can settle down on our lands
                  and establish a home. But we've wandered off our subject a little. I was going to
                  ask you if you met any difficulties under that foreign tax, after that young man
                  rescued you from the mob?"
               "Trouble! I 'guess I did;' I came near starving. But I was not the only one who
                  suffered. The tax collectors came along, and pulled down tents, and broke tools
                  enough to build a mile of railroad. But the worst case that came under my
                  observation, was that of two Spaniards. It seems as though they were butchers, and
                  living above here in the mountains. Well, sir, their tent was burned over their
                  heads, and it is reported that they were left tied to a tree, at least I was told
                  that a doctor down on the river said so. O! it was outrageous. If an officer was
                  to do that in England, he'd be transported for life."
               "Did you ever see those Spaniards?"
               "Well, I was going to tell you, the next night after it occurred I was lying in my
                  bed, and I heard somebody, for a long time, singing and talking, and all at once I
                  heard a dreadful splash and a cry for help. I rushed out, but before I got there a
                  great number of miners were around a deep water hole in the creek, some pulling
                  one way and some pulling another; but what do you think it was, but one of those
                  Spaniards as drunk as he could be! He had backed his mule into the hole, and if he
                  had been drowned I could not have helped laughing at his struggle to catch the
                  mule's ears, which, every time he made a grab, jammed its head under the water.
                  But don't you think the other Spaniard sat on his mule crying for help, and
                  wouldn't stir an inch. Really I could have boxed his ears, for I don't believe he
                  would have cared whether the other drowned or not."
               "Perhaps he was laboring under some indisposition."
               "If he was, it was whisky or brandy. No; it's the nature of the Spaniards. I have
                  often been among them. They have none of the tender feelings which we English
                  people cultivate. In fact, I was going to say that one nowhere meets the same
                  sympathy and kindness as in England."
               "I'm sure that man you were telling about, who rescued you from the riot, must
                  have had some sympathy for your condition?"
               "O! of course, so far as Americans have copied after the English character they do
                  well enough. O! yes, I am willing to give credit to those who deserve it."
               "But don't you think it is very wrong to judge people, that is, a nation, by the
                  actions or conduct of one or two, or even a dozen?" Remember this question,
                  reader.
               "O! certainly I do, but there are certain characteristics which render every
                  nation peculiar. For instance, in the case of that Spaniard, you couldn't find an
                  Englishman or an American that would sit so coolly and see his friend drowning;
                  nor I don't believe he would even sit and see his enemy drown. No, it's a lower
                  sense of feeling altogether."
               "You make very good tea, my old friend; I have not had such tea for many months.
                  I've always heard that the English people understood how to make good tea."
               "Well, I don't know, I'm sure, but, if I judged by the way you drink it, I
                  certainly would not believe you a flatterer."
               "Thank you, my old friend, but what's the use of one's hospitality if another
                  can't enjoy it? Perhaps I shall have the honor of some day treating you to a good
                  supper. But I think you had better prepare the bed; my friend here will eat all
                  night if you don't give him a hint that it is ill-manners."
               On the following morning, the youngest of the two strangers, when about to leave,
                  said:
               "Now, see here, I am going to the States in a few days, and I shall probably never
                  see you any more; but for your kindness in keeping us over night you have our
                  warmest and best thanks. But I must tell you one thing, which I should have told
                  you last night but it was too late to go any further, and I was anxious to remain
                  with you. But, sir, for all you are an old man, permit me to say you are a very vain Englishman. Your
                  impressions of nations and character of English people are a fac simile of your
                  nation. Remember how you spoke of that Spaniard sitting on his horse, looking at
                  his friend drowning. I couldn't persuade you to think any other way of him; for
                  your prejudice so blinded your judgment that you did not even investigate the
                  cause of that Spaniard sitting there. Now, sir, I am that very person
                  you called a Spaniard. I was so weak with the cholera as to be scarcely able to
                  move."
               Poor Uncle Thomas seemed thunderstruck, but the young man continued:
               "You spoke verve favorably of the young man who rescued you from the mob, but you
                  were mistaken somewhat in his size. I am that man also," and the young man proudly
                  bowed his head, and, in company with his friend, turned upon his heel to walk
                  away.
               "Stay!" exclaimed the old man, "I cannot bear this. Tell me, if you are the man
                  who rescued me from the mob, will you not remain to receive my thanks? How do I
                  know you to be the man?"
               "By my helping to carry you away from the crowd; by my patching up your face; by
                  my standing between you and the Irishmen when the jury were hearing the case. And
                  you may know I am the Spaniard you spoke of by Jimie and Charley being with you;
                  by your running out of your beds—"
               "Hold, for my sake; I know you must be the man, but do not be so fast. You are not
                  aware of my obligations to you. If I have erred, it is not my heart that has done
                  it. Give me your hand, and let me see you leave with a heart that sympathizes with
                  the sorrows and griefs of a poor old man who has been stripped of every earthly
                  blessing! May God forgive me if I have ever injured the feelings of a single
                  mortal, at least such a friend," and he seized his hands and shook them
                  warmly.
               "Come, now, sit down and give me some consolation before you go; tell me who you
                  are, and where you are going."
               "We have scarcely time to sit down—we have staid longer already than we should—we
                  are right on our way to the States."
               "But why didn't you tell me this last night, I should have been so happy!"
               "Just as I told you before, I discovered in your conversation that ever
                  indomitable prejudice against other nations, which is so characteristic of English
                  people, that I chose not to tell you till morning."
               "O! my friend, do not tell me this! If I have that prejudice I am not aware of it.
                  If I have said aught to injure your feelings I am very sorry for it. Then why can
                  you not look it all over, and forgive me?" But the stranger laughed a little, and
                  started to walk away.
               "O! do not leave me thus, my friend! I cannot live if I think you have left me
                  without removing these reproaches. Let us part as friends."
               "O! I forgive you, my old friend; I did not think I would hurt your feelings so
                  much, or I shouldn't have said what I did," and he shook hands with Uncle
                  Thomas.
               "Now tell me, my young friend, before you leave me, where I shall find you if I
                  should ever come to the other States."
               "O! very well, I will give you my address, and if I had time I would most
                  certainly stop awhile longer," and he drew a slip of paper from his pocket and
                  wrote his name upon it.
               "Here, sir, you will find me in Cincinnati; and if I can be of any comfort to you,
                  that is, should you ever come there, I will most gladly do it. I know your life
                  has been rather an unpleasant one in California."
               The old man turned the paper hastily, read and re-read the paper and trembled
                  violently, then looked upon the young man and exclaimed:
               "Nathan Simons! Nathan Simons!" and he eyed Simons from head to foot.
               "Yes, sir, that's my name; are you acquainted with that name, sir?"
               "I ought to be," replied Uncle Thomas; "but, sir, tell me more concerning
                  yourself."
               Simons noticed his agitation, and he began to apprehend some new discovery, but
                  the vain dreams of his orphan-like life had often induced him to believe he was to meet some of
                  his English ancestors; and though he had often met persons of the same name, he
                  had as often been disappointed. Accordingly, he endeavored to suppress the vain
                  hope that seemed about to rise, and replied:
               "I hardly know who I am; I am a sort of orphan-like customer, who has had quite an
                  up and down life."
               "Did you have any connections by that name living in England?" and the old man
                  remembered his superstitious vision, and nearly quailed beneath hidden feelings,
                  which seemed to shake his entire system.
               Simons noticed the paleness in the old man's face, and he felt quick pulsations
                  about his heart, but replied:
               "Yes, sir, my own connections, and myself also, once lived in London. My father's
                  name was Thomas Simons." The old man shook a little, then said:
               "There was once a Thomas Simons who lived near the London bridge. He brought a
                  son, Nathan Simons, to New York, where he was obliged to leave him on account of
                  his ill health. The father went to South America, but was wrecked upon a barren
                  part of the coast, but finally rescued by a whaler, and again wrecked on a small
                  island near Japan, where he lived many years. Fourteen years after his wreck, he
                  was rescued, and, in company with many of his fellow sufferers, returned to
                  London. But when he arrived there, he ascertained that his family were gone to
                  America, but he could not learn to what part. His friends made him up some money,
                  and he came to this country, where he traveled and advertised for upward of a
                  year; but, failing to obtain any information of his family, he finally despaired
                  of ever seeing them again on earth! O! what awful desolation lay before him then!
                  This earth had lost all its joys. But he had a faithful companion, a nephew. He
                  went back to England, then to South America, then back to England, where he
                  remained until about two years ago, when he came to America, to see that his
                  nephew settled in comfort, after which he wished to mingle within his family's
                  eternal home! But again he was unfortunate—his last earthly tie, his nephew, met a
                  fatal stroke that carried his spirit beyond the cares of earth! It left an awful
                  blank, and the old man's pathway seemed to be shrouded in a perpetual gloom. O!
                  what dreadful sorrow clouded his present and coming time! But amid all this scene
                  of melancholy darkness, there shone a single ray of light, that kept his aged
                  frame from sinking and moldering to earth. That ray has brightened! The future is
                  forever illumined! Nathan Simons, can not your spirit speak?" and he burst into
                  tears and cried: "O! my God! my God!"
               Simons had no sooner heard the sketches of the old man's life, than the truth
                  flashed upon him, and his gaze became riveted upon him, tracing every line and
                  point of that aged face, every second discovering features that had been so
                  many—many years absent; but just as the old man's voice ceased, they involuntarily
                  moved forward, their arms raised, and clasped each other in fond embrace!
               "O! father!"
               "O! my son, my son!"
               They sat down to convince themselves that their great bliss was real; but as often
                  as the attempted to speak, their emotions sealed their expressions, and left them
                  silently gazing upon each other with thanks and blessings so sacred, that any
                  words would have failed their utterance. Then little Geordie came and stood beside
                  them he leaned upon Uncle Thomas, burst into tears, and said:
               "I wish I, too, could meet my father or mother, but I never shall! I never shall
                  know such happiness as this—never! The whole world can not give me back my father
                  and mother, and little sister. They are gone forever!"
               
               Hamlin hurried to Sacramento. It was early in the morning when he reached the
                  city, and about the hotel it seemed more quiet than common. Mrs. Hamlin was
                  sitting in the dining-room when her husband came in, but her acute observation at
                  once detected a peculiarity in his countenance, which startled her senses, and
                  riveted her in her seat. But when he approached her and seated himself by her
                  side, she felt that the most important
                  revelation on earth was about to take place; and when he informed her that her own
                  father still lived, and was now in the presence of her brother, she sat silent,
                  and seemed to turn to marble. A snowy whiteness covered her face and neck, but her
                  lips were as purple as if closed in death. So awful was the change wrought upon
                  the poor woman, that even her husband, who had not yet shed a tear, felt that if
                  the spell was not soon broken, a still sadder change would separate him from her
                  mortal existence. But there was a great bustle outside the house. Carriages seemed
                  to be halting near the door. Then came in some strange-looking men—and they talked
                  strangely. Then the death-like woman and husband entered a carriage; and soon the
                  carriage moved away toward the mountains. And as they journeyed onward, the little
                  woman said to herself:
               "Am I in heaven, or am I about to meet on earth the fond parent from whom I have
                  been separated for more than eighteen years? So extraordinary are the impressions
                  that rush upon my reason, I fear I may never arouse from the spell that has seized
                  upon me."
               But, when they were near the mountains, the driver told them they were near the
                  tent where the old man lived. As soon as they received this information, the
                  little woman, who still remained pale and helpless, turned her face toward the
                  side where they expected to see her father. It was on the banks of the Yuba, and
                  near an open grove of evergreen oaks, which, as the sun was nearly setting, cast a
                  most beautiful shade over the gentle slope to the eastward. She had not looked
                  long when she noticed the little tent, close by which the father and son and the
                  little boy were seated upon a small log, as if unaware of her coming. But when the
                  old man heard the carriage, he rose to his feet, looked steadily toward the lady
                  within it, but only for an instant, and then again took his seat. The carriage
                  then moved close to where he and his son were sitting, and, as it came up, his
                  eyes fell upon those of his daughter. Neither seemed able to change their earnest
                  gaze, and the son himself could neither speak nor move. The husband and the driver
                  then came round to her side, and asked her several questions, but her death-like
                  like silence and fixed position gave them a new alarm. The little boy climbed upon
                  the wheel, placed his hand upon hers, and, said, "she's dying! poor woman!" and be
                  looked toward the old man and burst into tears. But the driver, a large, strong
                  man, perceived that her husband was unable to give any assistance, and he took the
                  poor woman in his arms and placed her beside the old man, when their arms
                  insensibly clasped each other! And while they were thus locked in fond embrace the
                  little boy stood beside her, placed his hand gently upon her reclining head,
                  stroked down her jet-black curls, and said:
               "My mother, too, looked pale before she died! She was a good woman."
               But Mrs. Hamlin gradually awoke from her trance—first tears, then sobs, then the
                  words, father! daughter! son! were exchanged, blessings and thanks followed; and
                  they released their embrace to look upon each other; all, father, daughter, son,
                  Hamlin and the little boy, all shed tears, ay, cried such a cry as a small party
                  never before cried! But while Julia was yet weeping, she rose to her feet, placed
                  her hand upon her heart, and said:
               "Father, I can distinctly remember just how you looked nineteen years ago; but
                  when I look upon you now, so old and feeble, so sad does it impress my heart that
                  I almost wish I had never met you! So sorrowfully does the rapidity of time and
                  its ravages affect me, that I feel as if I could give my own life to have you look
                  young once more—only for a single moment! But when I see that this awful change is
                  a fixed reality, and that you are now near the end of your earthly life, I fear
                  that, ay, I almost wish that I may never again be happy!" and again she threw her
                  arms about his neck and wept pitifully.
               "Julia, my daughter," and this was the first he attempted to speak to her, "your
                  undying affection for me has already kindled within my mind a new series of
                  sorrow, for so firmly do my affections blend with yours, that I, too, feel as if
                  our meeting is only to experience a more dreadful separation; and when I am so
                  conscious of this great fact, I, too, almost wish we had not met until we meet to
                  part no more!" But little Geordie stood
                  beside the old man, with his hand upon uncle's silver white locks, looked into his
                  face, and said:
               "Why uncle, I don't see why you are sorry. I should be very glad if she was some
                  relation of mine. But I shall never meet any of mine on earth—never! They are all
                  gone. And when I think about them I almost wish I could go too! But if I could see
                  my mates, my poor mates in London, and only touch their hands, or stroke their
                  soft hair once more—only once, I should be willing to die! Perhaps I shall never
                  see them again, they are so far—far away!" Poor Geordie! could some spirit have
                  been whispering to thee of what was so soon to follow!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               WE must now glance at the public character of Mr. Parker, before introducing the
                  gentleman himself.
               From the Daily Times:—"There is, perhaps, no man, excepting Captain Sutter, within
                  the Californian territory, so justly entitled to the admiration of the people, as
                  is the Hon. Colonel Elias Parker. We understand that he has just returned from the
                  Indian war, and is now stopping at the Evans House."
               From the Transcript:—"The Governor paid a visit last night to the Hon. Col.
                  Parker, at the Evans House, where, for his patriotism, and glorious achievements
                  in the late war, he was presented with a beautiful gold cup, weighing fourteen
                  ounces and seven grains. The Colonel has declined running for Senator. We are
                  sorry to learn this, for such a valuable and 'available' candidate is not to be
                  found every day."
               The Daily News:—"Distinguished Arrivals. At the Evans House last evening, the Hon.
                  Colonel Elias Parker, direct from the Indian war. The Colonel, was met by a host
                  of the 'upper ten,' of both sexes, who were not at all backward in trying to get
                  the first shake of his patriotic hand. The Colonel looks well, and says if the
                  State requires his services again, his heart and hands are ready; but we hope the
                  lives of our lamented statesmen, Warner and Miller, have been fully avenged."
               The Weekly Democrat:—"Colonel Parker, surely, must have some of the General
                  Jackson blood in his veins. The Indians killed during the late war on
                  the South Fork, were about twenty-five in number; but we understand that most of
                  them were such as were unable to flee into the mountains.
               
                  
                     
                        Soldiers' fee, in total,
                        $26,000
                     
                     
                        Provisions,
                        9,860
                     
                     
                        Munitions, etc.,
                        3,290
                     
                     
                        Total expense of the war,
                        $39,150
                     
                  
               
               "The Indians have quieted down, and no more disturbance is likely to follow. They
                  have had just such a drubbing as they deserved long ago. Colonel Parker is to be a
                  candidate for Senator."
               Christian Advocate:—"Our invaluable friend has returned at last, and we wish him a
                  hearty welcome. Although we are opposed to war, yet the cause of Christ instils
                  every good man with courage to crush the heathen foe. It is said that Colonel
                  Elias Parker was born a Protestant, but saw the error of his way when quite a boy,
                  and immediately embraced the true church. He is descended from a very high family
                  in the State of Maryland."
               The Pictorial:—"It is said that when the Hon. Colonel Parker was a boy, he was
                  asked one day, by a very old man, what he considered was the highest end of man?
                  'The head end,' replied the youth, amazed to think that the old man had not yet
                  discovered that plainest of all facts."
               Ladies' Repository:—"Colonel Elias Parker stands full six feet in his pumps; wears
                  a beautiful breastpin and moustache; Grecian lips and a most beautifully carved
                  chin, anti-Roman nose, dark-hazel eyes—very expressive—round, bold forehead,
                  arched brows—very beautifully is as straight and elegant as ever an artist carved
                  a marble figure; has a pleasing, mild, sweet voice; is very communicative, and
                  said to be admired by all the ladies.
                  The Colonel thinks it is exceedingly vulgar for a lady to appear in public without
                  a vail over her face. It is said that he does not place so high an estimate upon
                  Jenny Lind's selections of music as in her voice; but this evil saying is
                  ungrounded, and must have been originated by some of his enemies; for the Colonel
                  is too prudent to make use of any such expression, especially as he has never
                  heard Jenny Lind at all. Vive l'amour, et la
                     bagatelle are the sole principles which control his public actions,
                  and un penchant a l'adorable moitié de genre
                     humain is the deepest and most powerful of all the impulses of his
                  noble heart."
               Now, reader, we will go to a livery stable, where some men are examining
                  horses.
               "Bill, notice the coupling of that horse. Ain't he the very picture that Colonel
                  Parker chooses for a saddle horse? I like to see a horse short coupled. See what a
                  shoulder, hey?"
               "Why I heard that Colonel Parker said a horse might be long coupled, and have thin
                  shoulders."
               "O no, no, no, Bill. He spoke particularly about it, and I watched every word he
                  said, 'cause if he doesn't know, there's not a man in this country that does
                  know."
               "O! I know he's a good judge, but I didn't hear exactly what he did say. Though I
                  mind he spoke very favorable of my old Bally's short fore-legs; and there never
                  was a truer word spoken; for two years ago old Bally could trot his mile in
                  two-thirty like a flirt—he could that. Parker is a judge of horse-flesh, and no
                  mistake."
               Now, reader, we will enter the legislature in Benicia. Here we have a house-ful of
                  well-dressed twenty-year old boys, excepting a half-dozen middle-aged men, who are
                  mostly spectators. Observe one of these boys rise to his feet, set them well apart
                  at the heels, then stuff his hands into his nicely greased hair, stroke down his
                  beardless face, and say:
               "Mr. Speaker, I move that this house resolve itself into a committee of the whole
                  to decide upon moving this legislature to Sacramento city," and with a dignified
                  air see him again take his seat. Now, observe another boy, one with fiery-red
                  eyes, with a bowie-knife in his boot, at pistol in his bosom, rise and say:
               "Mr. Speaker, before that motion is put, I wish the gentleman from Trinity may
                  give his reasons for making such a motion," and as the last gentleman resumed his
                  seat, you observe seven or eight boys rise at one time, crying out;
               "Mr. Speaker, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Speaker, call him to order; no, let him go on, he's
                  in the right, Mr. Speaker." Then you will observe Mr. Speaker, also a
                  thrifty-looking youth, rise and call the house to order; after which the first
                  orator again takes the floor, and proceeds to give his reasons for moving the
                  legislature, which are these:
               "Mr. Speaker, my principal reasons are, that the Hon. Col. Parker has returned to
                  that city, and that I consider his judgment in the matters of our glorious State
                  is wholly indispensable to the welfare of our country. He is said to be about
                  opening a faro bank at the New Orleans gambling saloon," and immediately see a
                  dozen of the said boys jump up and ask:
               "Why, when did he return?" "Why didn't you tell it sooner?" and every one, speaker
                  and all, commence moving to have the legislature removed to Sacramento. Then
                  followed the words "Carried unanimously," and immediately there is a rush for
                  hats, walking sticks, examining the priming of the pistols, and then they all move
                  off for Sacramento city.*
               
               
                  *Certainly, this is satirical in the extreme; but there is so little exertion
                     on the part of the people of all of our States to change the law respecting
                     the age of officers, that the ambitious, gambling boys of the
                     California Legislature are too well favored when we even condescend to give
                     them a passing notice—ay, contemptible satire is too good for them; and
                     should their conduct—to say nothing about condemning ships—involve the
                     nation in serious trouble, we are inclined to believe that others will admit
                     that national flatterers are our most dangerous enemies.
               
               Now, reader, we will call and see the said Hon. Col. Parker himself; for no doubt
                  you are beginning to envy his reputation. Here we have him, in company with five
                  or six other young men, all of whom are exceedingly well dressed, not omitting to
                  have some large, gaudy gold rings upon their fingers, and even their hats tip a little forward or to one
                  side, all standing in front of the New Orleans gambling saloon, looking toward the
                  Snowy Mountains, upon where the setting sun seemed to blaze with untiring
                  perseverance. Here they were standing on a pleasant afternoon.
               "Well, Mr. Parker," said one, "when do you think of leaving for the Atlantic
                  States?"
               "Why," said another, "the Colonel is not going to leave us, is he—that can not
                  be?"
               "No, it's not possible," said another.
               "No, no!" they all said, laughing.
               "Well, gentlemen," said Parker, "I have not yet decided what time I shall leave,
                  but I think I shall go before long."
               "O, no, Colonel, you must remain and accept the Senatorship before you go. It's no
                  use to be in a pucker about leaving such glorious country as this. See these
                  mighty Snowy Mountains rearing their heavenly domes and glossy peaks, their
                  almighty wall of monumental glory over the brave deeds that ornament your
                  unparalleled career. Behold this glorious valley that stretches in prodigious
                  prodigality, from the stillest of rivers to the foamingest cataracts, and circles
                  round within the great Sierra Nevadas an even plain, 'further than the eye can
                  see, or tongue can tell,' this alone can award the daring patriotism that you have
                  so bountifully displayed in the settlement of our golden coast. No, Colonel, you
                  can not, must not leave us until we have placed the laurel wreaths upon the manly
                  head which so justly merits our praise, our esteem, our hearts."
               "Indeed, gentlemen," said Parker, "I think you show me more esteem for my services
                  in the Indian war than I deserve, for I—"
               "O, no, no," cried many voices, "the rights of our country must be protected, and
                  the man who risks his life to save ours, is deserving of more than we are able to
                  give."
               "But, gentlemen," said Parker, and a cool manliness seemed to sparkle in his face.
                  "allow me to tell you that, of all I have ever done in my life, nothing do I so
                  regret as having been one of the number who were engaged in that bloody war. The
                  honor you are heaping upon me for my action in that affair makes me sick and weary
                  of my own existence!"
               "Why! Colonel, how's that?" asked several voices, and the young men looked with
                  astonishment upon Mr. Parker.
               "Well, gentlemen, I'll tell you. When I was called upon by the Governor to act as
                  Colonel of the forces, I was told that Warner and Miller had been cruelly murdered
                  by the Indians—that they were murdered without having given the Indians any
                  provocation whatever—that they were found, in the road from Hang Town to the South
                  Fork, literally filled with arrows, and that they soon after died a most horrible
                  death. Well, gentlemen, I headed the little army under that impression, and, as
                  you all know, we routed the Indians from their homes, killing all that we could
                  find; and, after two months' privation, where I thought I had been doing a
                  righteous act, the war finally came to a close, not because we made any treaty,
                  but because most of the soldiers were tired. Since my return from the war, I have
                  found out that Warner and Miller only met the death they deserved! They were
                  guilty of one of the worst crimes that men can commit."
               "Why, this is news, really!"
               "Yes, gentlemen, it is news that makes me loathe my own existence. I am anxious to
                  get where I can forget my crimes."
               "O, Colonel! surely you are magnifying the true state of this affair; why, the
                  Governor himself told me that—"
               "I care not," interrupted Parker, "I care not what the Governor or anybody else
                  says; for I am saying what every good citizen in the neighborhood of the
                  disturbance says. I am saying what I know to be true."
               "But, Colonel, the Indians, what are they? They are better off dead than alive; it
                  serves—"
               "I ask no man to be my counselor," said Parker, firmly, "I know what the Indians
                  are. They are human beings, men and women."
               "Stuff! Colonel," and the young men laughed, "I wouldn't give two chews of tobacco
                  to save the necks of the whole Indian race."
               
               "Then, gentlemen, though I have done the foul deed, yet you are not humane enough
                  in your natures to be my associates," and the dignified Colonel Parker turned upon
                  his heel, and walked insultingly away from his young associates.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               "O, THAT I had started when I first heard he was living in Sacramento. How weak,
                  how unthoughtful to depend upon writing, after having received such poor
                  encouragement through other people's assistance. Ah! had I, on my arrival in this
                  country, forfeited my woman's pride, and rambled through the mountains and valleys
                  as I could have done, how long ago might my troubles have ceased. But such is
                  woman—too modest to approach even whom she loves—by whom she is loved. She battle
                  with the cold world and search after a partner as men do! She loves too much. A
                  single failure where she had placed her heart, would overwhelm her spirit too
                  severely to permit her to try again. Not as man—who, after having trifled with
                  heart after heart, and even then feels not the shock, but turns to follow the next
                  fair hand that dimples before his less constant heart—she feels a bond uniting her
                  very soul and body to that manly touch that first receives her love, that
                  penetrates her whole existence by a power that seems to steal away all other
                  considerations, and makes her feel as if no longer herself. But the way before me
                  is clear. I have no further annoyances to molest my advances, for every prospect
                  blooms brighter and brighter as I peer through the long future. Then why should I
                  wait here, and depend upon him, for whom I am nearly dying with the purest
                  affection that woman's heart can know—waiting upon him to come to me, when I know
                  his open arms are ready to press me to as noble and good a heart as lives in the
                  bosom of man! 'Tis cruel of me to have waited thus long, for I know his
                  imagination and most sacred thoughts are dwelling upon her, for whose absence
                  every moment fetters a dire sting upon his noble mind. Then I cannot, will not
                  wait longer. I will fly to his arms, and laugh the heartless world to scorn," and
                  Harriet laid down her sewing, walked to where Mrs. Case was playing with her baby,
                  and said:
               "Mrs. Case, I have resolved to go to Sacramento. I presume that Simons has never
                  yet heard that I am in the country, and never thinks of looking for letters."
               "Why law me, when did you take that strange notion? Why, you don't know a single
                  person in Sacramento, and what in the world will you do among strangers again? O!
                  I wouldn't go, will you?"
               "Yes, Mrs. Case, I shall go. I am sure I can find him. All I am sorry for is, that
                  I didn't go as soon as I first heard he was living there; but I was so sure he
                  would receive my letters."
               "Why, laws, it sounds so funny for you to take the notion so quick. But you have
                  waited so long may be Simons has moved to some other place."
               "Well, I don't care, I'll go anyhow. And if he has moved I'll follow him; I'll
                  follow him all over the country, but what I'll find him. I will
                  go."
               "Why, law me! right away?"
               "Yes, right now, the first boat," and away went Harriet among her band-boxes,
                  tumbling things over in real woman-style, and preparing for a hasty departure.
               It was early in the morning when Harriet arrived in Sacramento, but the
                  particulars of her separation from Mrs. Case and the baby must be left to the
                  imagination of the reader, for these little kissing affairs cannot be described
                  accurately until we, ourselves, have received such instruction. Before leaving the
                  boat, Harriet inquired for the location of Hamlin's Hotel.
               "Right up this street four squares, turn to the left," replied a coarse-looking,
                  red-faced man who was tumbling those everlasting greasy pork barrels. Harriet,
                  with a small package in hand and little Sporty beside her, set out for said hotel,
                  making inquiry at every corner she passed; for, by some strange impulse, her heart beat so violently, her eyes
                  looked so crookedly, her ears heard so strangely, her head whirled so curiously,
                  her feet walked so heedlessly, that even her memory and common sense seemed to
                     'gae tapsalteerie o', and every man she saw, every voice she
                  heard, and even the gentle wind startled her soul from its very foundations.
                  Harriet wondered if this was the way a young man generally feels when about to
                  call upon his lady-love. But she went on nervously.
               "Can you tell me which is Hamlin's hotel?"
               "Up this street, turn to the left at the second corner, you'll see it—wooden
                  building," and the speaker dodged his head and hurried on. Again Harriet continued
                  her march, but muttering to herself:
               "I didn't hear one word he was saying; if I did I have forgotten it. Something
                  about two streets to the right in a wooden or brick building! Up this street, I
                  think!" and again she traveled on for a while.
               "Please, sir, where is Hamlin's Hotel?"
               "You are out of your way, Miss; go down to the next corner, and turn to the left,
                  and you'll see the sign." Again Harriet went onward saying to herself:
               "Why don't the people tell plainer? I think he said turn to the right, two
                  squares. No, that was what the other man told me."
               "Sir, if you please, where is Hamlin's Hotel?"
               "This way, Miss, cross the corner; four squares above—wooden building." Again the
                  poor girl went through the streets for some time, saying to herself:
               "I think he said turn to the left; four times round the corner of a wooden
                  building. I am getting very tired."
               "Where is Hamlin's Hotel, please sir?"
               "Up this street, opposite the Magnolia." Harriet still continued to walk, saying
                  to herself, "Magnolia street, Magnolia street."
               "Please, sir, which is Hamlin's Hotel?"
               "There, madam, do you see that large sign?" and away went the speaker.
               "Yes," and Harriet looked sharply up the street, but to save her life she could
                  see nothing like a sign. Then she muttered to herself, "This, that is troubling
                  me, must be what, people call 'absent minded.'" But, on she went, looking at
                  everything, but seeing nothing.
               "Please, sir, where is Hamlin's Hotel?"
               "You are out of your way, madam; go back to that corner, and keep down Fourth
                  street," and the man dodged his head and started on. Harriet turned and walked
                  toward the corner, saying to herself:
               "What in the world did he say? Turn to the left? Why don't the people tell
                  plainer? I shall not find that hotel to-day." But again she moved on, and again
                  she asked:
               "Which is Hamlin's Hotel, please?"
               "That large sign, yonder." Harriet could see no sign—only a heavy mist. But she
                  went a piece further and again asked, and was answered, "Three doors above, Miss."
                  Harriet felt a great weakness—she had supposed she was perfectly capable of
                  self-control when about to meet her intended; but she now experienced a weakness
                  and agitation that she had never dreamed of—it was a fluttering sensibility that
                  made her wish she was in some other part of the world. Only a few steps more and
                  she was to be in his presence! She moved toward the door, she rapped upon it, she
                  trembled, she heard footfalls within, she knew that some one was coming! O! who
                  might it be! But the door opened, and a woolly-headed colored lady stood before
                  the fainting girl.
               "Ha, Miss, is you sick, you look so white?" and the colored lady reached out her
                  fleshy hand to support Harriet.
               "No, I am not sick," and Harriet leaned upon the colored woman, and walked into
                  the sitting-room, looking closely about the room.
               "Does Mr. Simons live here?"
               "What Mr. Simons, Miss? I don't know no man by that 'ar name."
               "Is Mrs. or Mr. Hamlin about?"
               
               "O! I remember! Was it him what was in cahoot with Mr. Hamlin, the man what you
                  first axed fur?"
               "Yes, I think he was a partner."
               "Ho, why he's done gone long—long ago, that Mr. Simons has. Was he some 'lation of
                  yourn, Miss?"
               "Then, where are Hamlin and his wife?"
               "Ho, them is done gone too, I 'spect dey is fur 'nough 'fore now—dey is. You is
                  some 'quaintance, Miss?"
               "Yes, but where are they gone to?" and Harriet experienced a sad feeling of
                  disappointment.
               "Where is dey gone to, Miss, you ax? Why I thought everybody know'd dey is done
                  gone to de States long—long ago."
               "Gone o the States!" exclaimed Harriet.
               "Yes, Miss, so de people says, dey is all done gone togedder—dey is."
               "Mr. Simons, too?"
               "Yes, Miss, dey leave here I 'spect 'bout four months ago—dey did."
               "O! I have heard from them since that time."
               "Well, I dun no, Miss, 'zactly, but seem to me mighty long."
               "Are you sure they went to the States?"
               "Well, I's not sure, but I is right certain, kase Mr.
                  Simons, that is him you first axed me 'bout, didn't come here when Mr. Hamlin come
                  to take Mrs. Hamlin away. So, I don't 'zactly know, but I 'spect dey is all done
                  gone home."
               "Well, who can tell me all about them?"
               "I dun no, Miss, but I 'spect thar isn't nobody 'bout kin tell you no more 'bout
                  'em than I kin. Is dey some 'ticular friend of yourn?"
               "Yes, they are; but do you not know of anybody who saw them start?"
               "Why, Miss, didn't I see 'em myself? The very day dey had the law-suit; I come
                  here to work—I did."
               "But you don't know for certain whether they went to the States, or went to some
                  other part of the country?"
               "No, I don't 'zactly know for certain, but I's right
                  sure."
               "Then you can't tell me to whom I had better go, to find out?"
               "No, I dun no, Miss. But round the corner thar, on Fourth street, is Mrs. Joicet
                  who ought to know, kase her and Mrs. Hamlin use to be as thick as three in a
                  bed—dey did."
               "Who is that?"
               "Mrs. Joicet, on Fourth street."
               "Mrs. Joicet?"
               "Yes, Mrs. Joicet."
               "That's a curious name."
               "She is a curious woman too—she is."
               "Mrs. Joicet, on Fourth street?"
               "Yes, Mrs. Joicet, on Fourth street; go round the corner, and the first yaller
                  door you come to is hers—Mrs. Joicet."
               "Can I leave my little package here?" said Harriet, rising.
               "Ho, yes, Miss, very happy to 'commodate you. You is not well, Miss?"
               "O, yes! I am very well, but do I not look as though I was well?"
               "Yes, 'cept you is looking so curious, 'bout like sick folks when dey is out of
                  their head, that's all. That ar little dog of yourn is the handsomest dog in
                  California, I 'spect."
               "Come, Sporty," said Harriet, as she took leave of her colored companion.
               "Yes, Miss, the first yaller door round the corner; Missis Joicet."
               "I think I can find it; thank you," said Harriet, and again she reached the noisy
                  street, and made her course for Mrs. Joicet's. Her disappointment entirely removed
                  the agitation under which she had been laboring, and she round no difficulty in
                  finding Mrs. Joicet's "yaller" door; but a far different sense of her unfortunate
                  condition now seemed to govern her feelings. Should Simons be gone to the States,
                  what could she do? She had but little money! She had no credit, except with Mrs.
                  Case, and she could not accept of her money. No, nothing but to work for money.
                  But there was still a hope. When reaching the said "yaller" door, she found a
                  robust, middle-aged woman in a scrubbing position, driving the suds in broken
                  channels over the floor, and sweating beautifully at her work.
               
               "Does Mrs. Joicet live here?" The scrubbing woman arose to her feet, smiled a
                  little, let down her skirts, and replied:
               "Yes, Miss, that's my name," and her particularly mild voice won Harriet's
                  affections quicker than the twinkling of an eye.
               "Walk in," said Mrs. Joicet, and she threw back a loose sun-bonnet, and discovered
                  a noble head, covered with a beautiful crop of heavy brown curls. Ah! how
                  strangely would this scrubbing woman compare with the servant or the lady of
                  Europe. Did not those long lashes shade as clear brown eyes as ever beamed forth
                  love and virtue, as ever adorned the heavenly innocence of the mildest dove—so
                  like an angel she seemed! A scrubbing woman! Could she sing? Was she accomplished?
                  Could she love like a lady, or were her susceptibilities blunted and hardened like
                  a European servant? Could these strange qualities in the American woman be the
                  principal cause of the American man bestowing more esteem upon her sex than any
                  other man does? But Harriet did not think of all these mysteries then. No, a more
                  important subject was weighing upon her heart, and she saw in an instant that she
                  had met a warm, sympathizing friend.
               "I have come to make inquiry after Hamlin and his wife, and Mr. Simons." Mrs.
                  Joicet looked at Harriet as if to discover a likeness to some of the persons
                  mentioned, and even then seemed as if some strange thought flitted through her
                  brain. Harriet noticed it, and thought, "perhaps Simons has been describing my
                  large gray eyes to her."
               "Take a seat, please," said the scrubbing woman. "They have returned to the
                  States."
               "Have they all returned?"
               "Yes, Miss, they are all gone," and a dim paleness stole over her face as she eyed
                  Harriet, and she thought, "this surely looks like the girl they told me was
                  drowned in the Yuba!"
               "Were you much acquainted with them?"
               "Yes, Miss, I was very well acquainted with Mrs. Hamlin and her brother." Harriet
                  remembered that Parker had once told her that Simons had found a sister, and the
                  curious ideas that came so rapidly into her mind almost stopped her speech. At
                  length she asked:
               "Was Simons her brother?"
               "Yes, he was; but, if you will pardon me, I would like to ask if your name is not
                  Mary Sparks, from Cincinnati." Harriet turned many colors, but quickly
                  replied:
               "I am Mary Sparks, from Cincinnati."
               The scrubbing woman shook like an aspen, and seemed ready to burst into tears, but
                  she faintly said:
               "My dear girl, your intended thinks you are no longer living! He has long since
                  mourned your death, with more real sorrow than a man ever before mourned!" Harriet
                  felt that she could press her face upon Mrs. Joicet's neck, and weep with
                  trouble—so like a heavenly resting-place seemed that sympathizing face and
                  graceful neck. After a long pause, Harriet faintly said:
               "Then he has not heard that I came to California?"
               "O! yes; he received a letter from you when you were just leaving San Francisco to
                  go to Marysville, with one Mrs. Ellis."
               "He received that letter?"
               "Yes, but I think it had been written nearly three months before he received
                  it."
               "Can this be?" and a hundred wild ideas flitted through Harriet's mind more
                  rapidly than time itself can travel. Mrs. Joicet saw it, and, lest a dark
                  suspicion should seize upon the girl's mind, she hastened to tell all she
                  knew.
               "As soon as he received your letter, or at least in a few days after, he set out
                  to find you. But when he reached Marysville, he heard of a lady of the same name
                  having committed suicide, by drowning herself in the Yuba—she had left a slip of
                  paper pinned to the willows."
               "O! Heaven! forgive me!" Harriet cried, "I remember that slip of paper!" but the
                  spell was broken, and her tears relieved her sorrow. "I am that miserable girl you
                  speak of; I pinned that paper to the willows!" Mrs. Joicet remembered the hard
                  words that the clergyman's wife and the old maid had said, to induce the
                  unfortunate girl to despair in her undertaking; and she wondered very much what
                  kind of sentiment it was that gave cloak and comfort to such suspicious persons;
                  but she finally concluded that the said
                  women must be unhappy, and consequently, take delight in making others so.
               "Do not weep, Miss Sparks; a brighter day lies before you. Cheer up, you can yet
                  meet your intended." These words seemed to Harriet even milder and more soothing
                  than the angelic voice that accompanied them; and she looked upon those dove-like
                  eyes, from which sympathy, love, and happiness, continued to utter volumes of
                  comfort at every silent turn.
               "How long since have they left?"
               "O! it is several weeks, but I don't know exactly; I was in the country at the
                  time." Harriet tried hard to think of some plan that would enable her to return to
                  the States; but it would require two hundred dollars, and she had not the tenth of
                  that amount, at least she would not have, after paying Parker back what she
                  already owed him. Then she thought how long it would take her to make two hundred
                  dollars, if she continued to live with Mrs. Case and take in sewing; but that
                  would require too long a period. Then she thought of going to work in a hotel or
                  boarding-house, where, by "roughing it," she might earn the money by two months'
                  employment. This was the most favorable, and she fancied herself quite capable and
                  willing to enter upon the said duties. But could she get into a house where there
                  were no gamblers and politicians? Could she venture into an establishment where
                  the gentlemen carry bowie-knives and revolvers? Old Dr. Sparks had always told
                  her, that such persons were dangerous and wicked, ah! were very probably guilty of
                  some atrocious crime, and carried these weapons to shield their iniquity; and that
                  teaching of the old doctor's still so impressed her that it contained a feasible
                  truth. But were there no good, orderly, civilized houses, where she could get
                  employment? These are great cities, and surely one or the other must,
                     ought to contain one house where a woman could be employed without
                  being continually shocked by the appearance of these dreadful weapons? Harriet
                  thought of all this in a moment of time, and a strange chill shook her system—it
                  was a bad sensation, like a similar one when she sat upon the banks of the Yuba!
                  but not accompanied by the same despondent feeling, for a ray of hope now shone in
                  the distant, dark future; and though its distance seemed to be accompanied by a
                  hundred vicissitudes, she feared not but that she could surmount them all.
               Upon her various troubles and anxieties, she and Mrs. Joicet conversed as
                  familiarly as two misters. Mrs. Joicet assured Harriet, that she knew of a very
                  good house where employment and good wages could be had. Then she again plied
                  herself to her scrubbing, all the time talking, telling what a good little woman
                  was Mrs. Hamlin, and what a likeness and sacred attachment existed between her and
                  her brother, Simons. So she continued to entertain Harriet, until she had her door
                  and door-sill as white as wood could be. After she had finished this humble duty,
                  she threw off her servant-like dress, and came out a neatly-dressed lady, and just
                  in time to meet her sociable-looking, sandy-headed, sort of farmer-like, happy
                  husband, whom she made acquainted with Harriet in quite a lady-like fashion; and,
                  while these two entertained each other with conversation, Mrs. Joicet emptied the
                  pots which had been so long boiling, stewing and frying, and in a remarkably short
                  time they were all seated at a rich, smoking hot dinner.
               "Come, now," said Mrs. Joicet, after the dinner was past, "if you wish, I will
                  accompany you to that house where they want a woman to assist at their housework."
                  Harriet knew how to appreciate such services, and very gladly accepted the
                  proposal. After crossing a few dusty streets, they reached a quiet,
                  comfortable-looking, half-private, half-public boarding-house. Here they were met
                  by a very old, pale woman, who said:
               "O, is it you, Mrs. Joicet, I am so glad you have come to see me," and she shook
                  her hands warmly; when Mrs. Joicet said:
               "Mrs. Lawson, Miss Mary Sparks," and the old woman showered a great many blessings
                  upon both the others. After they had sat, conversing upon common matters for
                  awhile, Mrs. Joicet said:
               "Mrs. Lawson, this young lady is anxious to get employment somewhere, and as I am
                  partially acquainted with you both, I concluded that I should be doing you a favor
                  by getting such good persons to meet."
               
               "Thank you," said Harriet, and in spite of her serious troubles, a smile spread
                  over her face.
               "Can you do housework?" the old lady asked, looking at Harriet's general
                  appearance.
               "O! yes, I am used to it."
               "How much wages would you want? mind now, I am not able to give much!" Harriet
                  studied a little, and said:
               "I don't know, I'm sure; how much can you afford to give?"
               "Well, if you are a good girl, I'll give you a hundred dollars a month."
               "Perhaps, I'm not good?"
               "Well, you look good enough, but, to make no hard feelings hereafter, you can come
                  one month, and if we don't like each other, you need stay no longer."
               Upon that condition a bargain was struck, and Harriet was to commence her duties
                  on the following morning. A brighter day had not been hers for many months, than
                  the present now seemed; for, although when at San Francisco, she expected daily to
                  hear, or meet Simons, yet doubts and troubles always harassed her hopes. But now,
                  she saw her way clear—that she could earn the means, and soon return to the
                  States. In the meantime, she resolved that she would write to Cincinnati, and
                  explain all her conduct, and that she should soon meet the man for whom she had
                  endured so much. These wild ideas somewhat interrupted her conversational powers
                  with Mrs. Joicet and Mrs. Lawson. After a good afternoon's visit, she and Mrs.
                  Joicet returned, and again crossed over that white door-sill, and seated
                  themselves in the room which had received such a scrubbing in the morning. Harriet
                  now remembered her package which she had left at Hamlin's Hotel, and straight away
                  she proceeded for it, for she had promised to remain all night with Mrs.
                  Joicet.
               "You is lookin' much better, Miss," said the colored lady, as Harriet entered.
                  "Did you find out whar Missis Joicet lives?"
               "O! yes, thank you, and I have returned for my little package."
               "Yes; Miss is you gwyne to live with Missis Joicet, is you?"
               "Yes, for a short time."
               "Missis Joicet am a mighty nice woman—she is; kin do more work 'an any nigger
                  kin," and the colored lady opened a chest, where she had very carefully placed
                  Harriet's parcel. "Here am your parsil, Miss."
               "Thank you; very much obliged," and Harriet took the package.
               "You is welcome, Miss—'fectly welcome any time," and she bowed sociably to
                  Harriet, who answered it, and again entered the street. This was near sunset, and
                  many people were enjoying an evening promenade along the sidewalks. Harriet had
                  not proceeded but a few paces from the hotel, when some one called:
               "Miss Lindsey, Miss Lindsey!" It was the voice of a man! She turned and looked
                  among the vast crowd, but instantly a gentleman touched her shoulder, and
                  said:
               "Happy to meet you, Miss Lindsey."
               "Mr. Parker!" exclaimed Harriet, shaking his hand.
               "Ah! what can that affectionate gasp mean?" she thought, the very instant he
                  touched her hand. Then those noble eyes never seemed so beautiful—never before so
                  unnerved her resolution as now. And, that proud brow and dignified face had never
                  before blushed and quailed in her presence as they now did. "Should he be in love
                  with me, and make proposals for my hand, when he so commands my heart, how can I,
                  O! how can I deny him!" All this passed through Harriet's mind in a single moment,
                  and the presence of this friend, one who had proved himself to be equal to a
                  brother, gave her a species of pleasure and fear which almost confounded her
                  speech.
               "When did you leave San Francisco, Miss Lindsey?" said Parker, as they started
                  on.
               "Yesterday afternoon," said Harriet, and she placed her hand upon Parker's arm,
                  and thought—"Why went my hand so quickly there? It seemed to go itself!"
               "Do you enjoy good health now?" he asked.
               "Very well, thank you, but I was afraid you would never return from the Indian
                  war, it seemed so long," and again Harriet thought: "Why did I so express my anxiety about his
                  return?" But he said:
               "Well, it's all over now, and I have returned 'safe and sound' at last." Harriet
                  replied:
               "O! I was so unhappy. I could scarcely rest, I was so afraid something might
                  befall you," and again Harriet thought: "O! why do I so express my regard for
                  him?" and immediately she said: "But you will never go away so long again, will
                  you? I can not live if you do," but she became so terrified at what she was
                  saying, that she heard not a word that Parker replied. "Here," said Harriet, "I
                  stop here—Mrs. Joicet's. I am almost a stranger here, but I can venture to ask you
                  in."
               "Thank you," said Parker, "I shall be very happy to have some particular
                  conversation with you, privately, if you please."
               "With pleasure," said Harriet, as they entered, but how quickly she thought of his
                  words, "privately," "particular"—and she told him "with pleasure!"
               After a general introduction, they all sat in social conversation for awhile.
                  Parker related the particulars of the war, which, as nearly everybody is
                  acquainted with it, we shall omit, and he was not at all backward in expressing
                  his conscientious feelings upon so outrageous a proceeding. It was not long,
                  however, when Mrs. Joicet excused her absence until she could prepare them some
                  supper; but scarcely had she left the room when Parker drew his chair beside
                  Harriet, who remembered the words, "particular" "privately," and an involuntary
                  impulse directed her eyes filled with tears, toward the blushing face of her
                  devoted, invaluable friend.
               "Miss Lindsey," said he, and he took her pale, helpless hand into his, smiled
                  beneath his tears, and continued—"My angelic friend! who have, by your own
                  constancy and love for another, given me a higher appreciation of my
                  fellow-creatures, instilled me with more regard for myself, and completely
                  reformed my wicked life, permit me to acknowledge to you that whatever good there
                  is, or may be after this, of my life, is entirely owing to your influence over me.
                  Now them, I know you must be anxious to return to your parents, and as I am going
                  direct to the States, I shall be happy to conduct you to your old home." Harriet
                  was unable to make any reply, and Parker continued:
               "You can trust me, Miss Lindsey; if you ever had a true friend, you have one now.
                  Think not I have any selfish end in view. Seeing you so pure has made me a better
                  man, has driven me away from the gaming-table, and has thereby given me a fortune.
                  There can be no further hope that the man to whom you have been so long attached
                  is living."
               "He is living!" and Harriet, continued to look steadily into Parker's face.
               "Possible, he lives?" said Parker, and Harriet noticed that he pressed her hand a
                  little more.
               "He lives, and has returned to the States."
               "Can that be?" and Parker raised her hand—it seemed helpless—and pressed it to his
                  lips, then restored it carefully to her lap, and sat silent, unconscious of his
                  tears.
               "They are supposed to be gone about two months."
               "They?"
               "Yes, he had a sister, as you once told me."
               "So I thought."
               "Yes; Mrs. Hamlin is her name."
               "Hamlin!" repeated Parker, rising to his feet. "What Hamlin?"
               "I don't know his given name," said Harriet, "but it was the same who kept the
                  hotel on —"
               "O! how can I bear it any longer!" Parker interrupted; "how can I bear it! how can
                  I—" and he paced quickly toward the door. Harriet remembered that she had once
                  before mentioned Hamlin's name in Parker's presence, and that it startled him
                  then, and now she felt herself unable to ask for an explanation. But Parker
                  collected himself again, and said:
               "I beg pardon, Miss Lindsey, I may be able some day to explain all this, but now I
                  can not. But tell me all you know about them." Unfortunately Harriet had but
                  little to relate, for all she knew she had already told, but when she had finished
                  repeating it, Parker replied:
               
               "Then you now do need me to conduct you home. Even if you had the means you could
                  not venture alone; but I am willing, more than willing, to give you all the
                  assistance I can."
               "But I have engaged to work for Mrs. Lawson for that very purpose, to get money to
                  carry me back to the States."
               "Noble girl!" said Parker, again taking a seat, and looking upon Harriet. "I am
                  going, Miss Lindsey, and I can not leave you here working for the money to carry
                  you home. I cannot hear of such a thing."
               "But I can never repay you."
               "Miss Lindsey!" and Harriet looked upon his noble form as he continued, "have I
                  not been to you all that man could have been? Can you now impeach my promises, and
                  doubt my benevolence? Have I not told you that my regard for your virtues has
                  entirely reformed my character? Have I not long since told you that I first
                  commenced a bad life because I thought nobody cared anything about me? I know of
                  but one person now who confides in me as a friend should—that is you. And will you
                  even deny me your friendship?"
               Harriet's attention was so riveted upon him she could not find words to reply, but
                  Parker smiled, took her hand again, pressed it to his lips, and said: "No, Miss
                  Lindsey, I know you will not refuse to be my friend, I know you cannot. Then do
                  not say anything about repaying me. Say nothing to me that you would
                  not to a father or a brother. Resolve to accompany me, and you shall soon see your
                  father, mother, and your intended! Hesitate no longer, for I cannot, will not
                  live, if you cannot accept my proffered favor."
               Harriet remembered that Parker had once told her about his sister, who finally
                  proved to be a "Sally," and she had never had this matter explained to her mind,
                  and though she would have given a world to know, yet she would have a world to
                  fall upon her before she would even suffer herself to believe he was deserving of
                  suspicion. Then she thought of the dangers of going home without some one to
                  accompany her—the difficulties of a sea voyage, the crossing of the Isthmus, and,
                  above all, of being among entire strangers. But the greatest difficulty was, she
                  was indebted to Parker for her life; he had been as faithful to her, during her
                  illness, as could have been a brother, and it seemed very curious to her if that
                  strange power which he had over her was not occasioned by the affliction of her
                  own heart toward him; it seemed as though she loved him, and yet she had heard
                  that folks cannot love but one—strange thing this. Then she thought perhaps Parker
                  would gain such an intimacy with her during her voyage at sea as to insist upon
                  her hand, and, if he should, she feared that she could not command power to deny
                  him.
               "I perceive your trouble, Miss Lindsey," Parker continued, "you are afraid to
                  trust yourself in my company!" Harriet remained silent, but Parker soon continued:
                  "I will tell you an incident that may give you a notion of what kind of a man I
                  am. Do you remember that I once told you that I had a sister coming to this
                  country? I know you remember all about it. She was not my sister, and you now know
                  it also. I introduced you to a woman of ill-fame! Yes, I did it. Why?
                  I will tell you. I had resolved to make you my mistress, not my wife. I didn't
                  want a wife. I have once been badly, cruelly, foully deceived by a woman; she
                  submitted to the counsel of her guardians, and, during may absence, married her
                  cousin, and they all ran off together. I lost all my confidence in woman; I didn't
                  think there would be any harm in making a mistress of you, and that was the plan I
                  chose, to get you to visit that house until I could establish an intimacy. But you
                  were too harmless and unsuspecting; my own remorse and wounded conscientious
                  feelings saved you. Yes, though I am ashamed to acknowledge my guilty plan, it has
                  caused me many an unhappy thought. I felt so bad that I endeavored to break up
                  that den; and by so doing, that same woman, 'Sally,' has sworn to have my life;
                  but I avoid her. Now, believe me, I have told you the truth; your own innocence
                  and constancy have saved you, have given me a higher opinion of woman, and have
                  made me an honest and upright man. Say, will you accompany me to your father's
                  home?"
               Parker had undoubtedly reformed (as afterward proved); but Harriet did not know
                  it, and as she sat in trouble, she thought:
               
               "O, Heaven! I invoke thy almighty power to dispel the clouds that hover over my
                  unknown future—to illume the fearful pathway through which I aim seeking to travel
                  to thy eternal glory—to brighten and efface the sore afflictions which my timid
                  anticipations are heaping upon a heart that feels its olden pledge as sacred as
                  thy unchangeable laws—to give me power to decide upon that which is likely to
                  affect my happiness and welfare on earth, and my peace in eternity. O, Heaven!
                  help!" Her silence was soon broken. She looked into Parker's face, smiled, and
                  replied to his proposal:
               "Yes, I will accompany you to the States."
               The next day seemed as the commencement of a new era. The streets and the houses
                  seemed more natural. The sun shone more mildly, and the few gray clouds that
                  streaked the heavens seemed to add a loveliness to the California brightness which
                  it never had before received. In fact, Harriet was nearly happy, and she already
                  began to think nearly everybody else so. Curious world this; seems to change
                  according to one's prospects.
               Harriet thought about leaving the city, but every street, stump, tree, house,
                  everything she looked upon, made her reflect: "Ah! I shall see you no more!" and
                  then she tried hard to fix them all in her imagination, so that, in after years,
                  she could recollect them all—where they stood, how they lay, and what color the
                  houses were. Silly things, these; but, reader, if you have ever traveled, and have
                  any susceptible feelings at all, no matter how long your head is, or how
                  philosophical your nature, you have experienced these same silly observations—when
                  a mere trifle could have started a tear. Then came the sad separation from Mrs.
                  Lawson and Mrs. Joicet, to whom she was surprised to find how much she was
                  attached. She had only been with them a day, a single day, but she thought she had
                  discovered a new series of adhesive philosophy—that human beings never know how
                  much they love each other until circumstances separated them, that, even where
                  there was only a moderate attachment, a forcible separation was the greatest
                  outrage that circumstances could produce; then she remembered the deeds done in a
                  certain Christian country, and her heart seemed about to break, to think that the
                  noblest work of God could commit such crimes, and even laugh at, and threaten
                  destruction to, the sympathy that she possessed for her fellow-creatures. Harriet
                  had never thought of this before. She had never before separated from living
                  people whom she never expected to meet again. Then she thought, if everybody had
                  to undergo these sad separations a few times, they would then love and regard
                  their fellow-mortals with that sacred feelings which is natural to the human
                  heart, but stripped of its purity by teaching little ones to hate those of a
                  different sect. But the hour arrived. Harriet explained to Mrs. Lawson the whole
                  nature of her case; the old woman pronounced many blessings upon the girl's head,
                  they exchanged many affectionate words, then separated.
               Then she returned to bid a farewell to Mrs. Joicet; but, on her way to the house,
                  she thought to herself, "If those dove-like eyes shall fill with tears, when I
                  look upon her for the last time, I can not conceive that I have the power to leave
                  her, for really it seems to me, that Mrs. Joicet can not be a mortal being!" and
                  as she thought of this, thick mists came before her, and she felt a weakness
                  stealing over her system. Nevertheless, she reached the house, said a few words,
                  and, in company with Parker, she prepared to leave. And for the last time she
                  turned to look upon the scrubbing woman. Those dark-brown curls seemed like crape
                  suspended about a marble tomb—contrasting sadly with the paleness that extended
                  over her fair features; those long lashes and dove-like eyes too, seemed sad and
                  heavy; but in her trembling hands she held a slip of paper, which she turned
                  heedlessly back and forth, betraying the unconsciousness of her actions, and the
                  mysterious workings of silent affection. And as Harriet looked upon this
                  heaven-like figure, she thought to herself: "O! heavens! must I leave her? and am
                  I no more to meet the soul which is now so congenial with mine, without either
                  language or motion, but mingles so perfectly in dead silence that even my own
                  imagination can not keep pace with the reciprocal pledges that each one is
                  disclosing and sealing down, ultimately to be again unfolded in the eternal world,
                  where we shall meet to part no more! O! how can I leave her?" But their hands were united, then shook, and
                  as the words adieu! farewell! were spoken, they experienced the last touch!
                  separated, and saw each other no more.
               
               "I think the boat will be crowded," said Parker, as they reached the levee, where
                  a vast collection of people were hurrying to and fro, or waiting to see the boat
                  off.
               "I think so," said Harriet, "and we had better quicken our speed a little, in
                  order to get good places," and on board they went; but scarcely were they on
                  board, when some one called out:
               "Miss Sparks, Miss Sparks!" and presently up came a very good-natured looking fat
                  man, holding out his hand: "you don't know me, Miss Sparks, eh? Well, I shouldn't
                  have known you either, if I hadn't seed the little dog I gave to you last
                  Spring!"
               "Is it possible?" said Harriet. "I am very happy to meet you, indeed."
               "How have you been, Miss?"
               "Not very well, all the time, but I am now."
               "And did you find your friend?"
               "No, I did not—he has returned to the States."
               "To the States!"
               "Yes, and I am now on my way there."
               "But is this man not your husband, if I may be so bold?" and the fat man pointed
                  toward Parker, who had politely withdrawn to purchase some tickets.
               "O! no," said Harriet, "he is only going to accompany me home. Colonel Parker is
                  his name."
               "Yes, I know him; he was with you when I seed you last Spring. But it seems so
                  very strange to me that you should be so much with this young fellow, and finally
                  agree to go home with him, that I almost think he is your husband, or very shortly
                  going to be!"
               "No, indeed, sir, that can never be. I am so situated that I could never look upon
                  him in that light—never!"
               "Well, really, you are a faithful, good girl, and I wish you all the happiness the
                  earth can give. Did Mr. Simons make his fortune, do you know?"
               "I don't know, but I judge not. He and a Mr. Hamlin were interested in some
                  property here, and I believe their title was not good, so they lost it."
               "Then you will stick to him if he is poor?"
               "What difference will his poverty make to me? It is he that I am going to marry,
                  and marry him I will!" and a dignified firmness accompanied the
                  girl's voice.
               "Well, you are a good girl, and I'll come and see you when I return to the States.
                  But tell me, how has the little dog been? Come here, Sporty, Sporty," and he
                  patted the little fellow's head, and he seemed to recognize his old master. "Poor
                  little fellow, he doesn't remember when I received him from his master on the
                  Plains."
               "He is very interesting."
               "You have a beautiful season to go home in. There! the bell is ringing; I must go,
                  good-by, Miss Sparks, may God bless you," and as the fat man leaped on shore, the
                  boat moved out into the river and floated away.
               As soon as Parker and Harriet reached San Francisco, they proceeded direct to Mrs.
                  Case's residence. Parker stopped a few minutes, and started out to purchase their
                  tickets for New York, promising to call in the morning. While he was absent,
                  Harriet related to Mrs. Case her experience in Sacramento, and her determination
                  to return to the States in company with Colonel Parker. Mrs. Case was somewhat
                  surprised at Harriet's hasty return, and hasty conclusion to return to the States;
                  but, finally, she concluded it was a very wise plan. Her esteem for Parker, who
                  was now hailed as a "statesman, philosopher, patriot, with other euphonious
                  titles," by all the well-dressed people, and by nearly all the newspapers, was
                  more than for any other person living—her John excepted. Consequently, she still
                  hoped that Harriet and he might "make a match," which she now considered as highly
                  probable, since they would be thrown into such close contact.
               
               It was a late hour at night, when Parker returned, and Mrs. Case had just been
                  speaking about shutting up her house for the night, and of retiring. But Parker's
                  return broke their sleepy mood, for he came in with a more lively spirit than was
                  at all usual to his character.
               "Here, Miss Lindsey," said he, holding up a large bundle, "I have brought you some
                  presents. Bring your lamp and examine them; you too, Mrs. Case. Women always know
                  the value of such things. I have brought you some of the nicest things in the
                  Chinese store. Real 'upper ten' sort of things," and he commenced to unroll the
                  package.
               "O!" exclaimed Harriet and Mrs. Case, as their eyes fell upon the dress
                  pattern.
               "Why, Mr. Parker!" exclaimed Harriet, "can you ever expect to have me accept such
                  a present?! Impossible!"
               "Certainly, you must accept them; I bought them on purpose for you." The instant
                  he spoke, a feeling of despair forced itself upon Harriet's mind; for she now
                  feared more than ever that he would insist upon her hand, and, if so, she could
                  see no possible escape from his wishes.
               "O! Mr. Parker!" said she, "if I should accept this dress I shall never be where I
                  shall dare to wear it. There is not so fine a dress worn by any lady in
                  Cincinnati." Parker laughed, and replied:
               "You don't know yet but you may have an offer from a gentleman who can afford to
                  keep you clothed in such a material all the time. Strange marriages take place
                  sometimes. You will look well in that dress, Miss Lindsey, capital," and he tossed
                  it into her lap.
               "O! I cannot accept this," said Harriet, as she endeavored to read Parker's mind,
                  "it is impossible! it is too rich for me."
               "But, I don't ask you whether you wish or not to accept them—they are bought
                  expressly for you, and, if you will pardon me for the word, I say you must accept
                  them." Harriet was unable to make any reply; that powerful eye, that noble brow of
                  his, were cast upon her, and she lost her command; and turning the gaudy silk over
                  as if examining it, she felt as though it was almost impossible to refrain from
                  sobbing aloud. But another article came forth—a rich shawl. It was such a shawl as
                  entirely baffles our knowledge of woman's wear. A sort of heavy,
                  white flowers and vines, trees, and, in fact, every sort of vegetable curiosity,
                  all raised work, each tree or vine made into little cushions, which, for color and
                  general appearance, looked so near like nature herself, that one would feel very
                  much inclined to take a snuff at the flowers, or to pull the berries or fruit. A
                  capital shawl it was.
               "O! did I ever!" exclaimed Mrs. Case, and she carried her baby and laid it on the
                  bed, and hastened to examine the shawl.
               "Why law me!" said she, "I never saw such fine work! But you mustn't handle it,
                  Mr. Parker. Gentlemen's hands are always so rough. You'll spile it, Mr. Parker,"
                  and she took it to have a more close inspection.
               "Always the way, Mrs. Case, women know how to examine things cautiously, to hear
                  them flatter themselves. But how do you like that, Miss Lindsey. You
                  thought the dress was fine, but how do you like that, hey?" Harriet
                  was too terrified to make an answer.
               "Miss Lindsey, have I offended you? if I have, you must know that it is the
                  deepest regret that I could possibly have, to say or to do anything to interfere
                  in the slightest degree with your every wish. But, why are you so silent? why do
                  you look so doubtingly upon me? I do not deserve your silent reproaches."
               "Mr. Parker," but poor Harriet was unable to say anything further, and only
                  continued to look upon him, who was so completely master of her wishes.
               "Take the shawl, Miss Lindsey, I trust that I know your sentiments. But here are a
                  few more things, accept these also, and I am forever happy; here," and he placed
                  them in her lap—they were fine jewels, a brooch, a bracelet, and several beautiful
                  finger-rings.
               "Mr. Parker, I cannot accept these, and I am very sorry to have you insist upon me
                  doing so."
               "Have I not been kind to you, that you should thus refuse my presents—presents
                  made to you on account of my sincere regard for your virtues? Is it because I was once a
                  gambler, that you are not disposed to show any respect to my regard for you? But
                  never mind; I know your feelings. Take and keep these presents, Miss Lindsey. It
                  is my wish, ay, it is my will!" Harriet examined the jewels, but with anything but
                  happy feelings. True, they were exceedingly beautiful; but Harriet was not a lover
                  of such materials. The dress and the shawl suited her wishes to a nicety, that is,
                  had they come from any other but Parker. But the jewels were what old Dr. Sparks
                  never approved of, and, by some strange fancy, Harriet had been inclined to think
                  that the old Doctor's notions were very good. She remembered that "Sally" wore
                  jewelry; and she thought that if she wore them, other people might perhaps judge
                  her, as she had good reason to judge "Sally." Therefore, under such
                  considerations, Harriet was so absorbed in thought as to be unable to converse
                  with either Parker or Mrs. Case, who were busying themselves by discoursing upon
                  the cost of such fine materials. Harriet now regretted that she had not remained
                  in Sacramento, instead of accompanying Parker to the States; but her regrets wee
                  useless. Parker turned toward her, after giving Mrs. Case entire satisfaction
                  about the prices, and said:
               "Well, Miss Lindsey, I have purchased our tickets for New York. We must be on
                  board at nine to-morrow morning. It's getting very late," and looking at his
                  watch, "five minutes past eleven. I must go. Have your things ready. I'll be here
                  at eight to-morrow morning." And after a few friendly remarks he took his
                  departure, leaving Harriet to pass a night in anything but sleep.
               Exactly as he promised, at eight next morning, Parker returned, to conduct Harriet
                  to the steamer. Mrs. Case, with her baby in her arms, accompanied them down to the
                  wharf, where, after a few farewell blessings, she and Harriet separated. Harriet
                  and Parker then went on board, but Mrs. Case continued to stand on the wharf,
                  looking toward them till the steamer moved outward.
               Thus the fair lady left her western home for her native city.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               SIMONS' good fortune in meeting his father opened an entirely new set of
                  resolutions in regard to returning to the States, for, as before mentioned, the
                  old man, had made invaluable discoveries in the river, and a good fortune seemed
                  close at hand. This success in his discoveries gave Uncle Thomas the enviable name
                  of the "Lucky Englishman;" and among most of the miners on the lower part of the
                  river he was known by no other. Among some of the superstitious, there was quite a
                  desire to be close to this "lucky Englishman," as though the angels that smiled
                  upon his reverend head might give them a call if they remained within at
                  reasonable distance. Indeed, some of these personages were so particularly
                  friendly as to go in a dead hour of the night, and move their boundary pegs
                  several feet upon the old man's territory, just as though they were also willing
                  to make a fortune! But after Simons and Hamlin joined the old man in occupation,
                  these aforesaid superstitious personages kept an eye to the one end of Hamlin's
                  arm, which would, on extra ordinary occasions, get certain convulsive motions
                  rather interdictive to other people's upright positions. Uncle Thomas had been for
                  a long time very much afraid of not receiving justice, and, accordingly, he
                  continued to pay the foreign tax for having pleased God to be born in England, a
                  fact that showed a great weakness in his mind, since God shows no favor to his
                  children; whereas, had he been born in America, as every sensible person ought to
                  be, he might have had a fortune long ago. In other respects, the old man enjoyed
                  his life quite as well as did most of his neighbors; and in a few days after his
                  son and his daughter came, when he and they were entirely reconciled to the
                  natural sense which generally belongs to human creatures; he seemed to decrease in
                  age, to increase in health and freshness, and, in fact to feel himself a far more
                  contented being than he had for a long time before. Neither was he at all backward
                  in telling the neighbors who finally became a little too numerous, what pride and esteem he took in his children;
                  but, even in this, we must confess that he claimed most of their good qualities as
                  being the result of their English blood. Never was a Catholic so blinded by the
                  secrets of priesthood, or a New Englander so bigoted to his religion; never was a
                  Southerner so regardless of human feelings; never was a Know Nothing so opposed to
                  the natural rights between God and man; nor scarcely ever were Catholic and
                  Protestant Christians more devotedly inclined to enforce each one's creed upon the
                  other, than was Uncle Thomas blind to American good qualities, or prejudiced
                  toward traits in the English character. Certainly, reader, you will say this man
                  had a great weakness; but; we ask, in what originated this prejudice? Uncle Thomas
                  had learning and experience. But, perhaps you will say, it is peculiar to the
                  English people? But we ask, to what people is it not peculiar? rather
                     particular—a particular particular, belonging to no particular
                  people, but particularly particular to all particular people; and a particular
                  particular, which may make us feel particularly particular, on a particularly
                  particular judgment day!
               But we must not be too hard upon the old man; he had very good reasons for
                  considering himself an injured man; he had experienced a distinction in
                  legislation for different people, which no other civilized nation makes to collect
                  money. He had heard of equal rights and freedom, and he loved their name. But when
                  he entered the free States he went into churches; he noticed certain colored
                  fringes round the galleries. Then he went into cities and villages, and heard a
                  word foreign to his foreign nature—for if there ever was a man on the face of the
                  earth that really loved his fellow-man, Uncle Thomas did—and that word so foreign
                  to his nature was—foreigner. Then he was a harmless sort of man, and when his
                  property was taken away from him, he began to hate the country; and like a young
                  man beginning to be disgusted with his lady-love, the very air of the heavens
                  seemed to be contaminated with the ugly tracks of the unfeeling monster, leaving
                  stains in the air, which always after show the silly grimaces and idiotic smiles
                  that once looked so like a comforting angel.
               But a better day was now beginning to dawn upon Uncle Thomas. The gold promised to
                  yet place him in a condition more happy than he had dreamed of since Downie's
                  death—to give him a home beside his own children, who were happy to participate in
                  his joys. Julia had always loved her husband, but she now had an additional tie.
                  She did not think of this at first, but before she was aware of it, the word father had a peculiar charm that revived her infant love. Then she
                  often thought it seemed strange that she could love her brother and her father
                  without diminishing the love she had for her husband, nay, she even thought that
                     he was more dear than before. Then she thought about them all
                  returning soon to Indiana; and she fancied that their good fortune would enable
                  them to purchase a good farm, and to build a good house; and in such a place she
                  could look into the future and see just how happy she should be with her brother
                  and her father, who were already beginning to take some interest in the Star
                  Spangled Banner, at least when she sang it. Yes, Julia thought of all
                  this; and the joyous appearance of the future caused her to remember that when she
                  was a little girl she had earnestly wished to have a house of her own some day, so
                  she could arrange all her own particulars, without being disturbed by the whims of
                  anybody else—even her flower-beds she now intended to have just as close to the
                  doors and windows as she chose. Then she could have the satisfaction of having her
                  friends coming to see her in her own house. But she pitied her brother. He had not
                  yet recovered from the sad loss of his intended, and she had tried all she knew to
                  comfort him, but tried in vain. He was a very plain sort of young man, and, owing
                  to the conduct of the clergyman and his wife, he was now getting "down on"
                  everything of a religious nature. And when she attempted to cheer him, by telling
                  him of a happier world, her own words seemed to heap sorrow and grief upon him,
                  and he even hated the heaven she spoke of.
               "Do Mr. Ellis and his wife go to heaven?" he would say, "then, God forbid that
                  ever I should! Give me eternal darkness, and the abode of the damned; plunge me
                  into everlasting torment in company with her whom they drove to ruin by their dough-faced Christianity; but God
                  forbid that I should ever be placed beside such human demons as are Mr. and Mrs.
                  Ellis!" And when he uttered such expressions, which he did very frequently, Julia
                  then perceived why it was that so much skepticism, in religious matters, was
                  spreading over our Christian country; and she began to wonder in her own mind,
                  whether these skeptics were not as much entitled to God's sympathy and forgiveness
                  as were the persons who drove them into such a state of hatred toward religious
                  institutions?
               But Simons' melancholy was not so broken up by his father or sister, as by little
                  Geordie. This little, white-headed specimen of an eight-year-old boy, proved to be
                  the most entertaining one of the party. After they all commenced working together,
                  Geordie generally helped Mrs. Hamlin about the tent-hold duties—such as cooking,
                  carrying water and wood, and talking about his little mates in London. But he
                  frequently got some leisure moments to assist the "men folks" at mining; though in
                  this occupation he did not do so well as previously to Simons and Hamlin's coming;
                  for Hamlin was one of those laughing sort of fellows, who delight in playing
                  tricks upon little boys; and, whenever Geordie came among them he would have a
                  tussling match, or call him to see something very extraordinary, which, on
                  examination, proved to be nothing at all. Such little matters soon caused a warm
                  attachment to spring up between them; for, from some unknown cause, Mr. and Mrs.
                  Hamlin had never been presented with any children of their own, a fact that caused
                  a particular tenderness on their part toward little Geordie. This was the first
                  respectable man with whom Geordie had ever been familiar, that is, so familiar as
                  to consider himself privileged to climb upon his back, to pull him over when he
                  was smoking, or to poke straws about his ears when he was taking his "nooning
                  snooze," or such like diversions. The consequence of this was, Hamlin soon became
                  Geordie's particular favorite. Geordie seemed to think well of Uncle Thomas, but
                  he was very far from considering the old man an equal to Hamlin. Between Simons
                  and himself there was no particular attachment on Geordie's part, though Simons'
                  orphan-like life turned his feelings in favor of Geordie. But Hamlin was Geordie's
                  greatest favorite, and by him he always walked when their party were going to, or
                  coming from their work. Cramming one hand into Hamlin's pocket, he walked beside
                  him with as much pride and importance as ever characterized an English newspaper's
                  fidelity to the "Stamp act." This attachment caused Mrs. Hamlin to take a great
                  interest in the boy's comfort and welfare, which was a kindness entirely new to
                  his experience in the world.
               Accordingly, this awakened new ideas in his head; and he frequently sat by her
                  side, watching her smiles and coquettish lips, while he told her how he would,
                  some day, come and buy a farm beside her, and get a wife, and have fine children,
                  and in fact, everything else of which little boys so often dream, when thinking of
                  the future. But at the bottom of all his affections, was his attachment to his
                  mates in London. To get these to California, to make them happy and comfortable,
                  seemed to be as earnest a wish as for that of his own. Neither was he devoid of
                  his remarkable self-esteem, even in this holy wish. HE could bring them out. HE
                  could put them into good business. HE could make them comfortable. HE would
                     do it, too. Such were his feelings, and the manner of expressing
                  himself, which, for so little a fellow, gave him a species of good-nature, that
                  won the admiration of all who knew him. Indeed, quite a type of a man was little
                  Geordie, so much so, that in a short time he had quite as many friends and
                  acquaintances as had anybody who lived in that neighborhood.
               Among these people he often talked of his little mates, and how hard they fared in
                  London. But, as before stated, this wounded the old man's pride, and these very
                  unequally matched individuals always got into a national dispute, whether England
                  or America were the greater or better country. In these discussions, Geordie
                  generally assumed very decided positions and important appearances, which
                  universally brought down showers of cheering from the listeners; and from this
                  encouragement, he not unfrequently made some very witty, lawyer-like remarks, or
                  commanded such "large, long words," that he nearly convulsed the more intelligent
                  ones with fits of laughter.
               
               Though now a change was dawning. Through the glorious prosperity that smiled upon
                  their party, these happy noons, these evenings of diversion, these Sunday
                  enjoyments, were all likely to pass away—to pass away, and provide space for a
                  more useful and exalted life. Gold came to them. Dollars were first counted, then
                  ounces, then pounds; and then, "leaving the country with a fortune," and returning
                  to the States, was beginning to be discussed in good earnest. They had several
                  applications made to them to purchase their ground, and they were almost inclined
                  to accept the offers that had been made. But here was a new feature. What was to
                  be done with little Geordie? He was so firmly attached to Hamlin and his wife that
                  his heart was nearly breaking. He could not return with them, for he wanted his
                  mates in California. And would you believe it, Mrs. Hamlin was so attached to the
                  little fellow that she feared she could not bear to be separated from him. She had
                  already withstood so many trials upon her affections that she felt conscious only
                  a few more would be needed to loosen her hold to earthly existence. Then, above
                  all, to leave such a little harmless boy with strangers, seemed more cruel than
                  she could think of doing. But she noticed how it affected his feelings. When they
                  would be sitting about the camp, and any one start the subject of returning to the
                  States, Geordie's large eyes would instantly sparkle with tears and turn upon
                  those of Julia. And such a look soon clouded her vision. It gave her
                  feelings a shock that even little Geordie would notice the very instant their eyes
                  met. Then he would look toward Hamlin a moment, then press his hand to his
                  forehead and walk away. Frequently he would fold his hands across his knees when
                  sitting in the camp, and look toward Julia and Mr. Hamlin, alternately, but
                  without saying a single word. Then sometimes he would come to Julia, take hold of
                  her hand, and say, "You make me think of my mother! I wish I could die and go to
                  see her!"
               Simons looked upon a life in some of the Atlantic States as much better calculated
                  to remove his dejection and trouble, than was anything within the California
                  territory; and to reach them, he endeavored to persuade his companions to sell
                  out; but in this he could not exactly effect his wishes. When he was one day
                  conversing with them upon this matter, he noticed some people passing along the
                  road toward the "upper diggings," in company with whom he discovered his long lost
                  dog, Sporty! Rising to his feet, he called:
               "Sporty! Sporty! Sporty!" and the little dog came bounding toward him, while he
                  told his sister of his discovery. They had often heard him, speaking of this
                  little favorite, and they immediately rose to their feet to look upon it. The dog
                  only partially recognized his old master, and keeping at a respectful distance, he
                  turned his head half sidewise, and seemed inclined to doubt whether Simons was
                  exactly the person he took him to be. But Simons persisted:
               "Sporty, Sporty," and, finally, Sporty concluded it was all perceived this
                  recognition, and immediately approached Simons, saying:
               "Do you know that dog, sir?"
               "Yes, sir," said Simons, "he is my own dog."
               "Your dog!" repeated the stranger, looking at Simons from head to foot.
               "Yes, sir, he is my dog; I raised him."
               "Then, sir, please tell me how I may know that you are the real owner?"
               "Is he yours?" and Simons took a careful look at the dog again.
               "No, he is not mine, but I have a very strong claim upon him; but—"
               "Well, I can tell you," Simons interrupted, "I can tell you where you got him—you
                  got him on the Plains."
               "Where?"
               "I don't know, but I lost him not far on this side of the Rocky Mountains."
               "How came you to lose him?" and a smile spread over the stranger's face.
               "I don't remember exactly how, but I know I first missed him when I was traveling
                  alone, I was very ill at the time."
               
               "Well," said the stranger, "tell me, is your name Nathan Simons?"
               Simons knew it was not common for people to know his given name, for, by some
                  curious neglect, even since he found his father, he was always called Simons, even
                  his sister and his father called him by no other, while the old man was still
                  called Uncle Thomas, except by Julia and Nathan. Accordingly, bearing this
                  stranger, who smiled so familiarly on him, call him by his full name, startled him
                  in all instant, and he almost thought he was going to meet another father, uncle,
                  or something of the kind, and he took a good survey of the stranger.
               "That is my name—Nathan Simons."
               "Well, then, Mr. Simons, I am very happy to see you—I should never have known
                  you," and he took Simons' hand and gave it a hearty shake.
               "But, sir, I beg pardon, I don't know you."
               "Neither would you if I should tell you; but, sir, the first place I seed you was
                  on the Plains. You stopped at my wagon when you were very sick, and you left the
                  dog with me when you started on."
               "O, I remember."
               "But, sir, I have a great deal to tell you—more than you are aware of," and he
                  beckoned for Simons to step to one side; but Simons already apprehended something
                  extraordinary.
               "Tell me, sir," said the stranger, as soon as they were a little to one side, "are
                  you not acquainted with a young lady by the name of Mary Sparks?"
               "I was—but she is no longer living."
               "Living! when did you hear that?" and the stranger seemed startled at such
                  information.
               "She has been dead for several months."
               "O, then, if that's what you know, I am happy to state that seed her not many days
                  ago, myself."
               "You saw her!" exclaimed Simons.
               "Certainly, I did. I got this dog of her; she was just going on board at boat for
                  San Francisco, and, as I jumped ashore, the dog followed."
               "This can not be, sir!" and turning pale with thought, he continued, "did you not
                  tell me that you got the dog of me on the Plains?"
               "But, sir, I met her last spring, and she would have the dog; so she had him, and
                  kept him all summer in Marysville and in San Francisco. Sir, I know I am right."
                  Simons made no reply, but eyed the stranger closely, as he proceeded. "She thinks
                  you are gone to the States, and she is in company with Col. Parker, going there to
                  meet you. I know I am right. She told me your whole story."
               Parker! Col. Parker?"
               "Yes, sir, Col. Parker."
               "But, see here, sir," and Simons took his pocket-book out and handed the stranger
                  the slip of paper that Harriet had pinned to the willows. He looked hastily over
                  it.
               "I know nothing about this," said he, "nothing at all; but I know that Mary Sparks
                  lives."
               "Now lives?"
               "Yes, I know she now lives."
               "Is this possible?"
               "Yes, sir, it's a positive fact."
               "When did you see her?"
               "Well, let me see, this is Tuesday, well, it must be about two weeks ago, I
                  think."
               "What about this Col. Parker?"
               "He's going to accompany her home; he's a particular friend of hers, I guess. He
                  is said to be a mighty smart man."
               "Friend of hers!"
               "O, not that, I know what you mean.; O, no, no, no, no! not at all. I joked her
                  about marrying him, but there's no danger of that, I'm sure. No, sir, the very
                  last words she said to me was, that she intended, not to marry him."
               "And, sir, you know this all to be true?"
               "True as you're born, sir. But my mates are getting a good ways on ahead, and I
                  must go. Good-day, sir but you have not thanked me for restoring your dog to you,"
                  said the stranger, laughing heartily.
               
               "Can you not stay?"
               "No, sir, I must go, good-day."
               "But I have not expressed my gratitude toward you, nor—"
               "Never mind, sir, I'll come and see you in Cincinnati, next hog-killing," and he
                  shook hands and departed, laughing as he hurried away to overtake his mates.
                  Simons then informed his sister of the news, and she informed the others. The
                  effect that this information produced in their party was beyond description. Until
                  this, Uncle Thomas had not been informed of Simons' former disappointment. But it
                  settled their mining operations. Little Geordie was obliged to submit to their
                  dissolution. They sold out without any delay. Their tent and mining tools were all
                  sold, and their accounts all settled. And, as tired as they all were of mining
                  they could not leave the occupation without the saddest feelings. To throw down
                  their tools, and say, "we have now got fortune enough to quit with," is a most
                  happy thought; but, on leaving this chance occupation, the freedom of an out-door
                  life, and the enjoyment of the moonlight nights in that heavenly summer-land,
                  produce impressions which the California miner will continue to remember and
                  cherish ever after; and, when about to leave, he feels so conscious of this fact
                  that he is sorry the time has at last arrived. As they were standing about their
                  camp late on the evening previous to their departure, none felt this sadness so
                  intensely as did little Geordie. Taking Julia's hand and turning toward the full
                  moon, he pointed upward.
               "Julia," said he, "this is our last night in the mountains together, and it seems
                  to me as if it is the last happy night I shall ever see in this world!"
               "Why, dear Geordie, you shouldn't talk so."
               "But I can't help it, Julia. Every now and then I see something in the skies that
                  makes me think of my mother! I think it's angels coming after me. They never came
                  to see me before. There! there! do you not see them, Julia?"
               "No, dear; you shouldn't think of such things. It's because you are sad that you
                  feel so." But Julia could scarcely control her own imagination, and she thought
                  there was a brilliancy in little Geordie that seemed more remarkable than
                  common.
               "Julia!" said he, with quite a clear voice, "I wish you to remember this evening,
                  with me standing by your side. It may be because I'm sad, I don't know, but it
                  seems to me I'm going very soon to see my mother after you go away! I never felt
                  so curious before, nor never could I see my mother or my mates so clearly."
               "O, dear! don't talk so, you cannot see your mother or your mates."
               "I don't know, Julia, but it seems so! I never before wished I was back to London
                  until to-night, and I don't know why it is."
               "O! it's because we are going to return to our homes;
                  that's what makes it."
               "Do you think so, Julia? But I was going to ask you something, and I forgot it. O,
                  I mind now—how do you think I shall live after you are gone?"
               "O! I expect you will soon find some good people to live with; boys have plenty of
                  chances."
               "But that ain't what I mean; I mean, that whenever I see the stars and moon and
                  skies, I'll think so much about our good nights together that I can't live. But I
                  don't, think I'll have long to mourn! I should like very much to see my mates once
                  more, but I'm afraid I never shall! Poor little boys! I never thought so before! I
                  shall be glad to get to San Francisco, so I can send my money to them!"
               "Do you not feel well, to-night, Geordie?"
               "Yes, Julia, I never felt so well in my life; but it makes me feel bad to be by
                  your side; and that's the reason I keep pressing your hand, so I can keep from
                  thinking I'm in some other country. And that's what makes me think, when you are
                  gone, I'll go away to another world!"
               On the following morning they took their final farewell of the Yuba. But the
                  little incidents, common scenes, traveling in an open wagon, then on a boat,
                  beautiful weather, and melancholy impressions on taking a farewell view of the
                  great Sierra Nevadas, must all be passed over, while we hastily follow them to
                     San Francisco, and find them safely
                  housed in the Bush Hotel, not even stopping to say anything about the
                     voraciously polite hotel-keepers who flocked the wharves, to
                  solicit travelers to their "best accommodation, and cheapest house in town," no,
                  we must not mention this; for the newspapers—the same that encouraged the Indian
                  war—may say something unfavorable of the style of our writing; then, these
                  newspapers can do such wonders, we had better begin to haul in a little, and see
                  what good we can say of this gambling State, which is so completely master of the
                  newspapers that they have not got the moral courage to try to suppress the legally
                  recognized crimes of the country. Hard sentence that; but we have written it, and
                  even so it shall go before the world.
               The Bush Hotel was a good house, and usually accommodated forty or fifty persons.
                  Of these persons, there were a greater number who were transient, being miners,
                  and traders from the mining regions, who were in the city on business, for a few
                  days only. Of the others, some were clerks, some were gamblers or politicians, and
                  some were fine, respectable, good, honest people. There were five or six ladies
                  also stopping there as boarders; and as our party were obliged to wait there
                  several days, on account of the steamer's time, Mrs. Hamlin fancied that she could
                  spend the time very agreeably.
               
               Through the letter which Simons had received from Harriet, he remembered that she
                  had been living with one Mrs. Case, on N— street. Accordingly, early on the next
                  morning after his arrival in San Francisco, he repaired thither.
               "Does Mrs. Case live here?"
               "Yes, sir, that's my name, come in," and Simons went in, and took a seat.
               "Are you acquainted with Col. Parker?" said Simons, with a familiar address.
               "O law! yes; I'm very well acquainted with him. He's often been to my house."
               "I'm told he has returned to the States?"
               "Yes, he's gone."
               "Ah! I'm sorry for that; we have been anxious to have him run for Senator. That's
                  why I came to see you, to learn if he had really started to the States."
               "O yes! he's gone, sure enough; but I think he was very foolish for going so soon.
                  He could have easily got elected, I think."
               "Yes, very; but, I suppose. he's like most young men, got some attraction back in
                  the other States?"
               "I guess so," said Mrs. Case, laughing, "but I often told him so, and he always
                  denied it."
               "But I was told that his intended had started back from this country, and that he
                  followed her?"
               "O! s'pose that's Harriet Lindsey you have heard 'em talking about?"
               "I think that was her name."
               "O, law me! I know her very well; she's from Cincinnati. But I don't think Parker
                  is engaged to her, at least she always denied it; but, that's true, he did furnish
                  her money to go home on."
               "She was a very good girl, I'm told?"
               "Yes, she is one of the most extraordinary girls I know of. Don't you think, she
                  was engaged to a man in Cincinnati, and I believe, by what she said, he must be
                  one of the best men in the world a'most. Well, he was poor, and her father
                  wouldn't let her marry him. So he come to California, and she run away from home,
                  and come all the way across the Plains here after him."
               "Possible! she must have loved him?"
               "O dear! I guess she did. I never saw any one in my life love another so much as
                  she loved him. Even when any one would mention his name you could see it in her
                  face."
               "And did she not find him?"
               "Why, law me! no. She has been all the way to Marysville and Sacramento, and every
                  place, and couldn't find him. Then at last she heard of him in Sacramento, and she
                  went up there after him, but when she got there, Mrs. Joicet told her he had gone
                  to the States, and now she's gone after him again."
               
               "Why, she is a remarkable girl; but it must have cost her something to travel so
                  much?"
               "Yes; but she worked awhile at Sacramento and made a good deal of money; though
                  when she was taken sick in Marysville, Mr. Parker furnished her with money, and I
                  believe he has given her some since, too."
               "O, then, it's probable enough she may yet marry Parker?"
               "Well, she says not, but it's my opinion she will. Mr. Simons, that's the man she
                  was engaged to, has gone home as poor as he came; and I know for certain Col.
                  Parker has made a great fortune. Then I'm sure he's anxious to get her, if he can.
                  O, law me! you ought to saw the dress and shawl he gave her; the finest silk in
                  the world, a'most; and lots of jewelry, O! she'll look like a real queen when
                  she's got 'em on, I'm sure, for she's good-looking, anyhow."
               "Ah! if he has given her such things, it's very likely he'll marry her, or else
                  she would not have accepted them."
               "Though she didn't want to take 'em. Yes, it's my opinion she'll marry him."
               "It will be hard for the other young fellow, after having waited so long,
                  too."
               "Yes; but he heard she was dead, so he can't be expecting ever to meet her,
                  anyhow, and that's what I told her, she ought to choose just the one that can keep
                  her the most comfortable. And that's what makes me think she'll finally marry Mr.
                  Parker." Simons arose to depart.
               "Well," said he, "if the Colonel has left for the States, of course we can't run
                  him for Senator."
               "No, it's too late now."
               "Well," said Simons, passing out of the door, "good morning."
               "Good morning, sir, good morning."
               Thus he left Harriet's best female friend, pleased with his ingenious quizzing;
                  but a more unhappy man never walked the streets of San Francisco.
               
               While Simons was gone to see Mrs. Case, Hamlin and little Geordie went to the
                  Express office.
               "Well, Mr. Holmes," said Geordie, thrusting one hand into his bosom, "I've come to
                  arrange my business, so my mates can get out to this country."
               "Ah! Geordie," said Mr. Holmes—a good-looking young man, with a large
                  forehead—smiling upon little Geordie's man-like pretensions, "you've got money
                  enough at last to bring out your mates, eh?" and he took him by the hand, and
                  conducted him and Mr. Hamlin round behind the counter.
               "Certainly," said Geordie, stretching his proud neck to its utmost length, "I've
                  accomplished my purposes in spite of obstacles. It just takes me and Mr. Hamlin to
                  dig gold."
               "Ah! well, well, I am glad to hear it, Geordie. I was afraid you would never make
                  money enough to help your mates out—really I am very glad to see you, Geordie, and
                  to hear that you have done well."
               "Well, let's see," said Geordie, in a thinking attitude, "what is the best way to
                  arrange our business, for Mr. Hamlin, my friend here, can't stop long, and we had
                  better proceed at once, I s'pose."
               "Well," said Mr. Holmes, laughing "you seem to be in a hurry, Geordie—you are not
                  like Englishmen generally. Why, well, I'll tell you how we do such business,
                  though, I must say, Geordie, we've never had the pleasure of bringing out
                  boot-blacks before. But I'll tell you how we do for other people; we have agents
                  in every part of the world, and when we are paid the price of passage-money, we
                  write to our agents, to go and procure cabins and all other necessaries for the
                  person who is to come out. In your case, I'll write to one of our agents in London
                  that you have paid me the money. Then he'll go and hunt up your mates—for you must
                  tell me where we'll find them—and then he'll take them down to the ship that's
                  coming to California, and he'll see that they are properly cared for, and put on
                  board and started on."
               "And what security have I that your agents will do the business properly," said
                  Geordie.
               "None," said Mr. Holmes, "none, except our word; you know, Geordie, in this
                  country we trust to each other's word."
               
               "And that's quite sufficient—I don't ask any more," said Geordie, throwing down
                  his bag of gold-dust. "If a man's word isn't good, I wouldn't give much for the
                  man. But here's another thing; I want all my mates to have a new suit of clothes
                  before they start, or else they'll be made fun of all the way out."
               "Very well, Geordie," said Mr. Holmes, smiling, "whatever you require can be
                  attended to; but you must specify exactly what that is, and I give you my word it
                  shall be done." Then the little boy prescribed a suit after the fashion of his
                  own—not even neglecting handkerchiefs—something that he looked upon as peculiarly
                  attractive. In a short time the business was finished—the gold weighed out, and
                  the receipt given into little Geordie's hand.
               "Well, Mr. Holmes," said he, "tell me how much your charge is upon this
                  business—and I'll pay you in advance!"
               "My charge, Geordie!" said Mr. Holmes, and he took little Geordie's
                  hand and drew him to his arms. "My charge, my good boy! O! Geordie!
                  why do you ask me that?"
               "Mr. Holmes," said Geordie, and those large eyes sparkled, for he perceived that
                  it was going to be done gratis! "Mr. Holmes! I can not bear this!" and the child's
                  arm's clasped around his neck. O! Earth! was there ever such another embrace upon
                  thy great domain?
               Geordie had a little money remaining, which he left in charge of the good Mr.
                  Holmes; and again the little boy and Mr. Hamlin departed—but a happier and more
                  thankful heart than Geordie's, never fluttered in mortal's bosom! Alas! poor
                  Geordie! would that we could end your story here—but yet a little further—that
                  noble spirit goes where our pen can never follow!
               On their way back, they stopped at the Wenner House. This was a gambling saloon of
                  moderate pretensions; but it kept a very good band of music, and it was to bear
                  this that Hamlin and Geordie entered. There were a number of gaming-tables in the
                  room, about some of which, a few persons were gambling. But at one side of the
                  room were some five or six persons, discussing upon the character of one Samuel
                  Wilson. It seems as though there had been some money missing, which had passed
                  through the hands of this Wilson; though the manner in which the money had
                  disappeared, was altogether unaccountable. This money had been lost about five or
                  six weeks previous to the time now referred to; and it had been lost in some trade
                  between San Francisco and Sacramento. Samuel Wilson was a well known man among
                  most of the frequenters of gambling and official houses. But the money was gone,
                  and no evidence existed against Samuel Wilson, and yet a great suspicion did.
               These persons were discussing upon the character of Wilson—some saying that a man
                  of such standing, would not be guilty of such a deed—some saying that the former
                  character he bore, was of no value in judging him in this instance—some saying
                  that he had too much money to care about the sum which was missing, and some were
                  merely inquiring what kind of a character Wilson had previous to the time alluded
                  to. Hamlin and Geordie walked up to where these men were talking, and the former
                  asked:
               "Do you know where this Samuel Wilson is from?" One of the persons turned toward
                  Hamlin, and answered:
               "He's from H— County, Indiana." Hamlin laughed, and said:
               "No! I know him very well, then."
               "Indeed!"
               "Perfectly; he's been a near neighbor for several years—lived within two miles of
                  me."
               "Indeed; then you know something about his character in that neighborhood?" Hamlin
                  was a very plain spoken man, and he answered the question thus:
               "I know his character too well, I decidedly too well for his own good if I can
                  find him."
               "Indeed! not good?"
               "Good for stealing everything he could lay his hands on—decidedly good he
                  was."
               
               "Ah! indeed! This is news indeed!" But at this instant, one of the party, who had
                  remained quiet, walked close up to Hamlin, and said:
               "What do you say, sir, about Wilson?"
               "Well, sir, I say he is one of the biggest thieves that ever trod shoe-leather.
                  That's the reason he came to California; he stole a horse and had to run
                  away."
               "Sir, do you know what you are saying?" and he clenched his teeth and eyed Hamlin.
                  Hamlin was a very bold little man—"a little-big-sort-of a-man"—and he supposed the
                  person who was addressing him, to be a gambler and friend to Mr. Wilson, and that
                  he had felt himself insulted by what he had said about Wilson; but, as he hated
                  gamblers, he went not a step out of his way in saying what he knew to be the truth
                  regarding Wilson, and he answered:
               "I'm saying that Samuel Wilson, from H— County, Indiana, is one of the biggest
                  thieves and liars that ever trod shoe-leather."
               "Sir, do you know who you are talking to?"
               "No, neither do I care. If you know Wilson as well as I do, you know he lives by
                  stealing."
               "I know he is a gentleman, sir."
               "He's not. He's a thief, and one of the littlest, contemptiblest kind of thieves,
                  too."
               During this dispute, the others remained quiet, but listened to the two men
                  speaking. At this time little Geordie occupied his favorite position, namely, by
                  Hamlin's side, with one of his hands thrust into Hamlin's pockets.
               "Sir, I call upon you to take back your words!" said the gambler to Hamlin.
               "Sir, I will not. And what is more, sir, if you take Wilson's part, I shall
                  consider that you are also a thief." The gambler's face reddened with rage. Little
                  Geordie pulled at Hamlin's arm.
               "O! come away," said he, "do, Mr. Hamlin."
               "Sir, take back your words," said the gambler.
               "Sir, I will not. Samuel Wilson is a contemptible thief and liar," said Hamlin,
                  firmly.
               "Sir, I again say, take back your words," and the gambler put one hand in his
                  bosom.
               "Sir, who are you? Some partner of Wilson's in stealing, hey? Don't tell me to
                  take back my words, sir. You are mistaken in your man this time, I think." Geordie
                  again pulled at Hamlin, and said:
               "O! do come away, do." But the gambler then stepped forward, and said to
                  Hamlin:
               "You shall take back your words." But Hamlin looked him firmly in the face.
               "I'll not do it," said he, "not for you nor any other blackleg," and Hamlin kept
                  his eye upon the gambler, for he knew that a pistol or a bowie-knife—both of which
                  were justifiable by law—was likely to be forthcoming. The crowd seemed to be
                  expecting a 
                     collison
                     collision
                  , for they were not only silent, but stepped a little back. Little
                  Geordie was still pulling at Hamlin, and endeavoring to persuade him away; but,
                  just as Hamlin pronounced the word blackleg, the gambler gave a
                  quick turn to the hand in his bosom. Something went "tick," then out came his
                  hand, holding a bright, silver-mounted revolver—it was cocked—it was darted toward
                  Hamlin's breast!
               "D—n your heart," the gambler fiercely cried. Geordie shrieked:
               "Don't shoot," and made a desperate grab for the pistol—his little hand drew it
                  downward toward his own breast—Hamlin struck at it—the gambler pushed forward,
                  struggled, and drew the trigger—a deafening report followed! Geordie screamed:
               "O, heavens! I'm shot!" and his hand let go the pistol, the other hand was still
                  in Hamlin's pocket, and seemed to cling to him for support, but soon released its
                  hold; he staggered a little between the contending parties, then sank down at
                  their feet!
               The crowd scattered a little, then rushed upon the gambler and secured him. Hamlin
                  stooped down, took the bleeding child into his arms and started for the Bush
                  Hotel. Only three or four persons followed. On their way toward the hotel, Geordie
                     struggled hard for breath, for the
                  blood seemed to be coming into his throat. He was very pale, but shed not a tear.
                  He pressed his arms about Hamlin's neck:
               
                  
                     THE ORPHAN HAS FALLEN.
                  
               
               "I expect this is the last time we shall ever be together in this world, Mr.
                  Hamlin!" he said "This is our last walk in the streets of San Francisco!" Then he
                  turned his face toward the blood that was flowing from his breast and running down
                  upon Hamlin:
               "Mr. Hamlin," said he, "that is Christian blood! It's pure English! My mates have
                  got such blood as that. But it will soon stop running, and my life, and my wish to
                  see my mates must all stop! I shall never see them in this world—never! Each drop
                  of blood makes me weaker!" Hamlin cautioned him to be quiet, and made all possible
                  haste to the hotel. They soon reached it, but at this time they were both
                  literally covered with blood.
               "Geordie is shot!" were the words that flew through the hotel on lightning's
                  wings. The excitement at the hotel became the most intense ever witnessed; for
                  Geordie's sprightliness and brilliant talents during the previous evening had
                  already won him a host of admiring friends, who now crowded forward in breathless
                  anxiety to see the blood gushing from his breast; and not a dry eye remained
                  within the spacious hall. Then came up his devoted friend, Mrs. Hamlin, who seemed
                  to turn to marble— ay, whiter than snow was the face of that woman when her purple
                  lips pressed upon little Geordie's bloody face! Then her dimply arms clasped the
                  bleeding child to her bosom—long, long their fond embrace continued; but the poor
                  woman's sobs forced tears from every eye.
               "It's too close," said Geordie, "I can scarcely breathe, I'm getting so weak!"
                  Then he was removed to a window and placed upon a bed. Surgeons were sent for in
                  all possible haste. Every one was running and hurrying about the house—some
                  opening windows and doors, some bringing water. Then the surgeons came and
                  examined his wound. The ball had entered near the collar bone, went downward and
                  backward, but yet remained within his chest. The surgeons said that if the
                  bleeding could be stopped there was yet a possibility of his recovering. And after
                  a few minutes' application the blood was stopped. Hopes of his recovery now caused
                  many of the spectators to leave. Geordie was cautioned not to move or to speak,
                  lest the bleeding should again commence. And after awhile the surgeons left,
                  promising to call soon again. Most of the people's tears were now dried up, and
                  they were recovering from the shock. While the surgeons were there, Geordie's
                  clothes had been changed, and he now lay dressed in white, and he too was white—a
                  sad contrast to the child, that rosy, red-cheeked child that sold the
                  newspapers.
               Uncle Thomas thought of this, and he thought, too, this is a poor English orphan
                  in a foreign land! Then he noticed Geordie's large eyes often turning toward Mr.
                  and Mrs. Hamlin, and he thought they had a death-like appearance. But Geordie
                  motioned for Mrs. Hamlin to come to him. She was there in a second. He
                  whispered:
               "I feel like sleeping! If I go to sleep you must waken me if you think I'm going
                  to die—I want to see you all before I go!" and he closed his eyes as if asleep.
                  There were but few in the house now, and they were watching by his side. In a low
                  voice Uncle Thomas said:
               "Really the horrible crimes of this country make me sick of it. To see such
                  heathenish villains committing such outrages, disgusts me with the inefficiency of Republicanism.
                  Why, in the great city of London, such a deed as this would enrage half the people
                  of the city; but here it hardly excites the ones who saw it and know of it."
                  Geordie turned his pale face toward the old man:
               "If you was a boot-black," said he, "you wouldn't say so." Mrs. Hamlin at once
                  sprang to his side.
               "O, Geordie!" said she, "you mustn't speak; you know the Doctor said you mustn't
                  say a single word."
               "Well, I won't speak any more, Julia," and he closed his eyes as if at ease, and
                  Julia took her seat. Uncle Thomas made no reply to Geordie, but, in a lower voice,
                  said to Hamlin and Simons:
               "I know it's a very common notion that poor people can't get justice in England,
                  but it's altogether a mistake. The filthiest beggar in London can sue for justice,
                  and obtain it." Again Geordie turned, but his face was paler than before. "If you
                  had been a beggar," said he, "you wouldn't say so." Again Julia admonished him,
                  and again he promised to remain silent, and closed his eyes as if asleep. But, for
                  all his life was in danger, his hatred toward London, and his forwardness to check
                  anything said in its favor, caused a slight smile to steal over the different
                  persons present. It must be remembered that Geordie and Uncle Thomas often had
                  disputes about the two great countries, and that the boy felt nothing so sensibly
                  as to be beaten in a dispute. Now it is very probable that, while he was thus
                  dozing, he thought the old man was using this incident to prove that England was
                  the better country; and just as a smile rested upon most of their faces, he opened
                  his eyes. The sight of those smiles cut him to the quick. Evidently he mistook
                  them for a triumph of the old man's argument against America. His sleepy mood fled
                  in an instant. That pale face brightened; those large eyes flashed fire and
                  riveted upon the old man; he raised in his bed, and dashed down the sheets:
               "Now's the time," said he, "to blow, when you know I mustn't speak.
                  This shows your principles, to take advantage of me 'cause I'm shot. But I
                     will speak, I don't care if I do die, I will speak."
                  Mrs. Hamlin and several others endeavored to quiet him, and to induce him to lay
                  down in his bed! though he would not, but continued, each word becoming louder and
                  louder:
               "I won't stop, I won't stop. Must I stop and hear him blowing about London and
                  making fun of this country 'cause I got shot? If I'd got killed in London he
                  wouldn't a come near me—I wouldn't a got into a house like I am now at all. Nobody
                  would a knowed anything about it except my own mates."
               "O! Geordie, Geordie!" interrupted several others, "do be quiet. He didn't mean to
                  hurt your feelings." But Geordie continued:
               "He didn't care about my feelings, or he would not a took the advantage of me. He
                  had no business to be speaking about such things at this time at all. But it's his
                  nature. He's been a rich man once, and been used to crushing poor people, and
                  that's what makes him want to crush me. But he can't do it. He's not the
                     stuff. I'm not a beggar now, and I won't take an insult off no
                     man! I'm just as good as he is, if I was a boot-black. I'm no boot-black
                  now, nor I never shall be one again; neither shall my mates. They are not going to
                  stand in the streets much longer to black boots, and to have rich people making
                  fun of them—ay, they felt it, they know what it is!" But the other
                  interrupted:
               "Geordie, Geordie, do be still, do." But he continued, still louder:
               "I won't be still; I won't be still! Let my blood run if it likes! It's Christian
                  blood! It's welcome to run now; I've saved my mates! They're not
                  going to be beggars any longer!" and he tossed his hands upward and slapped them
                  with delight, "They're not to be beggars, and have other folks sticking
                     their noses at 'em any more! They're not going to wear other folks'
                  stinking clothes! No, no! thank God! I've saved 'em!" and he again
                  tossed up his little hands; his eyes turned upward! But he soon relaxed, and,
                  turning his snow-white face upon Julia, he feebly said:
               
               "I feel it here," and he placed his finger upon his breast, "there's something got
                  broke in here, Julia! I think I feel the blood running within my breast," and he
                  quietly laid down on his pillow. In his excitement he had removed the bandage from
                  his wound, and the blood again gushed forth! The surgeons were again sent for in
                  as much haste as possible; spectators again began to crowd into the room; and
                  although every other was weeping, yet little Geordie shed not a tear. His
                  breathing became soft and calm; his blood was flowing fast. The boy turned his
                  face, O! that pale, death-like face! to see the ebbing stream of blood. In faint
                  whispers, he said: "Flow away Christian blood; I'm willing to die! Only a few
                  minutes and I shall go to see my father and mother!" Then he looked up to Hamlin
                  and his wife: "You see," said he, smiling, "I'm going to leave you! I wish I could
                  have stayed longer with you—I love you very much, but I must go! Julia, you mind
                  now what I told you the last night we stayed on the Yuba. I thought that would be
                  the last happy night I'd ever see in this world. I saw all this then. Those
                  strange things I saw in the skies told me all about it! They came to tell me that
                  I should soon go! And so I am soon going—three or four minutes more, Julia, and I
                  must leave you forever! I want you to remember me when I'm gone! I'm getting very
                  weak—I must go. Farewell, Julia! Farewell, Mr. Hamlin! Farewell, Mr. Simons!
                  Farewell, Uncle Thomas! God forgive you, as I do! Farewell to you all! Mr.
                  Hamlin," and Hamlin stooped closer, for his whispers were becoming very faint,
                  "tell Mr. Adams to give the rest of my money to my mates, when they get here; I
                  want you to be sure and tell him. Tell him to tell my mates that I loved them as
                  long as I lived, will you? Tell them I will love them after I'm gone to Heaven!
                  You will see three rings in my carpet-bag, with their names on a piece of paper
                  for them; Mr. Davis wrote their names for me. O! I remember Capt. Barker, who
                  brought me from London. My God! I never can see him again!" and the poor child's
                  heart seemed to die within him. He remained still a moment.
               "I am now going!" he said. "Farewell, farewell!" and he looked round upon them
                  all; his eyes settled upon Julia. "Julia!" he said, and she pressed her lips to
                  his. Then they all stood looking upon him. "Farewell! farewell! farewell!" he
                  said, and his whispers faded away. His eyes slowly clouded, then turned upward—his
                  snow-white face relaxed a little, and—ceased to move! Thus ended as noble and good
                  a child as ever moved among the Christian World.
               
               A small procession moved toward the Mission. They were silent. No one looked upon
                  another. They came to a graveyard. A small coffin was lifted from a carriage and
                  set upon the ground—it contained the body that once bid so fair—it was the mortal
                  remains of a good child, who was slaughtered by the indigence of a government
                  constructed and maintained by political blackguards, who would "drink their own
                  heart's blood" for national glory! who foam with demoniac madness about the
                  ignorance of a different creed or birth! Yes, Geordie was murdered, and now
                  carried to the tomb! Around his grave stood a few friends, to take their final
                  adieu. Then the little coffin was lowered into the narrow, damp grave! Mrs.
                  Hamlin—pale and helpless—stooped over it, to take the last view of the
                  glossy-brown coffin! The clods! O! those hollow-sounding clods, commenced to fall
                  upon it! It was soon hidden, and the weeping friends returned to the city
                  of—murder and lawlessness!
               
               But we can not dwell upon this awful tragedy. We must commence to look after the
                  legally tolerated gentleman who dwelt in this den of political instruction—the
                  gambling saloon. The gentleman who fired the pistol was conducted direct to
                  prison. The story was all told, and he was held in bail for one hundred dollars!!
                  to appear for trial on the day following. Of course, reader, you must know what
                  followed—that the murderer forfeited his bail, and ran away; not exactly ran
                     away, but continued to walk about the streets until a boat was ready to
                  leave, then went deliberately on board, and rode away. Though we must
                  not condemn the "bailing system" in criminal cases, or else the newspapers will not speak favorably of our style of
                  writing. Therefore, readers, we leave you to form your own notions upon the said
                  "bailing system." The judge—a very nice little greasy-headed boy—said he thought
                  it was a case of self-defense! and might as well be dismissed.
               
               The bright suns of summer passed away. First, a few dim clouds streaked the
                  clear-blue sky, then thicker they grew, until the whole heavens were darkened. But
                  this was so gradual, that several weeks elapsed from the time that the
                  feather-like clouds first appeared, and were followed by thicker ones. And during
                  this interval, the dryness in the air passed away, and a moist, dense atmosphere
                  set in. The creeks, rivers, springs, etc. swelled, and the dust along the roads
                  disappeared. Beneath the spready oaks in the valleys, the grass sprang forth, and
                  in many places vegetation became pleasing. Such was, and is, the fall of
                  California. Then a light mist began to fall, and in a few days it was called the
                  "wet season."
               
               Standing in the light rain on the wharf, were many people—some hurrying one way,
                  and some the other; some shouting and laughing, some shaking hands and crying;
                  some kissing and separating. Our little party came down, went aboard the steamer,
                  and stood upon its deck. They saw a cannon turned upon its wheels, and a flash of
                  fire dart from it; they heard its deafening roar resounding over the city and
                  wasting upon the distant hills. Then our friends left California; and, reader, so
                  will we.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               HARRIET AT SEA.
               "WHAT shall I say to my parents? My father is a stern old man; my mother is a
                  tender, affectionate woman. From these I ran away. No; I only acted according to
                  my own wishes and rights. But I have ever written—never. That is the most cruel
                  part of my life. To deprive them of even a knowledge of their only child being
                  still alive! Ah! this is a stain I can never remove. I can justify my conduct for
                  leaving them; but all human considerations condemn me for not having written to
                  them. But, let me see, why did I not write? Alas! I always had a reason until now.
                  O, I remember! It was because I feared they would disapprove of my adventure, and
                  perhaps induce me to abandon my intended. But will this excuse satisfy my father?
                  It is all I have, and it ought to satisfy him, and it
                     must do it. Though, would it not be advisable for me to first
                  address Simons, and to endeavor to meet him before going home?
               But his feelings may now be changed. That awful paper I pinned to the willows on
                  the banks of the Yuba! Ah! those were days when heaven's hopeful joys were sunk in
                  the "Slough of Despond," and I, wandering beneath a burden that was heaped upon my
                  weak nature by persons less heedless of love than of the outward forms of piety.
                  But, O! thank Heaven, that time is past, and I once more float upon the current of
                  life. Yet, will not that suicidal attempt lessen my standing among rational
                  beings? Yes, among a few, it will. Cold, brainless creatures, such as Mrs. Ellis
                  and the old maid, will stay I was possessed of a devil. Was I? Could I help it?
                  Could any other, under the circumstances? Was it not because my nature was of too
                  weakened and sensitive an organization to bear the unfeeling suspicions and abuses
                  of my fellow-creatures? Then, who dares to cast a reproach upon the desponding
                  spirit that made me willing to quit the world forever? Ah! where does the demon
                  spirit live, when people are so regardless of the troubles that weigh upon the
                  less brutal minds? though it is now all past, and I am once more a rational being.
                  But will this satisfy Simons? He may not have experienced any severe trouble; and,
                  if so, he will perhaps view things in a very different light from this. Why do I
                  fear that Simons may not yet love me? Why does this impression come so often
                  through my mind now? Is it possible my love for him is diminishing? Can it be that
                  my confidence rests in another? Parker! Ah! has not Parker noticed me trembling
                  and agitated when he jokes so freely upon love matters? Ah! he knows his power over me. But, thank Heaven! a few days
                  more and we shall be in New York. O! the sea, the sea, when will our ship reach
                  the city? These heavy, squashy waves, how they roll and crash! This noisy, puffy
                  steamer, how she jars my head, how her greasy-smoky filth, sickens my life at sea!
                  O! put me upon land again, and, who wish, can go upon the ocean for me!"
               
               "New York at last!" said Harriet. "Ah! how strangely sound these rumbling carts
                  and omnibuses after leaving the sea! As if my tedious hours on the briny deep had
                  all been a tiresome dream. Hark! O! that church-bell! How strange it seems! As if
                  each stroke and dying tone fell upon the despairing moan of some of the prattling
                  children with whom I once played and loved! Ah! how shall I find those little ones
                  now?—living? O! that I could be sure they live! and hope that in a few days I
                  should rush upon them all to love them as we all loved in days of yore O! fly,
                  lingering moments, I can not live, waiting upon your movements. To-morrow I shall
                  hear from home; but will my father and mother pardon my conduct, and receive me
                  back?"
               
               "Ah!" said Parker, in a hotel alone, "her affections are still bestowed upon
                  Simons. But my services toward her have completely overcome her resolutions, and
                  she must be mine if I but say it. Then, shall I? I know she has long feared I
                  would insist upon it. But if she loves him, she might not be happy with me; and in
                  course of time, her obligations to me would wear away; and then a man might as
                  well be with the devil as to be with an unhappy woman. If she is robust and coarse
                  in her feelings, an unhappy woman will devil the life out of any man; but if she
                  is tender and delicate she'll wear out her own life. Well, well,
                  'what's to be done? what's to be done?' I have a fortune, but it gives me little
                  satisfaction by day, and none at night. I think I would rather have a wife. O, I
                  have it; I'll 'swop!' Mark! some one is shopping at the door. I'll see," and he
                  opened it, and was met by the post-boy, who said:
               "Is your name Elias Parker?"
               "It is."
               "Here's a letter for you, sir; five cents, if you please, sir—cold day, sir."
               "Letter for me! Who the devil is writing to me? Here's your five cents, sir."
               "Thank'ee sir," and away went the post-boy.
               "What!" said Parker to himself, "do my eyes deceive me? It is her
                  handwriting! But how did she know I now lived under the name of Elias Parker? I'll
                  see; her husband is dead, I expect," and he broke the seal and read:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           DEAR, DEAR, ELIAS:—"You can not conceive what I have undergone to meet
                              you. I have no doubt but you have long since believed me to be
                              married; but I am happy to state I have yet warded off their
                              endeavors, and yet remain single. Your feelings may have changed ere
                              this; if so, my happiest thoughts are yet in asking heaven's blessings
                              to smile upon you. Pray keep me not in suspense; for I shall not rest
                              until I have learned your wishes.
                           
                              "Ever the same,
                              "JOSEPHINE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Good Heaven! can this be? For six long years have I been ignorant of her true
                  history. 'Can not rest until she learns my wishes.' And she shall learn as quick
                  as steam and horse-flesh can fly," and up and away went Mr. Parker.
               
               "I can not conceive," said Harriet, "why Parker left me so suddenly? not even
                  promising to accompany me to Cincinnati. I never knew Parker to act so
                  mysteriously before. But why need I care? am I not really anxious to be away from
                  him? Have I not been fearing for many weeks that he might claim my hand? Hark!
                  some one is calling!" The door opened, and in came the post-boy.
               "Is your name Mary Sparks?"
               "Yes, sir."
               
               "Letter for you; cold day, Miss," and out went the post-boy. Nervously indeed did
                  Harriet break that seal, and read:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAR DAUGHTER:
                           
                           "Your long letter has been received, read, and re-read, until it is
                              nearly worn out by reading. We had long ago mourned your death! And
                              when your letter came, your dear mother could hardly withstand the
                              joyous news. You ask us to pardon your conduct, and to receive you
                              back. Dear child, what a foolish sentence! Don't know the old Dr.'s,
                              heart, eh? Now. come, dear child, come as quick as you can; for your
                              father's heart is nearly breaking to receive you. Come, dear, dear
                              child; I can't write more—I am too full! Lose not a moment; oh! come!
                              my dear, dear child,
                           
                              "Your heart-broken
                              FATHER.
                           
                        
                        
                           P. S. I am sorry to add that your intended, Nathan Simons, has not yet
                              returned, as you seemed to think."
                        
                     
                  
               
               "O! can that be?" said Harriet to herself; "that Simons has not yet returned? Did
                  not Mrs. Joicet, who is pure as the angels in heaven, tell me that he had
                  returned?! Mystery of mysteries! thy eternal plots continue to baffle my endeavors
                  wherever I move. What can it mean, what can it mean? 'Has not yet returned, as you
                  seemed to think!' Ah! then I am back again worse than I started. Silly girl that I
                  was, to have gone through all this! But why don't Parker return? It is now two
                  days since he left. My father is already looking for me, and I can not yet leave
                  New York. O! what shall I do, what shall I do? Must I not wait for Parker, who has
                  treated me with so much kindness? For the sake of meeting my parents, must I be so
                  cruel as to fly away from him, my best friend? Never, never! Whatever my grief is,
                  I shall bear it, in order to comfort him. I shall wait."
               
               Harriet did not wait long. Parker's mysterious disappearance began to give her
                  some unhappy reflections. She had noticed during the voyage homeward that Parker
                  had evidently experienced a due sense of the guilty life he had been living and
                  probably formed a resolution to lead a moral one hereafter. And when Harriet
                  thought of this, she feared that his own remorse might make him feel too bad to
                  venture into the presence of any of his acquaintances; therefore, she feared that
                  he had been seized with a fit of despondency, and purposely deserted her. And when
                  Harriet thought of this, she regretted very much that she did not give him more
                  encouragement as to his future prospects; for she now felt that she must have had
                  some attachment to him. His absence had never before given her the same sadness
                  and depression as now. But she waited only a few days—she could remain away from
                  her father's home no longer. She packed her trunk and started for her native
                  city.
               For some time previous to her departure from California, there had been a good
                  deal of talk about the Australian gold diggings, and many people had left for that
                  distant isle. As Harriet went on her way from New York to Cincinnati, this fact
                  for the first time came into her mind, and she now thought Simons had gone to that
                  country. She remembered that he had been unfortunate in gold getting, and she knew
                  that he believed her to be no longer living; and, under such circumstances, she
                  felt confident that he had gone to Australia, perhaps left America forever. The
                  more she reasoned upon that supposition, the more reasonable it seemed, and she
                  finally believed it was the true conjecture; one that seemed to darken the whole
                  world before her. Then she remembered the glowing spirit with which she first set
                  out to overtake him; then the many hardships she had passed through—the bleak,
                  wild plains over which she had so long journeyed, and her hazardous life among the
                  politicians and gamblers of California; and, while she remembered that all of this
                  had only brought her into deeper disappointment and wretchedness than if she had
                  remained dormant, she felt a renewed despondency that seemed to cause her heart to
                  die within her. And as the rumbling cars rolled onward, she said to herself:
               "Ah! unfortunate Mary, would that thou hadst been born devoid of love! Such
                  feelings as thine can never meet their reciprocity on earth, never! That blank
                  within thy silent thoughts can never be
                  filled by its desired companion—it must remain an eternal vacuum, vainly hoping!
                  Ah! Mary, thy doom is forever sealed, and thy oft-cherished hopes must sink to
                  rise no more! Then speed on, rumbling cars, let Mary's tears fall upon her
                  father's cheek; let her arms once more encircle his neck; let the sobs so long
                  concealed burst forth! Roll on, rumbling cars, and let Mary's last earthly tears
                  fall within the home that once cast the dart of tyranny so cruelly at her most
                  sacred wish; where she is willing to cry her last cry, and sink—not because of her
                  own courage failing, but because fate has forever separated her from the only one
                  she really loves—let her sink down and die despondent, because she has combated
                  the world and been overburdened with the grief and sorrow that has resulted from
                  her sad disappointments. Roll on, rumbling cars, each moment is severing the link
                  of Mary's only tie to earth; let her hastily fall into her father's arms; lest the
                  chord of life is broken, and her mortal joys forever sealed!"
               The heavens were clouded over, the cold wintery winds were howling and whistling.
                  The setting sun was hidden behind the freezing mist, the cars continued to roll
                  over the icy track. Within their closed doors sat Miss Mary Sparks—returning to
                  her native city, to her father's home, after one of the most extraordinary
                  adventures that a young lady ever accomplished. Mary was not so fresh and healthy
                  as when she left home—more pale and sad. She sat close to the window when the cars
                  drew near Cincinnati; and while she sat thus looking out, she recognized houses
                  and trees which she had forgotten during her absence, but which now seemed so
                  familiar that a confusion of ideas caused her to quiver and dread the meeting of
                  her friends and relatives. But these familiar sights soon caused a dimness to
                  intercept her vision; and, while she kept her face turned away from the view of
                  the other passengers, she endeavored to suppress her snuffling, and to dry up her
                  tears; but the same cars that ran too slow before, were now running too fast, and
                  Mary saw that she was going to be carried right up to the station before she could
                  possibly get her face in a condition fit to be seen. But, on the cars went, not
                  stopping to ring the bell or anything else: and Mary found her face to be getting
                  worse, for, as she peered through the window, heavy showers of tears continued to
                  burst forth, and her snuffling, too, was becoming worse. She ardently hoped that
                  nobody would be at the station except her father and mother; but she feared she
                  might meet many of her old acquaintances, and she did not wish to manifest her
                  feelings before a public crowd, as she feared she would be under the necessity of
                  doing, if her people were present. On they went; but they soon decreased their
                  speed—slower and slower they moved—they entered the station—a slight jar—the cars
                  stopped!
               Mary rose and walked to the door. There was a vast crowd—nobody noticed Mary's
                  tears as she gazed over the people to see if she could discover her father among
                  the crowd. Once or twice she thought she heard some one calling her name! She
                  beheld some one pushing his way toward her! Then she felt an involuntary power
                  drawing her toward him—but, further than that, poor Mary knew not the scene that
                  followed! There was a pushing and talking—and then a rumbling of cabs—and strange
                  hands resting upon her forehead—lips that pressed to hers! Mary could not notice
                  all that was going on! Then they entered a house, and she was laid on a sofa. She
                  looked about the room; there was an old clock, a portrait of her grandfather, and
                  a piano, but they all seemed like a dream; and the poor girl tried hard to awaken
                  from the burdensome sleep; and, while she was thus struggling, she felt lips often
                  pressing to hers, and something seemed to be dropping upon her face! Poor Mary
                  came near never awaking!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               WE shall not endeavor to lengthen our story by detailing the common experience of
                  Simons and his party from San Francisco to New York and Cincinnati, for every one
                  is aware of the trifling incidents that are known on that journey, which, when
                     the passage is favorable, contains
                  nothing remarkable. It was owing to this that we made no remarks about Harriet's
                  voyage, for we are well aware that the sooner we bring the parties into the field
                  of action, the sooner will the reader's anxiety be settled. Three days (in the
                  evening it was) after Mary's arrival, Simons and his party reached Cincinnati and
                  put up at the B—— hotel. What had been his feelings regarding Mary, after having
                  an interview with Mrs. Case in San Francisco, where he learned about Parker having
                  made her some valuable presents, beside having given her money, and then finally
                  accompanying her home, can readily be imagined unfavorable to his having anything
                  more to do with her. His sister often advised him to have a fair investigation of
                  Mary's side of the story, before he did abandon her; but to this advice he
                  entertained no very friendly feelings, and seemed anxious to banish even what
                  favorable views his sister could suggest. But after reaching Cincinnati, he still
                  felt some anxiety to learn the particulars of her life before pronouncing his
                  sentence against her, although he expected to hear of her marriage to Parker, if
                  not to hear of her living a still worse life, without having been married. Yes,
                  Simons expected this: he was partially prepared to hear anything terrible, and he
                  resolved to know all the particulars before another day passed. As soon as they
                  reached the hotel and secured their luggage and rooms properly, Simons accompanied
                  his sister into the ladies' parlor, determined to counsel upon the best manner of
                  carrying out "to-morrow's investigation." Here they schemed and planned until late
                  bedtime, when Simons left and took a stroll down into the reading-room. He drew
                  his chair close to the stove and commenced to read a paper; but just as he
                  commenced, he heard two young men, who were sitting close by his side, conversing
                  with a low voice as follows:
               "Yes," said one, "but it looks strange that she should come home dressed in such a
                  style."
               "Perhaps she's made a fortune," said the other. "Women get big wages in
                  California."
               "Pshaw! she hadn't money enough to get home with."
               "Perhaps she laid her money out for clothes. Women are very foolish, yon know,
                  about dressing. But how did she get home without money?"
               "All! there it is. That's what I want to know—that's what everybody
                  wants to know; but that's what nobody does know."
               "Why, I thought a little while ago, you were intending to bestow that big heart of
                  yours upon her."
               "No, sir; that big heart has a higher object in view—at least until more is known
                  about her life in California. But I can tell you one thing—she told Wakefield's
                  girls and Martha Davidson that a young man furnished her with money enough to come
                  home on, and that she received all her fine things from him."
               "And didn't he come home with her?"
               "No, not a bit of it. I expect he's some rich pup that's been keeping her, and
                  taking care of her until he got her to New York; and then, for fear his friends
                  would find him out, he's given her the slip."
               "But where does she say he went? or does she give any plausible
                  account of herself?"
               "Certainly she acknowledged to Wakefield's girls that he ran away from her in New
                  York: she waited several days on him, and he didn't come at all."
               "I think she's very foolish for telling of it—very foolish indeed. Why, no other
                  ladies will associate with her."
               "Well, I don't know; but I know that Wakefield's girls and Miss Davidson won't
                  have anything more to do with her."
               "Ah! that'll hurt the old Dr.—he's an awful proud man. But why the deuce didn't
                  she hold her tongue about these things? I think she's been very foolish."
               "O! you see, I know how that came out. You see, on the day after she came back,
                  Wakefield's girls paid her a visit. Well, you know Becky is very smart about
                  finding out people's characters: well, among other things, she gave Mary Sparks a
                  great deal of praise about her fine dresses and jewelry, and finally asked her the
                  price; and, before she thought, she said they didn't cost her anything—that they
                  were given to her."
               
               "Hoh—ho-o-o-o! well she must be at silly thing—a disgrace to the old doctor.
                  That'll bring him down a little, I guess. But, hang it all, I don't see any use in
                  a fellow being so very particular; It's a real lottery, getting a wife is. One
                  never knows until they have tried a woman, whether she's going to be good for
                  anything. If Mary is as pretty as she was before she went away she'll soon pick up
                  some greenhorn, I'll warrant."
               
               "A pretty character indeed for one of the first ladies of the city," Simons
                  thought, as he retired to his room, where he should be prepared to contemplate
                  upon the gloomy indications of his future days. On his bed, half-sitting,
                  half-lying, he gazed at the little coal fire, the remaining pile gradually sinking
                  beneath the grate, and said to himself:
               "Consuming and sinking before the merciless element, like the highest aims of man
                  before the continued series of ill-fortunes that surround his every bold attempt
                  to rise and claim the mite of happiness to which all others are entitled, sinking
                  him continually deeper in the sea of despair. Where now are my hopes? when every
                  struggle I have made, or do make, is continually met by a still more wretched and
                  hideous opponent. Where now remains a single atom to which hope can cling? when I
                  can so plainly see that it is impossible and unwise for me to indulge any further
                  whims about her virtues. Alas! no hope can, does remain. Her doom is
                  sealed. My doom is—what? Sealed also? No, no, NO!
                     I can banish these troubles. I will banish
                     her from my mind. She has proved herself unworthy of
                  me. She is unfit to be seen. She! Mary Sparks! Dr. Sparks' GIRL! Fool
                  that I was to have troubled my head about such a girl thing! What is
                  she? What was she, and what is she going to be? Ha, ha, ha, ha! what a fool I've
                  been! O well, well, well! I don't feel much like sleep to-night. Strange, too; I
                  have not slept any since I reached New York. Four nights this, and not slept a
                  wink; I will lie down and compose myself to sleep." And after removing his
                  clothes, he spread himself at full length on the bed, muttering to himself:
               "This pillow seems very hard to my head. Ah! well, well, I'll go to sleep. If Mary
                  had lived a virtuous life now, she might soon be sleeping by my side. Away!
                  disgusting thought! She! Shame to my poetical notions of woman! How hot this
                  pillow seems! I'll get up and light a candle. Sitting awhile in the air will make
                  me sleep." And he arose and took a seat, saying to himself: "Here's a newspaper,
                  I'll read a little, to compose my mind for sleeping. Halloo! what's this, 'Wilson
                  and Moody have just received a new assortment of hair and woolen mattresses.
                  Barter and cash store.' O well, well, well. What's this? 'Ball's daguerreotypes,
                  cheapest and best in the city.' 'New hats on Fifth street.' 'Clocks and watches
                  repaired.' 'Ladies and gentlemen's kid gloves.' 'Lecture at the Melodeon on
                  Spiritualism.' God knows I don't want anything more to do with
                  spirits. 'Shawls and bonnets.' 'Railroad agency,' etc., etc. That's a miserable
                  candle. Well, there's nothing new in the paper. I'll blow out the light and go to
                  rest." And again the poor fellow entered his bed, saying, "Sleep alone, alone!
                  Shall it always be so? Whence this longing within me to clasp
                  something to my bosom? Why so desponding my whole nature when this vacuum seems
                  likely never to be filled? Can the mere clasping and dangling of these arms about
                  a woman be the only mysteries that cause my dejection and trouble? or is there not
                  a reciprocal soul-confiding intelligence which wishes its inclining position
                  braced and supported by another, that the twain may make a heaven-like pyramid,
                  guarded and protected by their unity against the sorrows and ills of life, from
                  which the single is receiving continual torture? Can there be within woman's
                  nature that tenderness and comfort adapted to this seeming vacuum within my
                  lonesome reflections, which so ardently craves her presence as the only one upon
                  whom it can relax from care and trouble? Mysteries, mysteries, world of trouble
                  and mysteries! I can not solve the cause of this reciprocal longing unless thou
                  hast really constructed a better half!" Poor Simons, you had a tedious night; but
                  we must leave you, and go over to Dr. Sparks' to-morrow morning, about the time
                  you are thinking of eating your breakfast.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               "MARY," said Mrs. Sparks to her daughter, "there's a gentleman at the door. He
                  wishes to see you," Mary arose and walked to the door.
               "O, Mr. Parker!" she said, "I'm so glad to see you. Come in," and she took his
                  hand and led him in, and introduced him to her father and mother.
               "Well," said the old Dr., after the excitement quieted a little, "well, Mr.
                  Parker, I'm under a thousand obligations to you for your attentions to my little
                  girl, and to whatever expense she has been, no matter what, I am ready to cash
                  your demands at the shortest notice."
               "Thank you, Dr.," said Parker, "but would you not be willing for her to settle her
                  own accounts." Mary blushed and turned pale, then quivered.
               The Dr. drew down his spectacles and said:
               "I fear if you depend upon her for a paymaster, 'you'll come out at the little end
                  of the horn.' She hasn't a dime in the world; but if you will wait long enough,
                  she'll have all I have some day." Parker laughed, and seemed to think
                  seriously.
               "Well, never mind it, Dr.," said he, "if you will have the patience to wait until
                  I make out a bill, I shall be greatly obliged."
               "Certainly; I'm never in a hurry when the money is going out instead of coming in.
                  But tell me about how soon to look for your account, so I can have the cash on
                  hand. Don't put it off too long."
               "I will make out my bill, Dr., in about nine hundred and fifty years!" The Dr.
                  took a hearty laugh.
               "Ah!" said he, "I think I understand," and immediately departed to look after his
                  patients.
               "That was pretty of you, Miss Lindsey, I would say, Miss Sparks, to run away from
                  me at New York," said Parker. Mary endeavored to banish her excitement by
                  answering:
               "I was very sorry you ran away from me. I could not think what had become of you;
                  and then, when I received a letter from home, I could not possibly wait any
                  longer."
               "I knew you would be anxious to meet your people, particularly Mr. Simons." Again
                  Mary blushed a little, and replied:
               "He has not yet returned."
               "Not returned! Simons not returned?"
               "No, it seems not."
               "But those women in Sacramento said he had left for the States."
               "Perhaps he went to some other part of the country."
               "No, I'll tell you what I think. He has accompanied his sister to her residence,
                  which is, perhaps, in some of the other States."
               "I never thought of that before."
               "Ah! that's it. You know he heard you were dead, and he has been glad of an
                  opportunity to go where he can forget you. Yes, I'm sure that's it." Mary made no
                  reply, but turned even paler than before. This supposition seemed a plausible one.
                  Doubtless Parker noticed it; and, after a minute's silence, he changed the
                  subject.
               "Now, Miss Sparks," said he, "banish your troubles. Come, give me a tune on the
                  piano. You know you have long promised me you would. Come." Mary arose and asked
                  Parker to accompany her into the parlor, but whether she thought of his anxiety to
                  be excluded from the presence of her mother, is very doubtful.
               "What shall I play, Mr. Parker?" she asked, as she took her seat beside the
                  piano.
               "'Home, Sweet, Sweet Home,' Miss Sparks, if you please," and he drew his chair
                  close by. Mary was just in a melancholy mood enough to play and sing such a piece.
                  Her taste for music was excellent, and she played exceedingly well, but she was
                  only a moderate vocalist. But on the present occasion she sang so touchingly, and
                  manifested so much sacredness of feeling, that if Apollo-Belvidere
                  had been present, he would have turned into a living creature to have heard her
                  voice. Note after note she continued,
                  each, if possible, becoming more and more affecting, until the last solemn word,
                  HOME, was left fading on the dying tones of the piano. Parker continued to look
                  upon Mary. The sound of the piano entirely faded away. All was still as the house
                  of death. Mary sat motionless. Calmly, and with a soft and tender voice, Parker
                  broke the spell.
               "'Sweet, sweet Home!' wilt thou make one with me?" Never sat a marble figure so
                  still and death-like as then did poor Mary! Larger tear-drops than had ever before
                  flowed, now rolled down her pale cheeks. But O, so silent! At last her eyes turned
                  upon Parker. He was in tears! Involuntarily her pale, trembling hand slowly placed
                  itself within his! He pressed it to his lips, then rose, and started to the door;
                  but, halting a second, returned, and pressed his lips upon her forehead.
               "Be happy, dear Mary," he said, then turned and departed.
               "'Tis done at last!" Mary cried, and throwing herself into an arm-chair, swooned
                  away! How long she lay in this trance she never knew; though after awhile, she
                  fancied herself dreaming about little Sporty. She thought she heard him barking
                  and scratching. But, after making several attempts to arouse from her annoying
                  dream, she finally awoke; though the same barking and scratching continued. It was
                  at the door. She arose and opened the door.
               "O! Sporty! Sporty!" she exclaimed, and the little dog leaped into her arms!
               "O! Sporty! Sporty, tell me, how came you here? Make your tongue and lips speak;
                  for heaven's sake, Sporty, speak to me. Tell me how you came? O! do, Sporty! Did
                  the 'fat man' bring you? O heavens! how can I live? If there is a God in heaven,
                  why am I not comforted? O, heavens!" Mary wept and caressed the dog for a long
                  time; but Sporty finally began to weary of his visit, and show signs of going
                  somewhere else. An idea struck Mary! She seized her bonnet!
               "Go, Sporty," sh said, "I'll follow you," and, as if he understood her, he leaped
                  away, followed by his mistress, who said to herself:
               "Perhaps the 'fat man' can yet give me some information. Ah! but why now? I have
                  given my hand and heart? to another!" and a great weakness nearly overcame her;
                  however, she continued to follow little Sporty, and Sporty made a meandering
                  course for the B— Hotel. But Mary knew not who was there!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               "NO, Simons, do not be hasty; but; by all means learn all the particulars before
                  you conclude to abandon her—do, now do, for goodness' sake do not be hasty," said
                  Mrs. Hamlin to her brother, on the morning after the troublesome night of which we
                  have given a sketch. At this time we have them alone in the ladies' parlor—in the
                  hotel, at a window looking toward the street. Simons had been giving his sister an
                  account of the conversation he heard on the evening previous, between the young
                  men in the reading-room, and, also, of his determination to leave the city and
                  accompany them to their home in Indiana. But Julia had long endeavored to persuade
                  him to call upon Mary Sparks, to see if a satisfactory explanation could not be
                  given; though, to this, he was so firmly opposed that, even her kind words seemed
                  the more fully to prejudice him against the lady he once esteemed so highly. While
                  in this dejected, counseling mood, some one down stairs, for the ladies' parlor
                  was on the second floor, called out:
               "Take the first door to the right, at the head of the stairs." That would lead to
                  the ladies' parlor, where they were sitting. The words had been spoken to some one
                  evidently coming up the stairs. Simons and his sister, supposing some traveling
                  lady about to enter, endeavored to brighten up their faces and forget the subject
                  of their conversation. The voice down stairs had scarcely ceased when foot-falls
                  were heard at the door. Without rapping, the unlatched door was pushed open. Mary
                  Sparks and little Sporty entered! Simons sat motionless. Mary balanced a moment,
                  startled, then flew toward him, and tried to cling to him, but her strength gave way, and she
                  sank fainting at his feet! Simons coldly raised her, walked to another seat, and
                  still looked upon her. Julia at once knew who the lady must be, and endeavored to
                  reconcile them.
               "O! Simons, brother, do not desert her!" and she arose and assisted the helpless
                  girl into a seat. Mary turned her face, her death-like face, gave one despairing,
                  long look upon Simons, and her eyes closed! In her excitement, those brown curls
                  were disheveled, and now spread heedlessly over her face, which, in her pale and
                  despairing appearance, rendered her one of the most pitiful objects that mortal
                  ever looked upon. But what added still more to her lamentable appearance was, the
                  hurried and difficult manner in which she breathed—as though her breaking heart
                  was about to leap from her bosom. Simons' eye glanced over her fine dress and
                  jewelry, but soon his attention became fixed upon the lady herself—evidently, he
                  had resolved to abandon her! The sympathizing Julia leaned over the helpless girl,
                  and wiped her tears away, encouraging each strengthening breath, by a gentle touch
                  of her sensitive hand, and cherishing every increasing pulse by soothing whispers.
                  Moment after moment passed, and yet the scene abated not its tenor, except to
                  become more touching, as poor Mary returned to life. Slowly arousing from her
                  faintness, her eyes again rested upon Simons, but they were dilated and wild; and
                  more than ever, she seemed to despair under the terror-striking thought of being
                  abandoned. Julia stroked back her hair, and adjusted her clothes. In this
                  lamentable condition, no one was able to break the silence, and only the excited,
                  looking from one to the other, or struggling to suppress their agitation, seemed
                  to be their desire. Once, twice, and again did poor Mary attempt to speak, but
                  each effort was overcome by her violent pulsations, and still left her despairing
                  gaze riveted upon the cold object of her love. At last her voice returned:
               "O! Simons! how can you?" she said, but again her emotions overcame her, and she
                  hid her face.
               "Simons," said Julia, "do speak to her—do. Why do you not?" Then Mary attempted to
                  rise, and advanced to him.
               "Simons, dear," she said, "how can you treat me thus?" and as her tears began to
                  flow more easily, her composure continued to return. Simons yet made no reply, and
                  Julia again seated herself beside Mary.
               "What have I done," said Mary, after a minute's silence, "that you should desert
                  me? Do speak to me, for I am wretched! O! I am wretched!" and again she hid her
                  face, but now wept aloud.
               "Come, Simons, and talk to her," said Julia, who was now also weeping. Simons
                  still continued to look upon Mary with as much indifference as a surgeon could
                  upon a subject. Again, Mary dropped her hands, and endeavored to command her
                  self-possession.
               "O! Simons," she said, "how can you make me thus wretched? Are you devoid of the
                  love and honor which I have so long believed to be your incentives to action? O!
                  pardon me, for I can no longer restrain from uttering my affection. Come! do let
                  me enjoy the meeting with you in that affectionate embrace of which I have been so
                  long dreaming! Come! Simons," and she rushed upon him, and entwined her arms about
                  his neck; but be struggled, unloosed her hold, and, as if offended with her
                  liberties, withdrew to another seat. Mary tossed up her hands, and exclaimed:
               "O! Heaven! how can I bear this? Have all my tedious struggles been for one who
                  never loved me? O! I am wretched! I am miserable!"
               "No, Mary," said Simons, "I once loved you—and only convince me that you are still
                  the same, and my heart is ever yours." Julia now arose and left the room, for she
                  was anxious to stand outside the door, as a sentinel against anybody else
                  entering.
               "Tell me, Simons," said Mary, "how I can convince you? "Do I not declare it? Is
                  not my long search after you, any evidence?"
               "Then tell me, Mary, what are your obligations to Parker? Whence all this silk and
                  jewelry?"
               "O, Simons! forgive me, for all this has been brought about by my anxiety to meet
                  you. Believe me, Simons; receive my
                  words as truth, for I feel that I have nearly said all I can. My story is too long
                  to explain it all to you now; but believe me, nothing have I done, except to try
                  to fly to your arms. Pardon me, for I can not hold out much longer. Now, Simons,
                  dear, keep me in suspense no longer. Acknowledge me as yours forever, and let me
                  enjoy the happiness for which I have always prayed to rest upon you. Receive me,
                  Simons!" and she again approached him, but again he withdrew, though he made no
                  reply.
               "O, Simons! how can you treat me with this cold indifference? Do I deserve the
                  punishment which you are so thoughtlessly heaping upon me? Have you no longer any
                  disposition to banish the suspicions or stories which might have fallen upon me,
                  and to receive my own declaration made before high Heaven? What can I say more? Do
                  you not yet love me? and am I to remain miserable and disappointed, after having
                  nearly exhausted my life for you? No, Simons, I know you love me!" and again she
                  rushed upon him, and endeavored to clasp her arms about him, but again he released
                  her hold and strode firmly toward the door.
               "No, Mary," he said, "let me go—I shall leave you."
               As if pierced to the heart, poor Mary gave a hurried sigh, but instantly lowered
                  her voice into that deathlike solemnity witnessed only upon the last resort, and,
                  holding to his arm, said:
               "Simons, dearest and most sacred to me of all upon earth, if you leave me now, it
                  shall be forever! I can not do or say more to convince you of my virtue and love.
                  Hear me, then, for the last time. You, and you alone, are all that binds me to
                  earth. Because I have loved you, I have struggled more than ever woman before
                  struggled to meet man. For three long years we have been mutually pledged, and for
                  nearly two have I been seeking to have our pledge consummated. Over the long, wild
                  Plains I followed you, because I loved you. Upon the same open prairies where you
                  roamed—upon the same lofty mountains where your eyes gazed—in the same cold rains
                  where your feet were freezing—in the same fierce winds where your face was pierced
                  with cold—through the same broiling suns where your head ached with fever—over the
                  same burning sands where you nearly languished and died with thirst and
                  fatigue—ay, upon and through all of these, where your very life seemed as a
                  burden, I too have experienced, struggled, and passed, because I loved you. And
                  after a long, long search for you, when I believed you were no longer living, the
                  whole world lost all its attractions, and my own existence became a burden: then
                  everything became darkened before me, and when I thought you had gone to heaven, I
                  resolved to follow. Then when I again learned of your living, the world brightened
                  before me, and Heaven only knew my thanks for still being alive, and with still a
                  prospect of meeting you. And when I learned that you had returned to the States, I
                  could not refuse Parker's offer to restore me to my parents, for then I expected
                  to meet you. And now this last time, and the only time I may ever see you, I only
                  plead for you because I love you. Pardon me for saying so, for if you leave me
                  now, it shall be forever! If you leave me now, you are taking from me all the
                  happiness that earth can give. You will be making a blank that no mortal can ever
                  fill. I have now done all that woman can. If you do not love me now, my soul shall
                  wing its way to heaven!" and her pale-white hand pointed toward the Redeemer's
                  throne. "Simons, you—or Him! My heart knows or seeks no other—nor shall it ever!"
                  and as if in a last fond embrace, she pressed her face into his bosom. He stooped,
                  pressed his lips to her forehead, her heart to his, and granted her wishes.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               AFTER Simons and Mary became a little composed, Mrs. Hamlin returned into the
                  parlor, received an introduction to Mary, and was told of their compromise.
                  Shortly after this, Hamlin and Uncle Thomas were introduced to the intended bride;
                  but we cannot stop to relate their words, blessings, or anything connected with
                  this acquaintance. Suffice it, as soon as they were reconciled to each other's
                  general exterior appearance ance,
                  Simons and Mary, with indescribable faces and feelings, started back to Dr.
                  Sparks'. Just as they reached his door they were met by the veritable old
                  gentleman himself.
               "Halloo! Simons," said he, "have you, too, returned from California? How are you?"
                  and seizing his hand, well nigh shook it off. A few social remarks were then
                  passed, Mary still holding upon Simons' arm.
               "Well, Simons, my boy," the doctor continued, after a little while, "I have never
                  so heartily repented of anything in my life as that I denied you my daughter. You
                  cannot conceive the punishment that that inhuman deed has so long cast upon me. I
                  never thought so much about it until you were both out of my reach. But, tell me,
                  is it still your wish to take Mary from me?"
               "It is, Doctor."
               "And what do you say, my girl? want to leave your poor old father and marry
                  Simons?"
               "Father, you know my wishes."
               'Mary, my dear child, it is because I do not want you to leave me that I cannot;
                  muster courage sufficient to consent to your wishes; but—" and the old Doctor's
                  voice stopped, his eyes moistened a little, and, without saying anything more, he
                  took one long, affectionate look at his daughter, and placed her hand into
                  Simons', saying:
               "May God's blessings fall upon you both." They then entered the house and received
                  the well wishes of the old lady, Mrs. Sparks. For some time their conversation was
                  rather a dull drag, but finally they all came to, and became more easy and
                  familiar. So far, we have not mentioned anything about Mary's troublesome
                  reflections of now being engaged to Simons and Parker. She had not even yet dared
                  to name it to Simons, but her thoughts upon it began to cause an absent-mindedness
                  that she was sure Simons was beginning to notice. She had heard of duels, and knew
                  that they frequently occurred between lovers; but she could not bear the idea of
                  having a difficulty of that nature causing either of the young men to suffer. Over
                  and over she pondered upon its probable fate; yet she could see no favorable means
                  by which she could appease the coming storm. But one fact seemed quite feasible,
                  that was, that Parker might relinquish his claim upon her by informing him that
                  she preferred Simons. And upon this position she began to direct her thoughts, to
                  view the most favorable light in which she could handle the question. One thing
                  soon appeared very evident as an indispensable preliminary, that she must inform
                  Simons of the full particulars; and, accordingly, she had not been long in her
                  father and mother's presence, until she asked Simons to accompany her into another
                  room. O! how cold that room was, without any fire—in the winter, too. Mary thought
                  of that, but she had more important business on hand than to apologize for fires.
                  It must be remembered that this occurred in the forenoon of the same day on which
                  she had given her hand to Parker; also, that as he had left her in a gloomy mood,
                  there was no knowing at what moment he might return. Scarcely had Mary and Simons
                  been seated, when Mrs. Sparks rapped at the door and told Mary that there were a
                  gentleman and lady wishing to see her. Mary said she wished to be excused; and, at
                  that, the old lady turned away; but in a moment after she again called Mary. Mary
                  then left Simons in the cold room, promising to return in a minute, and hurried
                  out to see who were wishing to see her, but not without thinking that very
                  probably the gentleman was Mr. Parker. And so it chanced to be. Mary had scarcely
                  closed the door between her and Simons when Parker met her.
               "Miss Sparks," he said, and he took her hand and pressed it warmly, then turning
                  toward the young lady who had come with him, he said: "Excuse me, but I must
                  introduce you ladies to each other—Miss Sparks, Miss Wardle." The two ladies
                  approached and shook each other's hands. Neither of these ladies had ever heard of
                  the other, and with what strange feelings they pondered upon such an unceremonious
                  introduction can scarcely be conceived. While they were yet shaking hands, Parker
                  said to Mary:
               "I wish to speak to you two, privately, if you please." Both the young ladies
                  startled, and evinced surprise and confusion. Poor Mary felt a powerful soubresaut going on in her mental regions; but she immediately conducted Parker and
                  Miss Wardle into another room. Parker made himself quite at home, and placed seats
                  for both the young ladies, then took one himself.
               "Miss Wardle," said he, "this young lady is just from California. I became
                  acquainted with her there, and have been somewhat acquainted with her hardships
                  and troubles. It is not possible for me to relate all her life, nor even mine;
                  but, considering myself abandoned, and living under another name, and being
                  altogether an outcast, without a single friend in the world, I found in her
                  company the solace similar to that which I had so long believed myself deprived
                  of. I cherished my feelings toward her, and she soon became the only person in
                  whom I found the least sympathy and encouragement to morality. This finally grew
                  into a tender affection, even love!" Miss Wardle turned pale, Mary held down her
                  head, but Parker coolly continued:
               "This attachment had not continued long, until I believed her the only one on
                  earth who could ever make me happy. I knew she had been engaged to
                  another, but I resolved to act the part of an honest man, and to permit her to
                  choose which of the two she wished. After awhile, I perceived I had a great
                  influence over her, and I could not but feel like making her mine. I then
                  furnished her the means to come home on; and, on arriving in this city, I learned
                  that, her intended had not yet returned from California. Knowing her feelings were
                  a little prejudiced in my favor, and judging that she now entirely despaired of
                  ever meeting her real intended, I asked her this morning, and obtained an
                  acknowledgment of her hand and heart." Miss Wardle trembled like a leaf; Harriet
                  still hung down her head, but Parker again said:
               "Miss Sparks, when I was in California, I told you about having once been engaged
                  to a young lady of great perfections, who was married, by force, to another man.
                  This is the lady—Miss Wardle. She has never been married. It was a deception
                  played upon me by her guardians—a trick whereby they sought to obtain another
                  young man's money; though he didn't love her well enough to bail her guardians for
                  his own ruin, as I did, and they didn't get his money. But, when they moved away,
                  I was not at home, and they assumed the responsibility to publish to the world
                  that she had married another, so as to prevent me from following them; beside, I
                  knew they were 'broke;' and I wrote this lady an abusive letter, the most
                  outrageous threat that a man ever wrote, for I wanted to punish her for her
                  conduct. After I wrote that letter, considering that she might fear I should put
                  my threats into execution, and that, to make herself safe, she might have me
                  severely punished, I immediately changed my name and ran away. Consequently, I
                  never heard from her any more. Not very long after this I went to California, and
                  arrived just as you met me in Sacramento. Now then, since we have returned, and
                  while we were in New York, I received a letter from this lady, and that was the
                  cause of my going away from you without giving you any explanation of my absence.
                  Well, then, Miss Sparks, when I met this lady, I found that her attachment had led
                  her to live in hope of some day meeting me, and that she still insisted upon our
                  old engagement. Now, ladies, I have the consent of you both! I can not marry but
                  one!"
               A dead silence ensued. Parker looked upon both very differently. Mary was too full
                  to speak, but kept pinching hard upon her handkerchief. Miss Wardle pressed her
                  hand upon her heart, and seemed ready to die with suspense.
               "You do not understand me," Parker continued; "you can not perceive how I became
                  engaged to you both. Well, I will tell you. After I left you, Miss Sparks, in New
                  York, I went in search of Miss Wardle, as she requested. Now, then, she had heard,
                  by way of some of the passengers, that I was going on to Cincinnati; and she
                  immediately packed her things and started here. Well, when I arrived in her
                  village, where she had been living, I ascertained that she had very
                  unceremoniously left, not telling anybody that she was coming to Cincinnati.
                  Consequently, I made all the inquiry that I possibly could, and then finally
                  concluded she had only been playing me a trick, by writing me the letter that I
                  received in New York. I felt the wound severely. I started direct to this city,
                  determined that, if Simons' claim on you could not prevent it, I would solicit your hand at once, and thus end my
                  reflections upon Miss Wardle forever. I arrived here this morning, and obtained
                  your hand. I was happy. On my way down to the river, after leaving here, I met
                  Miss Wardle! and I now find her attachment the same—still anxious to hold me to my
                  old promise. Now then, what am I to do, ladies?" Parker demanded with considerable
                  coolness. Still the same silence was observed.
               "I can not marry you both, ladies!" said Parker. Neither spoke; and low sobs
                  occasionally escaped Miss Wardle. "What shall I do, ladies?" but no answer
                  followed; and after another minute, Parker again said:
               "Can you two settle it if I leave you?" Mary stole a delicate peep at Miss Wardle,
                  but neither were yet able to reply. "Shall I take my choice, ladies? You know I
                  can not marry you both. Are neither of you willing to relinquish your claim?" Mary
                  stammered:
               "Mr. Simons has returned!"
               "Simons!" exclaimed Parker, "Simons! Simons! Simons!" and his
                  "soul-and-body-penetrating eyes" were firmly riveted upon Mary, who now sat
                  trembling and helpless; for she feared from the tone of his voice, she would be
                  chosen instead of Miss Wardle.
               It will be remembered that we had left Simons sitting in the cold room. Now then,
                  feeling himself quite at home, he did not relish such quarters, and soon after
                  Mary left him, he took the liberty of going into the room where the old folks were
                  sitting. This was adjoining the room where the others were now adjusting their
                  engagements. Parker's voice could frequently be heard by Simons and the old folks,
                  though not distinctly. But, when Parker exclaimed, "Simons!" as before-mentioned,
                  Simons supposed himself to be wanted in their room. Accordingly, he very
                  deliberately, and without any premonitory indications of his movements, arose,
                  entered the room, and stood before them! All were silent, but gazed fixedly upon
                  each other. Simons at once recognized Parker; but the latter had not seen Simons,
                  to know him, since he and Miller had burned the butcher's brush-house in
                  California; and at that time, Simons was so reduced in appearance that he now
                  looked like quite a different man. However, Parker judged this person to be
                  Simons, whose entrance was so unexpected that they all startled, though none so
                  much as did Mary. The silence only lasted a moment. Simons turned toward Parker,
                  and said:
               "If I mistake not, you were calling me? I take you to be Colonel Parker, sir?"
               "I did not call you, sir; but sir, if you please, is not your name Nathan
                  Simons?"
               "It is, sir; the same that you and Miller turned out of doors in the
                  mountains—whose house you burned!" Parker started a little, but immediately
                  commanded himself again, and said:
               "This is no place, sir, to be casting up what I or anybody else did in a drunken
                  spree. Therefore, sir, if you please, we are not anxious to have you remain in the
                  room at present."
               "But, sir, if you please or not, I shall not leave, merely to permit
                  you to concoct flattering falsehoods behind my back."
               "What, sir?" and Parker rose to his feet; when Simons advanced a little. Mary flew
                  to Simons, exclaiming:
               "Simons, hold for a moment. Do not permit this—" and endeavored to draw him away
                  from Parker's reach, who looked as if a mere trifle would induce him to do
                  something desperate. And at the same instant, Miss Wardle seized upon Parker,
                  exclaiming:
               "O! Elias, what does this mean? Why are you so heedless—" and she also drew him
                  back.
               Now, the conversation between Simons and Parker had been sufficiently loud to be
                  heard by the old folks, who soon apprehended a serious trouble brooding. The
                  moment they heard the young ladies speaking, they, the old Doctor and Mrs. Sparks,
                  came rushing into the room!
               "Halloo! what in the devil is all this fuss about—eh?" demanded the Doctor, taking
                  a rapid survey of the aghast-looking figures about him. Parker soon regained his
                  self-possession, and, with quite a friendly air, said:
               
               "If you will all hear me, I think I can give you all a satisfactory explanation.
                  This morning I came here and engaged to marry Miss Mary Sparks; for she had
                  abandoned the hope of ever meeting Simons. Since that, I have obtained the one to
                  whom I have always been attached. To get myself clear of Miss Sparks I now came
                  here. But I perceive I shall have no trouble, for she has at last obtained her
                  wish, and I have mine," and Parker bowed, smiled, and turned to leave the room;
                  but then said: "Mr. Simons, if it were possible for me to repay you for the foul
                  treatment which Miller and I have done you, I would sacrifice anything I have;
                  though it is past, and I am sorry—I have long been sorry. Partly on account of
                  that deed I tried to find you in California, and to restore you and Miss Sparks to
                  each other. But, sir, it is all past, and I ask your forgiveness."
               "Granted, Mr. Parker; that very deed you did, though wicked in appearance, wag the
                  means of forcing me from my mountain home, and of restoring me to my sister, and
                  of saving my life; for in all probability I should have lingered in the mountains
                  until death would have resulted from my exposure. Granted, Mr. Parker," and they
                  shook hands.
               
               On the evening after the above, there was a great collection of people about old
                  Dr. Sparks'. The whole house was lighted up, and those cold rooms were all warmed
                  with good fires. Kid gloves and fine dresses were worn by nearly everybody, and
                  the grand denouement was about to take place. Some of the people were laughing and
                  talking, some introducing each other, and some roasting their toes before the
                  fire. It was not long before the old Doctor's premises seemed likely to be too
                  small, for, moment after moment, couples and quadruples were coming in, and every
                  one still inquiring for other expected guests. Among these we have no acquaintance
                  except Mary Sparks, Elias Parker, Josephine Wardle, and the old Doctor and his
                  lady. While these happy people were making their own entertainment, each as
                  familiar as if at home, in came Nathan Simons, his father, Mr. Hamlin and wife. As
                  they passed through the room, Parker arose, looked steadily at Hamlin and his
                  wife, then took his seat. Hamlin looked at Parker. Their eyes met! Parker arose
                  again, but seemed confused. He muttered something, then walked toward Hamlin.
                  Hamlin arose. They gazed fixedly upon each other. Many others noticed them. They
                  moved together. They clasped each other in their arms, and cried:
               "O! brother! brother!"
               In a few minutes after this, Elias Hamlin and Nathan Simons were married to two of
                  the ladies of the West—who are, for constancy in love and purity in principle,
                  mortal brilliants on earth without a parallel—and, to look upon, more pleasing
                  than are the stars in heaven!
            
            
               CHAPTER XL.*
               
               
                  *Since writing the above chapter, the author feels induced to call the
                     attention of the various Churches to the fact that the present enmity toward
                     foreigners, as well as the general indolence of the people in regard to
                     slavery, is maintained by their inhuman persecution of everything that has a
                     tendency to elevate the humbler classes of our fellow beings. And what is
                     equally conspicuous, the infidels of the whole nation are abolitionists and
                     anti-partyists, holding up their hands and pleading for the rights, equality
                     and elevation of all men; but still, nearly all our Christian churches—who
                     have a sufficient influence among the people to produce the highest order of
                     love and harmony, and to remove the glaring outrages upon which the whole
                     world are pointing the finger of scorn—are engaged in the most silly strife
                     and persecution of each other's creed. Preaching anti-reform, isms and
                     schisms that are beneath the scorn of infidels. Remember, it is not the
                     doctrine of the Churches, but the men and some of the principles they
                        maintain, which we so fearlessly condemn by the satire within this
                     chapter.
               
               H— county, in Indiana, is a pretty county. Beautiful farms out there; also fine
                  cattle and horses, and luxuries of various descriptions. The people were happy out
                  there a few years ago. They did not run mad about either politics or religion, but
                  civilly attended to their own business, and lived as seemed right in their own
                  eyes. Out in the country parts of the county, where churches were scarce, they generally went to the
                  nearest one, once or twice every Sunday, not for the purpose of criticising and
                  abusing, but for collecting what good they could, and for seeing and mixing with
                  each other after the manner which seemeth natural to the human being.
               Certainly, this was a very wicked condition, to be so regardless of the
                  denomination or creed they went to hear: but it originated from a very strange
                  doctrine in which they were blinded—they believed that the Creator of the universe
                  was too exalted a being to have intended that some men should have more natural
                  rights and privileges than others! Preposterous! They also believed that when the
                  earth was created, man was created with the right and privilege to live upon
                  whatever part is unoccupied! So dreadful! They did not even exempt color or blood;
                  because they claimed that God did not intend for land to lie idle when so many men
                  in different parts of the world had no homes! Neither would they admit that God
                  was foolish for giving man a desire to maintain his own rights and equality! Ay!
                  they even said, that this disposition within man's mind was an argument in favor
                  of elevating his condition, and that it ought to be cherished! This wicked
                  doctrine has not been without producing its effect upon the people. Their
                  children, black and white, native and foreign associated together, and loved each
                  other! Neither did it stop here. Its evil effects began to spread over a large
                  portion of the Northern States; and so friendly and harmoniously were they
                  beginning to live with each other, that it was feared they might attempt to exalt
                  the black people of the South! There was much exertion on the part of the
                  different Churches to eradicate this evil doctrine from the people's hearts, by
                  showing wherein some of them should not associate with those of a different creed,
                  blood or color, lest they become contaminated. But the people were hard-hearted,
                  and some of them even had the audacity to say, that they thought the Churches were
                  scheming to get money! Consequently, their condition was daily becoming more
                  alarming. And it was only recently that the Churches perceived the dangerous
                  effects of this religion, based upon natural rights. Fortunately however, they
                  discovered it. Now, the people in H— county placed great confidence in their
                  ministers; and the latter were aware of it, and they were aware too, that there
                  was danger of this infidel doctrine liberating the slaves of our "free country."
                  Therefore, they sought to divide the people, as the only grounds whereby our
                  institutions could be preserved. To work they went. In the first place, they
                  showed wherein God had given some men more rights than he did others; then they
                  showed wherein some people had been robbed of their rights in foreign countries,
                  which was evidence that they had no rights left when they came here; then they
                  showed that as they had been oppressed at home, they would be too apt to have a
                  sympathy with the servants of the South, thereby endangering our institutions. But
                  still the people of H— county held on to their wicked doctrines, and the ministers
                  of the Gospel of God were greatly puzzled to know how to strike out the iniquity.
                  It was well known now that most of the people still believed that God had created
                  all men upon something like the same terms, and that, consequently, they were much
                  inclined to comfort and sympathize with each other, which is an extremely wicked
                  doctrine, and leads to infidelity and materialism. But the ministers had exhausted
                  all their reason to no avail, and they perceived that our institutions were
                  endangered if things were allowed to continue thus; accordingly they at last hit
                  upon a plan—to threaten the liberty of the people themselves! This fixed it. The
                  people in H— county were sensitive upon the word liberty. It
                  startled them! They were well informed, and possessed of a spirit and courage
                  known in no other part of the earth. Fortunately, they had one weak trait in their
                  character, else perhaps the clergy could never have moved them,—that was
                  sensibility or excitability. The clergy knew this, and they hit upon it, but
                  barely in time to save our institutions. They told the people that secret and
                  dangerous plots were laid to deprive them of the liberty of their consciences by
                  enforcing mysterious creeds upon them. The ministers knew that what they told the
                  people was false—for they knew that the people of H— county possessed too much
                  spirit and intelligence to submit to any such a system; but then they saw no other
                  way in which our "free institutions" could be protected, and it was their only resort. Accordingly, they
                  told the people that they must, "Up! to arms! to crush a deadly foe!" and the
                  people ran out to see where the foe was, for they became instantly excited. Then
                  the clergy perceived that they had gained power over the people's reason, and this
                  is the most dangerous enemy that our institutions have, and as soon as they
                  perceived this, they said to the people, "Lo! here! Lo! there!" and the people ran
                  rapidly, and could not yet see the foe. Then the ministers said:
               "Behold! what the people of this Church did a thousand years ago! They slaughtered
                  people because they would not bow their belief to their Church! guard ye well
                  against this people, lest your LIBERTY is stolen! Trust them not!" This ruptured
                  the peace of the people, and promised safety against unity—which is one of the
                  most dangerous things toward our institutions. But the ministers of the Gospel of
                  God—all of whom are on our side, and favorable to the prosperity of our "free
                  institutions"—canvassed the affairs of H— county again. And lo! behold! they
                  discovered that only a small portion of the foreigners were members of that
                  Church! Here was a fix! But while the iron was yet hot, they ran out among the
                  people, but not without girding on bowie-knives and revolvers, and they said:
               "Lo! here is an enemy—these foreigners! It was not merely the Church, as we before
                  told you, but all of these! They have been used to oppression, and they love it!
                  and they are trying to introduce it into this country!"
               This produced a great commotion; for however unreasonable it may seem, the people
                  were now too excited to be any longer under the control of reason. But the
                  ministers continued to exhort the people, saying:
               "Down with the foreigners! down with them! They are going to rob us of our
                  LIBERTY! They are dangerous to the prosperity of the buying and selling of our
                  fellow creatures! Down with the foreigners! They do not sympathize with our
                  institutions! Down with them! they have been oppressed at home, and they are
                  likely to have sympathy for our slaves, and thereby endanger the liberty of our
                  freely institutions! They are meddling with the institutions of our free country!
                  They are dictating upon the affairs of government! They have no right to do so;
                  they have no right to speak out in favor of the rights of man! Down with them! It
                  is the only way in which the Union can be preserved; the only way we can protect
                  the free institutions of the South! Down with them! we will not leave them here
                     dictating about the liberty of our country! This is
                  not their country! Let them go home! If they have got no home, they had no
                  business to be born! America is ours! All these wild lands, two
                  millions of square miles!! all of it is ours! It is given to us by Almighty God,
                  for the glory and exaltation of our children and our children's children forever;
                  for the growth and extent of our free institutions through all eternity! We know
                  that God intended this, for he is favorable to our institutions! Then, shall we
                  have foreigners here meddling with our glorious destinies? and WE the favored and
                  chosen of God!!"
               After that fashion they continued to preach, and it produced a favorable change in
                  the minds of the people. Instead of going together to church and to school, and in
                  all public intercourse, as in days of yore, the people throughout the country were
                  arrayed the one against the other, which is highly desirable, in order to maintain
                  our "free institutions."
               About this time, which was only a few months ago, a troublesome change occurred in
                  H— county.
               We shall relate it, and then our long story will be ended.
               But to commence it rightly, we must prepare ourselves to take a start in old
                  Ireland. There was a farmer—Boswell was his name—in Ireland. He was a very good
                  man, and loved and respected by all who knew him. He had a wife and six children,
                  pretty good children they were, with some wholesome education and good manners.
                  Mr. Boswell became unfortunate, and lost most of his fortune, and, right in the
                  midst of this, he died. This was a hard stroke upon the old lady, for she was left
                  nearly penniless, and had been used to living a comfortable and happy life. She
                  was now obliged to submit to the worst kinds of drudgery in order to provide for
                  her family. But her eldest son began to
                  grow into the shape of a man, and soon gave her great assistance. Considering that
                  her life was likely to be a hard one, she determined upon coming to America.
                  Though here was a dilemma—she could not raise the money. However, by perseverance,
                  she made money enough to send her son—Charley was his name. Charley was a good
                  boy, and he came direct to H— county, where he entered into the employ of Mr.
                  Howard, with the determination of sending money to his poor old mother, to help
                  her out to this country. Howard had a son, Jimie, who was about to go to
                  California. Charley and Jimie became greatly attached to each other, and Charlie
                  resolved to accompany Jimie to California, and we are now well aware that he did
                  so. The widow Boswell still continued to provide for her family in Ireland. But,
                  after a long time, the old lady began to wonder exceedingly why she did not get
                  letters from her son. She believed that Charley was a good boy, though she could
                  not account for his not writing her any letters. This serious reflection on the
                  part of the old lady did not continue very long until she began to fear that her
                  son, and now her only assistant, had settled his accounts in this world and left
                  for another. This was a hard stroke upon the old lady, and many a time she prayed
                  to God for help and comfort. First a few weeks, then months—months, long months
                  rolled by, but still no word came from her son, and the poor old lady nearly cried
                  and prayed herself into despair.
               She still lived in the country, though it was a very poor house—a sort of turf
                  fixing, with a damp, ground-floor; it was very different from what she had once
                  lived in. The post-boy always came on horseback by her hut once every day; and
                  every time he came, she asked for letters—for in that country there are post-boys
                  who deliver the letters to the families—but every time she asked, he answered,
                  "No, nothing." As he had answered her so many times in the same brief words, she
                  was getting almost wearied out by asking. Now, she generally employed herself at
                  washing, and her tub stood in front of the hut, which was close up to the side of
                  the road, like a house in the city stands against the street—for this is the
                  fashion in many parts of Ireland in the country. When stooping over her tub, one
                  day, she looked down the road; it was a very pretty, level road, with a hedge
                  along each side; and she observed the post-boy coming. He was holding up his hand
                  and making a noise toward her, though she could not hear what he said. She felt
                  very curious, and could scarcely stand up to her tub, for she saw something white
                  in the boy's hand. But the boy soon rode up, saying:
               "Letter for ye, Mrs. Boswell—it's from Californi', America." The old lady could
                  scarcely command strength enough to take the letter out of the post-boy's hand,
                  though when she had done so, the post-boy galloped away. Then she looked at the
                  writing, and she knew it to be Charley's hand. Her eyes soon became dim, and she
                  thanked God that her son was still living. Then she went into her hut to read the
                  letter; but when she took a seat, the letter lay helplessly in her lap, and she
                  trembled so that she could not lift it. Then she tried to pray for strength, but
                  even in that she failed, for her emotions shook her terribly, and her tears nearly
                  blinded her. Her children were gone to school, for at that time free-schools had
                  been established throughout the country. There she sat, looking at the letter and
                  crying, for the Irish cry when they are overjoyed. She knew her son was living!
                  She could only look toward two things—that letter and Heaven. Poor woman! Heaven
                  only knew thy thanks! Long, long did it lie in her lap—upon the same knees where
                  Charley had once sat! Mrs. Boswell thought of that, and she thought of more than
                  words could express. But Charley could not sit on her lap now—he was gone! Only
                  his letter could supply the great blank that he had left in his poor mother's
                  love. Will not God, without regard to creeds of belief, bless the heart that loves
                  so sincerely? Mrs. Boswell did not think of such things. She was trying to thank
                  God that her son was yet living. "Like a certain rich man's son" who lived a very
                  wild life and finally returned to his father's house, his life alone was of so
                  much consideration that details were forgotten. Charley Boswell was living! Poor
                  or rich, Heaven alone knew his mother's thanks. But after awhile she gained power
                  to raise the letter and break the seal.
                  Charley had not written a very long letter, though he had inclosed a curious strip
                  of paper within it: it had printing and writing upon it, and also an eagle and a
                  lion and unicorn. Mrs. Boswell started a little when she saw these national
                  emblems. Then she looked more closely upon the strip of paper, and she saw figures
                  about money. As soon as she saw this, a flood of tears burst from her eyes; the
                  paper fell into her lap, and her hands pointed toward heaven. She did not say
                  anything, but fell back in her chair, whiter than marble. Charley had been a good
                  boy, and sent his poor old mother a draft for three hundred pounds sterling! For a
                  long time his mother lay unable to speak, but at last her voice came.
               "O, Almighty God! shower thy blessings upon the Land of the West! Give blessings
                  and happiness to the great nation where my son has prospered. Give them peace and
                  love, give them all their hearts can desire, for my son has been favored among
                  them."
               After that fashion she continued to pray as long as she was able to speak. Then
                  she took up the letter and read it. Charley had written for her to come to
                  America, and for her to bring all the family, and also one of their neighboring
                  families—in which there was a bouncing girl of nineteen. Mrs. Boswell thought
                  about this girl. She suspected there was something going on though she was not
                  very certain. Again and again she read the letter: she laughed and cried at her
                  pleasure. But while she was yet reading it, footfalls were heard approaching, and
                  in a few seconds the children came in. The oldest girl was fourteen, and quite a
                  wholesome-looking girl, with red cheeks and large black eyes: those eyes looked as
                  if they would cry easily; and sure enough, she had scarcely seen her mother, so
                  pale, with a letter in her hand, when tears burst from her eyes and rolled thick
                  and fast down her rosy cheeks. She thought about her brother Charley in a far
                  distant land. It seemed very long to her since Charley went away. Then came the
                  smaller children, and they all clustered around their speechless mother. Then the
                  eldest girl—Nancy was her name—took the letter into her trembling fingers and
                  endeavored to read through her tears. She read a little, then kneeled by her
                  mother's side and pointed her little hands toward heaven. And as she was thus
                  kneeling, she said:
               "O, thank God! my brother yet lives—lives in a land of peace and plenty! May
                  heaven's blessings rest upon the land that has redeemed us!" But the little ones
                  all kneeled about their mother, and they prayed such a prayer and blessing upon
                  America as was never surpassed by mortal lips. Were the people dealing justly with
                  their fellow-creatures, when they said that foreigners have no sympathy for the
                  American nation? Do they know when they hurt a foreigner's feelings?
               Mrs. Boswell now gave up all her affairs, and, in company with the other
                  family—Aikins was their name—she set out for America. She was well favored, and
                  both their families arrived safely in New York, where she supposed she had about
                  completed her journey; but after a little investigation, she discovered that H—
                  county, Indiana, lay a thousand miles further westward, However, they applied
                  themselves to the cars, and soon commenced moving through the rich lands of the
                  great Republic. They stopped at a few places. Mrs. Boswell noticed some Irish
                  people who had farms and homes of their own: she noticed that the children were
                  well dressed: she noticed that their faces had not the deformed and wry features
                  which are common to the lowest class of her own country, who know no enjoyments:
                  and while she noticed these things, were not her sympathies and prayers for
                  America? Go to the throne of Almighty God, and ask what her soul was then
                  speaking. Then see, reader, if you can make another such prayer as did Mrs.
                  Boswell and little Nancy. But she noticed many rough-looking Irishmen—more than
                  she ever before knew to be living; and when she saw so many of these, she feared
                  that the people would form too low a notion of the inhabitants of her native land.
                  Was she right? Thus she went on, and she arrived in H— county, Indiana: all of her
                  family, and Aikins' family, landed in good health at the place pointed out by
                  Charley's letter. Here she settled on a farm, and provided herself with a home far
                  more comfortable than had been her old hut in Ireland. This was just at the time that the Churches were all giving
                  the people instruction upon their liberty, and upon the danger of our "free
                  institutions" of the South being meddled with, if foreigners were not deprived of
                  some of the rights which God had intended to be taken away from them, to be given
                  to natives. The people were very much excited about it, and of course they knew
                  too much to permit Mrs. Boswell's meddling with these "free institutions." Mrs.
                  Boswell could not understand the mysterious suspicions that occasionally fell from
                  the lips of some of her neighbors. But she noticed it, and she thought of it; and
                  as she thought, she prayed to God to forgive her if she had ever uttered a
                  sentiment contrary to the great cause of humanity. As she was sitting at her
                  needle-work one day, she was startled at Nancy's appearance. Nancy had been to a
                  neighbor's house after some yeast to make bread with, for they were under the
                  necessity of baking their own bread. Nancy had procured the yeast and was now
                  returning, but as soon as she reached the door she commenced shedding tears.
               "Why, my child, what is the matter?" asked Mrs. Boswell, and she laid down her
                  sewing and looked at her daughter. Nancy made no reply, but placed her yeast upon
                  a table, and went and kneeled beside her mother. The poor girl trembled as an
                  aspen, and sobbed aloud; her mother became alarmed.
               "What is the matter, my child?" the old woman asked for a long time; finally, the
                  little girl looked up and said:
               "Mr. Winters, the Methodist minister, was over at our neighbor's, taking dinner.
                  And when I came, he asked me if I was not a foreigner? I told him that I was. Then
                  he asked me if I was in favor of turning the slaves loose? I told him 'yes;' and
                  then he said I ought to feel ashamed of myself for being a beggar and foreigner,
                  and meddling with the institutions of this country!"
               "And have you ever said anything about the institutions of this country?"
               "No, mother, never, never, nothing but what I then said to him."
               "Well, there, my child, do not mind it; he did not intend to hurt your feelings.
                  Don't grieve, Nancy, we must expect to hear such remarks." Mrs. Boswell's eyes
                  were now opened, though she had not long to contemplate upon the subject until her
                  smaller children returned from school, and, as they came in, they said:
               "Mother, we don't want to go to school any more. Will you let us stay at
                  home?"
               "Why, my children, why do you not want to go to school any more?"
               "Because they all point their fingers at us, and call us Catholics." Mrs. Boswell
                  laughed at their story, and told them not to mind such remarks. Nancy saw that
                  smile, and she saw, beneath it, a wound that shook her poor mother's mortal frame.
                  Nancy turned and went toward the kitchen, but who so cold, to ask, did tears roll
                  down that little girl's rosy cheeks?
               Mrs. Boswell would have liked to counsel with some one upon the cause of this
                  hatred toward Catholics and foreigners; but she long studied upon it, and could
                  not think of any one with whom she could converse with freedom. Now she knew that
                  Mr. Howard, Jimie's father, though a very good man, was an infidel to all the
                  creeds of religion. To him she resolved to introduce the subject, for she was
                  anxious to avoid the hatred and suspicion and insults that were cast upon her
                  family because she was Irish. Accordingly, she paid Mr. Howard a visit—he lived
                  close by, and she was very intimate in his family. He was reading a newspaper when
                  she came in, though he did not wait for her to introduce the subject.
               "Well, Mrs. Boswell," said he, removing his spectacles and throwing back his long,
                  gray locks, "come and take a seat, and tell me the news. I see that you Catholics
                  are trying to have a division of the school fund. Why, that's outrageous! Society
                  and friendship are already broken up and spoiled by making divisions in the
                  sentiments of the people."
               "But if my children can't go to school without being insulted and abused?"
               "Well, there it is, Mrs. Boswell, that's it. Now, where I went to school, it was
                  right the other way. Our family was the only Protestant family in the district,
                  and we were the only mark at at which
                  they fired. I remembered it, too and when I came to be a man, I said to myself—'If
                  both of these claim to be the true Christians, and yet cannot agree, it is
                  probably all a humbug!' Well, the more I studied upon them, the more I was
                  convinced that I was right. Then, when I observed that nearly all the Churches are
                  favorable to slavery, I knew them to be merely money-making schemes—totally
                  regardless of humanity and pure religion. Consequently, I denounced them at once,
                  and determined to discard all Biblical doctrines, and look alone upon Nature and
                  Nature's God as a guide to my reason. That's why I'm an infidel. That's the first
                  thing that ever opens any man's eyes. He has a natural sense of religion that is
                  so pure, that he becomes disgusted with these biblical systems. That's it,
                  exactly. But to divide the schools! Don't you see, that it is making the harmony
                  in society still less? Nature is my guide upon such a question. Turn little
                  children together; will they know any difference in creeds? No; it's taught to
                  them by their catechizing parents, that's it. But the more the law separates their
                  interest, the more will they separate themselves in feeling. The law ought to set
                  the example of love, familiarity, and equality among the people. It is only by
                  this union and noble tone of feeling and acting that we can ever expect to discard
                  the horrors of slavery. These divisions and distinctions between man and man are
                  the most outrageous crimes that exist. Why, I have heard ministers make the
                  inhuman assertion that persons of certain color, blood, and birth, have not the
                  same rights as other people! And they tell me that this is religion! God forbid
                  that old Howard or any of his family ever become guilty of believing in such a
                  system of religion! It's disgusting!"
               Such was the style in which Mr. Howard talked; but he talked so much, and said so
                  many things to the point, that Mrs. Boswell could not get to converse with
                  him.
               After awhile, she started home, and as she went she said to herself: "Is this an
                  infidel? He calls himself one; but to me, be utters sentiments that resemble
                  Christianity! He calls all men his brothers, who are giving their power to invite
                  men into one common brotherhood! Jesus preached after that fashion! It is a pity
                  that a man of such principles has become an infidel. But is he to
                  blame for it? Had he found the purity within the Church that his own nature sought
                  after, would not be have been a valuable man?, Really, has it come to this, that
                  men's common natures stumble upon the corruptions of the Church? Though, may there
                  not be mistake? May not these infidels be the true Christians? And after that
                  fashion did the old Irish woman continue to talk, until she reached her own
                  house.
               Now we have neglected to mention, that when Mrs. Boswell first arrived in H—
                  county, she learned of Charley and Jimie being gone to Australia; so that, up to
                  the period now referred to, she was beginning to look for a letter from that
                  country. But several months rolled boy, and she did not get any letters; and again
                  she began to fear that her son was not living, for neither did Mr. Howard hear
                  from Jimie. Among her friends now, were Mr. and Mrs. Hamlin, who lived as near
                  neighbors. Mrs. Aikins's family were her old acquaintances, and Mr. Howard's, her
                  new ones. So, also, there were Simons, his wife, and his father, living close by;
                  then there was Mr. Randall's family, whose daughter, Lizzy, came so often to Mr.
                  Howard's, all of whom were very good neighbors. But there was a familiarity
                  between Lizzy Randall and Emma Aikins, which gave rise to an opinion among the
                  women in that neighborhood, that they were not always conversing upon moral and
                  political philosophy. Some of the people even went so far as to say, that certain
                  absent men's names had been mentioned by both of these young ladies; though
                  nothing definite was known, except that they frequently went over to Mr. Howard's.
                  But these were minor considerations to Mrs. Boswell and her family. Poor little
                  Nancy was beginning to fear that she would never get to see her brother again.
                  Charley had been put to work when he was very young, and had not been favored with
                  even a liberal education, which caused his sister the more earnestly to sympathize
                  with him, for the toilsome life he had endured. But so much time had now elapsed,
                  since they had heard from him, that the
                  poor girl was lost in conjecture. When Mrs. Boswell and Nancy were one day sitting
                  side by side, sewing, the old lady observed that Nancy frequently looked out at
                  the door—for last September was so warm, that they kept the door open in the
                  afternoon.
               "What makes you gaze so earnestly up the road, Nancy?" said her mother, who
                  happened to sit a little too far on one side.
               "I see somebody coming—two men," said Nancy, and she laid down her sewing and
                  looked steadily.
               "I suppose they are Mr. Hamlin and Mr. Simons!" said the old lady—not yet leaning
                  over to see them.
               "No," said Nancy, "they look like strangers!"
               "We don't see as many strangers here as I expected."
               "Mother!" said Nancy, "mother! O mother!" and the little girl leaned back in her
                  chair and trembled, for the appearance of the strangers startled her. "O! mother!
                  they are coming!"
               "Who, my child?" and the old lady looked up and observed the two strange-looking
                  young men coming close up to the door! Then came a heaven-flash of light, in which
                  time itself could not travel, for its radiance contained a luster that mortals can
                  not measure! In its glorious beams a silent spirit lived, and communicated a world
                  of thoughts—though it traveled not from the fixed eyes, over which it reigned in
                  solemn triumph! And as soon as the young men reached the door, Mrs. Boswell
                  lisped:
               "O! my son!"—fell back in her chair and swooned in her daughter's arms!
               "O! mother! mother!" cried one of the young men, and he kneeled by her side,
                  clasped his arms about her, and hid his face in his mother's bosom!
               "O! Charley! my dear, dear brother!" little Nancy cried, entwined her arms about
                  his neck and pressed her lips to his!
               "O! Nancy! my sister, my sister!" he stammered in broken accents, and "O! mother!
                  my poor old mother!" he sobbed, on the heart of as good a woman as ever lay faint
                  and still in the arms of a devoted son! Then came Charley's trusty friend, Jimie,
                  to participate in the joys of which their young minds had been so long dreaming;
                  and, soon after, loud sobs and good Irish crying reached a climax that few people
                  have ever witnessed.
               "Never, mother," said Charley, now being able to speak good English, "never shall
                  I leave you again! The feeble arms that once pressed me to this bosom, mother—the
                  center toward which my earnest prayers have beamed from every quarter of the
                  globe—must now repose upon the strong form of him whose struggles have rescued you
                  from all the cares of earth! Nancy! I shall always be with you! The trials of
                  poverty have disappeared, and we shall mingle again in childish glee! O! Nancy! my
                  sister! that noble, dark brow, and those rosy lips shall beam upon the brother who
                  has been so long—long hidden from your presence! My sister, O! my sister! what
                  charms in your name—Nancy! my sister! Mother, O! mother! how often I
                  have whispered that word when far—far away!" After that style did the young
                  Irishman continue to speak—and while his mother and sister were yet clinging upon
                  him, the children came home from school, but they would not come into the house.
                  Then they all took their seats, and Jimie went out and told the children that
                  Charley, their only brother, had come home! but as soon as he spoke to them, their
                  youthful eyes were flooded with tears!
               "Is your name Maggy?" said Jimie to the smallest one. The little thing looked up
                  and replied:
               "Yes, sir."
               "Come, then, Maggy, my dear, I am your brother's friend. Come to me, Maggy, I love
                  you," and Jimie stooped down and enfolded the child in his arms, then carried her
                  in and placed her upon Charley's knees.
               "Charley," said Maggy, who was only an infant when her brother had left her in
                  Ireland, nearly five years before, "I don't think you wore moustaches when you
                  came to America—if you did, I have forgotten it! Why do you cry, Charley? I should
                  think you would be glad to see me." But while the little creature continued to
                  address her brother, the other little girls came in and united their arms into a chain of
                  love—riveting the poor fellow in his seat.
               "Charley," said Maggy, after the scene quieted down a little, "do you remember
                  where we used to live in Ireland, in that old house, where the churn used to set
                  out of doors? We are all going back there again. Will you go along, Charley?"
               "Yes, Maggy, faith I remember it all; but why do you talk about going back? Sure
                  and you are a darling after my own heart, Maggy."
               "Why, what makes you talk so funny, Charley? Are you going to live with us now,
                  all the time now, say? I have a new book with a blue back."
               "O, bless your soul, Maggy, but don't you see I can't talk to you all at
                  once."
               "Will you go with us, Charley, back to Ireland?"
               "What in the name of common sense do you talk of going back to Ireland for, Maggy?
                  I'm sure we had a good dose of that country before we left it."
               "Why, we can't—"
               "Sh! sh!" said Nancy to Maggy, in a low whisper, "don't you know that Jimie,
                  Charley's friend, is an American? Don't say anything about it before him, or else
                  he'll hate us, too, because we're Irish!" Then little Maggy clasped her arms
                  around Charley's neck, and whispered:
               "We are going to leave here, Charley because we have our religion threatened then,
                  too, there are free-schools in Ireland now, and we would rather live poor and work
                  hard than, to be considered beneath anybody else. The Lord has smiled upon our
                  family circle, Charley, and we have money enough to go back on—and you must go,
                  too—will you? Nearly all the Irish that's got much money are beginning to leave. I
                  don't like moustaches, Charley, they hide your mouth."
               "Come, Charley," said Jimie, who had been speaking freely with the old lady and
                  Nancy, "come, we must go over to my father's—it is getting late."
               "Do you hear what Maggy is saying to me?" said Charley, and then he related it to
                  Jimie.
               "O, no! Maggy," said Jimie, "you must not leave me. I can not bear to have you
                  talk so, Maggy. Do you know that if you go to Ireland, Charlie will also go; then
                  I shall be deprived of a friend that no mortal can ever replace! O, no! Maggy, let
                  us live together in peace, for in a few short years, when these mortal frames have
                  run their course, and gay earth about to close the scene, we can all look back and
                  smile to think that love has triumphed over the ills that unfeeling creeds have
                  endeavored to cast between our sacred nature! O, no! Maggy, let us live in peace
                  together; for should the Christian heaven be true, it will add a luster of eternal
                  glory to our spiritual homes! but if it should not be, how wicked to divide
                  ourselves and waste our love—the only precious gem that earth can give! O, no!
                  Maggy, let us live together." After that fashion Jimie continued to speak, until
                  the thoughtless little girl, entwining her arms around his neck, mingled her tears
                  with his.
               "O, Jimie! I love you, Jimie!" she cried, "and I can bear the ills of all the
                  world, if you will but speak to me such love as this!"
               
               Then they moved over the fields, and through the walnut groves, for Howard's house
                  stood in an opposite direction from where they came. And as they moved along, they
                  conversed much about the appearance of the country, and also of the prospects of
                  settling in that neighborhood. Then, like the fanciful glimpses of spiritualists,
                  when reflecting upon departed friends, two gay young ladies seemed to be examining
                  the fruit of an extensive orchard, then flitted and disappeared—though it was not
                  a dream, but a reality seeming to be fancy; for, before the sun went down, they
                  awoke with their damsels in their arms! each pledging their love before the Giver
                  of all good, woodpeckers and grasshoppers notwithstanding! Then they proceeded
                  down to the other end of the orchard, where stood Mr. Howard's house—they and the
                  young ladies, laughing merrily all the while.
               
               Can there be any feeling like this? to return to the childhood home after several
                  years' absence, and behold one's own father and mother so overcome with joy as to
                  be unable to break the silence! Or, are these strange impulses the
                  incontrovertible evidence against the will of man—bound by unseen chains, even
                  though love itself dictates to move?
               
               After Jimie and Charley paid a visit to Mr. Howard's, they all went over to Mr.
                  Hamlin's. This was the day following; and it so happened that Simons, his wife,
                  (who had traveled across the plains in company with Jimie and Charley,) and his
                  father, Uncle Thomas, were all over there on a visit; for it was a day in which
                  visits are frequently made in that part of Indiana, although such a thing would
                  not be allowed in Cincinnati, notwithstanding that every man is accountable to God
                  for such and such, for the (city) law chooses to repeal the accountability and
                  impose the punishments itself—a usurpation that may cause the council to droop
                  their feathers in the world to come! This was a happy meeting. So many old friends
                  seldom have an opportunity to converse upon scenes that they witnessed together so
                  far away. After a general salutation of their well-wishes, Jimie and Charley were
                  asked about the gold fields of Australia.
               "Well, I'll tell you," said Jimie, after they all became seated and quiet, "the
                  diggings in Australia are almost precisely the same as in California, but the
                  regulations among the miners, or diggers, as they call them, are very
                  different."
               "How is that?" said Uncle Thomas.
               "Well, whenever a new gold field (or creek) is discovered, the miners have not got
                  the privilege of monopolizing the ground by making large claims."
               "Why so?"
               "Well, the law regulating such matters is made by the government of the
                  district."
               "Was that better than it is in California, where the miners on each creek or
                  settlement made their own laws?"
               "Well, when a few miners in California discovered, a new creek, they generally
                  made their claims large enough to take possession of the whole creek, thereby
                  preventing later arrivals from getting any ground to work upon, although the first
                  ones often held more than they could work in a lifetime!"
               "Then, if the laws were made by the government of the Colony, how did you adjust
                  difficulties about claims?"
               "Why, there is a Commissioner appointed to attend to every settlement. He is
                  called in case of any contention between two parties, and, without any charge, he
                  examines and decides upon it."
               "And is that better than where the miners would have the privilege of choosing a
                  jury and settling it, among themselves?"
               "Where personal interest is concerned, a jury is not so capable of doing justice
                  as is a single individual who is entirely disinterested."
               "But is there not more danger of a single individual being purchased in his
                  decision?"
               "There is; but, in order that no officer be purchased, he should receive a high
                  salary; and the office itself should be an honorable position. Such is the case
                  with English officers, generally—they are above being purchased; and one reason
                  that many of our men in office are good for nothing is, that the office is good
                  for nothing, and they don't care how soon they lose it."
               "Then, an officer should always be a disinterested man?"
               "Certainly so—always. The very principle of choosing men from certain districts,
                  men who will advocate certain principles because they are interested in such—is
                  presupposing a legislation of interest, and not of justice. Men who are totally
                  disinterested, are the only ones who can ever discriminate the exact line of
                  Justice and morality."
               "I am going to Australia, Jimie," said Uncle Thomas.
               "Why so, uncle; not yet satisfied with America?"
               "I am not satisfied with the Government—it's not so respectable as it might be.
                  Beside that, if I am not to be considered a man, I must go where my own good and
                  bad qualities will be the criterion for my standing; and not the fact of color or
                  birth."
               "I don't like the British Government, uncle."
               
               "Why so, it treats all men alike?"
               "In some respects it does; but, I'll tell you, it usurps the land in all its
                  dominions—which will always retard the settlements, and cause many people to be
                  dependents. In a British country, the people are one, and the Government is
                  another. It legislates for its own interest, and the people plead for theirs."
               "But, as you said before, the government ought to be a noble body, above
                  quarreling among themselves, and too well guarded to be purchased—when adjusting
                  difficulties between the people at large; now, then, how can this be effected,
                  unless they are favored with great possessions?"
               "Also, as I stated before, by being totally disinterested. We see that the British
                  system has its interest in opposition to the interest of the people; consequently,
                  the fear that the people might revolt, is all that prevents it from usurping
                  greater power and possessions than it now does. And in our system, we see that the
                  choosing of men who are pecuniarily interested in any particular theory, party,
                  etc., brings together a body of Legislators who contend for interest, instead of
                  counseling for the good of the whole. Therefore, our present Government is
                  becoming the ridicule of all nations; and we cannot go abroad without hearing
                  common school-boys jesting about the pugilistic contentions in our legislative
                  assemblies!"
               "It is supposed that that might be remedied by excluding some of the ignorant
                  voters!"
               "But another evil would follow that—the interest of such would then not be
                  represented—such persons as were excluded could not obtain justice. All
                  monarchical countries prove this fact. Then we have no natural right to exclude
                  any sane man from voting—for all men, of whatsoever color or blood, stand in the
                  same relation, and are entitled to plead and advocate what they think best; though
                  we have a right to change the constitution, in regard to men being eligible to
                  office—we have a right to choose and fix a constitution which will prevent
                  interested men (and ambitious boys, which is now frequently the case), from ever
                  getting into office; and, whenever we shall have accomplished that, it will not
                  matter very materially who vote, nor who are elected; for, as every officer would
                  be totally disinterested and have an honorable position, he would only consider
                  the interest of the whole, which would deal justice to all men."
               "And how can you find disinterested men?"
               "In the first place, a man should be of such an age as to be heedless of a display
                  of his own talents; for, if he is not, he will swerve from moral principles for
                  personal renown, and for an interest in rising in office. Secondly, he should have
                  no pecuniary interest at stake—none whatsoever; though he should have a high and
                  honorable salary—for then he could not be tempted to deviate from the justice his
                  position demanded."
               "Then, under the present considerations, wherein consists the different results of
                  this and the British Government?"
               "There is very little. The British Government is too much afraid of disloyal
                  subjects, to do anything very contrary to the people's wish. Our government is a
                  contention of parties, and next thing to no government at all; nevertheless, under
                  ours, there are a greater number of prosperous people, and the opportunities for
                  monopoly are better guarded against."
               "So, then, you don't like the Australian Government very well?"
               "Well, the government is not so very bad; it gave me the same protection as it did
                  a native; but I don't like some of the people out there."
               "Why so?"
               "Well, I can not say why, but they used to jest me a great deal about that
                  California tax, and make light of our pecuniary government. Then they make a good
                  deal of fun about our boasting of having a free government, while we hold over
                  three millions of our citizens in the most cruel bondage that is to be found in
                  any quarter of the globe."
               "You didn't like the people for that?"
               "No, uncle, I felt like 'putting my head in a bag.'"
               
               Jimie's ideas were spoiled—tainted with foreign abolition! Many of his notions
                  were equally opposed to our institutions, as the above indicates. So much for
                  going abroad. And yet, so ingenious
                  were his arguments that the former preaching of the different Churches, to array
                  the people against each other, was completely overthrown. All the foreigners in H—
                  county were induced to remain in the country, and the people in general were
                  persuaded to live in peace and harmony, which, should it continue, and become at
                  all general, will completely overthrow our "free institutions" of the South! It is
                  to be hoped that the ministers of the different Churches will again rally, and, if
                  possible, root out these monsters, and again establish a division among the
                  people—for "our liberty" to buy and sell our fellow creatures at pleasure, is
                  greatly in danger!
               
               Jimie and Charley had an agreeable time visiting their old associates; after
                  which, came that closing visit, in which independence is forever lost—the only
                  unity wherein it is never missed. They had been fortunate in Australia,; and they
                  now purchased farms (for the government in Australia would not sell them small
                  farms), in the neighborhood of our various personages, and took their young wives
                  into their own comfortable cottages, where they have scarcely yet done spending
                  their honeymoons, and where we now bid them a lasting good-by.
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
