
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Broken Columns .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5896 wright2-0370
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               BROKEN COLUMNS
            
            
               
                  
                     
                        'Alas, that love should be a blight and snare
                        To those who seek all sympathies in one!"
                     
                  
                  SHELLEY
               
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               SHELDON AND COMPANY, 
                     335 BROADWAY, COR. WORTH ST.
                  
               
            
            1863.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1863, by SHELDON AND COMPANY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
               SMITH & MCDOUGAL, Electrotypers.
               C. S. WESTCOTT & CO., Printers.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               
                  CHAPTER I. IN WHICH AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR APPEARS.
                  9
               
               
                  CHAPTER II. IN WHICH THE VIRGIN IS CONSULTED.
                  38
               
               
                  CHAPTER III. TENDER REMINISCENCES.
                  55
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV. BEN DUDGEON'S EARLY TRAINING.
                  71
               
               
                  CHAPTER V. IN WHICH THERE IS A MAN WITH A LAUGH.
                  93
               
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI. MORALISES.
                  104
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII. REFINEMENT AND DISCRIMINATION.
                  112
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII. THIRTY WITNESSES.-FAITHFUL.
                  130
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX. "UNDER THE CIRCUM" AND HIS WIFE.
                  148
               
               
                  CHAPTER X. THE HAUNTED HOUSE.
                  165
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI. SEEING'S BELIEVING.
                  184
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII. A LOVER'S LETTER.
                  204
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII. CROSS PURPOSES.
                  234
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV. DOES SHE LOVE?
                  248
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV. THE THIRD POINT.
                  257
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI. A SISTER'S TRIALS.
                  270
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII. "REFINED" AND "CONSCIENTIOUS" CRUELTY.
                  285
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVIII. SYMPATHY.
                  300
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX. BEREAVEMENT.
                  316
               
               
               
                  CHAPTER XX. FLIGHT.
                  326
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXI. SEEKING THE LOST ONE.
                  333
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXII. THE UNFORGIVING WIFE.
                  354
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIII. A WAY OF ESCAPE.
                  367
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIV. ONE TAKEN AND THE OTHER LEFT.
                  383
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXV. NUMBER "THIRTY-ONE."
                  395
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVI. RECONNOISSANCE.
                  417
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVII. FACE TO FACE.
                  430
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVIII. FAITH.
                  439
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIX. A FINISHED EDUCATION.
                  451
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXX. REUNION.
                  461
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXI. FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE.
                  475
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXII. THE FATAL NUMBER.
                  489
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIII. DOMESTIC HAPPINESS.
                  499
               
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIV. ENTRAPPED.
                  507
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXV. RESTITUTION.
                  520
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVI. CLOUDS THICKEN.
                  526
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVII. POLYSYLLABLE.
                  535
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVIII. WHICH THE STORY-LOVER WILL DO WELL TO SKIP.
                  538
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIX. THE FINAL CHAPTER, IN WHICH THINGS TAKE AN UNEXPECTED TURN.
                  544
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Broken columns
            BROKEN COLUMNS.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               IN WHICH AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR APPEARS.
               A MAN of genius could make something worth looking at out of that wonderful story of the Dudgeons.
               I fear, however, that this broad declaration will hardly commend itself as peculiarly original; for is it not understood that it is the prerogative of genius to invest the tamest topics with entrancing interest, and to startle even death itself into blushes of beauty by the wizardry of its enchanting smile? It would, perhaps, be braver to say that the story of the Dudgeons ought to strike the inspiration of genius into the tri-test pen; but bravery implies hazard, and the hazard in such a work as I now undertake is so obvious that it could be encountered only by a hero out of whose breast the last trembling of fear has forever subsided.
               At all events the story of the Dudgeons shall be told. I should gladly invoke the aid of Genius, but my hoarse voice is unknown in her proud temple,—she is always talking or walking, sleeping or pursuing, when my necessities are extreme, hence I know too well that it is not to my appeal that the answering flame descends: yet I shall collect the materials, dig the trenches, pour in the water, and complete all the manual arrangements, hoping that a voice mightier than my own will prevail in the heavens and bring down the fire which causes the simplest offering to blaze into the glory of a sacrifice.
               There is one soothing reflection in this hazardous business— I shall have an anonym! I shall not say that I have not aforetime walked openly in the highway of literature, but on this occasion the public must indulge me with the use of a thick vail; a vail, albeit, which will allow me to observe whether smiles or frowns mark the public countenance. It is, indeed, humiliating to put a poetic spark on the very spot that should have been occupied with one's own name: yet I trust that where men have choice of two such words as cowardice and modesty they will generously reject the former.
               The title will be found to describe the style of the composition as well as the fates of some of the characters. The style is truly sometimes as bald as a telegram. It is jagged, and craggy, and very unfit for garden-land: still, an eagle has been known to sun himself on a barren rock, even when there was no Promethean liver on which to glut his appetite. I shall be proudly happy if any eagle-reader be tempted to fold his wing, and sit down contemplatively on any of the crags found in the tale which now follows.
               
               "What's Tom whistling for?"
               "I dinna ken," said the Scotch gardener, who always solaced himself after a scolding about his professional mistakes, by humming over to himself in a tone which his angry master could hear quite distinctly as he sat at the library window— 
                     
                        "Man's inhumanity to man
                        Makes countless thousands mourn."
                     
                   "I dinna ken," said he, "unless it be for that fifty pun' that Squire William and t' other chaps got his mother to spend in that eddication dodge o' their's."
               The question was occasioned by the whistling of a young man of somewhat extraordinary appearance and manners. For an hour together he would stand on one of the lower walls of the garden and whistle in every imaginable fashion—now, with his lips in the ordinary style which every genial reader practices even to this day; and then through his teeth, making a kind of hissing music—now, by crooking his little finger and placing it cunningly in his mouth, and finally by folding his hands and so blowing into the cavity as to produce a sound like the loud whistle of a locomotive engine. Nothing, therefore, was more natural than for strangers to inquire the reason of this unusual demonstration, and the answer generally returned was that he was whistling for fifty pounds which had been invested in a speculation whose precise nature was rather hinted at than described.
               As Tom's ancestry was never quite comprehended by the family in whose service he was engaged, if may not be proper to say more in this place than that Tom never knew his father, and that his mother—Rebecca Mitchell—was a domestic servant who had been aided in maintaining Tom by remittances from a country gentleman whose name had never transpired even in the scandal of the neighboring village—a circumstance which may be partly accounted for by the fact that the remittances came in such a roundabout way that the very nimblest and pertest curiosity became entangled in its pursuit after the generous unknown. With the flying years, however, the benevolence of the mysterious personage took wing, his final act being to send with the usual circuitousness a fifty pound note to Becca, with the emphatic intimation that from the time of its receipt he must be considered as having no further interest in the maintenance of a person he had never seen, though that person had been reared on his bounty.
               The decision of Tom's earthly destiny was thus suddenly and unpleasantly rendered imperative, and nothing was clearer than that his mother floundered hopelessly in every attempt to solve the problem which had been thus forced on her attention. Then, too, there was the responsibility of having so much money in her possession, for at any moment—she superstitiously thought—the amount might, according to an ancient and not untrue tradition, take to itself wings and fly forever from her sight. Day by day did she agitate the question of Tom's future, and day by day did the subject become provokingly intertangled with other subjects which were lying in confusion in the chambers of her undisciplined mind. At length she resolved to terminate her distraction by consulting a more daring genius than her own. Suddenly, as unexpected lightning, did the thought flash into Becca's chaotic conceptions that Squire William—son and heir of her venerable master—would be sure to know the best method of spending fifty pounds; and the execution of the bright idea was hardly less rapid than its conception, for the young squire—with the penetration of all the sagacity for which the admiring woman had given him credit—instantly suggested that Tom should undergo an educational process with the view of his becoming a schoolmaster, and further hinted that "the hand of providence" must be in the whole affair, for Ben Dudgeon, an old school crony of his, had just returned from a tour which he had reluctantly undertaken, and that he—laden with manifold experience of men, women, and things in general—together with Harry Jenkins, and a few like-minded men, would be singularly qualified to put Tom up to learning and accomplishments enough to produce a sensation—a rather vague form of expression, intended to bear ambiguous interpretations—in any village in the British isle.
               Of a happier issue Tom's poor mother had never been courageous enough even to dream. The future was instantaneously flaming with all the lights of hope and assurance, and Becca had sufficient sweep and delicacy of imagination to foresee her son arrayed in all the dignity attaching to scholarship, and particularly attaching to dominion over the kindling mind of rustic disciples. It was true that the old Scotch gardener whose opinions once settled were forever beyond the possibility of modification—one of the tight-grasping gentry who may be silenced by argument and overwhelmed with evidence, but who turn up in the end of a controversy at the identical spot where their stubborn lips first opened, gave it as his conviction that Tom had "a slate off," yet the enthusiastic squire took a different view, and declared himself confident that he could easily repair the roof and set Tom up "weather tight for life." Of course Becca at once made up her mind to adopt the squire's conclusion regarding Tom, and to let all persons know that the Scotch gardener was, in her estimation, "a provoking old thief who didn't know how to speak to his betters."
               "But I must have the fifty pounds in my own hands," said Squire William, "for you can not shove Tom through the mill without paying the miller."
               "Sartanly, Mr. William, oh sartanly," Becca cordially answered, and as she fumbled in her pocket and untwisted the string of the old tobacco fob, in which she had hidden the note, she commended the whole party to the blessing of the Virgin, being a Romanist, on whose faith the "no-popery" cry never made any unfavourable impression—"whatever you do, Mr. William, will be right; only make Tom a scholart so as he can bring up childer to read and write, and do something for his mother when she is too old to do any more work, and then I'll bless you over again."
               These words, which would have been considered commonplace enough in many mouths, were regarded as decidedly emotional on the part of Becca, whose life was an unyielding protest against sentimentality of every hue and phase. There was not a man in her master's employ who could boast so ready a tongue, and not more than one who could swing a brawnier arm. Had you seen her, reader, when she pressed her sides with her clenched hands and kept her red elbows at an angle of forty-five degrees, as she stood at the back door of the mansion, and spat fire at the hapless cow-herd, your impression must have been that even the "blessings" which could fall from such igneous lips must have been the dying echoes of a spent malediction. But the impression would not have been absolutely correct, for Becca gave daily proof that where the interests of her son were concerned she was a tender and patient and trusting mother.
               Squire William, Ben Dudgeon, Harry Jenkins, and one or two more, held a conference as to "ways" only, for, clapping his hand on the pocket which held the fifty pound note—Squire William informed the company, with evident satisfaction, that there need not be any discussion as to "means."
               "Shut up, my lads, shut up," exclaimed young Dudgeon, whose travels had given him quite a foreign aspect, "the whole thing is as neat as ninepence: it's clear, from what I can make out about him, that Tom must have special instruction in the finer arts and elegances of life, for I notice—what every true-born gentleman must also have observed—that he is uncommon gritty; what I propose, gentlemen, is, that we dine together, say for a month, at his expense, and—hold on Squire Billy, for there's more in my wallet yet—we must transact this business in that room of mine down at the Beech, for we can be snug there to all eternity if we like."
               "A short eternity for fifty pounds, I reckon," said young Robson; who, indeed, would have said more if Ben hadn't interrupted him with—
               "Come, Robson, don't you make running comments on my propositions; you know that you are what the Yorkshire people call rather 'gobby,' and that's a sort of thing we can not have much bother with in this affair."
               Young Robson looked, for all the world, like a small gap which had just been stuffed with "imperial Cæsar, dead and turned to clay," and during the remainder of the "affair" he was not remembered to have done more than "nicker" at the rough and ready wit of Benjamin the returned traveler.
               "Dudgeon! you are a devil's lad, and gridiron me if you couldn't checkmate your black dad without losing a pawn.—I tell you, chaps, Ben has struck off a plan that's of the proper pattern, according as I swell," said Hupper, with the gusto of a connoisseur who regards the sound of a champagne-dinner bell as infinitely preferable to what the dreamy poets call "the music of the spheres."
               "The only question, then, is when?" interposed Harry Jenkins, whose unfortunate face always gave a superficial observer the impression that he had just been looking into a frying-pan to ascertain at what rate his dinner was galloping. Our company, it will be seen, was thoroughly innocent of any tendency toward transcendentalism, for there was not a man in the coterie who cared one straw for "the abstract and the remote," nor one who wouldn't swear by the "practical and the near," provided always that the conditions flowed in the channel of inclination.
               "My 'when' is NOW," said Dudgeon, "so by leave, gemmen, here goes for the Beech—have Tom ready by six o'clock, and you'll find me with a carving-knife in my hand at five minutes past—exact; I'm off,"—and Ben bounded toward the shadow of his favorite tree.
               The next point to be determined was the method of persuading Tom to fall in with the plan; for, though he was declared to be short of "a slate," yet he was by no means so soft, in some particulars, as that unpleasant circumstance would seem to justify a superficial spectator in supposing. Squire William was perfectly aware that no mere physical energy was enough to conquer Tom, for he inherited enough of his mother's disposition to render any thing like compulsion a somewhat hazardous experiment. The next appeal to genius was necessarily for aid in circumventing a fellow whose official connection with the squire's cattle had done considerably less than nothing in the way of bringing him to a reasonable way of looking at things which he didn't like. It was known, however, that the warmth of tenderness would speedily reduce Tom to a workable consistency, and the tactics of the leaders were arranged accordingly.
               "General Soap must be our commander," said Squire William—"I believe in Soap—he has helped me to get many a pair of stiff boots on;" an opinion to which he had hardly committed himself when he had occasion to exclaim—
               "Jingo! things happen tidily—yonder's Tom just taking a cow home—don't you see him?—just under that hawthorn"—and, as he used his dogwhistle, Tom's attention was excited, and in a few moments the prospective schoolmaster was surrounded by the tutorial party.
               Squire William introduced the business, taking special care not to move a step without having a firm hold of General Soap. All the advantages were carefully set forth, and not a single disadvantage was permitted to cast a shadow on the squire's sunny picture. "You see," said the hopeful narrator, "we are all determined that you shall have a good chance in life;—we think that a fellow who has a head so remarkable as yours shouldn't always be driving cattle about—there's evidently something in you, Tom, and we think that a little education might do wonders for you, in fact may turn you out a shining schoolmaster, if you can only mind your p's and q's. You know, Tom," continued the squire, making heavy demands on Soap, "that I am your friend, and I do assure you that, if you become a schoolmaster, you will have patronage enough to make your birch-rod turn into an apple-tree—so do as I bid you, Tom, and you may call your fortune made."
               It would be unfair not to state that poor Tom was evidently mystified by some parts of the programme, but when the squire introduced the figure of the apple-tree Tom's eye glittered so intelligently, that one might have supposed that an invisible hand had popped on the missing "slate." For a moment he paused, just as any sensible man who suddenly finds himself in the pangs of a crisis would pause; and then, as if he had caught the thread of providence, he said—with a grin such as Hogarth never saw—
               "I know one long word already."
               "Good beginning," cried Hupper, "name it, Tom, and then we shall know what sort to mix for you."
               Tom straightened up his face with becoming seriousness, and for an instant looked pale as if he dare not part with the secret—the struggle, however, was momentary, for Tom solemnly pronounced the word—"heterogeneous"—and then nodded his head with a kind of circular nod which was intended for the whole company, and meant to signify—"you didn't expect that."
               "That," said Jenkins, "decides the matter—my doubts are all gone—the man that can swing his tongue around 'heterogeneous' properly must cut a figure in the world some day."
               Tom's bold pronunciation of so extraordinary a word as 'heterogeneous' was wisely considered as testimony enough that there was a dash of ambition in his nature, and that those who undertook to instruct him must be prepared to take high ground. Ambition, we believe, has never been remarkable for the completeness of its roof, but contrariwise it has been regarded garded as necessary to the development of the thoroughly heroic type of the human species that certain people should have the impression that at least one "slate" was missing. No man can make much ado in the world who is all right in the commonplace matter of "slates." The light must come in somewhere, and the soul must have some means of escape so that it may be a sagacious arrangement of nature that an absent "slate" must in some cases serve the purpose which a window serves in others. The world would stagnate but for its madmen. Intellect on fire—that's the thing!
               "Are schoolmasters rich?" Tom inquired, peculiarly emphasizing the last word.
               "Of course they are," was Jenkins' unqualified assurance, which was cordially seconded by his agricultural hearers, "why, they stand the very next to the farmers, and every body knows that the farmers are next to the gentry."
               Tom clapped Squire William most heartily on both shoulders, and thanked him for a plan by which he could save his mother from working so hard as a servant. This, indeed, was the secret of Tom's simple joy, for it had been his dominating object in life to love his mother; and of this he had given, once and again, proofs which could not be misunderstood, but particularly on one occasion, when, after calling out, with a number of other lads, "shabby wedding—shabby wedding!" he had picked up two half-pennies as his share of the copper which the merry bumpkin of a bridegroom had thrown away in honor of the occasion, and invested the spoil in tobacco on his mother's account—for his mother, poor woman, was a slave to the pitiful habit of taking what she called "five draws" after supper. Tom had never known his father, and for that reason, probably, lavished the treasures of his affection on his maternal parent. Do not let my fiery young reader regard this as another indication that the Scotch gardener's opinion was true, for filial affection is as truly the work of a divine worker as are the garnished heavens. Tom's love, then, led him at once to fall in with the squire's proposition,—any thing, any thing for his mother, was the motto of poor Tom Mitchell.
               
               Squire William instantly decided that Tom must appear at the dinner-table in better costume than that in which he had tended the cattle, and in a few moments Tom and he were in the squire's dressing-room.
               "There, Tom, sharp, my lad," said Mr. William, "pop on this collar and handkerchief, and slip on this shooting-jacket—there, try this hat on, never mind it being a bit too big—well done! just look at yourself in the glass, you are 'heterogeneous' enough now; we're off for lesson number one."
               I have no skill in sketching, but I feel the loss of the art as I call to mind Tom's peculiar appearance, after he was decked out in the young squire's clothes, particularly the aspect of his head and neck, as the squire's ample hat rested on the coat collar behind. The reader's imagination will do the work of the artist, while I play the part of the historian.
               "There!" said Squire William, as he and the party hurried through the yard, "you see how handsome Tom can be made, don't you, Becca? I reckon if his reverence the priest saw him now he would take him to be on the way to mass, eh? But I can tell you he's straight on the road to glory, and in one month he'll be up to all kinds of snuff—why, he knows one jawbreaker already!"
               Becca was sharp enough to see that there might be some little poetical adornment in this representation, although she couldn't for the world have told you the meaning of "poetical adornment," but that she regarded appearances as decidedly favorable was justly inferred from the fact that she permitted the reference to the priest to pass without animadversion; as it was, however, she merely planted a smacking kiss on Tom's yellow cheek and poured a fervent blessing on the budding enterprise.
               "Barely time, my cannies," said Squire William, "just to get to the Beech before Dudgeon does himself any harm with the carving-knife; just squint through your glass, Jenkins, and tell me if you see any thing in the neighborhood of the beech."
               "See!" Jenkins exclaimed, "why, here's Dudgeon running to us as fast as he can, and you may gridiron me if he hasn't something like a bottle in each hand."
               This was a state of things which instantly excited incredulity.
               "That's gammon, I know," said Hupper, "it must be his ghost; Ben has been turned inside out on the continent if he has consented to leave the premises before using the carving-knife."
               "Look yourself, then," Jenkins answered tartly, "if yon isn't Ben Dudgeon, I'll pay for the champagne to-night. A man that can see a flea brushing his whiskers can surely see Ben Dudgeon through a telescope."
               This, I may warn the reader, was Jenkins' favorite standard of earnestness, viz.: that if his word could be disproved he would "pay for the champagne," but he always shewed himself wily enough in the expression of his opinions to bring about the pleasant issue of drinking champagne at other people's expense. I suppose that most people have an ultimate word by the utterance of which they shew that their earnestness has attained a white heat; but, unhappily, such final declaration may by its very intensity be self-defeating, as may be proved by the instance, known only to a select circle, of a gentleman who, whenever he was about to utter one lie blacker and flatter than another, always prayed that if he wasn't going to tell the truth "his eyes might fly into his hat."
               "Hollo!" Squire William bawled when Ben was within ear-shot, "what's the row, Dud? Here we are, rather peckish, I reckon; where's the carving-knife?"
               "Keep mum, Billy, keep mum," said Ben, "there's a party yonder, and they have to dine first; our affair will be half an hour later, but I've managed, while they were asking a blessing, to nip off two bottles of medicine; and so by leave again, gemmen, we'll liquor at the public expense—just by way of what I call preparation. The best of scissors require occasional grinding."
               "No stolen wine for me, gentlemen," said Mr. Robert Hankers, a lad who up to this time had not challenged the ear of the company, and this he said with the indescribable air of a man who has caught sight of something he never wishes to see again.
               Dudgeon was startled by the new voice and, instantly laying his heavy hand on the speaker's shoulder, he said—"No canting for me, young un, Ben Dudgeon hasn't been in the Indies, East and West, France, Spain, Italy, and Satan knows where, without picking up more sound information than ever your mother knew—here, Billy, clip it off and don't keep Tom's mouth a-watering."
               "Now, Tom," he continued, "turn up your chin like a man and drink everlasting life to all dominies, born and unborn."
               "But by the way, gentlemen, have you given Tom any thing like a synopsis of our plans?"
               The young squire assured Dudgeon that the synopsis had not escaped attention, and that enthusiasm prevailed on both sides.
               "You see," continued Dudgeon, addressing Tom, which he did with much humor, turning the s into th and thus affecting a lisp, "that a thlapping fellow like you ought to be put to thome utheful purpothe, not that cow-driving ithn't utheful—don't mithunderstand me, gentlemen—but thomething rather thilkier, I should thay, would thuit your fingerth better." During the delivery of this judgment Ben used his left eye in a manner which is vulgarly called "tipping," and thus kept his audience in a roar of laughter; but as he was intent on business as well as fun he turned sharply round and said—"here, Hupper, pop your nose into this glass and quench your drouth."
               In this manner Dudgeon addressed the whole company, carrying every thing before him in a whirlwind of banter, and plainly showing that this was not trick number one in his strange history. Being the oldest of the party, he naturally claimed ascendancy on the score of age; and, having been trained by a mother who prided herself on never having contradicted his will, he was unable to bear contradiction with any thing like dignity. Quick in perception, ungovernable in passion, and ready in repartee, he was never considered the pleasantest antagonist in debate; and adding, as he did, to these qualities enormous physical strength, he was in no little danger of calling his muscles to the aid of his wit when the discussion threatened to leave him "the worser man." Never did an occasion for self-display occur without Ben rising to its highest and brightest side. Squire William was no match for such a man; the young and sprightly aristocrat could, indeed, hunt a joke to death, just as he done many a score of foxes, but was altogether wanting in the intense and all-consuming passion which distinguished the untamed leader of the educational party. Squire William had, from earliest memory, been surrounded by influences which had brought his will under the dominion of judgment, so that, while quite as rich in the resources of harmless enjoyment, he was a stranger to those tremendous and oft-recurring eruptions which marked the volcanic life of the kind-hearted, well-educated, but vehement and unmanageable Dudgeon.
               "Now, gemmen, we'll toddle," said Ben, "pitch these 'ere bottles into the ditch and take my arm, Tom; Billy, see that Hupper don't fall asleep on the road—I can smell the turkey now—we shall be latish, if my nose ain't superannuated."
               So the whole party jogged along under Ben's leadership. Having surrounded the well-spread table—for Ben had a gift in striking off a capital bill of fare—it was soon found that if the waiters were to remain in the room there might be a little restraint put on the free and easy intercourse which was essential to the efficient prosecution of the task which the company had disinterestedly undertaken; not only so, but a delicate sense of propriety at once suggested that any ignorance which the pupil would naturally reveal should not be exposed in the presence of men who could scorn but could not correct Tom's special deficiencies. This scorning business is easily learned,—nothing easier, reader, than to pucker the lips into a sneer, and look contemptuously on things which you have not skill to cure. These considerations, which instantly presented themselves to the active mind of the leader, caused him to order off the waiters. And here, in order to be conscientious, I must caution the fanciful reader not to summon before his mental gaze the well-known type of a waiter in an English inn; that is to say, a sleek young man dressed in fading black and adorned with a neck-rim of pure white; no, no—far from it—the landlord of the Beech couldn't afford such luxuries; his waiters were men who made themselves "generally useful," so that when you saw one of them bringing in a smoking turkey you had not the least idea what he had been doing for the last quarter of an hour prior to his appearance in the dining-room, and far be it from an anonymous author to make any unpleasant suggestions on the subject. Now, however, they have gone, and Ben at once inquires whether Tom would spend the first evening in what he called "putting on the accomplishments," or in "picking up information"—a point which was unanimously decided on Hupper intimating that, as Tom already knew the word "heterogeneous," it might be better to whip up the "accomplishments," so that there might not be any marked difference between the extent of his information and the graces of his behavior.
               "Accomplishments!" cried all, and as the shout rang in his ears Tom squeezed himself into the smallest possible dimensions, hardly knowing whether the process might relate to the body or the soul.
               The point being thus decided, Dudgeon gave the word of command—"Fall to, then, my lads, and keep a squint on Tom's manœuvres."
               Tom took a cautious look round before commencing operations, in order to take a hint as to the proper mode of making an attack, but, alas! he hardly touched the weapons when Dudgeon roared out—"Wrong, sir! in the way of fettling your knife and fork," and, true enough, Tom was wrong, for the ivory handle was hidden in Tom's sleeve, and his finger was just on the point of the blade.
               "This is the way, man," said Ben, as he slashed off a lump of Tom's turkey which he artfully consigned to his own stomach.
               "Thank you, Mr. Dudgeon," said Tom, as if for a moment the "slate" were no longer missing, "if that's 'complishments, here goes," and so saying he thrust the most of the remaining turkey into his mouth at once. Hardly, however, had Tom committed this unpardonable offense against the first principles of propriety, when Ben planted a stinging slap on Tom's cheek (some said on the very spot where his mother's kiss lay), and accompanied the retribution with words which my pen can not be persuaded to write. And here I must, in honor of his memory, say that Tom deported himself like a philosopher, for, nothing daunted by the sudden and stunning blow, he at once handed up his plate to the carver, and broke a second rule of etiquette by pronouncing it as his opinion that the turkey then on the table was "the goodest burd he had ever 'andled." This "soft answer" kept up the reputation which has in all ages attached to gentle replies, for it so softened Dudgeon that he warmly complimented Tom on the manner in which he had borne the first lesson in "accomplishments," and dwelt with special unction on the fact that in high-bred circles all expression of feeling is religiously forbidden. Tom, therefore, had proved himself to be at an infinite distance from that vulgar sensibility which would at once have stamped with rage and replied in fistic phraseology.
               "Now, Tom, what say you in the way of drink?" said Squire William, who was mutely glad that a battle had been averted.
               "I'll take a mug o' beer," said Tom, "if that's 'complishments."
               This reference to the vulgar barrel again excited aristocratic ire. "Dang you, Tom," said Dudgeon, "you are an incorrigible wretch all through and through; who talks of beer at such a dinner? Name your wine, or it shall be named for you," and Dudgeon glared at him—"mind you, a man that's wandered over every inch of the continent and dined with the first society on the globe, knows what dining is, and isn't going to have any of your thick, smushy, frothy, treacle-beer on his dinner-table."
               The whole company was deeply impressed with this allusion to Ben's advantages; even poor Tom had risen high enough in mental effort just to catch a glimmer of its brightness, and his taste had suddenly become so elevated that he said, "Ul take a suck o' the same kind as we drunk i' the meadow." Hardly had he announced his choice when a waiter appeared and intimated that a gentleman was down stairs who wished to see Mr. Dudgeon in the course of the evening. This message evidently created considerable surprise, and in spite of Dudgeon's own canon respecting the immobility of high-bred society, he could not suppress certain demonstrations which painfully proved that the announcement had settled in his heart. And the jolly comrades themselves were not unaffected, for it was well known that Dudgeon's foreign travel had not been undertaken for pleasure or for health, and whether this unexpected visitor might not be a kind of human isthmus, connecting Dover and Calais, was an inquiry which no genius at the table was competent to determine. Suffice it to know that a mysterious feeling crept over the whole company, and that Dudgeon, with all his flaming energy, was anxious for a moment's pause in the proceedings, and hence exclaimed—
               "All right, waiter, clear off these things, let's have dessert at once, and send the gentleman this way when I ring for him."
               During the interval Ben rallied his courage and made up his mind to enjoy the present and let the future take care of itself—the elastic law of an accommodating morality—and so completely did he succeed that by the time the waiter disappeared Ben was so far in possession of his accustomed calmness that he vigorously resumed the duties of tuition.
               "Tom!" said he, "look at me, and look at the table at the same time; what you now see is called, in polite society, the dessert; now it isn't expected that you'll come to this part of the engagement with a plowman's appetite, or in any way make a serious business of it, but it affords a nice opportunity of blandly saying 'No, thank you' and of nodding your head gracefully and otherwise showing the charms of good-breeding. Now with this explanation, allow me to inquire which fruit you prefer?"
               "Ul ha' some o' them little oranges," said Tom, pointing to a tempting pile.
               "O Thomas!—I give the full name just to show the depth of my pity for your barbarism—you ought not, according to the rules of refined society, which we are preparing you to enter, to make known your choice so bluntly; now just see how you have lost a beautiful opportunity of saying Thank you, Mr. Dudgeon, not any at present, help yourself, sir; but instead of that you have bluntly committed yourself to a definite choice! Don't you see what a fine effect would have been produced had you left the haze of uncertainty resting on your particular taste?"
               It must be said that Tom didn't at all appear as though he was deeply impressed with the solemn thoughts which "lost opportunities" are fitted to suggest, nor was he artist enough to appreciate the "fine effect" of any course of procedure; still, as an honest man, he was looking round his circle of replies in order to find a fitting answer to Dudgeon, and was only prevented making a selection by an interruption on the part of Jenkins.
               "By the way, Dudgeon," said he, "I see you know the subtleties of refinement as well as ever; I've heard you are A 1 at that dodge, and I guess Tom will concur in the opinion whenever he hears it expressed."
               "Gentlemen," said Dudgeon, after finishing a glass of champagne, "my particular qualifications for the leadership of this educational campaign are not, I hope, to form the subject of special analysis; you know enough of my history to be aware that refinement is a weapon with which I have done many a stroke of business; and you will find, gentlemen, in passing through life, that as the sandals of Theramenes fitted all feet, so will refinement suit all companies and plant the flag of victory on many a lady's heart."
               This expression of opinion, which is quoted in all its verbosity rather than that the risk of mutilation should be incurred, caused Jenkins to whisper to Hupper, "He's as longwinded as old Dudgeon used to be," and it was not imprudent in Jenkins to make this communication in a whisper, for had Dudgeon heard him the educational process might have been suddenly and unpleasantly interrupted. I further quote the expression in its entirety as a revelation of character, for never had young man a happier knack of multiplying words without committing himself to any definite standard of ethics than had Benjamin Dudgeon; he could swing round and round a subject touching it and glancing at it without any one having the remotest idea of his ultimate design. How he got this power of revolution we may learn as events unfold themselves.
               "Come, Dudgeon, help Tom; his mouth is full of water, I know," said Hupper with a dash of compassion in his tone, for Tom had not yet been permitted to do more than look at the oranges.
               "Hand the plate, Jenkins," was Ben's immediate response.
               "Thank ye, thank ye," said Tom, as Jenkins was politely obeying the leader, "I can help myself nicely, ye needn't git up off your seat;" this was said with the simplicity of one who considered self-assistance the brightest polish that could be put upon any man, and one who had been accustomed, when in need of water, to go to the pump and satisfy his wants upon the spot; and so saying Tom took a couple of the oranges, alleging in justification of the act that they were "sec flea-bites yen was na use."
               "Now, Thomas, the full name again, you see, and for precisely the same reason as before, let me explain: these 'ere little oranges, done up, as you see in tissue paper of divers colors, are not the same that you have been in the habit of seeing on the stalls at the fair, they are what ladies and gentlemen call Tangerines, and I can assure you, though the reference may be quite wasted on such a skull, that their flavor is adapted to the most Apician taste."
               Unfortunate allusion! all the company instantly protested that Ben was going too far in using such words in addressing so verdant a pupil: "I say, I say," said Squire William, raising his voice, "what on earth are you driving at, Dudgeon? What does Tom know about your classical references? You know that there were three Roman gluttons of that name, and that one of them hanged himself; I hope you don't refer to the suicide, or else———"
               "Hold on, Billy, hold on, ha! ha!" said Dudgeon, "just like you, when you went to school, always thinking that the classical writers were making some spiteful reference to your family, ha! ha!—silly Billy."
               Tom took no notice of this mysterious talk, apparently considering himself better employed in making the acquaintance of the Tangerines, which, when he had done to his satisfaction he announced it as his mature opinion that "if the natural Britishers were not ten times as better he would give his head for a sheep's head."
               This delicate stroke, which amply proved Tom's skill at alternatives, made complete havoc of the gravity of the company, for certainly not less than five minutes were spent in that heterogeneous mixture of laughter and talk which my 'prentice pen would in vain attempt to describe, particularly as each bray of uproarious merriment was conscientiously succeeded by potation which left no doubt as to the settled tastes of the party, and the talk was so broken up that many a definite article was turned into the world without any visible or audible noun to take charge of, and the most active verbs were very frequently left with nothing to do; parts of sentences were shouted and went clashing against other parts of sentences, so that the whole was quite as unconnected as the six and twenty letters out of which, according to report, all English literature has been fashioned. The storm having cleared off a little, Dudgeon exclaimed—
               "Tom! you are probably not aware that it is not just the ticket for the host to ask any gentleman to take wine with him, but I feel inclined to make an exception in your case, for, from your last expression I infer that no power on earth will ever make you a gentleman—I have, therefore to request the honor of drinking wine with you."
               By this time the reader will have concluded that Tom was not at all fastidious as to how a thing was put, provided that the speaker put the right thing, hence an invitation which would have carried its own denial on the surface had it been addressed to a man of another type, was at once accepted by the unsophisticated Tom, who, however, unfortunately began to pour the wine into the tumbler which he had requested one of the waiters to leave behind; and I may well use the word
                  unfortunately, for the idea had just been carried the length of turning the mouth of the decanter into the tumbler when Dudgeon roared out, "You brute," and Squire William gave Tom a pinch on the thigh which made him look as though he imagined himself quite far enough instructed in what he flippantly and ungratefully called "the accomplishment dodge."
               "Billy," said Ben with the shadows of despair rapidly gathering on his serio-comic face, "you have placed a bit of unmanageable material in my hands—hope lives a long time in my breast generally, but this fellow is blowing out its light, I can feel."
               "He doesn't look such a ninny, does he, Ben? I've seen queerer looking chaps even on horseback."
               "Ah, Hupper," said Ben, "that just shows what a superficial observer you are—I never did take your eyes to be hawk's eyes—I always knew that you couldn't see far into a fire-brick, just look at him again—where is there any trace of genius? Genius! egad!"
               "Why look at his brow, isn't it a good un?" "Aye! look at his brow," said Ben, "it's a big un, that's certain, but isn't it just like a great white bowl? Is there any compactness about it? isn't it the very shape of a cullender that can never call a drop its own? I can tell you that many mistakes are made about brows; folks think that genius has always a big front-door but they are no geniuses that think it—then look at his mouth—the mouth is the thing, gentlemen—is there any thing approaching a curve there? Is there a single line of bewitching beauty? Where are the sly little dimplings and doublings where pathos and charity and sympathy take up their quarters? Then just see how slack it is! No, no, Hupper, that mouth's only a gash that might have been made with a bill-knife—so you need never refer to his appearance again unless you wish to show that your own eyes are made of plate glass."
               Tom heard this animated description of his personal appearance without manifesting any sign of dissatisfaction, evidently thinking that one thing is about as true as another, and that contradiction is a devil's game which ought to go out of fashion ion; yet it was by no means certain that Tom would preserve his equanimity much longer, for Jenkins had no sooner volunteered the inelegant statement that Tom's nasal organ was no better than a candle which had been spoiled in the chandling than Tom applied the D'Oyley to his nose for a purpose which we are not at liberty to name. And here began a scene! Tom had set public decency at defiance, by one act he had shattered the stony table on which etiquette had engraved her laws—and the whole company, shocked and wounded, almost beyond the reach of any known remedy, vociferated, kicked, frowned, and even swore, in the delirium of their rage. Dudgeon, in particular, was vehement beyond all bounds, and actually screamed—"You—you—wretch! you brute! what a—a—beast you are! stuck your knife up your coat, swallowed your meat in lumps, spat sixteen times on the carpet! bah! I'm glad there is a gentleman somewhere on the premises, ring the bell, Hupper, and let's see the stranger."
               Hupper ventured to suggest that Tom, at least, should not be present during the interview, and went so far as to hint that the whole company had better disperse and leave Dudgeon alone with his friend.
               "Friend!" said Dudgeon, with a voice that quivered with an emotion which had been long stifled, "what friend? No! by all the Georges, poor Ben Dudgeon has no friends—he once had, though—and what does he know but that this half-witted Tom may turn out some day to be the only true friend he has in the world?—Gentlemen, I haven't traveled for nothing—what do you know about the world? You have only read paper books, but I have read flesh and blood books—I've read human nature, and that is the original language—and I tell you that diamonds have been found in queer places, and I shouldn't wonder if Tom turns out the best o' the lot."
               "Well, then," said Squire William, who was visibly moved by the confessed friendlessness of the young man who was always known at school as "noble Ben," "let us go—we can return to-morrow, and perhaps prove ourselves better friends than Ben takes us to be."
               But, no! this proposal couldn't be listened to; for some reason unknown to the company Ben had an unconquerable aversion to the idea of being left alone with the stranger, and therefore insisted that the arrangement should remain unaltered. He felt that fellowship was strength—that society was life. That Ben's will triumphed as usual the stranger learnt to his dismay, when he made his bow to the whole company—
               "Pardon, gentlemen," said he, in a soft and persuasive voice, "could I have the pleasure of a private interview with Mr. Dudgeon?"
               By this time poor Dudgeon had had an exhausting walk through various vineyards and was consequently not in particular polish, and though he felt himself equal to the duty of initiating Tom into the mysteries of etiquette, he did not attempt to disarm the stranger by conciliation of tone—
               "Stranger!" said he, "I'm not going to knock up and down the country after you—we're a lot o' jolly fellows over head and ears in an educational engagement, and what's good for one is good for another—there is only one ear amongst us—so if you want to spit or spout you may spit away, for, by stars! there's been spitting enough here for the last three hours,"—and Dudgeon directed the eyes of the stranger to a pool in which Tom's feet were half-immersed.
               The visitor who was a respectable middle-aged gentleman, of clerical appearance, was manifestly at a loss to decipher the characteristics of the company into which he had so suddenly and unwillingly entered; he was obliged, therefore, to resort to the despairing man's last refuge by making ample use of his eyes, and as he had had much intercourse with various classes of men he was able to maintain his ground with considerable firmness and dignity. But every one knows how difficult it is to go about any particular business in a company where some are in front and some behind, and especially when you have the idea that two or three waggish fellows on each side are making faces at you. This was in reality the case of the unlucky clergyman on the night in question. He felt that fiery eyes were glaring at him, and had the impression that more than one tongue was significantly distending the cheek which was next to him. He was a brave man, though, and made the best of his time in examining the physiognomy of his tormentors. From the manner in which he looked at Tom, Squire William was of opinion that the pupil rather than the teacher was the object of his unexplained interest, and this opinion was confirmed by the singular circumstance that the stranger took something out of his pocket, about twice the size of a lady's card, and looked intently first at the article and then at Tom. At length he said—
               "I have no desire to increase what appears to have annoyed you, Mr. Dudgeon, and as my business is of a very particular nature, I do beg you to let me have fifteen or twenty minutes with you entirely alone."
               "Alone? alone?" said Ben, accompanying the question with his most wondering look, "I tell you, stranger, that you appear to have swallowed a whole edition of the prayer-book, and it 'pears to me—and you see what state my eyes are in—sharpish, I reckon—that you want me on some business about Piety, Hymns, Amen & Co., and that's a firm I never do business with. Alone?—no, not for the best bottle of Burgundy on earth; but I tell you what, stranger, if you want any thing in the pious way there's Tom Mitchell—an out and out Hottentot—he's a splendid chance for a missionary—go at him, stranger, and I'll have another cigar."
               It is no business of mine to account for the fact—philosophers may theorise about it at their leisure—that this personal reference actually brought Tom out on the defensive, for, though his head was evidently swimming in a vinous pool, he gruffly answered—
               "George! Ul not let a grasshopper talk to me."
               This indicates the kind of oath which Tom had selected as a clencher to all statements on which he had made up his mind, the understanding being that he was referring to one of the King Georges or that he used the word "George" as the generic designation of all the four: be this as it may, however, the avowal proved, as before, too much for the gravity of the company, as the clerical visitor well knew when he found himself dinned by the most uproarious demonstrations of approval—peal on peal the laughter came, provoked on the one hand by Tom's wicked glance at the stranger, and on the other by the stranger's undisguised bewilderment. There can be no doubt, that Tom felt that the hour of his triumph had come, and that if the second blow were as flat on the head as the first he would be entitled to all the compliment which Ben had suggested might one day be his due; so, under the power of a sudden inspiration, he went close to the clergyman and at the top of his voice—accompanying the utterance with a stamp of the foot—he shouted—"Heterogeneous! heterogeneous! heterogeneous!"
               This, of course, secured another explosion of laughter and called down the wildest manifestations of delight, such as throwing up the heels, thumping the table, and pelting each other with the skin of the Tangerines, in the midst of which the philanthropic gentleman took shelter in momentary despair. Excitement, however, is its own cure, and this the clergyman well knew, and therefore he patiently waited until the furnace of wit had cooled and the laughter of mirth had subsided. Then came his opportunity.
               "Mr. Dudgeon," said he, "it grieves me to find you in this state."
               "Bah! no 'grieves' here," Dudgeon answered, "I've been in every state that flesh and blood can roll into, and this is an average good 'un."
               "I must leave to-morrow——"
               "Go to-night."
               "And my business is so important that at the risk of being rude——"
               "And mind there is a risk of that kind," Ben interrupted.
               "I must beg for a quarter of an hour's private interview."
               "I tell you again, stranger, that I'll not leave this room."
               "All right!" said the Squire, who saw a loop-hole in the vow, "we'll leave, and to-morrow night we'll have dinner number two and lesson number two."
               "But no clergyman number two," Hupper whispered to Jenkins."
               "Very well," said Ben, "but leave Tom; I won't be left quite alone with this skinny parson; what do I know but he may have a dagger hidden."
               Finding that no better arrangement could be made, the visitor accommodated himself to his circumstances, and was doing that very suspicious thing, viz.: drawing his chair very close to Ben, when Ben smartly ordered him to keep on the other side of the fire-place. The retirement of his comrades, and the reaction consequent on intense excitement had produced a sobering effect on Ben, though he was anxious to assume an independent position and to simulate defiance of any thing which the clergyman might be about to communicate. His face was by no means free from traces of apprehension, and, though he did not formally ask the stranger to relate his business, he looked as though he wished him to proceed.
               "You have an only sister, I believe, Mr. Dudgeon?" the clergyman said, in a semi-interrogatory tone.
               "Stranger! if you say one crooked word about that girl I'll strike your head off!—Poor, poor Emily!"
               Dudgeon was now relieved and oppressed—relieved, because he saw the drift of the stranger's business, and oppressed, because a subject was opened in which his heart's core was vitally interested.
               "How long is it, may I ask, since you saw her?" the clergyman proceeded.
               "Aye! how long? How long does it take for a man to bury the shame of a life-time? How long a journey must a man take to find a grave in which to bury a heart that's stung by a thousand scorpions? Reckon that and then you'll know how long it must have been since I saw her."
               "Well, Mr. Dudgeon, it must at any rate be several years—five or six, at least—since you saw her?"
               "I haven't seen Em since that accursed day when I ran away from Hargreaves'—I hate that name of Hargreaves, though I thought once it was the best name in the world.—Charming girl was my sissy—play the piano—play the harp—talk all kinds of languages—laugh till she cried and cry for every body but herself—O my sissy Em,——" and Ben's tears fell in showers. The key of his heart had been found. There was enough of feeling left in that daring, boisterous, yet guilty and shattered man to permit the mention of a woman's name to subdue him into tearful tenderness.
               Even Tom ejaculated—"poor sissy Em!"
               "I may say, Mr. Dudgeon, that the intelligence which I have to communicate is of a decidedly gratifying nature."
               "Living? Dont say dead."
               "I should like," the clergyman continued, "to give you a brief outline of your sister's career since the time she left Skulford; she has I assure you, passed through a world of misfortune—"
               "Darling Em—Devil Hargreaves—vengeance must come."
               "I may assist you to understand my narrative, Mr. Dudgeon, if I call your attention to a small portrait which I have here, that is it," handing the article about thrice the size of a lady's card.
               Dudgeon looked at the portrait for a moment, and then dropping it out of his hand as if the little gilt frame had been red-hot he said, with intense excitement—
               "That—that—I tell you, ye whittling parson, ye're a deceiver—that is not my Emily, that pale, lean, shrivelled, hungry-looking thing is not Em Dudgeon, never was nor could be, Em Dudgeon, and what's that blue thing she has on instead of a frock, and what sort o' thing is that on her head like an old night cap? No, sir! my Emily had ringlets and roses and ornaments, that my Emmy that played with me and sang with me and loved me when I wasn't worth loving—"
               The clergyman compassionately allowed the distracted man to talk on without interruption, the mournful monologue disinterring the gone-years and abounding in allusions to persons, places, and circumstances utterly unknown to a stranger, yet distinct enough to awaken apprehension respecting one gentleman in particular. Ben having pathetically dilated on the wasted beauty of his sister, the clergyman was about to offer some explanation, when Tom spat straight on his boot and muttered something about "grasshoppers," Tom's conviction evidently being that the clergyman was himself somehow to blame for Emily's condition. Tom knew of no other plan of expressing his disgust and revenge, and having done the best in his power to protest against villany, he quietly subsided, and allowed the clergyman to proceed—
               "You forget, Mr. Dudgeon," said he, "that your sister has passed through many troubles since the happy period to which you refer, and that consequently she is much changed in appearance—"
               "Aye! but trouble could never have eaten up all her beauty, could not have crushed and shattered her like that; she was beautiful, was my Em, everybody stopped to look at her, but who would care to look at a thing like that?"
               "I wish to state, however," the clergyman continued, "that she is not in that condition now; things have altered and she wishes to see you, and I——"
               "Cannot, cannot: poor Em—I do see her now—I hear her—I feel her little white hand on my shoulder now—tell her that her lost brother sends his love to her, and though he has sold himself to the devil, all the fire in hell can never burn her image out of his heart—O Em, O Em, my heart is bursting, I must cry!"
               And he did cry. The poor broken-hearted fellow wailed and sobbed in the bitterest grief, which human sufferers can know, and he must have been one of the pitiless "ninety and nine" who could deny that Ben Dudgeon was within the limit of restraining forces. Nothing could be plainer than that if the prodigal was to be won, the reclaiming process must somehow start from his sister's influence. He was bound up in Emily. Her "little white hand" grasped the sceptre of dominion over his destiny, and she was willing that the destiny should be divine. Her far-off image made him tremble with conflicting emotion. He had no power to disenchant the spell which was upon him, he was the slave of happy recollection, the willing bondsman of a holy and immortal love! Blessed love! You have seen the noble tree riven from the roots and flung upon the earth by the scornful tempest, and yet the young ivy cling to it though prostrate, and so does this holy, ever hoping, love enwreathe its tendrils around the very breast of death. Flowers are not ashamed to grow on graves. Love not merely runs but flies, to bring the "best robe" for the shoulders of the unclad and trembling prodigal, and forgets her upbraidings in the mastery of a purer passion.
               While Ben was uttering his lamentations and vowing vengeance on the supposed destroyer of his sister, Tom was apparently cogitating the best plan for bringing swift destruction on the head of guilt. There was, indeed, a glare in his eye which, rightly interpreted, plainly implied that his inventive powers were laid under tribute, and though no one suspected for a moment that he could strike out a scheme or retribution which would be at all equal to the deserts of the case, yet he might possibly proceed sufficiently far even in that direction to cause considerable annoyance to those who came within the shadow of his frown. This impression received a singular and very unexpected, and most ludicrous confirmation in a few minutes; for when the clergymen, after assisting himself to a little fruit, attempted to resume his seat, Tom gave the chair a trip with his foot which so disarranged the intentions of the clergyman, that he found himself suddenly with his heels where his head should have been. And yet it was most charming to mark the equanimity with which the philanthropist bore this inversion of the order of nature, for on regaining his equilibrium he offered no further insult to Christian charity, than to direct a significant look at Tom, in which look there was evidently quite as much wonder as reproach. The circumstance, after all, though it will generally be pronounced rude, was not altogether unfortunate, for it startled Ben out of a sullenness which might have been indefinitely prolonged, or, what was quite as likely, would have deepened into a sleep too enduring for the patience and engagements even of the forbearing clergyman. Ben couldn't laugh. At an earlier hour in the evening his laugh under such circumstances would have been the loudest and merriest in the company, but a leaden weight was on his heart, and vengeful purposes were flaming in his eyes.
               "Stranger! go;" said he, "and remember my words when you hear of me swinging from the gallows—I'll havevengeancegeance on Octavius Hargreaves for what he has done to my only sister—Go!"
               "But won't you hear the good news I have for you?"
               "Not a word! my heart is on fire."
               Farther entreaty would have been useless. The clergyman took leave by repeating his grief that Dudgeon should be placed in such a state. Now the reader must have seen where the clergyman made a mistake. He was one of those well-meaning men, rather too common in clerical society, who intend to do things too well, and whose very good intentions throw them into conclusions, at once unpleasant and unexpected. He wished to make a complete statement, and could not see how, in some things, the last should be first, and the first, last. He began at the wrong place. His first note should have been one of gladness, but it was one of woe, and therefore his tune was interrupted and his errand lost. Ben and Tom were left alone, vice and harmlessness! Tom, though incapable of veneration, was yet subject to terror, and therefore stood in proper dread of Ben, for, notwithstanding the substantial accuracy of the gardener's declaration, Tom's roof was in a better condition than to permit him to suppose that he could, with impunity, trifle with the orders which Dudgeon might feel called upon to issue. Ben, however, now looked upon Tom with an interest which might be soberly described as tender, for he had not failed to mark that whatever Tom had done had been decidedly in his favor, and Tom had thus proved, that, had his power been greater, his best services would have been placed at Dudgeon's disposal. Even this simple circumstance struck a welcome ray into Dudgeon's soul, and under the favorable influence of its light, he condescended to shake hands with Tom and wish him happy dreams.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               IN WHICH THE VIRGIN IS CONSULTED.
               AT the second dinner Dudgeon was in his usual spirits. The fires enkindled by the clerical visitor had not survived the night, and their extinction left Ben at full liberty to pursue his ideal of joy. Having assembled at least an hour before the appointed time—mainly to assure themselves that Ben's suspicions about the dagger were entirely groundless, it was suggested, that as Tom's preparation-time was necessarily limited by the fifty pounds, they had better commence at once, and combine accomplishments and information in one comprehensive lesson.
               "I may just mention, however," said Squire William, "that Tom is not in very good trim for the knife and fork department to-day, for I caught him eating horsebeans in the stable only half-an-hour before we came down, and I believe that he has some in his pocket at this very moment, so my idea is that we should attend to the refreshment business ourselves, and devote the most of our shot to the destruction of Tom's general ignorance."
               "Good!" said Dudgeon, "so I'll just moisten my whistle with champaigne, before proceeding to the intellectual section ...........now, lads, where's the page? I've been thinking that the two G's—Grammar and Geography—would be best adapted to the capacity of Tom's swallow, so I propose shoving these down first—"
               "Both together?" inquired Jenkins.
               "Go to pot, Jenkins, who has gulp enough to take both at once? Rise, Tom! Now 'pon Geography, Tom," Ben solemnly began, "I profess, let me assure you, to know at least a trick or two, for I've been east, west, north and south, as some of these gentlemen know," (here Ben looked round to ascertain how far it would be safe for him to proceed) "and 'tween you and me, Tom—for my opinion of your talents disposes me to be confidential, if ever you visit these parts you have only to mention my name in order to ensure the promptest services of a number of government officials who, in this country, are vulgarly known as policemen, but what I want you to see, Tom, is that you enjoy extraordinary advantages in studying Geography under one who is bolted out of every country in the world except England—bless her! where he took his first drink of champagne; I think you will see, then, gentlemen, that gratitude compels me to lead off the dance with our own queenly isle; so, therefore, I ask you, Tom Mitchell, to mention the name of the capital of England?"
               During part of this long speech, which I have quoted precisely as it fell from Dudgeon's lips, a strange feeling crept over Squire William, Hupper, and Jenkins, for they knew, as has been hinted, that Ben's visit to distant shores had been necessitated by circumstances which are generally regarded as suspicious; it was not to be wondered at, therefore, that when they heard his own description of the state in which he had left all the doors in the world, they should begin a series of black predictions respecting their own connection with so desperate an outlaw. It should be said, however, that they were not ignorant that the gentleman who had suffered by Ben's delinquencies, had openly forgiven him, and that as many conflicting stories respecting Ben and his employer had been circulated, it had been resolved on all hands, to regard Ben just as if nothing had ever happened to compel him to leave the country. These youthful sparks didn't tremble on account of what had transpired at home, but on account of what Ben had just said about his foreign politics. That's the thing, you see, reader, one error or sin in a young man's life may be forgiven and forgotten, but when there's a train of them—when one comes up after another just as a matter of course, people get nervous and suspicious and shaky, and in their trepidation they snap the thread of patronage, and drop the criminal into any abyss that may be at hand.
               
               The most of people, you may have seen, will piously confess that they are sinning every day, but if you charge upon them any particular crime, they fly into a holy rage, and tell you that they are "quite as good as their neighbors"—a proposition which is greater in bulk than in value. Now this was somewhat of Ben's case: there wasn't a man in the company who hadn't done things that he would not be ashamed of, at the same time there wasn't a man in the company who couldn't snap his fingers at the policeman, and treat the magistrate as a solemn myth. That's so far so good, reader; at the same time there are offences which are beyond the policeman's beat, and which in their secret chambers can grin with complacency at the baton of the magistrate. To return, however. Tom was by no means so impressed with Ben's statement as the gentlemen were, for his non-pharisaic code of ethics was established on the principle, that one thing is just as true as another, and it was of no consequence to him, whether Ben's confession were taken upside-down or downside-up, for no amount of shuffling would shake it into credible proportions; he, therefore, simply chucked a horse-bean into his mouth, and cocked his eye at the antique looking-glass which adorned the mantel-piece. The antic was not unnoticed by Dudgeon, for he at once continued—
               "Tom! you won't see the capital of England there, but I ask you, 'who is the chief fool in England?' you will catch your eye upon him the moment you look into the glass."
               Tom was happily a member of a class that can afford to despise the shafts of sarcasm, and who can reply better in witty things than in witty words, as may be seen from the fact that, instead of blenching under this affront, he merely took the pulp of the bean out of his mouth, and caught Jenkins upon the nose, just as he was in the act of paying his respects to a glass of champagne—
               "There!" cried Tom, "that's capital in England, or onny place else."
               The joke was washed down, by each of the company, with two of champagne, and a glass of sherry between, the general impression evidently being that Jenkins had fallen on the shady side of the argument. Not, indeed, that anything was said to that effect, yet Jenkins looked just as you may have looked at a dinner party, when you have slipped a round bone into your mouth, under the happy delusion that it was a titbit, and have speedily consigned it to your napkin or pocket-handkerchief, and then looked at your neighbor as if you could have bitten his head off for looking at you at that particular moment. The thing wouldn't have passed off so pleasantly had Tom missed his mark, but according to the law that success always wins applause, Tom was mentally applauded for landing his harmless shot so neatly on the advanced headland.
               "Now Tom, be serious," said Dudgeon who never had any objection to a joke, provided he came to no personal harm by it, "and tell me in what county is the town of Hunger-ford?"
               The question brought a contemptuous expression into Tom's face as he merely answered—
               "I ken that nicely,—it's in this room."
               "Ha! ha! Tom," said several, "how on earth can you make that out?"
               "Cos," said Tom, "I've had nout to eat sin' breakfast, and when ye spak' about dinner, I felt all like a-hunger-for'd under my waistcoat. Here I is noo, where's the torkey we had last night?—Good torkey yon!" and Tom smacked his lips, and Dudgeon shouted—
               "Tom! 'pon my buttonholes—I cannot say honor, for that's in pawn—but upon my buttonholes, your pate was never intended for anything better than a playground for Dutch lice, and as for your stomach, it's no better than a 'tato sack."
               Tom was not particularly sharp at detecting the subtleties of a metaphorical reference, but the word "'tato" quickened his faculties into such sympathy with the similitude that he meekly replied—
               "I wad like to see a few tetties noo, for I'se a-hunger-for'd."
               The reply was not inopportune, for dinner was immediately announced, of which we do not intend to take farther note than merely to put on record that Tom's skill in the use of the knife and fork had not perceptibly improved, and that on being asked which wine he would prefer, he declared that his taste was in a state of "betweenity," in which condition Dudgeon determined to keep it during the remainder of the repast; but here he reckoned off-book, for Tom intimated that unless he was allowed to do as the others did, he would run out and tell the landlord, who stole the two bottles of champagne the day before. Ben, of course, pretended to scorn the threat, but after a good broad assertion of his defiance and independence he filled Tom's glass more than once.
               "I think," said Hupper, after dinner, "we should spend some time in teaching Tom the use of the pen,—what d'ye think?"
               "That's needless," Squire William interposed, "for I've given Tom several lessons in writing, and he isn't a very bad fist at the quill."
               "What is he at spelling?" said Hupper.
               "Rather original, gentlemen, try him."
               Dudgeon at once tried Tom's orthographic skill—
               "Well, Tom," said he, "spell cinders, and put the h's in."
               "H, h, double h, e, y, h, b," said Tom, putting his forefinger on the most prominent point of his face, and looking upbraidingly at Jenkins.
               
               This attitude was decisive, for, as after-investigation proved, Tom was a much better speller and writer than the company had given him credit for, the fact being that he had been called to practise his pen a little in writing to the country-gentleman—whose real name he never knew—who had been so kind in remitting money to his mother. In this way Tom had picked up a little information as to the shape of a letter; and though in some of his epistles, which we have seen, he sets punctuation at defiance, makes liberal use of capitals, and always spells such words as "much" and "which" with a t or two, yet he was an infinitely better orthographer than Franklin's correspondent who always wrote yf for wife.
               "Talk about writing," said Jenkins who had been singularly quiet ever since Tom had found the way to his nose, and who was now specially thankful for a topic, on which he thought he could shed light, "are you a good judge of character through handwriting, Dudgeon?"
               "I rather suspect I am," said Dudgeon just as he lifted the glass in the direction of his open mouth.
               "There, then, tell me the disposition of the fellow that wrote that letter."
               Ben looked at the letter rather carefully, and then with a toss of the head gave it as his opinion that the writer "must be a rum 'un."
               "How d'ye make that out?" Jenkins answered with surprise.
               "By the evidence in hand," said Dudgeon,—"just look how he curls the tails of g's—did you ever see such a flourish? I should think if he was making a speech, he would wind up with a bit of rhyme,—then look what a stomach his capital D's have, depend on't he's a stuffer, there wouldn't be many rejectamenta on his plate after a whitebait dinner—and look what a swing he gives his s's, the man who writes s like that is always a good hand at marketing;—and as for grammar, Jove! the grammarians have had their labor for their pains, so far as this chap is concerned; look at that sentence—'a great number of persons are present'—what does he do? Why he makes the verb hold concord with the noun that's next it, so if he was my sweetheart I woudn't trust him five minutes, for he would be sure to accommodate the last comer—I don't like these fellows that think they may run into any port in a storm; why doesn't he go back like a man, and make the word 'number' do duty? Then besides look what a horrible difficulty you have in making out the words!—I tell ye what, gentlemen, I always suspect a fellow who does'nt write a plain readable hand—depend on't he's a crafty dog that twists his writing into shapes that require an interpreter: but you must know, Jenkins, that no man can graphiologize well by looking at a single letter, you should look at the 'altogether,' just as you look at a face; what could you make of any man if you ripped up his face into sections, and exhibited it in bits at a shop-window?—ha! ha!"
               
               "The voice is the thing for telling what a fellow is," said Squire William.
               "Aye!" said Dudgeon, "you're right there, Billy; I always know how to play my cards after I've heard a fellow speak;—I never judge by straight noses, and nice eyes, and bushy whiskers, and top-boots; what I say is, 'let me hear your organ, my boy,' and when I know that, I know what corner to run into."
               "Well, but," Hupper interposed, "I want to know from Jenkins, how Dudgeon's description tallies with the original,—good or bad, Jenkins?"
               "Both;" was the answer, "but I can puzzle Dudgeon,—there's a woman's writing, that'll fasten him!"
               "Not a bit," said Ben, "gender makes no difference to me,—out with it."
               But Ben had invited the wrong competitor into the arena this time. He looked at the writing again and again—spread out the creases—and still looked, and then—pale and anxious—he said:
               "Where did you get this?"
               "Got it through the post; where else should I get it?" Jenkins replied.
               Ben looked still, and, having satisfied himself that he had seen all, he fiercely exclaimed—
               "Then there's been some foul play up during my absence, and having this writing in your possession is as much as your life is worth.
               "You are mad, Dudgeon, clean mad," said Jenkins, all the others looking on in amazement, "what are you raving about? That letter was written by my own sister Bess—look at the signature."
               This statement quieted Ben, who was rapidly becoming intoxicated with a deadlier agent than alcohol. He had been touched to the quick. His paleness was most ghostly, and anon, the returning blood surged into his face and made it glow as if with vengeful anger. Was it like Emily's hand? Or was it like——'s hand? It was only a morsel of paper, but it might have been a cloud of spectres, so marvellous was the effect it produced on Dudgeon: we have heard, indeed, of an idea convulsing an empire or shattering a throne, or founding a kingdom, but we didn't expect that a quarter of a sheet of note-paper would make a man go mad, as Dudgeon did.
               "Are you sure it is your sister's writing?" he inquired.
               "Look at the signature, I tell you," Jenkins answered.
               "There is no signature but E, and what's the good of that?"
               "Then I assure you, Ben, it is from my sister Lizzy, and if I'd known it would have put you into a rage I'd have kept it in my pocket."
               Ben accepted this explanation, and in somewhat of his old manner went on to say—"I'm always jealous when men talk about their sisters;—I remember reading in the catechism—pshaw! confound those catechism days—about Abraham and Abimelech, and I recollect that Sarah was Abraham's sister! O yes! ha! ha!"
               Squire William was made unusually happy by this pleasant termination of a business which at one time looked rather threateningly, and made an immediate attempt to reverse the current of remark.
               "Gentlemen!" said he, "we're neglecting Tom, and I need hardly remind you that the bill will be made out in his name, or, at all events, he will have to pay it."
               "Back to duty, then, my lads," said Ben, "you'll never find Dudgeon afraid of hard work—and it is hard work to twist Tom into presentable shape; I'm glad for one thing, and that is that Tom's mother is no judge, and she'll not be troubled with much balance."
               Squire William didn't appear to find any consolation in this reflection; and, as if upbraided by a wakeful conscience, he sought to do his duty as an educator, believing that "doing" is a flower which blooms all the year, and whose honey is always accessible.
               "What shall come on next?" said he, "shall we try the other G?"
               "No, thank you," Dudgeon at once replied, "we've had G's enough; I feel that we ought to go back to the accomplishments, for I need hardly say that, if Tom is to make a respectable figure in the scholastic world, he ought to know how to enter a room and how to conduct himself when he does enter; and, though Billy thinks we are neglecting the pupil, I can show him that the remark doesn't apply to me, for this morning I engaged the drawing-room in this house, that we might drill Tom in bowing and salutation, so, if you'll follow me, we'll take our seats and Tom can enter in about five minutes."
               The arrangement took mightily. Every thing was in its favor. The originality of the idea was only equalled by its importance, and both conspired to render an instantaneous attempt imperative on all sides. Dudgeon remained with Tom a minute or two, merely to give him a hint as to the manner in which he was to enter the room—how he was to place his hat—and how he was to make his obeisance to the critical party. Tom was to have five minutes to himself, that he might have time to arrange his ideas and practise his attitudes.
               At the termination of a somewhat protracted "five minutes," Tom assailed the door of the drawing-room with feet and hands, and, having marched in with perfect indifference, clapped his hat right over a dome which sheltered a rather handsome collection of small birds. So execrably did Tom go through the initiatory stages of his new exercise, that Dudgeon immediately ordered him out of the room with a command to amend his manners before attempting a re-appearance. Tom was as obedient as ever, his motto being that it was quite as well to invest time in one thing as another; but, unhappily, in the very eagerness of his obedience he picked up his hat so clumsily as to bring the dome and birds to the ground, with a switch which ended in the smashing of every thing that would break. Unhappy moment! How troubles thronged to the scene! In the rapidity of his retreat Tom caught his foot in a drugget which lay at the door and was pitched head foremost into the passage. It was now felt that Squire William's prophecy, that one day Tom would create a "sensation" in the world was about to pass into a most startling reality. And it certainly did look like it, for the noise attracted not only the educational party, but also the landlord and two or three guests, to the scene; and it was a scene! There lay Tom at full length—behind him was the shattered dome—on his right hand there was the principal part of a half-cold fowl—and on the left, the landlord's favorite tortoise was just emerging out of the pocket of Tom's borrowed shooting-jacket. It was now clear that Tom had spent the five minutes allowed for gesticulation in providing against a second journey to Hungerford, and in taking a criminal fancy to the harmless tortoise which the landlord kept alike for the amusement of his children and the entertainment of those guests who wished to lay small wagers on the rapidity of the animal's locomotion. It was a spectacle most fruitful of provocatives. There need not be any wonder that the patience of the host was, as he pithily expressed it, "all on a broil," and he was about to pass into what Dudgeon called" a rare smoke," when Squire William, whose pedigree gave him determining influence in the neighborhood, clapped him on the shoulder and promised to "put all right and square at tintime," a somewhat mysterious way of intimating that the heavy end of the catastrophe would fall on the fifty-pound note. This was quietus enough for the landlord, who, though an unlettered rustic, had studied sufficient of practical philosophy to enable him to see that cent per cent was a god worth worshipping. The effect on the educational party I should have some difficulty in describing, and prefer simply to state, that in a trice they were all back in the dining-room, Dudgeon loudly affirming—without provoking contradiction—that nothing but champagne could wash away the disgrace from his memory.
               This unexpected circumstance gave a practical turn to the opinions of the educators. It was at once agreed that, in the judgment of the assembly, Tom Mitchell could never be made into a scholar, and therefore could never be turned out as "a shining schoolmaster;" so that, while deeply lamenting the fact, all his benevolent intentions respecting his mother must be abandoned, and he must wait until Providence put something likelier into his way. Providence? aye! this word actually formed part of the resolution. Isn't it in that direction that poor gaunt hopelessness ever turns its imploring eyes? When men fail to find waters in the desert-sands, don't they look upwards and hope for the gathering of clouds? You see, reader, how a sermon could be charmed out of this word "providence," but as I have undertaken to relate a story and not to write a sermon, I hasten to state that light suddenly fell on the bewildering darkness of the party. Squire William was incautious enough to hint that Tom's heart was already under the dominion of a feminine monarch. Here, then, of course, was the solution of the difficulty. If Tom had chosen the right woman, and if the right woman had chosen Tom, there could be no doubt that Tom had discovered a short and easy route to competence and satisfaction. The announcement certainly took the company by surprise, and introduced a topic which is usually discussed with fervor and zest. Every other theme fell under a crushing veto. Curiosity was in every eye, and nothing but the fullest revelations would appease the hunger of inquisitiveness.
               "Indeed? who is she? where is she? what's her name?" was instantaneously on every lip, and no doubling on the part of Tom would stand the remotest chance of success. The right sort of subject was now up, and the right sort of men had got hold of it,—"go into it" therefore, was the only door that would open.
               "Now, Tom, be confidential and tell me her name; you see we may both be possibly after the same game, and if we are——!"
               Dudgeon here swung his arm around Tom's head by way of intimating that the final appeal might be to physical strength—an appeal which didn't at all intimidate Tom, for he was in the habit of boasting that his own arm was "no chicken."
               "Come, Dudgeon, come, come, you are too bad," said Squire William, "you'll never frighten Tom into a confidential mood—kindness must do the business—try kindness, and Tom will melt into secret-telling."
               "Aye," followed Jenkins, in a tone which proved that his nose had recovered, "that's the thing for doing the business," and Hupper nodded his assent with much violence.
               Tom was apparently revolving the subject in its various aspects, but couldn't determine where to strike the boundaryline of communication so as not to involve the woman in question too deeply in the gossip of the village, for he knew well enough that he had never broached the subject to the woman, although he had for some months been in the habit of walking behind her to church, and running away from the church-gates that he might be in time for the service at the Roman Catholic chapel. It was not unnatural, under such circumstances, that Tom should feel the delicacy of his position, and hesitate as to the length which the dignity of an undeclared affection would permit a gentleman to go, for if she (Tom made a conscience of never giving the noun) got to hear that he had been talking about her to "every body" (a term in which he boldly comprehended persons who did not know of his existence), she might not be prepared to return his advances just in the way that he would chose if he had to settle the matter on her side as well as his own. In addition to this there were the restraints of native modesty. Tom was not unaware of the reputation which his head had acquired, and was, therefore, now determined to show by his diffidence that whatever mistake had been made in the upper region of his frame, that his heart had been most conscientiously "slated."
               "Name her; that's a good fellow," said Ben half-coaxingly, half-commandingly, "we cannot but be concerned for you in such a matter,—name her!"
               Tom was still silent, and it was thought that he was on the point of uttering "heterogeneous" by way of relief, when he gave Squire William a nod which seemed to intimate that he might tell the story if he liked. At all events the penetrating Squire put this interpretation upon a gesture which would have borne any other rendering quite as truthfully. That, however, is neither here nor there, where you have resolved to do a thing, hence Squire William, assuming more the air of an orator than a colloquist, began—
               
               "You must understand, gentlemen, that Tom's is an extraordinary case: I regard it as a providence, for example, that he was not born in the Homeric age, when every hero had to tell not only whence he came, but who was his father, and a variety of particulars of which Tom is unhappily ignorant. In the meantime we must regard Tom as a kind of orphan who is somewhat anxious to secure a settlement in life. As you are aware, he has attempted, under our direction, to become acquainted with the rudiments of scholarship and the first principles of etiquette; upon his signal failure it would, perhaps, be impertinent and unfeeling to remark,—I may, however, risk the observation that, as Tom has failed in one pursuit, it is providential that the door of another is standing wide open. I allude, gentlemen, to the delicate subject of a matrimonial alliance. You will all believe me when I declare that I am not poetical—and that not a spark of sentimentality could for a moment burn in my stony heart, and I call your attention to this harsh circumstance that you may the more readily believe me, when I say that Thomas Mitchell is a prisoner of love. Yes, gentlemen, a prisoner—fettered and manacled, but happily out on bail, having entered into his recognizances to an amount which involves the value of his body and soul. The name of the object around which the tendrils of his affection are entwined is short—in fact, two monosyllables, and you know, gentlemen, that sentimentality cannot swim in a monosyllable, any more than a dolphin can play in a tea-cup. The name is ANN FODD; her father is a farmer, reputed to have in the bank (of course, I speak now in confidence) no less a sum than sixty pounds. But the fair one can work—she has a fortune in her fingers and thumbs, and I can only say in conclusion, that, in every respect, she would make an excellent wife for any young man who needs a consoler and a guardian."
               Squire William resumed his seat amid repeated plaudits. The auditors expressed themselves as being much relieved on hearing that the young woman was within reach of a working man, for they had entertained a momentary fear, lest Tom should have fixed his eye on an inaccessible summit.
               "Haven't you spoken to her, Tom?"
               "No," was Tom's decisive answer to Hupper, "I have not."
               "Then more booby you," said Dudgeon, "where's the good of your walking upon her shadow every Sunday? Why not go up to her like a man, and ask her for a kiss? That's what I should do."
               Tom's delicacy was of too fine a texture to permit him to adopt any such coarse introduction; he preferred to wait for the dawning of a happier idea, and meanwhile he looked his old look of contempt, and nursed his notions in silence.
               "Well then, to be serious," Dudgeon continued, "for I never saw you so inclined to be mopish, I'll put you up to a plan that will meet the case: aren't you a Roman Catholic?"
               "Yes," said Tom, slightly altering his position in the chair, without giving any hint that he could see any connection between attachment to a theological school and attachment to a young woman.
               "Then you believe in the Virgin?"
               Tom nodded; a gleam coming with the mention of the feminine gender.
               "Can you pray?"
               Tom looked, and after switching his tongue round the inside of his lips, modestly answered, "No."
               "Why not?" Dudgeon inquired in a tone of surprise.
               "Because I know only one long word."
               "Indeed! what's that?"
               "Heterogeneous," said Tom, pronouncing the word with a relish of sweet satisfaction. The word was always new to Tom; if he pronounced it half a dozen times the same day, the last articulation would give him as much joy as a poet would feel in plucking the first floweret of the spring.
               "But what have long words to do with praying?" Dudgeon continued to inquire.
               "George!" said Tom, coming out with the royal appeal we have already explained, "you should listen to Father McAlly, he wad let ye ken—ye wadn't know a word he said,—all foreign." Tom pronounced the last words with a breath which made the letters into the largest capitals.
               
               "All foreign?" said Dudgeon, striking the table to prove his earnestness, "how often must I tell you that I know all about foreign things? Why I've been in Rome itself, and all the churches in it, and have heard the gibber and the clatter of the infernal priests,—all 'foreign' indeed! but I can put you up to a prayer that will tickle Santa Maria famously—is there a Romish place near here?"
               Squire William, who was specially interested in knowing what kind of prayer Ben could fabricate, answered, "of course, there is; just round the corner yonder there's as tidy a little chapel as ever the Virgin had a pew in."
               "Good," said Hupper, and "good," Jenkins echoed.
               "Now, Tom, I can put you up to a prayer which must of necessity succeed: will you say it? If you refuse you won't get—what d'ye call her?—Codd, or Sodd, or whatever her name is, for a wife,—mind that."
               Tom pondered the alternative very carefully. At this point he felt the want of the "slate" most keenly, and fell an easy prey to the men who had sound roofs. He wanted Ann Fodd for a wife, and he was willing to pay any reasonable sum for the treasure, but this scheme of praying for a wife was too novel and enterprising to be accepted without a moment's consideration. At length he said that "if there was no long words" in the prayer he "wouldn't mind just tryin'." The excitement was fast becoming intense. Every eye was on Ben's mouth as if eager to see the prayer come from such an unlikely fountain; and yet the excitement was perfectly silent—not a word was allowed—the crackling of the fire was a nuisance—quiet! quiet—Ben speaks—"Now Tom, this is the prayer: 
                     
                        "Holy Mary! Mother of God,
                        Tell me if I may have Ann Fodd!"
                     
                  
               
               "Now you must say that over three times, and Mary will tell you all about it."
               The arrangement was that Dudgeon and Squire William should at once proceed to the chapel, and that Tom and the others should go after them in about fifteen minutes. They couldn't see why they shouldn't all go together, and leave Tom to find his way in a quarter hour; but Dudgeon explained that, were there no other reason, the manner in which Tom had spent the five minutes allowed him on a former occasion, was sufficient to justify the policy which he was now determined to adopt. This was enough. There certainly was a possibility, and even a likelihood, that in a quarter of an hour Tom would run into some misdemeanour which even champagne would not wash away. The fifteen minutes having expired Tom and his guardians started, but having arrived at the chapel were surprised to find Squire William alone. They were about to inquire for Ben, but the Squire beckoned so meaningly that the inquiry was not expressed. Tom received proper instructions, and then advancing to the altar, dropped on his knees and said: 
                     
                        "Holy Mary! Mother of God,
                        Tell me if I may have Ann Fodd?"
                     
                   whereupon a voice—singularly unfeminine answered, "No!"
               Nothing daunted Tom renewed the petition, 
                     
                        "Holy Mary! Mother of God,
                        Tell me if I may have Ann Fodd?"
                     
                   and instantaneously the voice answered, "No!"
               The strict understanding being that the prayer was to be offered three times in succession, Tom indulged the hope that the third appeal would melt the Virgin's heart— 
                     
                        "Holy Mary! Mother of God,
                        Tell me if I may have Ann Fodd?"
                     
                   But alas! the inexorable answer thundered the broadest and blackest "No!" Tom was bewildered. Again he felt the want of the slate, and yet again he shewed that there couldn't be more than one slate wanting: he evidently had some suspicion that his prayer had miscarried or had been intercepted, for no sooner did the last "No!" fall, than he petulantly exclaimed, "hold thy tongue, JESUS, and let thy mother speak!"
               An appeal so direct, so personal, so commanding, accompanied by a blow on the pedestal which sustained the figure of the Virgin, was too much for the sobriety of the observers, for they at once left the presence of the Virgin, and in a few minutes the irreverent rascals were all back again in Dudgeon's snug room. Then came the "roasting" and bantering, and uproarious laughter, and the all-crushing ridicule, and the merciless denunciation of Popish mummeries. "Pretty system of praying," said Dudgeon, "when the son can be mistaken for the mother, or the mother for the son—ha! ha! the priests are masters of gulling or they could never hold millions of people in the bondage of such damnable superstition." Tom was sufficiently orthodox to manifest signs of displeasure while the religion of his mother was being attacked by the rasping tongues of men who had witnessed so striking a display of its openness to gross perversion. But Tom was no debater. About propositions and premises he was in a state of unfelt ignorance. He had, therefore, no argument to submit—no proofs to allege—no explanations to offer. He could, nevertheless, shew that his feelings were outraged, and this turned the drift of the conversation from Tom's case to another on which the shadow of a mystery had recently fallen.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               TENDER REMINISCENCES.
               "GENTLEMEN," said Hupper, "nothing is clearer to me than that our efforts on behalf of Tom Mitchell are doomed to fail; education has failed, and even an appeal to the Virgin has failed, so I propose that we drop Tom for the present and request Ben to entertain the company by telling us what the stranger wanted with him last night."
               "No, no," shouted the sensitive young squire whose recollections were still smarting on the subject of Ben's alleged friendlessness, "that is Ben's private affair, and we mustn't ask for a word on the subject; but if Ben will tell us about his sprees abroad, I'm sure we'll all pledge him in a merry bowl."
               "All! all!" was shouted, and the champagne trembled for its life.
               "Gentlemen," said Dudgeon, with well-laid emphasis, "you are a jolly lot—you are—I say that with all my heart—you know where to look for pleasurable excitement. Mine is a long story, a queer story, and you would need many a drink before I could knock it off."
               While Ben paused to mark the effect of this intimation, Tom delivered a discharge of saliva into the fire, which hissed for at least five minutes. It was generally understood that Tom meant by this vulgarity to hint that the time for him to take revenge for the many tricks which had been played upon him was clearly within sight: he could not, indeed, see the exact form that retribution should assume, but a general impression was sufficient to cause him to gather himself up into an expectant attitude.
               "Hands up, those who vote for Dudgeon to unpack."
               The vote was unanimous.
               
               "Well, gemmen, we may as well be jolly," said Ben, "our educational effort may be poetically described as 'nipped in the bud,' and as the clock hasn't yet put on a very reproachful face, we may as well kill half-an-hour by reading a page or two out of my book of travels, though as I have a shocking memory for facts, what I may say will very likely require a little sorting."
               "We'll sort it, Ben," said an eager listener, "thud away, my lad."
               Ben availed himself of the orator's refuge, and, having set down the empty glass, took his soundings—
               "You remember my touch-up with old Hargreaves?"
               "All right."
               "You recollect the Hunter family?"
               "Of Skulford?
               "Yes, of Skulford; and you may have heard of Lily Hunter?"
               "Yes."
               "Well, by jingo! that writing you showed me, Jenkins, was exactly like her's—like as two beans—I could have bet a thousand pounds it was her's, and my heart was all on fire with jealousy and revenge—however, it was not her's, it was your sister's, Jenkins, at least so you say; well, gemmen, for that girl I would have given two better lives than my own if I could have seen them. Stars! that was a girl—none of your Ann Sodds or Podds, Tom, no, no—though she was connected with the agricultural interest; but mind ye, she wasn't what you would call strikingly in the pretty line—none of your swan's necks and eagle's beaks and wasp's waists—nothing of the sort—but a downright honest, unsophisticated, and loving lass, but her eyes, gemmen, that was where the witch always conquered me! Why, gemmen, if you'll pardon an extemporaneous figure I would say that those eyes were just like the front door to heaven or the front door to hell, a little bit according to the humor she was in, d'ye see? No exaggeration in that figure, literal facts Ido assure you. I've seen them both ways. When she was particularly happy—(you'll excuse me attending to my thirst) —that was the time! You talk about suns, and stars, and diamonds, and all that fudge, but by George! as Tom says, you should have seen her eyes; they expanded, and glowed, and flashed gloriously—gloriously, I say, gentlemen! but jingo, when anybody combed her hair the wrong way they glared and flamed, and rolled about like balls of fire—nothing on earth like them, I should say, except a tiger's when he looks up in the jungle for his breakfast. Well, to get to business, I felt in love with Lily very early in life, as the parsons would say, and, though I say it myself, there never was a better lover on two pins than Ben Dudgeon. I wrote to her twice every day, but seldom had courage to post the letters—I waylaid her when she went to church, just as Tom did with Ann Modd—I always felt inclined to lend her my umbrella on wet Sundays, when she hadn't brought her own, for you must know, gentlemen, that love always kept my wits so far awake, that, every Sunday in the year I took an umbrella to church, under the hope that nature would disappoint everybody's expectations, and send down a thundering shower, and then I could have offered it to the farmer's girl, but to the shame of nature, I must say, that she never gave me such a golden opportunity—well never mind—I watched her all the time that the parson was blackguarding human nature, and pitching into the Scribes and Pharasees, in the miserable ditty that he called a sermon, and if ever she coughed I laid my hand instinctively on a walloping box of lozenges that I always carried in my coat-pocket, with the idea that I might be of some use in allaying irritation of the bronchial apparatus—and if ever she wasn't there my face shrivelled up with ten thousand times greater anxiety, than solemnised Pitt's when he heard of the battle of Austerlitz, and if ever I saw Sep Tomkins within a hundred yards of her, I could have charged him with murder and every other crime that blackguardism can commit, so you may see how touchy I was; in short, gentlemen, that girl was lashed round and round my heart, faster than ever cotton was twisted round a reel—excuse a shabby simile—I saw everything, heard everything, and did everything through this Lily, or for this Lily, and—O gentlemen, help me to a glass of hock or I shall break down; public speaking is no joke, I don't wonder at the parson always having a glass of gin and water in the pulpit—*  *  *  *  * well at last, says I, this daily dying without ever getting dead, is a poor kind of trade, so I'll wind up this business by having a clear 'yes' or 'no;' now that, you observe, is exactly what I want Tom to do, so I speak experimentally—I don't believe in a fellow keeping himself for months in purgatory, when he can open the door and set himself at liberty—so accordingly I paid my best respects to a bottle of port that was brewed out of an antediluvian vintage, and then went, as a man I consider is bound to went, (excuse the grammar) to see Lily's father, old Zachariah Hunter, of the Beech and Firs—the Beech you see, gentlemen; that circumstance always gives me a deep interest in this house, so we had better have a pull all round, for the benefit of the inn, and for the relief of the speaker."
               "Pull all around"—accordingly, nem. con.  *  *  *  *  " I was just saying, gentlemen, that Lily's father was called Zachariah, but many people used to call him 'Under-the-circum"——
               "But how on earth could he get such a name?" some one inquired.
               "That, I can tell you," said Ben. "Zac was a thoroughly prudent old style, and he had a most conscientious objection to letting the servants know anything of the family affairs, so whenever one of them came in to lay the cloth, or clear the table, whatever Zac was talking about, he at once exclaimed, 'under the circumstances,' thinking, of course, that the girl was a fool, and would be kept in ignorance of domestic intercourse by this innocent little dodge; but the girl was too sharp, she noticed that her master was always saying 'under the circumstances,' and she told everybody that he was doing so, and in that way Zachariah Hunter was known round the neighborhood by the name of 'Under-the-circum'."
               "Go on about Lily."
               "Well, gemmen, I've confessed that I have a leaky memory where facts are concerned, but as my conscience has been too well trained to be leaky, I now give notice that any blunders I may make in chronology, must be ranked anywhere but among the moral delinquencies. When I got up to the door I felt all chokey like; I had nothing prepared in the way of introduction, and if I had, my memory would have played the fool with me, so I thought it would be best to go slap in at once, and just take things as they might turn up. But oh! when I did get in, who should be in the great front parlor but the whole family!—Old Zac, and the missus, eight sons, and three daughters besides Lily, who was the youngest and best of the lot. Just imagine a young fellow, nervous and trembling like me, being pitched into a roaring furnace like that! Every face was like a Christmas-fire to me, so I sweltered like a round of beef at its five and twentieth revolution before the kitchen-grate; yes, gemmem, I do declare that the perspiration actually filled my boots, and as for my eyes, they were so much affected, I don't like to say 'bunged up,' that I couldn't tell whether the candle was in or out—fact! I tried to rub up a bit with my pocket-handerchief, but loh! it was wet through in a moment; so I made the best of my circumstances by nodding to all the company, and then fixing my right eye on old Zac, and a part of my left on the missus, keeping a sharp look-out on the rest of the company, with the part that was at liberty for general purposes—and O lohs! how my poor life did knock about! they were flapping about, backward and forward, like something hung out in a fine fresh breeze, to dry,—I might as well have been born dumb, so far as ability to say anything was concerned, and the worst of it was that everybody looked at me, as if they had expected to hear some startling news. Old Anty, the eldest son, who spent all his leisure in putting on record the changes of the weather—he's dead now, I hear, and nil nisi bonum de mortuis—there, Tom, you know nothing of the classics, I believe, so you may roast away upon that Latin spit——"
               Tom having heard the word "spit," accepted it as conveying a challenge, and at once defied the consequences by delivering himself right into the centre of the fire.
               "What a literal dog Tom is," said Dudgeon.
               
               "Story! Story!" shouted by the eager auditory brought Ben back to his line—
               "I was just going to say, when Tom attempted to drown the classics, that old Anty looked as if he expected me to utter some profound opinion on the prevailing state of the atmosphere, while Zac was evidently more concerned about the fluctuations of the corn-market. So says I,—in a precious flurry, I can tell you—'Mr. Hunter, have ye heard the news?' And in a moment, gentlemen, the lamp of expectation was kindled in every eye all round the room. 'Now's my chance,' said I, so I added, 'of my uncle in India?' 'What of him?' Mrs. Hunter inquired with a very pleasing eagerness, and I thought I saw Lil's eye sharpen up into what I call the 'front-door to heaven.' 'Most mysterious goings on there,' says I, and that brought every eye more keenly upon me, and I felt that there would be no escape without preparing a meal that would satisfy their hungry curiosity. 'Now, Mr. Dudgeon,' says Mrs. Hunter, 'don't keep us in suspense—whatever can be the matter—I knew your uncle so well in my young days,' and here she looked knowingly in the direction of her husband. 'Well,' says I, 'we've had a letter this morning stating that my uncle is dead, and has left me—Ben Dudgeon—ten thousand pound, or at all events property which will bring in that amount.' 'Good heavens!' the old woman cried, and she wasn't given to swearing, 'and you so well off at Mr. Hargreaves's already! Why, it will put your father into as good a position as he was in before.' By jingo! when she began to speak of being well off at Hargreaves's, I felt my knees all a-trembling, for only that very day I'd done something which Rufus wouldn't wink at. However, I plucked up courage and said 'there's more in the letter than that,' so says Mrs. Hunter, 'more? more? Mr. Dudgeon? Never! deary me, how I wonder what more that can be!' 'Why,' says I, 'there's a condition stated in the will which is very gratifying to me.' That did the business, gentlemen, lawsy me! you should have seen them then: old Zac snapped the spectacles off his nose, and held his breath, and as for the missus, she says, 'name it, Mr. Dudgeon, name it, delay will be death,' so when I heard that 'delay would be death,' I thought the best thing I could do would be to 'delay,' and then I could marry a woman who had no mother—and that, gemmen, is sometimes better than a thousand a-year—however, my generosity overcame my judgment, and in order to keep the poor woman alive I said, 'You know my uncle had a very strong partiality for you, before ever he thought of going to India, Mrs. Hunter?' 'Aye, God bless him,' says she, 'I know he had, and if he has left us anything, it will be very acceptable, these bad farming times,' here the missus paused, and looked as if she expected me to name an amount that would have a comfortable sound; so when I saw how the hare was flying I ran the hounds accordingly.—'The condition is'—and there I made a dead halt.—'Is what, Mr. Dudgeon? Do go on—delay is death, I tell you.' You should have seen the family then, gentlemen! I'd have given something handsome to have had a photograph of the lot just at that moment!—I drew a long breath which threatened to come out again in the form of a sigh, and then said—'The condition is that I may have ten thousand more, provided I marry one of your daughters!' Then such a scene took place in the big front parlor as had never taken place in it before; old Zac got onto his feet and began swinging his arms about as if he would say something grand and decisive if the truant words would only come; I'm sure if he had been a classic he would have quoted the finish of Juno's speech to Æolus:— 
                     
                        "'Sunt mihi bis septem præstanti corpore Nymphæ;
                        Quarum quæ forma pulcherrima Deiopeiam,
                        Connubio purgam stabili, propriamque dicabo:
                        Omnes ut tecum meritis pro talibus armos
                        Exigat, et pulchra faciat te prole parentem.'
                     
                   for, though his nymphs didn't amount to 'bis septem,' yet his Deiopeia was worth quite as many as that number of any other body's children. But Zac was no classic, and so he made no classical speech—he looked at the ceiling—looked into the fire—and altogether gave signs of being in deep thought as to what it would be best to do 'under thecircumstances
                  stances.' Not so the poor missus; words came readily enough to her tongue—'O Mr. Dudgeon!' says she, 'to have you for a son-in-law will just complete my joy.' 'Well, ma'am,' says I, 'it will just begin mine, and to show you where my heart is that's the girl I want,' and I pointed straight to Lily whose eyes were blazing like the head of a comet—(but my throat is dry, I can tell you, and it's time I had the benefit of the latter rain)—*  *  * but to my astonishment Lily went off into some kind of hysterical demonstration; she laughed, she cried, she screamed, she sang, and it was as much as two of her brothers could do to hold her, and by that time old Zac and the missus were engaged in forecasting the results of this sudden joy. Things were getting into a pretty state of confusion in the inside, when I heard what sounded like the tramping of a good many feet outside, and as I knew I was wanted at Hargreaves' I made the best of way out at the back-door and that brings me to——"
               Dudgeon was here interrupted by a tap at the door. "Come in," shouted all the party, and a waiter appeared with a tray on which was laid a note addressed to Mr. Dudgeon. I may, as the historian, take this opportunity of stating that I have ignored all the interjections on the part of the company during Dudgeon's statement, knowing that their insertion would have broken the continuity without illuminating the course of the narrative. It may now be mentioned, however, that several of the points excited marked suspicion, and all the more because Dudgeon had taken special pains to assure his hearers that he would not be responsible for any in accuracies in chronology and other matters of fact. It may be well for the reader to remember this lest at another point in the history he may find his calculations deranged.
               "Confound the folks," said Dudgeon, "a fellow isn't to have a bit of peace; last night there was a wizard, and now here's a letter! Read it, Jenkins; my eyes are glazey."
               Jenkins read:
               "Mr. Hargreaves has just heard of Mr. Dudgeon's return to England, and wishes particularly to see him that he may converse on very urgent business."
               Ben looked at the writing, notwithstanding the state of his eyes, and, having assured himself that it was genuine, said: "So, ho! and how in the world has Mr. Hargreaves got to know that Mr. Dudgeon has returned to England?—'Urgent business?' And Mr. Dudgeon wishes to see Mr. Hargreaves on urgent business, so things turn out square enough, if you'll only let them alone: but how did Hargreaves get to know that I'm here? That's the point;—can you tell me, Jenkins, you seem to know something about Skulford?"
               "All that I can say is that I haven't seen Hargreaves for nearly two years, and I never want to see him again, or any other canting, snivelling methodist."
               "No, no," said Dudgeon, "give every man his due; Hargreaves doesn't set up in the white 'neckerchief line—nothing pious about him, I reckon—I know that he is bound hand and foot to 'Sattan,' as our old servant used to nickname the devil."
               "Oh! but he's pious enough now," said Jenkins, "he's been transmogrified since you knew him. He sings hymns now by the score."
               "Can anybody tell me," Ben continued, with deepening anxiety, "how Hargreaves could get to know? Tom wouldn't do it, I should think, out of revenge for our attacks upon him? How can Hargreaves know?"
               Tom never took any special pains to repel the imputations which were recklessly cast upon his character. He had been trained to believe that if a man is thoroughly honest imputation will no more stick to him than "water will remain on a duck's back,"—the favorite emblem of impossibility among the unrefined.
               "I think," said Squire Williams, "that my nose is on the proper scent."
               "Indeed! what's that?" said Ben, eagerly.
               The young Squire set himself into a proper attitude and said: "Did you tell the stranger any thing last night? My notion, Ben, is that the fellow is deep, in fact I never knew a Scotch parson who wasn't deep. These Scotch parsons will pelt you to death with bits of scripture and patches of hymns; they'll protest that they're doing every thing for the good of the church and the glory of God, but count me a fool if they don't put down ten for themselves and one for the Almighty. Depend on it, Ben, that stranger is in it some how and some where."
               Ben listened thoughtfully, if somewhat impatiently, to William's opinion of the Scottish clergy, and said: "That's sharp, Billy;—yes, there's a point there. Ring the bell, Tom."
               "Ask the landlord to walk this way," said Ben to the waiter who answered the bell.
               The landlord was a sharper man than he looked. His manner would have lead a superficial observer to regard him as a simple, innocent rustic, who hadn't much to say for himself; but on occasions, as we noted in the scene in the passage, he could show a side of character which he didn't expose to every-day view. He lived for gain. He was not one of your idealists who engage in business for the purpose of working out a philosophical theory of commerce; no, on the contrary, he was one who had been taken by the devil on to an exceedingly high mountain and found himself unable to resist the proffered glory. It was not to be expected, therefore, that when he descended the mountain he would bring with him a very inflexible code of ethics.
               "Landlord, I want to know something of that sky-high Scotchman that came to see me last night. Now be frank, and let me know every thing, and an ounce of tin shan't stand between you and me."
               You see Dudgeon knew what effect the mountain scenery was likely to have upon a man whose eyebrows were prominent, and whose forehead sloped away to a point. Dudgeon saw that this kind of cattle must be well stroked with the golden hand. Every article in his brain and heart was marked in plain figures, and any man could roam at large through his ignoble nature if he was only careful to make the approach by the tin bridge.
               "I'm much obliged, sur," said the landlord; "let me see—yes—the gentleman did say something; but really——"
               "Give the landlord a glass of champagne, Jenkins, that'll nudge his memory on the elbow."
               "I'm much obliged, sur—(wiping his lips)—the gentleman did ask a few question about the niberhud, and about the gentry, but I didn't think I should have to recollect just what he did say."
               "Did he inquire for anybody in particular?" asked Dudgeon in a decisive tone.
               The landlord here turned his eyes to the ceiling and protruded his lips as he was wont to do when called upon to make a statement which might be used against him. "Yes, sur," the landlord continued, pausing deliberately before electing a word for utterance; "let me see, sur—he asked me if I knew where Squire Hargreaves lived, sur, and I told him he lived at a place about seven miles across the country, sur."
               The landlord paused, as though he had gone far enough on a solitary glass; Dudgeon being quick at the interpretation of pauses went on—
               "Well? anything more? Fee his memory again, Jenkins, with champagne."
               "Yes, sur—he asked me, sur, if he could have a horse over there, because he had some 'ticular business with Squire Hargreaves, and now here's the horse back again, sur, and one of the Squire's men has brought that note for you, sur."
               "And did he say anything about me?" Dudgeon inquired.
               The landlord didn't know how far to go down the road to which this question pointed. He was naturally anxious to keep as long on the sunny side of the hedge as possible, and that was the sunny side on which he could secure the greatest number of customers.
               
               "Hegh! hegh!" said he with a grin which implied that he didn't like to violate confidence, and which implied in addition that he could leap over a stile, under certain circumstances.
               Dudgeon looked as if he would have liked to smite the fellow with a word of hot indignation, but the restraints were rather tight. He took refuge in prudence, which in his case was a most uncertain shelter, and invited the landlord, with a responsive "hegh, hegh," to go on.
               
               "He thought you was rather funny, sur," the cautious host replied. What he meant by the word "funny," though, may be a mystery to the reader, unacquainted with the dialect of the neighborhood in which The Beech flourished. Perhaps such a reader may think that the clergyman made some commendatory allusions to the antics of Tom, or referred without reproach, to the rough and ready answers which Ben returned to certain inquiries. But not so. The word "funny," as used by the provincial landlord, hadn't the slightest regard to the existence of humor, either in word or deed; it was, on the contrary, used to intimate that the clergyman considered Ben somewhat of a problem whose solution didn't at first sight occur to his mind, just as the word "eccentric" is sometimes charitably employed in designating the actions of persons who may run into all kinds of excesses, and delinquencies. Ben knew what the landlord meant by "funny," and therefore went on to inquire—
               "What did he really say about me?"
               "He asked, sur—"
               Dead pause. All eyes were fixed; even Tom's rambling visual orbs, were steadied for a moment. Squire William thought he could remove the impediment out of the landlord's throat, and therefore, handed him a full glass of champagne. The remedy was effectual; away went the impediment, and up came the news—
               "He asked, sur, how long you had been here, and who the other gentleman was, and 'ticularly who that 'ere young man is; he wanted to know a good deal about him, sur."
               "Well?"
               "He spoke very sensible, sur, he did. I thought he were a very nice gentleman, sur."
               "We don't want to know what you thought, we want to know what he said," Ben interposed; rather unluckily, perhaps, because such a man might have been betrayed into statements which would have been useful for guidance had he been permitted to go into speech-making, and all the more likely as his eloquence had been awakened by champagne.
               "He said he hoped, sur, you wouldn't disgrace yourself by doing any thing bad to anybody, and sich like talk; but I told him as how I didn't just understand him, and that you had been very good company in my house."
               Ben saw how the current was moving, and that results would hardly pay for the expenditure of champagne which would be required to dissolve the secret, and therefore said:
               "Very good, landlord; we're glad you like your company; you may go now."
               "Voila!" said Squire William when the landlord had gone, "my nose don't often deceive me; you see now, Ben, how nicely I pop upon my game."
               "I see."
               "Well," cried Jenkins, whose curiosity could be no longer restrained, "a man's business is a man's business, still I must say I have an uncommon wish to know what that Scotchman wanted with Dudgeon last night; for my part"—here Jenkins spoke in a manner which implied that every man has a right to a personal opinion—"I hate the Scotch."
               "So do I," said Squire William; "you never know where you have a Scotchman, and if you did the information would be hardly worth having."
               Hupper was pressing his right knee very firmly with both hands, and looking wanderingly into the fire. At length he said: "There's something up, that's pretty clear. I believe that the fellow is a detective—I do indeed—even though he had a white choker on. There's old constable Bagley, as they call him, who used to be in the detective force, he's told me enough of detectives to make me believe that the clergyman you saw last night never preached a sermon in his life. Why, bless you," he continued, as his recollections of Mr. Bayley brightened, "these fellows have been known to put on women's clothes, and even to have been put as luggage into boxes that have been well perforated; there's no end to their dodgery; I know they're in league with the old one."
               Now, it is an awkward business when a companion is professedly basing his calculations on evidence which you have no means of testing; when an interlocutor pertinaciously confronts you with the opinion of Mr. Constable Bagley, a gentleman tleman whose name you never heard; and when the question in hand is precisely one on which Mr. Bagley ought to be able to pronounce an authoritative judgment, you naturally find yourself without firearms, or at all events your powder is suddenly and fatally moistened. This acquaintance with the ex-constable invested Hupper with especial importance. His idea might be the true idea. Of course there was subtlety in it, and the prospect of its being tolerably correct was heightened by vivid recollections of what had happened in Dudgeon's early history. And yet there were serious set-offs to be taken into account. Why didn't the detective bag his game? He might have laid Ben under lock and key with the greatest possible ease; it was not, they contended, in opposition to Hupper's theory, as though all the company had remained during the interview, for in that case the detective might have feared the inferiority of his strength, but Ben and Tom were left alone, and overpowering help could easily have been obtained. Opinions were freely exchanged, as became the importance of the occasion. A mystery sets people's wits to work, and endlessly multiplies theories, sensible and senseless. Every man, with the exception of Tom, had a method of accounting for every detail of the whole transaction. Ben weighed the theories and pronounced them all deficient. Again and again he relapsed into a contemplative mood, his dreamy eyes looking as if into infinite desolation. Then, silence was broken and a hint given of the train in which his ideas were moving. "Urgent business, and 'ticular business," he said; "very good, my business is both urgent and 'ticular, and must be done at once—yes—at once. I must see this good man, Mr. Hargreaves, before to-morrow night; if that fellow was a detective it's quite clear that the bloodhounds are on my track; and even if he was a clergyman it is quite as bad for me, because Hargreaves has got to know where I am; yes, they are at my heels now, but I shall die game." A company of reckless young fellows, who never contemplated going beyond what they ambiguously styled a "spree," was hardly prepared to hear such words, words suggestive of consequences which no man would deem it prudent dent to court. Not a man in the company—and yet they were all brave when danger was in the distance—who didn't tremble as Dudgeon pronounced his decision. His very calmness made his statement terrible. There was, too, a bitter sarcastic laugh, short and hissing, with which he accompanied his words, which made the flesh creep and tingle. He spoke like a determined man. The "unchangeable" which was written on his resolution, struck the giddy companions with dumbness and dismay. Silence came to the relief of all. Wait—wait—wait. The moments were dreary. At length Ben sprang to his feet, and with assumed briskness dissolved the company, praying that his confidence might be regarded as sacred, and wishing that the educational enterprise might be suspended until he knew the issue of his "urgent business."
               The door closed, and poor Dudgeon sat down, in unbefriended loneliness, the most miserable of men. The moment in which he first realized his solitude was one of those awful moments into which a life-time seems to be condensed. Visions of a happier time for ever gone flashed before his reproachful memory. The music of boyhood—the time of purity, freedom, and joy—breathed again upon him, as if rising from an unseen, deep grave. Old familiar voices fell upon his ear, and images, loved to adoration, floated before his glazing eye. The unexpected resurrection of his life gave an awful vividness to the minutest detail of the past. He recalled the trembling accents of affection, the lambent smile of fond complacency, the caress of his mother's idolatrous love. And he remembered his boyish sports, the days he spent by the side of the trout-stream which swept past Ellerby mill, the plottings and schemings with companion-lads as to the turn their lives should take, the swift-passing sunshine and shade which fell on the map of his prospective pilgrimage. All—all was there—not the faintest sound was wanting—it pulsed and quivered before him for a moment, and then expired like a spark at midnight. Aye! Picture and Reality alike were gone. On the throne of his heart there sat a tyrant-demon who was drunk with the blood of his happiness; and through that pitiable heart, once royally generous, a thousand scorpions pions might have thrust their deadly stings. The vivacity which was once musical as one of nature's unperverted voices, was now the vehemence of a madness that would gladly have been self-forgetting. The highway of safety had been abandoned for the perilous paths of demoralization. The weary wanderer was reclining on the slopes of a volcano, already trembling with the prophetic throbs of a terrible crisis. The canopy was filled with blackness, through which no smiling orb of Hope darted a solitary ray. He was a wreck over which Philanthropy might weep. True, innumerable sins had left their foul stain upon him, yet in the hour of his deepest degradation Charity, tender as a mother's love, might well besprinkle him with tears, and Hope—bright-eyed sister of Faith—might find in the wilderness of his desolation some object, however simple, that would prove itself a witness and a memorial of the Great Healing Power.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               BEN DUDGEON'S EARLY TRAINING.
               TO understand Ben Dudgeon we must be permitted to look into the secrets of his home training. It is true enough home is man's first school, and that the impressions he receives there are reproduced in the activities of future life. This general fact receives singular illustration in the history of our subject. In withdrawing the vail from the domestic scenes which surrounded Dudgeon in his opening years and went far to mould and determine his tortuous course, we have in view the benefit of parents and children alike. Home is life's first sanctuary. It is a church founded by God himself. Its foundations are deeper than the roots of the rocks, and its pinnacles glitter above the golden clouds. Let no man think lightly of home; as a fact it is enshrined in our holiest remembrances, and as a word it is a bud whose blossom is HEAVEN! We would not go as limners into any man's home without a becoming reverence for all that is involved, both in the fact and the word, nor would we willingly leave it without bearing away lessons which will fill other homes with music and sunshine.
               Benjamin's father was the head of the firm, Dudgeon Brothers, in a northern English town. The old man had, by unusual business tact and unremitting industry raised himself from the humblest obscurity into an eminent mercantile position. He had, in fact, survived his brother for several years, but the designation of the firm remained unchanged, and was every where regarded as the equivalent of integrity, perseverance and success. A more industrious man than the elder Dudgeon never entered a market-place. For many years he felicitated himself in the reputation that he was always first in the morning and last at night in the place of business, and if an unhappy clerk should be five minutes behind time the principal went out to meet him, and held up his watch to the culprit in a manner which signified that the delinquency would be remembered against him for ever. Though so constantly devoted to business, he was resolutely determined that his children should receive a good education. He was accustomed to say that he had never had a day's proper instruction himself, that all his knowledge had been accumulated after he was twenty years of age, and that having known the want of a thorough systematic training himself, he would see to it that his children should have the highest educational advantages which money could procure. Nor was he willing to devolve the process entirely upon others, for while he was avowedly ignorant of the technicalities of scholarship he had certain theories of domestic management and training which were mortally distasteful to Mrs. Dudgeon, and those theories he had pledged himself to submit to practical tests.
               "I bring conscience to bear on every thing," he would often say. "I must have conscience at home, and conscience in business; we cannot fulfil the sovereign purpose of life apart from conscience."
               In connection with his proverbial loyalty to conscience he indulged and delighted in a most peculiar habit of generalizing the tritest affairs or observations under some philosophical axiom, the precise bearing of which on the subject in hand it would have puzzled a congress of sages to determine. Often, in conversation, he would strike wonder into all the company by intimating that what a lady had just said had "a specific and measurable influence on the pre-established harmony of things in general,"—a declaration which would effectually silence that lady for the remainder of the evening. And whenever any man was unfortunate enough to encounter him in discussion, (no man, by the way, ever encountered him twice) he would suddenly make such a reference to the abstract and the remote as would effectually muzzle his hapless opponent. So great, furthermore, was his love of "accuracy racy"—naturally accounted for by his love of conscience—that he called in a multitude of words to express the simplest opinion or an opinion on the simplest topic. He was no friend of your easy, dashing, off-hand conversation. He would quarrel with an adverb for a quarter of an hour, and as for the adjectives, there wasn't the remotest chance of his selecting one which would convey the delicate shade of meaning which he imagined was in his mind. So very far did this vicious verbosity carry him that however brilliant the sunshine under which he commenced any argument, it was impossible for him to proceed very far without the horrors of a November fog settling on every proposition which he affirmed. It musn't be said that this habit was entirely without advantage, for Mr. Dudgeon so confounded everybody that no man could possibly go away and report his opinion on any topic of the day. He was never mixed up with the prevailing gossip. His opinions were too profound and philosophical to be repeated by the vulgar tongue.
               Now Mrs. Dudgeon was the exact contrary of all this. Though in many respects superior to her husband in mental vis, yet she was an easy, good-tempered woman, who never troubled herself with the technical claims of conscience, and who had an implacable hatred of the never-ending sentences of her loquacious husband. This, in itself, was a venial offence, but the result of the strange mixture was that the children were the subjects of two different monarchs. Her views of family training directly clashed with the most cherished notions of her conscientious husband. Dudgeon, for example, never had any patience with a joke, but Mrs. Dudgeon was fond of harmless fun. Dudgeon sat down to his dinner as a matter of business, and dispatched it as became a man in earnest; Mrs. Dudgeon wished to regard the process of dining as a privilege quite as much as a duty. Dudgeon called for the chamber candlestick exactly at five minutes to ten, regardless altogether of any visitor who might be present; Mrs. Dudgeon thought it was a pity to run away from "such a nice bit of fire." Dudgeon made a fine distinction between showery and raining; Mrs. Dudgeon included all atmospheric states in the general terms wet and dry. In short, there was not a single point in which husband and wife saw eye to eye, and if for a moment (how rare!) Mrs. Dudgeon did bring herself good-humoredly to say, "My dear I see as you do," Dudgeon would instantly change the plane of vision and leave his wife in the dark.
               About the children though, don't let us put Mrs. Dudgeon disadvantageously before our minds: she did "speak" to the children when they did wrong,—indeed, nothing could be more common than—
               "Benjamin! do you hear me? Now, I'll tell papa if you don't put that bottle down immediately, and take your dirty boots off the table-cover."
               Could anything better be desired? Wasn't there a clear recognition of paternal authority? So at least it would be thought, but unhappily Ben's "ha! ha! I sha'n't," was a practical intimation that the maternal threat was understood to be a joke rather spicier than usual, for the good-natured mother was always the first to put up her umbrella to save the children from the drifting showers of ethical maxims, which fell from the scrupulous merchant at breakfast, dinner, tea, and supper. I refer to those four periods, because at other times, when their father happened to be at home, the children were only too glad to find amusement in their own room; but sure as the meal-bell tingled did the conscientious Dudgeon assume the attitude of a lecturer.
               He had a little boy named Henry who was a marvellous reproduction of himself. The little fellow seemed fated to be "accurate" and "conscientious," in direct opposition to Ben, who was apparently fated to be neither. The precocious moralist died very early, but in veneration to his memory it should be noted that, while Ben was one day at dinner talking about "Bobby" somebody, Henry interrupted him and said with great gravity—"his real name is Robert." And how the old man gloried in that! "Yes," said he, "that is the kind of accurate statement and representation which I should like you, Benjamin, to imitate." Ben didn't see any beauty in the prospect, but dropped his eyes toward his knife and fork, and resolved to pitch into Henry for his nonsense, and thus maintain the prerogatives of seniority.
               "Sit up, Benjamin, sit up," said the watchful merchant, "don't be lolling at table in that way; if you are indisposed we must resort to our medical adviser, but I cannot allow you to assume that inelegant attitude at table; in other words, I cannot have my children trained head downward."
               "O papa," the mother would say in desperation, "I wish you would not lecture the children so; if you have anything to say, do say it in simple words, and say it gently."
               Deluded woman! she had forgotten the fundamental conditions of domestic existence; and of this oblivion she was tartly reminded—
               "Now, love, I am the head of the house, and I must bring conscience to bear on the training of my family; I could give you illustrations in abundance of the pestiferous influence of parental negligence in the solemn duty of qualifying young people, that is to say, juveniles like ours, to discharge the multifarious and onerous duties of active life——"
               "O, for mercy's sake, Mr. Dudgeon, do come to something like an end; we never have a meal-time without the poor children being lectured to death, and I'm sure it does them more harm than good."
               "My dear," said the merchant rising from the table, and looking solemn, "if you, my wife, and their mother, would conscientiously fulfil the duties of the maternal function, that is to say, if you would do what you ought to do, there would be less opportunity for the exercise of the powers invested in me as the head of this house."
               In this argument Mr. Dudgeon felt the serenest repose. He has obviously laid hold of a philosophical principle, and no feminine force could compel him to relinquish the prize. But feminine pertinacity could not be driven off the field with such a weapon, and having taken counsel with feminine tact, the lady replied—
               "But don't you see, Mr. Dudgeon, that it is because you do so much that I don't do enough to please you? If we are to be reformed at all, you must begin by doing less, then perhaps I may do more."
               "Love, you do try my temper very greatly: here am I considering how I can best train our offspring to a conscientious discharge of the manifold duties of sublunary life, and notwithstanding my arduous endeavors, I meet not only with no coöperation, that is to say in other words, I meet with actual opposition, from her who ought, if she understood the mutual relations of the social constitution, to share my anxieties and labors;—I do wish, Mrs. Dudgeon, that you would reconsider the whole question of conjugal relationship, and at least learn to hold your tongue when I am illustrating the duty and advantage of conscientious obedience.
               The poor woman could bear no more. Her patience was at an end. Who could stand it?—bore—bore—bore; morning, noon, and night,—bore—bore—bore;—"You make me giddy," she said, "I really don't know where I am, through your everlasting talk—I'm your wife I know, and you are the father of these tormented children, but there's no similarity between us—no sympathy at all—and from my heart I wish I had never heard your lecturing tongue ..... there! I have said it now, for you would exasperate an angel."
               Here, Mrs. Dudgeon suited her actions to her words, and gave way to intense excitement. The tears flowed in streams. She flung her head first on one side and then on another,—moaned, sobbed, stamped, and obeyed every impulse of distraction. But was the man of conscience affected by the demonstration? Did he intermingle his tears with the tears of his wife, and magnanimously renounce his theories of training? Pshaw! A man of integrity weep? One of the "ninety and nine who need no repentance," confessing an error? Fool would he be who could think so. No, no; tears couldn't dissolve the integrity of the firm merchant. He held his theories with a conviction that towered sublimely beyond the cloudy region of tears and tenderness. An opportunity was now in his hands, and he availed himself of the circumstance in a manner which the children were not likely to commend—
               "Children!" said he, while the maternal paroxysm was expending its fury, "look at me—at me, your anxious and maltreated parent—you can bear witness that from the dawn of your intellectual faculties I have unremittingly sought to develop the manifold powers with which human nature is endowed—I have insisted on your learning the catechism—and I have done everything in my power, as some ancient or modern poet piously observes, to 'teach the young idea how to shoot'—nevertheless you see that the fountain of government is ignored, and my rule——"
               "For pity's sake, do stop such nonsense," exclaimed Mrs. Dudgeon, removing the handkerchief from her streaming face for a moment.
               "Nonsense?" inquiringly ejaculated the astounded lecturer, "'nonsense?' have you taken farewell of your senses, Mrs. Dudgeon? Do you sit there, and in the presence of our children characterize my exhortations as 'nonsense'? Didn't I always resolve that, if providence intrusted me with young immortals, I would train them in a manner so profound in philosophy, and so unimpeachable in morals, that they should be a pattern to the whole neighborhood? But it appears, too late, that I have omitted one item from my calculations, for it certainly never occurred to me that woman would so far forget her true position as to cross the purposes of her husband."
               Philosophical noodle! How could he expect his calculations to turn out, with such a mistake in their basis? How could he expect a one-wheeled gig to run without falling down? What a leaky brain tenanted the skull of the lecturer! His wife, however, was justifiably determined that such talk should not run on without a question been thrown across its channel.
               "Why, what do you think women were made for?" she said, "are they dish-cloths to be taken up when you want them, and thrown down when you are done with them?"
               The reference to a "dish-cloth" was, as might have been foretold, exceedingly disagreeable to a man so refined in taste, and so scrupulously exact in the choice of similes; she could hardly have selected an article in the house as the foundation of a telling metaphor, so shocking to the sensibilities of the merchant; but, as if doomed to commit offence even in the adoption of a figure of speech, Mrs. Dudgeon fell once more under the frown of injured Elegance and despised Authority.
               "You know well enough, Mrs. Dudgeon, that woman was originally and divinely, and I think most properly, constituted the inferior of man——"
               "What? what?" interposed the insulted lady, with an excitement which she rarely manifested, "how do I know that? I feel that I am your superior, at any rate, in everything but endless talking;—'inferior,' indeed! I resent the insult!"
               "Just see then, what becomes of all my teachings on the subject!" said Dudgeon, as he saw all his elaborated theories and carefully-nursed propositions remorselessly kicked out of doors. He had clung to them and worshipped them, and behold, his own wife had actually pitched the Penates on to the ash-heap: "Just see what becomes of all my teachings on the subject!"
               "Aye! just see, indeed," said Mrs. Dudgeon with triumphant sarcasm, "but they're not worth the trouble of looking after: I wish you would see how Mr. Hoskins treats his children, hardly a day passes but he brings them some toys or other, and every night I see the little things running out to meet him, and welcome him home, but your children dread your very face, and run away when they hear your footstep."
               "And that state of things I attribute to you," said Mr. Dudgeon with the easy air of one who did a large business in transferring all charges from his own conscience to the conscience of his wife; "if you would support me in my educational efforts, our children would be the best behaved, and altogether the most conscientious children in this town and its vicinity, that is to say, they would be examples of probity and honor."
               "But, Mr. Dudgeon," she strongly remonstrated, "is there not to be any play-time? Are not children to think and speak and act like children? Are they to be stunted and crushed into old men and women as soon as they come into the world? I'm positively disgusted with your want of feeling, and, indeed, your want of common sense."
               Poor Dudgeon the elder felt that at this trying moment it would be a kind of relief to be permitted to knock some one down; this may be gathered from the fact that he struck the table so sharply that the breakfast cups gave notice of disturbance. The ill-requited lecturer was at his wits' ends. The entire kingdom of conscience seemed to be on the final totter. The sound of rebellion reverberated through the moral empire, and he alone was found faithful to the throne of rectitude. He evidently regarded his wife as hopelessly depraved, and was far from certain that his educational appliances would not be overmatched by her corrupting influence. Altogether, he took a gloomy view of the domestic institution, and was inclined to reproach himself for having become the responsible head of an unmanageable woman. It would have dissolved a stone (if an incredible figure may be allowed) to see a man in whose head so many exact theories and pet propositions found a home, completely baffled in every attempt to immortalize himself as an educational reformer. He felt the circumstance most keenly. Unhappy man, he had been so ignorantly trained himself as to regard a wife as a piece of india-rubber which could be extended, contracted, softened, and hardened at will; and it was not until the clock had passed the redeeming hour that he awoke from his dream, and found his favorite notions floundering in a Serbonian bog. And all through his own wife, too! A martyr to the connubial tie! A man who would have advanced to glory had he not been tripped up by his wife's slipper! Alas! such slippers are among the mysteries of life, and must so remain until the final conflagration reduces them to matter of fact cinders. But Dudgeon was heroic. Yes. A lion's carcase didn't frighten him. Turning from his wife, he thus addressed the children:
               "Emily, I shall expect you to have your Scripture exercises ready to-night, and don't neglect your catechism, and see that the music-master and the German teacher find you prepared; all these things may be useful to you some day when, perhaps, you may not have a papa to remind you of the claims of conscience."
               The last stroke was intended to evince a deep acquaintance with the treasures of pathos, but the listener was not sufficiently advanced in the moral sciences to regard the apprehension as a grief. Like all womankind she had a favor to ask, and at the risk of having her head nipped off she ventured into the lion's den.
               "But, papa, may I not go out this afternoon?" she said. "Lizzy Johnson is coming to ask me to take a walk, and Tommy Purvis wants to have a row in the boat with Ben."
               Now everybody knows that the girl is considered to be the master of the father; that is to say, the cross papa who can give a snapping answer to a son whose trowsers are worn out at the knee, and whose fingers and thumbs are ten protests against the use of soap, is melted into compliance by the bewitching appeal of the little girl who jumps upon his knee and twinges his whiskers. Every where this is considered to be a matter of course; hence the lads intrust their petitions to the sisterly hand, and repose themselves in the fact that, however tough may be the fight, sisterly eloquence will give Goliath a victorious tap on the forehead. Even Ben Dudgeon had this as one of his innate ideas, and occasionally availed himself of the understood arrangement. Emily's rich blue eye now beamed with expectation.
               "Emily," said the merchant, "I must confess myself surprised that you should have instituted any such inquiry, for you must surely know that I am the head of this house, and do you not know from your catechism what are the special duties of children to their papas? I beg then, or I might legitimately say I command, that so far as you are individually concerned, you will let Lizzy Johnson walk by herself; and let me say to you, Benjamin, that I have a positive conscientious objection to your keeping company with that boy Thomas Purvis, (remember, Emily, that his name is not Tommy, but Thomas, as poor Henry would have told you had he been living) for he has had no moral training, at least from his father; and his father, I regret to state, knows no more about the catechism than he knows what consols will be sold at next year at this time."
               "But Mr. Purvis is a very kind man, isn't he?" said Ben, who, as well as Emily, not having seen any kindness in his own papa was particularly appreciative of that virtue in any other man.
               "Now, Benjamin,"—the merchant never said Ben, under any circumstances, having a notion that such an abreviation would violate a fundamental canon in ethics,—"that is an exceedingly improper manner of stating a subject for your papa's consideration; in the first instance you make a direct assertion, and then you ask my opinion upon it; in that way, you observe, an antagonism of judgment might arise."
               All this time the sickened mother had been amusing herself with looking at a number of old magazines which lay on the top of the piano. Ben and Emily wore the aspect of doomed criminals. The iron had again and again entered into their souls, and made them writhe with an agony which knew no method of retribution. They felt themselves unlike all other children—though at the time of which we write they could hardly be called children, for they felt no joy in their father's presence—his society they shunned and his name they abhorred. Their misery was increased by their constrained silence. Often, indeed, the smouldering fire well nigh broke into flame, but regard for their mother's wishes restrained them from open rebellion. The account we have given of what happened at breakfast is not exaggerated in one particular, and might, with changes of subjects, be given as a fair history of what transpired every day in that ill-consorted family. We fix attention on the day in question because an event occurred before the evening, which it is important that the reader should know.
               "I'm glad he's off," said Ben, when the man of conscience left home to pursue the manifold engagements of sublunary life; "he's always boring one with lectures as long as leap year. I hate conscience, I do."
               The mother was still smarting from the recollections of the morning encounter, and shaped her answer according to the state of her mind.
               "Never mind, Ben," said she, "never mind; you'll be old enough bye-and-bye to work for money, and then we'll leave him altogether."
               "Hee! hee! ha! that we will, dearest mammy, and then he may pitch his 'neverthelesses' and 'notwithstandings' at the candlestick; hurrah! hurrah! diddle-cum-fiddlety-tee, hurrah! and shan't I go out for an hour or two, and Em have a spree with Liz?"
               "Yes, my darlings, my sugar plums, you shall, for in fact I consider it necessary for your health; come away and give mam a kiss;" and they did kiss, for out of her lips they never received a single lecture. Reaction had now set in like a strong tide, and the loving mother would break any rule of family government in order to please her oppressed and tormented offspring.
               "Yes, ma, I'm sure it is good for our health," Ben appreciatively replied. "Why, there's poor Em gets as gray as her German grammar when she's indoors all day; and I'm sure that rowing on the pond suits me a good deal better than any thing of a 'nastic' character,"—here is another shocking instance of Ben's inaccuracy, the fact being that the merchant had used the word "drastic,"—"as old daddy Conscience once said ...... hee! hee! hee! jolly, jolly, jolly; we'll have a jolly swim!"—a declaration which swelled into a strain of most hearty music: 
                     
                        "When the boatman comes on shore
                        He spends his money then he works for more."
                     
                  
               
               Thus stood the programme of that memorable day; and all appearances, in and out, wore a decidedly sunnier aspect than when the conscientious head of the house was turning on its shoulders.
               In proportion, of course, to the solemnity of countenance and manner which the children were obliged to assume in the presence of their sombre parent, was the degree of hilarity to which they ascended in the glad hours of his absence from the household throne,—a throne in the ugly shape of a high-backed arm-chair which might be seen all the year round in one particular corner of the dining-room. The tiniest titter which could curl the lip, was suppressed when that throne contained its conscientious owner, and as for jokes, riddles, games, and fun in general, they were not permitted to awake for a moment from the slumber of a well-regulated repose. Mr. Dudgeon had no patience with a pun—no appreciation of the fire-works of the most brilliant wit—no! he was the devotee of conscience and accuracy—his faith never desiring a wider expansion than could be justified by the first four rules of arithmetic. Keep him within that boundary, and you might depend upon his oath being ready at any moment; but if he heard the fluttering of wings, and saw the faintest indication of a disposition to soar, he at once took refuge in the notation-table, or fled behind the bastion of his conscience.
               To the story, though. The day in question was one of unusual brightness—a day of joy—a day when the very sunbeams seemed to be chords which were pealing forth music at the touch of angels' fingers. It was summer's brightest birth. Nature was in full dress. The heavens were smiling on the earth, and the earth felt as young as ever, as it rejoiced in the gladness of that smile. Everybody seemed to be happy and most hopeful. Even iron accuracy itself might have felt for a moment the freedom of poetry, and Conscience nodded cordially to the winged sisterhood of Fancy, Imagination, Poesy, and Music. Well, it was on such a day that Emily Dudgeon and Lizzy Johnson took the ramble which had been branded with the veto of paternal disapprobation. The hours fled on without a cloud dimming their radiance, and toward three o'clock the loving ramblers returned full of information about Ellerby Mill and Copse Wood, and beautiful flowers and merry hay-makers, and vied with each other in emphasis while assuring Mrs. Dudgeon that they had "so enjoyed the walk."
               "But I do wish Ben would come back," she said with some anxiety, "you see what time it is now—his pa' will be home very soon—I hope no accident has occurred on the move—I wouldn't for the world that any of us should be out when pa' comes, or we shall have lectures 'as long as leap-year,' as poor Ben says."
               Lizzy Johnson heard this without manifesting any surprise, the fact being that Dudgeon's extraordinary gift at lecturing was perfectly well-known for miles around the neighborhood in which he exercised his talent, so that there was no violation of family secrecy on the part of Mrs. Dudgeon, Hardly a child could be found who didn't know that Ben's father was a lecturer, and not a man in the district had courage to ask the merchant, how he was in health, unless he had at least half an hour which he didn't know how to invest, for he was sure to elicit a minute statement of all the variations through which the accurate gentleman's body was daily passing. This kind of practice, then, had so familiarised everbody with the prodigious capabilities of Dudgeon's lingual organs that Lizzy Johnson heard the statement and the simile without the manifestation of the faintest surprise.
               The mother's anxiety about Ben was increasing with every swing of the pendulum, not so much that she feared for her boy's safety as that she was unwilling to supply a text to a preacher whose gift at expansion was altogether unrivalled. Tick! tick! tick! went the unwearying and unpitying minister of time,—tick! tick! tick! these are the foot-falls of swift-passing hours.—No Ben came. Not a shadow of a human being fell on the long gravel-walk which led up from the garden-gate to the door of the dwelling-house. Tick! tick! tick!——Silence.—Wonder.—Speculation.—Hark ! the garden-gate bangs! Mrs. Dudgeon turns instantly to the window, and sees a man, known to be from the warehouse, coming with breathless speed.
               "O heavens!" she cried, "whatever can have happened?—There's something up with Ben!"
               Hardly did the messenger draw his spent breath until he said, or rather gasped, with cruel injudiciousness—"I have bad news for you, ma'am—bad news."
               Mrs. Dudgeon trembled, and as she laid hold of the table her face became as the countenance of a corpse. Her lips were sealed, and her eyes were fixed as if they had been petrified. Emily, too, was smitten with a wonder which momentarily bereft her of speech; she was, however, the first to speak.
               "Whatever's the matter? the matter? tell me, tell me, where's Ben, Ben, my brother?"
               Emily's voice startled the mother from her stupor, and she spoke as if taking up the word at which Emily stopped—
               "Yes," she said, "my child, my boy? where is he? Don't spend a moment more without telling me where he is."
               Her mental vision was fastened as if by irresistible fascination on the whole scene in which Ben was the central figure,—she saw the boat sailing, heard the lads whistling and singing, and joking, saw how heedless they became, saw them tease each other with harmless fun—saw one of them get too near the edge of the boat—saw them both go down—saw Ben a corpse! And more: she heard her husband philosophising on the whole event, rebuking and reproaching her for disobedience, and grounding upon the sad catastrophe a lecture long and dreary as a stormy day. She saw the broken law lying at her feet, and knew that a man of arithmetical accuracy and geometrical conscience would care more for a snapped rule than for a drowned child.
               The poor fellow spoke as soon as he could collect his breath—
               "I cannot tell you—Mrs. Dudgeon—where—master Ben is—but his poor father—my master—Mr. Dudgeon—has—just been—taken with—some—some—kind o' fit—and he cannot—be removed—from the warehouse—for some—some hours—that's what the doctor, Mr. Ballatt, says."
               The man had hardly finished his statement when Ben, red and rosy with his boating exercise, made his appearance, and saw the consternation with alarm. His presence brought tears, up to this time unshed, to the eyes of his mother and sister, especially when he asked in wondering simplicity, "What's up?" The excitement of a rare pleasure was upon him—his blood was flowing rapidly—and he could not all at once pass from the sweet dominion of joy, new-born and right welcome, into a state of sorrow and dismay. He saw that his mother and sister were living and well, and to be honest, his care did not extend much beyond the circle which they occupied. Explanations ensued. At that moment they were, of course, ignorant of the precise state of affairs; they merely heard in general terms that the head of the house had been seized with a fit, a thing which had never happened before, and which they imagined, might disappear as suddenly as it had come. Such events, nevertheless, make people forget details, and realize the central facts. Yes, the lecturer, for the time being, was forgotten in the man. He was in a fit—in a fit in his own warehouse, and they were the proper parties to see to his necessities in the hour of affliction. Quickly the man brought a cab to the door, and in less than fifteen minutes the whole family bent over the helpless form of the accurate man. That tongue never before tamed was now under the care of a pitiless keeper,—it could not utter its favorite "notwithstanding," could not ask whether the catechism had been committed to memory, in short it might as well have been a tooth as a tongue, so far as the exercise of speech was concerned; but the eye,—the eye! he would have been blind from his birth, who could not read in that member the most satisfactory proofs of the unabated activity of Conscience. The more so, because the fit was unaccompanied with pain, and the eye had ample opportunity of doing the tongue's work as well as its own.
               The cashier, who was quite a study in his own way, was quietly looking upon the scene from an inner office, into which Mrs. Dudgeon and her children entered for the purpose of ascertaining the particulars of the case. The cashier had been in his situation from time immemorial, and had established a reputation for accuracy quite as great as that which the principal himself enjoyed. A cooler man never presided over a ledger—that is certain. Nothing ever succeeded in "putting him out," i. e., in putting him into passion. A cannon fired close at his ear wouldn't have discomposed him for an instant; and as for an empire being threatened with overthrow, if it didn't overturn his desk and ink-horn it was no business of his, and might take any course it pleased. His poor head hadn't room enough in it for an empire. When "our office" got squeezed into it it might be declared to be "full inside"—not an inch was left for the accommodation of anything else. How, then, could such a man deport himself in the presence of "a fit?" You may see how if you peep through the office-window. Not a muscle is moved. The fat white cheeks can not remember when such a thing as a tear rolled over them. The eyes, too, how calm they are! They might be looking upon an almanac instead of being fixed on a man in "a fit." Not, indeed, that Mr. Tweddle was wanting in sentiments of proper respect for his employer—nothing of the kind; he would give him an extra hour any time to write up the books, and listen with a patience that never sighed to the most serpentine lecture. In these respects he suited Mr. Dudgeon to the decillionth of a grain, for Dudgeon looked upon a good listener as one of the good gifts of heaven, and would pronounce a blessing upon any man whose talents lay more in the ear than in the tongue. Then look at Mr. Tweddle's books! Did you ever see their equal for beauty of writing? If you were offered a hundred pounds for every blot you could find, you would be no richer at the last leaf than at the first. Besides all this, Mr. Tweddle cultivated proper notions respecting the dignity of his office as a cashier. That word "cashier" comprehended all that he could conceive of as excellent, meritorious, and awfully responsible. He looked upon clerks with sublime contempt, and even upon principals as unfit to walk the market-place unless they maintained a cashier. Then, the iron safe! the fire-proof safe! the invincible chest with five locks that were five sentinels around the eighth commandment, and which, in fact, rendered the eighth commandment utterly unnecessary! Didn't he lay his fat hand upon that with the pride of a prince? Didn't he, whenever his opinion upon a trade-question was contradicted, take out the five bright-keys and make a rattle which when interpreted meant that he sustained responsibilities which would crush his wretched opponent far below the old red-sand stone? He did, indeed. He never thought it worth while to get into a passion with anybody; he merely turned his lobster-eye upon an antagonist and made a significant noise with the five bright keys. His consoling reflection amidst the trouble was that it wasn't himself who was in "the fit," for if it had been the wheels of the business would of course have come to a dead-halt in an instant, no commercial concern being able to wag its tail a moment after its cashier is cushioned.
               "However did this happen?" whispered Mrs. Dudgeon to the imperturbable Mr. Tweddle.
               "Why, ma'am," said the cashier with his usual deliberation, which, under the circumstances, was doubly provoking,—"why, ma'am, that would take some time to tell;" then, turning his tumble-out eyes toward the safe, without altering the general position of his body, he added: "For a long period our much respected master, who lies there as helpless as a blind kitten, has been extremely anxious—I reckon the cashier ought to know that better than any one else, for, oh! laws, ma'am, the lectures we have had down here in this very identical office have been out of all count, and that's a good deal for a cashier to say, who gets his bread and bed by counting."
               Ben looked as though he could quite believe it, and Emily as she were sure of it, while both looked around the brown-papered walls and saw nothing there but "neverthelesses" and "notwithstandings."
               "But tell me how this happened, and don't talk about any thing else," said Mrs. Dudgeon, with firmness.
               "True, ma'am," Tweddle answered, "that's all very true and all very well; but, you see, a cashier"—again the eyes fell on the safe—"is in the habit of beginning at the beginning—and you know that our respected master, who lies there as if he had been shot, was always so long-winded, poor man, that we have all become touched with what Mrs. Tweddle calls the jaw-disease, and she ain't far off the mark in calling it so, either——"
               "Mr. Tweddle, are you wrong in your head," Mrs. Dudgeon angrily interrupted; "you know how long you have been here, and what confidence"—here Tweddle took out all the five keys—"we have placed in you, so don't be heartless now, but tell me all you know about this matter, or I shall drop."
               Words which would have scorched the most of men didn't make the slightest impression on fat Mr. Tweddle, a circumstance which may be accounted for by the fact that at home he went through a training eminently favorable to the growth of an impervious skin. Mrs. Tweddle was a woman born to rule. She, too, had a "jaw-disease," but it was of an entirely different type to that of her afflicted husband. She knew the sharpest cuts through her sentences. Not a single parenthesis could be found in a day's talk. Her words were drawn swords—her mouth was an armory of edged instruments! She had also a most unwomanly habit of making fistic appeals to conjugal fidelity when lingual eloquence failed. Yes, I am so solemnly in earnest in saying so, that I will put the same idea in a plainer suit of words, and bluntly say that Mrs. Tweddle struck fat Mr. Tweddle. There, now! And this was well known; well known in the ware-house, well known in the dining-rooms—so well known, in fact, that the more familiar of his friends occasionally asked him how he could allow himself to be beaten by his own wife; and his philosophical explanation was that "it pleased her, and did him no harm." If he had required solace under these trying circumstances had he not plenty of it in the five bright keys aforesaid? What more could a fat cashier require? He couldn't drink the vinegary consolation which came out of theological buckets, or believe in the market-price of canticles, or call a pile of prayer-books an easy chair; hence he turned with ever-heightening comfort to his silent but assuring friends, the five bright keys. His wife's temper had probably something to do in causing fat Mr. Tweddle to imitate the prolixity of Mr. Dudgeon. At all events he didn't like her way of talking, and nothing was more natural than that he should take a fancy to the opposite extreme. And this again reacted on little lean Mrs. Tweddle so powerfully that a sense of duty obliged her to call her knuckles to the aid of her drooping tongue.
               But Mrs. Dudgeon is waiting.
               
               "Fact is, ma'am," Tweddle said, "to make a long story short, though that isn't an heasy job for one who has been in the habit of taking an hexhilarating walk round about a subject, without making any particular hobservations upon it, the master, Mr. Dudgeon, who lies there as helpless as, as, as—" (no simile obeyed the call) "has been making extraordinary free with a very tickle, touch-me-not sort of customer that passes under the name of Speculation, and he has borrowed biggish lumps of money, and we have just seen by the afternoon's letters that the principal scheme has come out the wrong side up, and the moment he read the news he dropped down as if he had been felled. I believe it is what Mrs. Tweddle calls the 'hap-up-plexy,' because she always telling me when she's in a tanteery that she'll drop down in something of the kind, and, 'tween you and me, I wouldn't mind much what she dropped down in, so long as her file of a tongue gave over scraping. You see, ma'am, I wish to break the matter off to you in what may be called a judicious manner, for I'm sure no man ever had a finer conscience than my master, poor Mr. Dudgeon, who lies there as if a barrel of oil-cake had fallen on his head; fine conscience, ma'am, very."
               Fat Mr. Tweddle's eyes turned, with the familiarity of long habit, to the door of the iron safe, while Mrs. Dudgeon laid her hands on Ben and Emily, and exclaimed in a loud whisper—
               "Apoplexy—Ruin—O God!" and then sank heavily on a chair.
               The interview took place in the little office at the window of which the reader saw Mr. Tweddle's face, and as Ben and Emily busied themselves principally in watching the movements of the medical men (who, by the way, had insisted that they should be left quite alone) Mrs. Dudgeon and the cashier held the conversation without interruption.
               "That word 'ruin,' ma'am, is not just the very word to use," Tweddle continued after a pause; "of course a cashier is one who knows a good many things that missuses are not supposed to know, and from the length of time I have been on these premises I ought to know as much about our business ness as anybody else, and though I don't mean to say that you can live very grandly, yet you won't just come to, to,—to the workhouse."
               The doctors continued their work in a very serious manner, and at length pronounced that Mr. Dudgeon must be removed to his residence where he must be kept in unbroken quiet, without seeing letters or papers, or conversing upon any matter affecting the business, for excitement would be death.
               That evening, the Thorns—the name of Mr. Dudgeon's residence—wore an aspect which it had never presented before. Not a lecture was delivered. Not a catechism was seen. Not a sign of any process of moral education met the eye. Ben's conscience was so far benumbed that he placed his feet against both sides of the fire-place, and made several attempts at telling how he had enjoyed himself in the boat, and Emily laid aside her German grammar without the utterance of a single sigh. The collapse in the matter of conscience was truly painful. The labor of years was fruitless. No solitary blade proclamed an advancing harvest. Poor Mrs. Dudgeon was lost in a multitude of bewildering thoughts. Her intoxicated imagination struck off a thousand gloomy pictures. She still used the word "Ruin" in spite of Mr. Tweddle's protest. "Poor," "homeless," "friendless," were the only notes which she could awaken out of the chords of her heart. Everywhere her eye alighted on desolation. All the world, so far as she had known, worshipped the rising sun; how, then, would they be treated in the fading hour of sun-set? Then look at her children! In what direction could they turn? Who would take the children of a ruined man, and show them the means of earning bread? It was true, indeed, and on this she reflected with grateful joy, that they had both received an excellent education. Ben knew Latin and Greek, and French, and Mathematics, and a host of et cæteras, and Emily was acknowledged to be the most accomplished girl in the neighborhood. So far, Mr. Dudgeon's policy had been wise and successful, and so far, Mrs. Dudgeon regretted that she had opposed it. Such an education would surely be bread to them; and if the next three or four years could be arranged for, it was pretty clear that the junior Dudgeons would cut a figure in the world. Still, there rested everywhere a deep, sullen, unfringed shadow. The despairing mother saw little on the horizon but the figures of destroyers, and heard nothing in the wild night-winds of her sinking heart but the crash of ruined fortune, and the shriek of wild despair.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               IN WHICH THERE IS A MAN WITH A LAUGH.
               THE Thorns was one of the prettiest places in a select neighborhood, quite out of the reach of the pestiferous influences of the festering slumland. It was a neat little house, inclosed in its own grounds, fronted with a spacious, flower-surrounded lawn, and having in the rear a commodious garden. It was a place to call up the covetous disposition of non-conscientious passers-by, and pre-eminently the place for a man whose physical state required the soothing influences of undisturbed repose. Mr. Dudgeon had worked his way from the humblest circumstances to the proprietorship of this elegant abode, and all that it implied, but now there was a frightful possibility of his being flung from the top of the ladder, among the countless thousands who had spent a lifetime in vainly trying to get a foot on the first round. Everybody in the town thought that Mr. Dudgeon would end his days as a pensioner on the national charity, and pine away as another example of the doctrine that those who talk most about conscience, are those who practically ignore its admonitions.
               To the great surprise of the public, Mr. Dudgeon's tongue had not more than a fortnight's holiday, by far the longest period of rest that that well-worked member ever enjoyed; and contrary to general expectation (for general expectation had the man dead and buried long ago) he was able within six months to advise respecting his commercial position. It was happily found that after honorably discharging every obligation there would be enough remaining to warrant their living at the Thorns, economically, though it was imperative that Ben and Emily should be put into some way of supporting ing themselves. In short, the family must be broken up,—the pet-education schemes must be abandoned, and a plunge into the surges of public activity be taken by boy and girl alike. This terrible reality rent the maternal heart. Day and night the thought of separation tormented Mrs. Dudgeon. Her children had been the light of her eyes, the pride of her heart, and the refuge of her every sorrow ever since they had been born; and now, when their charms were multiplying every day, to be compelled to relinquish them was felt to be a lot intolerably bitter. She offered her hands to any service which would enable her to maintain them at home, but the offering was disdained by an inexorable destiny. Prepared or unprepared they must go, and be living fulfilments of the ever-resounding curse "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread." Day by day she contrived to postpone the question of arrangement, as if she felt a melancholy joy in staving off the dread fate even for an hour. Her womanly heart could not but cling to Hope, even when Hope was a corpse. She felt that the Merciful One would surely have mercy upon her—for whatever we may do in the unclouded brightness, we always believe in a particular and personal providence in the hour of master-sorrows—and this feeling caused her to look anxiously into the thickets of her perplexity, if happily a kid might be caught there which she could offer as a vicarious oblation on the altar of an unrelenting Destiny. But no! Mercy seemed to be flying the other way; she could see its departing wings speeding from her vision like a vanishing light, and in the darkness her heart became too sad even to pray. It was in that crisis of agony that relief came,—came as usual from an unexpected quarter: doesn't relief often come from unexpected quarters? Is not the Divine, Unslumbering Watcher of all man's sinuous ways ever more marking the converging circumstances of life, and at the right moment does he not command the revealing beam to flash upon the darkening soul? The solemn voices of all histories, personal and national, unite in a sublime "Verily!" Mrs. Dudgeon's voice introduces no discord into this grand pronouncement. When the great black Fate was just about to stretch its sinewy hand, and grasp the children, Mr. Hargreaves, whom they both knew to be a "kind" man, made his appearance, and that appearance was as the dawn of a long-expected day.
               Mr. Hargreaves was a man who so thoroughly revealed himself in his talk that, if we quote his rough and ready conversation, there will be little need to sketch a formal likeness. Picture to yourself, reader, a man about five-and-forty, rather of the barrel shape, with a voice which blends all the notes of the scale into one sound—associate such a man with the following talk, and you will have no difficulty in realizing Rufus Hargreaves, the prosperous contemporary of Mr. Dudgeon. It ought to be said here that everybody but Hargreaves called Dudgeon, Mr. Dudgeon; it is well-enough known that there are certain men whom everybody calls Mr.—I cannot account for it, but there it is—they are a stiff, measured sort of men—men tied up into neat parcels—men of blacking and starch—men who expect to be mistered, and whose expectations society seems to have agreed to fulfil. But Rufus didn't care for the dictum of society, any more than he cared for the said blacking and starch, and if anybody was offended at his bluntness, the fact never created any disturbance in the Rufus-heart.
               "I'm glad to see you so much better, Dudgeon, for, 'pon my word, I thought you had been shunted off for ever; and now, just to bring things to what I call a business shape, what are ye up to for the future? Let me help ye if I can."
               "Thank you," said Mr. Dudgeon, with considerable abatement of his natural force, "I have always gone upon a conscientious principle myself, and I think that notwithstanding the transitoriness of terrestrial——"
               "Confound me, Dudgeon, if I know what ye are driving at. You know I am a man of one word, and my one word now is how can I help you and your family? Let's hear nothing about terrestrial and them other confounded catechism words."
               "I was just about to observe——"
               "Well, then, look sharp, Dudgeon, and get it observed in two twinks, for this is market day and my horse is standing at the gate."
               "I was just about to remark," Dudgeon continued, "that our hopes are now centred in Emily and Benjamin, or rather I should say Benjamin and Emily, for Adam was first formed, then Eve——"
               "Confound Adam and Eve, for my part I wish neither of 'em had ever been formed; it would have been a precious sight better for me to-day if they'd let me lie i' the dust."
               "O Mr. Hargreaves!" muttered Mrs. Dudgeon. "Jolly old cock!" Ben whispered to Emily, who could hardly form an opinion of this anti-catechism theology.
               Mrs. Dudgeon began to rummage among all the old magazines and newspapers, as she was accustomed to do when expecting any thing particularly solemn from her husband.
               "Mr. Hargreaves," said the elder Dudgeon, in his most solemn solemnity, "I must confess that when I hear you using language so evidently and awfully profane, my mental faculties and moral sentiments are so thoroughly disconcerted and——"
               "Come, come, Dudgeon," Hargreaves broke in, "I see your tongue hasn't had the 'plexy, for, by jingo, if you were a parson it wouldn't do to have hot dinners on a Sunday, unless they wasn't to be ready till twelve o'clock at night. You would talk anybody blind and deaf and dumb. I never heard such a tongue. You should use shorter sentences, man, and then people would know what you are driving at." Dudgeon was about to enter into the "nevertheless" region, but Hargreaves proceeded: "Now hold your peace till I tell you what we have been talking about at our house—and I want you all to listen; listen, Mrs. Dudgeon, and listen you, young 'uns." (Dudgeon didn't quite see the propriety of the arrangement, but Hargreaves' stentorian voice overpowered him again.) "You know that I have been twice married, at all events if you don't know it, I do, and I have a right to know; however, its no good going into that business now; well, I have a little family, and my wench wants your Emily to come and teach them all the fine things you've beep a-cramming into her ever sin' she was born. You know my wife is fond of what she calls 'good society,' and, 'tween you and me, I think she doesn't consider me quite her equal in the fine arts, so she wants Emily to live with us; well, then, I want Ben to come into our counting-house and be with Octy, who is now getting a big chap, and who hasn't yet, poor fellow, got over his mother's death; and for the lot, Dudgeon—now look at me and be thankful for your luck—I'll give them board, lodging, and a hundred a year; there, old Dudgeon, what think ye o' that? And let me tell you that if I hadn't a great respect for what you call your conscience I shouldn't have mentioned any such ruinous sum; but the fact is, a fellow must have some cash in a queer, ricketty old world like this, which is only a pay-gate to eternity. Give me your hand, my hearty, and say done."
               "Thank God!" Mrs. Dudgeon involuntarily but right fervently exclaimed.
               If a bullet had struck the man of conscience he could hardly have looked more amazed than he did at this expression on the part of Mrs. Dudgeon.
               "My dear!" said he, "I am thrown into a surprise, yea, I may say, a bewilderment, most—most strikingly adapted"—Hargreaves looked at the speaker with an air of distraction—"to rob me of the power, the mental power, of satisfactorily weighing the merits of Mr. Hargreave's unexpected, yes, to say the least of it, unexpected proposal. It ill befits your relation to me to take the initiative, for you very well know that the husband is the head of his own house."
               "O Dudgeon, what a stupid fool you are," said Hargreaves, as he looked out of the window to see that his horse was all right; "there you are lying half alive and half dead, and calling yourself the head of anybody, ha! ha! your wife could snap you into eternity just as she could snap a rotten beanstalk in two. I wish to goodness you had my wife for a month, she would scald your tongue and fling the catechism at your head—ha! ha! ha!" And Hardgreaves kept shaking himself with laughter until his cheeks were wet with emotion.
               This slashing talk suited Ben amazingly, and his triumph over the man of conscience could be but ill concealed. Never till that morning had he seen the man who had courage to put the lecturer into his proper place. As for fat Mr. Tweddle, he was of no more use than a child in the matter of curbing the tongue of his master; but now the conqueror had appeared, and Ben looked at his mother with eyes which said: "Hargreaves has the key of our prison-door, and we'll all soon be at liberty."
               Mr. Dudgeon took no special notice of the terms in which Mr. Hargreaves had last expressed his opinion, but at once addressed himself to the main question.
               "Well, Mr. Hargreaves," said he, "as I am no longer able to prosecute the moral training of my children, and as your characteristic benevolence has led you to make what I, can not but consider a very munificent proposal, I shall now accept your terms, and shall indulge the hope that my anxiety to develop the conscience of my children will be rewarded by their uniform uprightness and unsullied purity."
               The reader should have seen Hargreaves during the infliction of this speech. He looked first at Mrs. Dudgeon and then at the children, then at the lecturer, and expressed in his countenance the most unfeigned compassion for those who had been doomed from their birth to be fretted and rasped by that provoking tongue. Never in his life had he been so confounded. Never did he know a man make so many ceremonious bowings and scrapings before accepting a blessing; as for himself, he had been in the habit of snatching at any thing like a good bargain, and asking as few questions about its history as possible, so that the fact of any man proceeding in a round-about way to lay his hand upon a singing-bird that could have been caged in a moment, was exactly suited to unseal his fountain of commiseration. He couldn't, this time, interrupt the man of conscience. He was under the spell of curiosity just to see how this affair would end. At length, when the final sound had died away, he said:
               "I do heartily trust, Dudgeon, that they haven't inherited your endless tongue; let me tell you that if they have, they won't suit the Hargreaves, for it's cock and fire with them, and they bag their game in a flash. It's well known that you are an everlasting talker, and that makes me wonder how you got on so well in business as you did."
               That reference touched a well-worn key, and brought out the usual note.
               "Ah! Mr. Hargreaves," the man of conscience answered, "my life has been grounded upon, and governed by, principles which are, indeed, mysterious; that is to say, have been incomprehensible to men of a certain class; but, throughout the whole of my mercantile career, I have been governed by three or four mottoes——."
               "Confusion to your 'mottoes,'" said Hargreaves; "I never had any mottoes, and there's not a man in our town who can put me behind him when there is any stroke of business to be done,—and what's more, look you, Dudgeon, I can turn Ben out a clever business fellow," and to prove this he caught Ben a smart slap on the near shoulder, and looked at him as a gambler would look on a promising young horse.
               This bold declaration, which Mrs. Dudgeon saw no reason to doubt, filled Ben's soul with delight. In a moment the threatening clouds vanished—not a mountain rose before him in towering defiance, not a river intercepted his path—there was nothing but a clear and flowery way to the shining temple in which the joy-goddess receives her votaries and distributes her gifts. And as his prospects brightened his generosity rose to the surface and encumbered itself with innumerable pledges; for example, he would amass wealth, have a house of his own, deliver his mother from uxorial bondage, give Emily an opportunity of indulging her special tastes, bribe dull care, buy off the sword of calamity, and make the most satisfactory covenant with every foe of human bliss. Rapidly as the flight of lightning did Ben's newly-inspired fancy wing its course through the sunny future, and he came back flushed with many triumphs and eloquent in praise of the coming time. But, oh! how slowly did the pendulum-pulse throb! Inspiration, it may be supposed, is impatient of details,—it frets at moments, and sports with ages,—it speeds through processes, and lingers fondly in the contemplation of results. Whether this is true or fictitious inspiration my pen will not say; suffice it that this was the inspiration which caught our youthful hero and struck up the fires in his far future. But the present was to be looked at, and treated with;—how could that best be done? "Now," is a hard creditor, and its determined touch brought Ben to his senses in a manner which showed that inspiration does not drive out all the devils from a man's heart in a moment. What I mean will appear presently. Hargreaves was looking with some impatience for an answer, and tried to relieve himself by saying, "Now, Emily, pack up and be off to the Holly, they will be glad to see you; and Ben, my boy, come with me and strike your first blow to-day," when Mr. Dudgeon felt impelled to deliver a valedictory discourse:—
               "And now, children, before leaving the paternal roof—in all human probability forever—you will, no doubt, expect me to say something"—(here, Dudgeon struck the nail flat on the head, for it was just what they did expect)—"on the subject: remember the power and the dignity of conscience; always have conscience on your side; that is to say, always be able to indulge the habit of self-introversion without any fear of being terrified at the disclosures of recollection; remember the sensitiveness of conscience; it is a wise monitor; follow all its admonitions and you will never go far from the pathway of exaltation and honor."
               "I like conscience, papa, very much," said Ben, significantly closing the eye which was nearest his mother, and looking with any thing but pious reverence at his father with the other.
               "I rejoice, Benjamin,—I feel a sweet satisfaction,—you quite enkindle a father's hopes."
               "But, pa," Ben continued, clearly under the dominion of an evil genius, "wont it be very awkward for me not to have a watch now? You see I shall be making appointments with various people, and you have touched up my conscience so thoroughly that I should be ready to commit suicide if I was a quarter of a second behind time in any engagement—perhaps you wouldn't mind letting me have your gold watch;"—here, justice inflicts upon me the pain of adding that Ben winked again in the most wicked manner.
               Never did tactician more perfectly succeed. Ben mounted the old man's vanity, and rode forth as a plumed conqueror. Under other circumstances the acute lecturer would have expatiated, as was his habit, upon the impropriety of submitting a leading inquiry—(that is an inquiry which is both a question and an answer)—to the consideration of a father's judgment; but the dust was in the old man's eyes,—the favorite subject was in the ascendency—the well-ridden hobby was bridled and saddled, and the rider was cutting many a caper,—yes, we conquer men by patting their sleek hobbies,—so the generous veteran delivered himself with unction and delight:—
               "My boy, I see that my system of training has produced precisely the results which all along, through many a tedious hour, I felt sure would certainly be realized;—I feel repaid, yea, more than repaid for all my exertions in the development of your moral faculties; and, now,"—slowly drawing his watch from his trowsers-pocket—(he had an ineradicable conviction that a watch located any where else was exposed to many contingencies)—"this watch is no longer mine, but yours, and I do hope, yea, and I believe, that you will ever look at it with a conscientious eye."
               "I shall," was Ben's brief reply, and, as he completed the transaction by depositing the watch in his vest pocket, he locked up the aforesaid eye in a most decided wink, and with the other conducted a special examination of one side of his nose,—a habit which has given some coloring of truth to the vulgar proverb that "actions speak louder than words."
               Hargreaves was mightily pleased with Ben's adroitness, and when old Mr. Dudgeon left the room for a moment—(erroneously supposed to dry his eyes)—the merchant shook Ben's hand with rough congratulation, and told his mother that such a sharp lad would certainly make a bright man of business. Rufus was himself a keen covenanter, by which it is not to be understood that Claverhouse would have accounted him good game, but that in business he tied up his bargains in double knots, and always left a customer where he could find him again. Rufus was no scholar, certainly; his attainments in grammar being so scanty that whenever he got a little excited he dismissed the nine parts of speech and took heartily to the vernacular dialect; and as in grammar, so in morals, for there were moods in which he treated the ten commandments just as he treated the nine parts of speech; in fact, he never kept his ethical gates locked, but left his soul open to all kinds of depredators. Besides this, Rufus had a laugh; yes, a laugh,—I don't know how to put the idea better, but I mean that as a man might have a pug-nose, or a club-foot, or a cross-eye, so Rufus Hargreaves had a laugh. It was a shrill, ringing, hollow, spectral laugh: a laugh that came just when Rufus wanted it to come,—he laughed when nobody could tell what he was laughing at, just as though he was talking to some invisible companion whose lips never opened but to utter some word of wit. And this laugh was a profitable kind of disease. While he indulged it he was always considering what he could say next: it kept him out of many a fix by keeping him out of a good deal of extemporaneous speech,—when the difficulty came, he went off into his usual exercise; and when the answer was forged, he put an end to the engagement; and in this way his serviceable laugh blew him round many a corner and over many a gulf. And then, too, he laughed at the most unlikely times; for example, when a poor debtor went into the sweating-room, Rufus would call up this said spectral laugh, which tended greatly to perplex the unfortunate customer by giving him the idea that Rufus was in a splendid humor, and wouldn't care to put his pen through an account which had been troublesome to the trembling debtor. But this was a delusion only born to be dispelled. The laugh died away when the purpose was settled, and was quickly succeeded by the command which consigned an unresponding debtor into hopeless misery. If, on the other hand, the debtor could make out any thing like a promising case, the laugh was not unlikely to be regarded as a proof of the creditor's bonhomie and general magnanimity under trying circumstances. In this way Rufus made a capital thing of his disease. It procured him the reputation of being a most genial tempered neighbor, and won him a world of friends among the juvenile population. "He is such a kind man!" the young people and the old maids used to say, "so very kind, you never meet him without hearing his ringing, merry laugh." This disease was well matched by another, viz.: an incurable habit of asking every man, altogether independent of age, how his father and mother were. The moment Rufus was introduced to a stranger he uttered his laugh, and said, "Glad to see you, sir; and how is your father and mother?" Many a time the wondering stranger answered that his father and mother had been dead many years, but Rufus benevolently persisted in putting the usual question notwithstanding the many humbling rebukes which were administered to him.
               Such is one side of the character of the man who called that memorable morning on the senior Dudgeons, and left his horse at the garden-gate while he made a bargain for the junior Dudgeons. He was a sharp fellow, was Rufus Hargreaves,—a man who never fished without baiting his hooks liberally,—a man who never expected to put the sickle where he hadn't put the plow,—in short, a man with two keen eyes, a man with two nimble hands, a man of full blood, and above all—a man with a laugh.
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               MORALISES.
               IN a short time—how short, Mrs. Dudgeon alone felt—the father and mother were left alone, their two children having started on the highway of life. Their absence made the desolation more desolate. Had they been buried, their home could hardly have assumed a more desperately cheerless aspect. The very silence was dumb,—not the silence of the hushed summer-day when the very wings of bee and butterfly make a kind of delicious music,—but the silence of unbreathing, unmoving death. Now, before leaving the Thorns, can the reader be persuaded to tarry a while, and consider the secret of the unhappiness which blasted that home, for which nature and art had done so much? It is but a common-place secret, yet he is a wealthy man who treasures it, and profits by it. Reader! don't blame me for imprudence, or condemn me on the score of scanty observation, when I say that the very same secret withers the vitals of four-fifths of the home-life of England. The home-life of England is not what it appears to be. We live by cheating each other, and even by cheating ourselves. We make our cheeks and voices do a large sham-business. We make a smile bar off the world from the misery of our melancholy hearts. What these words mean the observant reader knows too well. Just look at the Dudgeons; at one time they were familiar with the charms and luxuries of life, yet were total strangers to the richer, the diviner luxuries of peace, contentment, and joy. And why? Wherefore? Mr. Dudgeon was in many respects a very admirable man. He was firm, industrious, and upright. So eminent were his virtues that in the mercantile world his word was considered his bond, and his attestation concerning any business-scheme was generally considered decisive as to the value of the principle on which it was founded, however inefficiently that principle might be worked out. Yet along with this there was a lofty self-consciousness which dominated in every phase of his character. Every day his inferiors and his equals were alike shocked and disgusted by the presence of an outrageous self-assertion—a sickening self-composure and self-conceit. Whatever the subject might be, Mr. Dudgeon knew infinitely better than anybody else just where it began, and precisely where it ended, with all the intermediate ramifications; and in countless instances, people willingly permitted him to steal a cheap triumph rather than be pestered with the far-winding illustrations, definitions, and applications which he always had on hand. Some most unaccountable mistake had surely been made in his organization, otherwise it couldn't have happened that he should invariably have differed with everybody, and differed with them, too, in the hopeless endeavor to render their obtuse minds, or depraved morals, some substantial service. Nothing, indeed, could be farther from Mr. Dudgeon's intention than this unhappy alienation, but circumstances so cruelly conspired as never to permit him to enter on garrison-service,—he must be out on the open field, thriving in the hot atmosphere of never-ceasing strife, and resolutely maintaining the dishonored claims of Conscience and Accuracy. Dudgeon lived in exactness, and never believed in any eyes or any judgment but his own. His gift at contradiction was positively unsurpassed; it was a genuinely flat contradiction which he indulged, altogether unmodified, oil-less, and blank as a jail wall. Let an unlucky acquaintance, who wished to make himself agreeable by introducing a topic of conversation, point out what he considered a defect in a picture, a blemish in a character, or a nuisance in a neighborhood, and in a moment, without note of apology, or dimmest sign of fallibility, the litigious and cantankerous Dudgeon would emphatically declare that the said defect, blemish, or nuisance, was the one determining and indispensable excellence of the picture, character, or neighborhood, in question. If the acquaintance ventured to adduce what he imagined were sufficient cient grounds for the maintenance of his opinion, Dudgeon was chafed into a red-hot passion, and quoted so profusely from the fifty thick volumes of his encyclopædic experience, and interspersed the quotations with such a profusion of elucidatory matter, that by the time he was done the unlucky acquaintance had utterly forgotten the precise point in dispute, and in fact so had Dudgeon, who not unfrequently so entangled himself in the net-work of illustration as to become secretly glad of any unexpected change in the subject of conversation. Woe to the man, however, who hinted at such a humiliating circumstance, and equal woe to the man who ventured to interrupt one of Dudgeon's expository harangues, either by way of explanation, correction, opposition, or any other way to which an exasperated mortal might betake himself. Such an event never failed to supply Dudgeon with an opportunity of dilating upon the courtesies of life, rehearsing the laws of polite society, expatiating on the evils of rudeness, and dwelling with cleaving emphasis on the purity of his own example. It was in vain—in vain—to attempt to point out that but for the clemency of the said courtesies he might at any moment be apprehended, tried, convicted, hanged, and buried, for a flagrant violation of every rule which civilization and refinement have established or sanctioned; you could never get him to believe that, and certainly he would never consent to be hanged for a reason which his faith so utterly and indignantly repudiated. This habit of contradiction became in due time so well-known that when his friends wished him to do anything to which they knew he was a little averse, they endeavored so to arrange the mode of attack as to throw out some cautious intimation of their belief that he really dare not do it—"Yes," they would say, "it is more than we ought to expect even from a man of your courage, Mr. Dudgeon." If they could gracefully sweep round to this point their assault was sure to be triumphant: at once Dudgeon summoned his reserved courage, and set the bellows to work on the fading embers of his heroism—at once he sounded the war-whistle, and declared with a fulness of speech that would supply material enough for a comprehensive dictionary, that he would rather stand all the days of his life than sit down on the stool of defeat.
               The story has gone far enough already to assure the reader that Mr. Dudgeon was just as demonstrative in his singular characteristics in the home-circle as in the walks of outside-life. His children, while yet very young, never dare approach him with anything like familiarity, living as they did in continual dread of a critical lecture upon their dress, their speech, or their expression of countenance. Gladly would they have prevented the clock from ever striking six, for after that hour had uttered its voice the well-known footstep was expected, and their everything like joy quitted the premises—music held its enchanting tongue—and hope shut her sunny eyes. They couldn't live in the blaze of such resplendent conscientiousness, but prudently retired until the dazzling orb shone on the murky sphere of commercial life. Young people, it is generally known, occasionally forget the presence of dignities, and our Benjamin was singularly prone to indulge this criminal obliviousness; but if for a moment he ventured to whistle the first two bars of a favorite tune he was doomed to instantaneous crucifixion—the crucifixion of listening to a hundred-headed lecture on the vulgarity of whistling, that, in the judgment of Mr. Dudgeon, being the most disagreeable of all manifestations of a talent for music;—and if Emily, who, of course, never whistled (whistling being a noun of the masculine gender, though the grammarians have ignorantly omitted to mark it as such) ventured to begin a piece which was not strictly in accordance with the catechism, the gripe of the ethical pincers at once disabled her fingers for further service on the piano. Under such circumstances the reader can quite understand how that when business called pa' from home for a week, the black-winged demon of despair got notice to quit, and that many a snug little party was held during the absence of the household Conscience. That was the time for sounding the thrilling blast of the trump of jubilee, and installing Joy on her long-abandoned and most insecure throne. That was the glad season of respite from all kinds of drudgery—that the brief reign of jovial freedom. And yet the mirth was not unseldom mingled with quaking fear: an unusual noise at the garden-gate struck the whole family dumb with terror, for the Conscience might be unexpectedly returning, and if so, his return would be more dreadful than the cry of "fire!" at midnight. Then, too, an oath of secrecy had to be taken all round; the young merry thoughtshad to bind their parents to sealed stillness, so that the Conscience might enjoy all the repose of ignorance, and another chance of mutual hilarification might gladden the heart like a treasured prophecy. Thus the order of nature was inverted. The divinest instincts of manhood were crushed. The holiest voices of the heart were stifled. The tenderest bonds were snapped. Sworn to uphold Conscience, Mr. Dudgeon forgot the claims of love,—a devotee to honor, he ignored the charms of sympathy,—an idolater at the shrine of Right, his perverse incense fell downward to the altar of Wrong. The face that should have shone as an illuminating, controlling, and enlivening sun in the domestic firmament, became a dismal tower in which dwelt a sullen, sharp-eyed tenant who was ever on the outlook for all kinds of suspicious characters. From the word "Father" every charm had vanished, and that sacred word—a word which binds all generations, and which shall be unforgotten in the skies—degenerated, blackened, festered, into the word "tyrant," and shrivelled into a dreary symbol of vassalage and living death.
               Mrs. Dudgeon, as the reader has been told, was, in many respects, the exact opposite of her husband in every thing; when let alone, she was as easy-going a woman as ever took part in family government—so easy-going, in fact, as to be at times sleepy-headed. As to household management she was about as ignorant as Cæsar, the big dog in the yard, for her mamma had taken the greatest pains to prevent her from acquiring the fine arts of cooking, washing, bed-making, and darning, and been sedulously careful that her child should graduate with honors in the school of elegant laziness. As a natural consequence, her servants soon learned to neglect and despise her, and it became perfectly well known in the neighborhood, that in times of ill-temper they didn't scruple to tell her that she had a much better idea of eating a dinner than of cooking one. They soon saw how thoroughly the home-government was disorganized, and not unnaturally took advantage of that circumstance to promote the comfort and luxury of the kitchen department. And what was the easy woman's principal defect? Why it was simply a want of tact. What is it, after all, that does the chief part of the business of life? Is it genius, technically and inexplicably so called? Is it talent? Is it erudition? Is it not rather, tact? It is, truly. Tact has been described, but never worthily defined; how can such a trim, compact, natty little word be defined? Impossible! Tact is nimble-fingered and quick-footed—tact has eyes that are perfectly independent of the optician's art—tact has always an abundance of small change at command—tact carries no heavy weapons, but can do wonders with a sling and stone—tact knows where the corners are and how to turn them—tact always spies a sycamore tree up which to run when things on the crowded earth are difficult of management—tact is master of the nod, the smile, the wave of the supple hand—tact carries a bunch of curiously-fashioned keys, and surprises many a cunningly-warded lock into a full confession of its secrets—tact plants its monosyllables wisely, for being a monosyllable itself it marshals its own order with the familiarity of friendship;—aye, tact, sly, versatile, diving, running, flying tact, governs the great world after all, and yet touches the orbicular baby so gently as to make it regard the sceptre as a stick of barley-sugar. But Mrs. Dudgeon had no barley-sugar sceptre; in a word, she had no tact. It must, in mercy, be confessed that no ordinary tact would have been required to manage with entire success her most angular husband. If, however, she had studied him a little more—if her opposition had been a little less sullen and direct—if she had patted his whims, and rocked a few of his pet fancies—if she had taken a little here and given a little there—in a word, if she had done the thousand and one smart things which a woman is born to do, she might have achieved a position which would have enabled her to govern her husband without her husband knowing it. That's the golden secret of true government! Our masters must be invisible; our controlling forces must be beyond the rude finger's inquisitive touch; our master, reader, is either God or the devil, and does either come within the sphere of sight? And so all through life men submit most loyally to a mastership which is shrouded in mystery. To control any man so delicately, so wisely, so thoroughly, as to make him the servant of your will, without humbling him in his own estimation, (for no man will forgive you for proving that he is two inches shorter than he had imagined himself to be) is the very perfection of sovereignty. This is precisely how wives should rule their husbands—not by the arts of a selfish diplomacy, but by the witchery of a wise affection. Here it was that easy-going Mrs. Dudgeon failed, and her failure had much to do with the unhappiness of the family, who instead of finding a home found only a house at The Thorns. The father and mother worked from different centres and into different directions. The conscientious Mr. Dudgeon would leave a whole volume of instructions in the morning before going to business, and the careless Mrs. Dudgeon would take especial pains to prevent the volume being bound. The conscientious father lifted his index finger to mark out the course of duty, and the careless mother lifted her index finger to point out the course of pleasure. True enough, they never should have been married, for as Mrs. Dudgeon often declared, with a most bitter emphasis, there was "no sympathy" between them; but there is the obstinate fact before us that they were married, so that we are not summoned to the discussion of a theory, but to the solution of a problem; the à  priori might be settled in a school of infants, but the à  posteriori is too hard a nut for the teeth of sages. The question for the wife to consider was, what is the best thing to be done with a crooked and gnarled husband? To turn sullen because he could not be brought up to the perfection-pinnacle, was the sublimest folly; and to make nothing of him because she could not make every thing of him, was precisely the same thing. Nothing could be plainer than that the proud Mr. Dudgeon could not be regeneratively affected in the upper region—his head towered too far aloft to be dressed by any moral barber; but tact would have got at that aspiring head by a round-about method; its sappers and miners (as the gnats of summer for multitude) would have circumvented the man of angles, and at the moment which circumstances declared to be the crisis would have delivered the stroke which would have insured for Conscience, Propriety, and Catechism the certainty of a horizontal position in society.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               REFINEMENT AND DISCRIMINATION.
               WE must now make free with time. How many months had elapsed we can not tarry to calculate, but the number must have been considerable, or the events which we are now about to relate could hardly have transpired. For a long period, then, affairs at the Holly had worn the brightest possible aspect, so far as the junior Dudgeons were concerned. Day by day appeared to increase the mutual gratifications of old and young, and to confirm the prudence and desirableness of the arrangement under which they lived. Mrs. Hargreaves had been the principal of a boarding-school in the west of England, and prided herself in possessing the attributes of a perfect lady. So fastidious was she in the matter of receiving compliments that she uniformly refused all flattery which failed to assure her that she was every inch a lady; whoever, therefore, could so regulate his conscience as to permit him to make a plentiful confession on this head, was sure of a hearty reception into her good graces. "To be a LADY!" that was the ultimate point in Mrs. Hargreaves' ambition, and any thing short of that was a failure too awful to contemplate. Justice compels the acknowledgment that she was exceedingly prim and neat, had exquisite taste in the handling of her knife and fork, and could remark (in their absence) upon the conduct of her visitors, in the matter of etiquette, with great smartness and severity. The same inexorable justice demands the confession that she was not altogether unmarked by faults which the most liberal morality would regard as serious; in illustration of this it is only necessary to state (and in the first instance we prefer to do so negatively) that she was no teetotaler. Her taste in the matter of alcohol was quite as exquisite as her taste in the handling of her knife and fork, and to such a pitch of refinement did she carry this said spirituous taste that she was frequently found in her bed-room, even in a morning, with brandy and water before her, looking into a mirror and complacently nodding and smiling at her own image, saying: "Your health, Mrs. Hargreaves—your very good health, ma'am." And while she carried the taste to this pitch, the taste carried her to another pitch quite as conspicuous and quite as dangerous, occasionally arousing her passions to madness, and causing her to spread terror and desolation throughout the entire household. In these seasons of frenzy Mr. Hargreaves was glad to restrain his laugh, and to pour his bad grammar in a direction exactly the contrary to that in which his delirious wife had gone. She knew the grammar! She tyrannized over mal-declensions and mal-conjugations, and with a scourge of scorpions she chastised her husband's most perverse and rebellious syntax. She could, too, be the politest and sweetest creature upon earth, a perfect master of all graceful attitudes, and thoroughly proficient in the use of the fattest and oiliest compliments. In short, I can not state it better than by repeating that she was a woman of "taste," it being always understood that "taste" is a noun of multitude, and a noun of amphibious habits. Had you seen her in the garden, sometimes, an hour before dinner, and heard her inquiring about the horticultural arrangements, with an intelligence that quite put the old gardener's botany to rout—had you heard her making running comments on the leading articles of the provincial press—had you heard her making her remarks on all kinds of subjects when she made a morning call upon her neighbor, Mrs. Whoselcumtouch—had you seen how she threw the draper's assistants into perspiration, and the draper himself into despair, by the exquisiteness and fastidiousness of her high-born taste—had you been privileged to hear her communications to the dressmaker—(who always took a new pencil and a sheet of foolscap with her when she went to the Holly) you would have wondered, as all the neighbors did, how a woman of such dazzling super-refinement could have so far resigned herself to the will of an inscrutable providence as to have assumed the name of the uncouth, ill-mannered, and most ungrammatical Hargreaves. In fact this was the problem, reserved for the time of candlelight, which all the villagers felt themselves utterly at a loss to solve. Mrs. Pityblack gave it as her opinion that Mrs. Hargreaves ought to be looked upon in the light of a missionary whose heart has been thrilled with compassion for the benighted barbarian, while Mrs. Earthyearth set against this opinion her decided judgment that she was no missionary, but a lover of that dirty rascal whom even such a good book as the Bible calls "FILTHY LUCRE." Now, where opinions differ so widely, it will be safe for the reader to reserve his own conclusions, remembering that "ear" is a noun in the plural number, and that to prefer one ear before another is a most disgraceful act of partiality and favoritism.
               Emily made a decided conquest on her mistress. Her beauty, gentleness, and candor elicited the amplest commendation of that lady, more especially when there was no one to present to her the compliments except Emily herself. And besides these charms of beauty, gentleness, and candor, there was another quite as captivating to Mrs. Hargreaves; that is to say, Emily was a model listener. She had, poor child, been well drilled in the art of listening, and therefore felt it to be no ruinous hardship to place her ears at the service of her gifted mistress. In this respect, as in most others, the arrangement was all that could be desired, for Tongue is the predestinated lover of Ear, and Ear herself has some notion that she was fore-ordained to occupy what may be termed a receptive position in society.—As for Benjamin, it must be said that, in spite of his conscientious education, he was an adept in the use of salve, and as he assured Mrs. Hargreaves, on every fitting opportunity, that, in his opinion, "she was a gem of a lady," he sat down in her heart's chief place, and exerted a dominating influence on the arrangements of her life. Not that she confessed this, at least for a long time, yet day by day it became clear that Ben and his fancies were among the chief objects of her delight. And to a certain extent the fact was beneficial to her, especially in the matter of partially breaking in upon her bondage to brandy. She looked upon Hargreaves much as she would look upon a superseded wardrobe; and why she did so it now becomes our duty to declare. First of all, it must be carefully borne in mind that Mrs. Hargreaves prided herself upon being singularly gifted in the power of discriminating human character. This was her forte. She could see through all the folds, bandages, wrappings, and decorations of conventionalism; she went, she said, to the very core of things, and took a range of observation infinitely vaster than that which is swept by minds of a commonplace order. If there was one word in the English language which she hated more than another it was the harmless word—"surface." She omitted no opportunity of taking vengeance on that unhappy vocable; and as for "superficial," which she imagined to be its ill-fed, skin-and-bone brother, she shook her clenched hand in its face with a desperation which would have jeopardized the beauty of any egg-shell on earth. She could never understand, she declared almost daily, how people could make any mistakes on the subject of character; and nothing pained her more, she pathetically assured Emily at least a thousand times, than the lamentable want of penetration and discrimination on the part of the world in general. For herself she never needed more than about five minutes to read any character through and through, and make no end of cutting criticisms on the margin, such as "fool," "donkey," "stoopid," and "drole;" and what is more astounding still, (of course I write on her authority, and not on my own) she never had occasion, in any solitary instance, to revise or modify her first impressions. Altogether, she modestly laid claim to all the principal items which go to make up the sum total of human perfection, and appeared to be in happy ignorance of the trifling fact that in marrying Hargreaves her penetration must, of course only momentarily, have been struck stone-blind. However, that is neither here nor there, for all extravagant talkers occasionally run themselves into the most pitiable absurdities, and illustrate their own follies by living examples. Somewhere there must be a long classical word by which this disease is known among the learned, but at present it has escaped my attention.
               "I think, my dear," said Mrs. Hargreaves, in her most benignant manner, as if sudden sunshine had fallen upon her, "that Benjamin is a very superior and most agreeable young man. I feel quite as if he were my own brother.
               "O ma'am," Emily joyfully responded, "I am delighted that Ben has succeeded in making a good impression upon your mind;—you have now known him a long time——"
               Emily was proceeding to show that Mrs. Hargreaves's judgment had not been hastily and rashly formed, but was interrupted—
               "My dear Emily, don't suppose that I have been all this time in forming my opinion of Benjamin, for you must have noticed that my opinions are formed at once, and that I look much more deeply into things than many people,—and—and—I flatter myself (and, indeed, it is no flattery after all) that I know a gem when I see one."
               Mrs. Hargreaves paused for a word of confirmation, but Emily gave merely a smiling nod which might be read two ways, but, of course, a woman of Mrs. Hargreaves's penetration knew exactly how to settle the conflicting interpretations.
               "Now, between ourselves," continued the Mistress, "there's Mr. Hargreaves—you cannot have been so long in this house without noticing what sort of person he is, and I assure you in perfect confidence that the texture of his mind—you apprehend my meaning?—is not exactly to my taste, but circumstances——"
               Mrs. Hargreaves here paused as if considering which of two ways to take, but as she had chosen a most awkward word to stop at, Emily hastened to divert the course—
               "But I think there's something very likeable about Mr. Hargreaves," she said.
               "True enough, dear, there undoubtedly is, especially to a certain class of mind," (this was cruel, but poor Emily was not unused to insult, more or less open) "but you don't quite see the point of my observation; I refer to the texture of his mind, and I say there is a great—what shall I say?—between his mind and my own."
               "But is it fair, ma'am," Emily suggested, and not unpleasantly, "to compare two such minds? Look at your liberal and refined education, Mrs. Hargreaves—look at all the advantages connected with the position you have occupied; and then, besides, there may be an inferiority in the amount of mind which Mr. Hargreaves had to begin with, and of course, he is not to blame for that."
               Mrs. Hargreaves looked at these points, not without an air of satisfaction, but still felt that Emily had misapprehended the point of her criticism, that point not being so much in the word "mind," as in the word "texture," and this induced the reply—
               "Yes, dear; but in addition to his mental inferiority which may, perhaps, be regarded as constitutional, or probably hereditary (but I know next to nothing of his ancestry, in fact I question whether his forerunners are worthy of such a name as ancestry) there is a certain coarseness in his whole manner, which I am sure, Emily, you must have observed——"
               "I assure you it hasn't particularly struck me, ma'am."
               Mrs. Hargreaves was slightly, not nettled, but prickled, at this reply, and smartly answered—"But whether you have observed it or not there it is, and you are aware that I am a judge of that."
               "Certainly," Emily said; for she would sign almost any number of articles rather than fight.
               "Now just see how he acts at table,—that will show you exactly what I mean—there was, only so far back as last Sunday—" (the Hargreaves always construed the fourth commandment so liberally as to get from it the idea that a dinner-party on any other day but Sunday would be quite irreligious)—"when Mr. Jenkins was here, and our other friends,—that man Jenkins, I must say, and I think you'll agree with me, is a most outrageous eater, quite a glutton I call him, and as for holding his knife and fork—good gracious!—well, just see how Mr. Hargreaves heaped up his plate with all kinds of things, and kept saying all the time that he had 'eaten nothing,' and even when Jenkins said he was satisfied (and he doesn't say that in a hurry or by mistake), Mr. Hargreaves would have it that he had made a very poor dinner, and that he was sure Jenkins didn't like what had been provided,—now, that's the sort of thing which I consider so much opposed to gentlemanly propriety and gentlemanly conduct in general."
               "But isn't it kindness, ma'am?" Emily said inquiringly, "I am sure Mr. Hargreaves has the very best intention."
               "Dear Emily, you don't at all apprehend my meaning; I'm sure Benjamin would have seen it at once—good intention, you know, is one thing, and good behavior is quite another; you are aware that I am in the habit of making exact distinctions, and that I have what may be termed a metaphysical turn of mind, at least my younger sisters always said so, and more competent judges in such a matter I certainly never met."
               Emily was no doubt amply satisfied with this quotation of authority, but she and her metaphysical mistress were reasoning from different points of observation: the metaphysical mistress was conducting the attack from the elevated ground of refined taste, and Emily conducted the defence on the most solid ground of genial heartedness. The spirit yearns more for that of which it has had least: Emily had had education enough of a certain kind, the kind namely which polishes the outside as one would polish a mirror or a door-plate, but had had little or none of the education which busies itself with the capabilities or the dispositions of the heart. It was, therefore, most natural for her to say—
               "Well, ma'am, of course, I must defer to your judgment, but at the same time I must confess that Mr. Hargreaves always struck me as being a most kind-hearted man,—thoroughly kind-hearted."
               This was intolerable to Mrs. Hargreaves, but some unconfessed influence restrained her passion—
               "Dear Emily" (whenever Mrs. Hargreaves used this form of expression, there is reason to believe that she secretly intended the epithet, not for the sister, but for the brother), "Dear Emily, you talk of kindness as if that were everything instead of only one thing, but even on that ground let me urge you to look at the facts of the case: don't you know how very anxious I have been for a long time to leave this house?"
               "Yes, ma'am."
               "Well, let me assure you I have asked Mr. Hargreaves times without number, to take that nice family-mansion in Skulford which I pointed out the other day in our drive, and you don't know—in fact you cannot conceive—how stoopidly he has acted in the matter—now I put it to you if you can call that 'kindness'?"
               Emily disliked a leading question quite as much as her father did, and therefore she parried the attack with some expertness—
               "I think," said she, "that Mr. Hargreaves is very much attached to the Holly; wasn't he born here, ma'am?"
               "But Emily—Emily—what sense is there in such talk? I'm sure Benjamin wouldn't talk so; what in the name of reason, does it matter where he was born? He knows well enough that I wasn't born here; and what's more I don't mean to die here either."
               Here, then, was a case of direct antagonism. Husband and wife asserting their respective determinations! What could an inexperienced girl like Emily do in circumstances so embarrassing? Her memory was, of course, well stored with great principles bearing upon all the casuistries which attach to the working out of the marriage-contract, and to those principles she now reverted, in the hope of finding something that would meet the exigency of the moment. Had her father been present he would have melted into thankfulness as his conscientious daughter took down a weapon which he himself had so long and so (un)successfully wielded in the battle-field of his own home—
               "Are not husbands the head of their wives?" said Emily, and in saying so she felt that she was putting her foot on a stone which had helped many a traveller through the puddle;—but alas! hear the answer—
               
               "I should think not, indeed! Why, Emily, wherever have you been to get such a stoopid and unreasonable doctrine into your head?"
               "I've always heard so," Emily answered, and in making this reply she didn't at all transgress the limits of fact.
               "And I've always heard the contrary," said Mrs. Hargreaves, "and certainly, in the matter of taking a house, the wife must know more than the husband. O, Emily, you mustn't teach my daughters any such nonsensical doctrine as that—no, good gracious, not for the world."
               Emily smiled at the unexpected limitation of her duties, and good-humoredly replied:
               "You will kindly excuse me offering the remark, Mrs. Hargraves, for of course I am unskilled in these things—am I not?"
               "You are 'unskilled,' indeed, if you think the man is the head of the woman; he may be her head so far as protection and support are concerned, but the headship undoubtedly ends there. Everybody knows that the man wasn't complete till the woman was formed, and if you know as much about the catechism as you say you do, I should think you must know that the last thing that would be finished would be the head; I should say that stands to reason."
               This architectural manner of looking at the successive human formations was evidently novel to the maiden, and put her power of reply to a great disadvantage, a circumstance which she could hardly be said to regret, as it permitted Mrs. Hargreaves to feast on her favorite viand, triumph, and specially because it gave her an opportunity of making a remote allusion to a matter which always increased the velocity of her pulsations. The reader hasn't forgotten that at the Holly there is a young man, and must naturally expect that his existence will not be without its appropriate influence on the family life.
               "Excuse me changing the subject a little, ma'am," Emily said, "but now that we are speaking about Mr. Hargreaves, don't you think that there is a strong resemblance, in feature, between him and Mr. Octavius?"
               "My dear," was the answer, "do you know that I can hardly bear the mention of that young man's name? He is not unlike his father in one or two features, but I must say that he is by far the most reserved and secret-minded young person I ever knew. You see how he has acted ever since you've been here; he never enters into conversation, never joins the family in any game, but shuts himself up with some gloomy book or other, as if he didn't belong to the same race of beings as ourselves. From all I can make out he is remarkably like his mother, who, from all accounts, must have been a most singular woman—particularly reserved and quiet, and awfully, quite awfully, domesticated; really, it is quite dreadful to think how domesticated she was." Mrs. Hargreaves intimated the probable depth of her emotion by shaking her head and giving her eyes a mysterious expression, as if gazing into the incomprehensible.
               But Emily must bring the subject one move nearer; her business was less with the domesticated deceased than with the self-involved living."
               "He and Ben appear to do very well together," she suggested.
               "Well, how far that may be I can not tell," the lady answered, in a manner marked by unusual caution; "at all events, if such be the case, you can not reason from it that there is any thing specially attractive in Octavius, for the fact is, as I have often remarked, your brother is so winning in his ways, so open, so refined, so gentlemanly, that everybody (I was going to say, of sense, but that wouldn't just express my meaning) must be charmed with him; I'm sure I am, and if he was my own brother I couldn't feel more regard for him. I call him a pattern young man."
               Emily always sealed such allusions to her brother with her most benignant smile, and having done so in this case, proceeded:
               "But Mr. Octavius is much better educated than his papa, and I know, ma'am, how highly you value education."
               
               "The fact is, dear, you can hardly say that Mr. Hargreaves has any education at all; I don't suppose he ever had an English grammar in his hand; and just hear how he pronounces his words—all his words, big and little; look at that poor little word 'us,' how he makes it into 'huz'—and, in fact, as I say, look at any of his words. As for the vowels I am certain he wouldn't know them if he met them in a body, nor the consonants either; so that to say Octavius is better educated, is really to say nothing at all."
               Well put. Emily staggered under this heavy volley, and fell into the flats of humility.
               "And that, ma'am, is just what I am apt to say on subjects which I don't understand."
               "Precisely, dear, precisely; but a few years under my training will enlighten you on a good many subjects.—Oh! yes—quite so.—I must say that your brother's society has made the Holly quite a new place to me—so refined, so very refined and communicative—his intercourse is truly instructive, and his opinions on the subjects of the day are really most mature and comprehensive—he is quite a contrast to the male members of our household—quite a contrast."
               This brought the usual smile to the sister's countenance, and was replied to in words which didn't seem to be closely related to the subject of eulogy.
               "I think, ma'am, you can never persuade me that Mr. Hargreaves isn't a kind man."
               "Child! how can you talk so? Why do you put so much stress on the word kind? I am not talking about that, though I think I've quoted an instance which shows how mistaken you are even on that point. I'm showing what a contrast there is between your brother and him on the matter of polish and general refinement, and to one who has enjoyed the advantages under which I was brought up, it is a matter of very serious moment. I'm sure Mr. Hargreaves' want of polish occasions me many an unhappy hour. Why, dear Emily, need I remind you how awkwardly he takes a lady into the dining-room? Just see how many beautiful and expensive dresses he has spoiled by splashing the gravy about when he is carving! Why, dear, it is positively awful to think of—positively awful! Of course the ladies are too well bred to complain; they nod and smile as if nothing had happened, but I know they are biting their tongues for revenge, and wishing that he would allow Benjamin to take the head of the table; I know it, dear, for a fact; but the worst of it is that even when I tell Mr. Hargreaves of these things, which I do almost every night, he doesn't seem at all to feel their importance; he is quite impervious to every argument, and always says that whoever comes to his house shall have plenty to eat, and it's no business of his how many dresses are spoiled. Now all this, you know, Emily, is extremely trying to one who has had the advantages which I have enjoyed. I have no doubt there are plenty of coarse-minded women who be only amused at his boorishness, but it keeps me in a perfect agony every Sunday, and as I have watched your brother's countenance at the dinner table I have felt sure that every stroke of the carving knife went straight to his heart—I'm sure of it."
               Emily couldn't look upon this catalogue of mischances and afflictions without saying:
               "Certainly, ma'am, that is unfortunate."
               "Extremely unfortunate, my dear," the encouraged lady continued, "and, I can assure you, it is extremely painful, but sensitive and refined people like myself naturally bear all these things with all possible patience, and forbear to complain until the very last extremity."
               "But Mr. Hargreaves is not at all sophisticated," said Emily, "he is very candid and straightforward."
               "Rather too much so for my taste," the missus answered, "I can assure you, Emily: what business have people to say all they think?" Where does either God or man give them permission to do so? I've known Mr. Hargreaves, on a Sunday, just after hearing one of Mr. Hopkinson's best sermons, when we have had a dinner-party, find fault with everything on the table, and conduct himself as though he had expected me to go into the kitchen, and superintend the cooking; but it always was so with him since I knew him—the moment he set his eyes upon the table he began to quarrel with every dish, and he sharpens his carving-knife so long and so desperately as to provoke me to distraction, and the steel is actually worn half-through—true!"
               Emily took a leap backward, and thought she found an explanation among the antecedents of the husband's history:
               "Perhaps," she said, "the former Mrs. Hargreaves took more interest in the kitchen department than you feel called upon to do, ma'am?"
               "My dear, that is exactly what I said a moment ago: she was, I said, quite frightfully domesticated—knew every article in the kitchen—actually kept weights and scales for the purpose of testing the honesty of the butcher, and baker, and grocer—and above all she kept a cash-book, in which she entered everything she spent, down to a reel of cotton or a skein of silk: the old servant gave me to understand a good many of her goings on, how she used now and then to make her own bed, and dust the things in the bedroom, and brush her husband's clothes, and actually opened the front-door herself sometimes, when there was a knock. It is really quite dreadful to think of;—she was evidently a woman destitute of a refined education."
               "But don't you think it accounts a good deal for Mr. Hargreaves's present manner of doing things, and looking at things?" Emily once more suggested.
               "Of course it does, dear, to a certain extent; at the same time, if Mr. Hargreaves had been capable of refinement his manner might have been softened a good deal by association with myself;—now, there's your brother as an illustration, I feel quite persuaded that if his advantages had been less than they fortunately were, that by this time he would have been able to acquit himself in society to my entire satisfaction,—I feel certain of it, because he is what Mr. Hargreaves is not, refined by nature as well as by education."
               "Noble boy is my brother," Emily said this time, in addition to her usual smile, "I love Benjamin with all the pride of an only sister: don't you think, though, that kindness is the best compensation you can have for want of what we call refinement."
               "I tell you again, Emily, and this time with a slight feeling of annoyance, that I don't see any kindness in Mr. Hargreaves, it's only a rough brusque manner that he has, which you mistake for candor and open-heartedness. You are really not sufficiently exact in your distinctions,—Benjamin, I'm confident, would never confound definitions as you do; he sees exactly where things impinge, where they coalesce, and where they mutually repel, and his is the kind of mind which invariably yields me the richest satisfaction."
               "Quite so, ma'am; I wouldn't annoy you on any consideration, and I am most happy that Ben supplies my deficiencies so admirably, and I was only intending to say that it is of great importance that persons should know before marriage whether their tastes are likely to harmonize;—am I right there, ma'am?"
               The question took too firm a hold upon Mrs. Hargreaves's own case, not to require a little time for consideration. She had not up to this period given Emily to understand the particulars of her pre-wedded life, or shown her the steps by which she approached the fatal altar, so that Emily could only speak in round numbers, and hurl a round lump of commonsense at the head of her refined and discriminating antagonist. The blow took the desired effect, and Mrs. Hargreaves came out of a fit of silence somewhat humbled—
               "I did hint, Emily," she said, "that circumstances—" (again the suggestive pause ensued)—"in fact before marriage, young ladies, especially those of education and refinement, are not fit judges of their position or their prospects; why, to prove this, there was a charming young friend of mine, a lady that moved in the highest circles of the aristocracy, who actually eloped with the butler, was cut off with a shilling, and is now, I believe, engaged behind the counter, or in a domestic situation. Only think of it! She was the daughter of an Irish nobleman, and might at this hour have had a coronet of her own!—Poor thing!"
               
               "That just proves, ma'am, what I was saying," Emily ventured to continue, "from what little I have seen of life, I cannot but think that much of our unhappiness as families would be spared, if people would only think more before they enter into a state, out of which death alone can deliver them."
               Mrs. Hargreaves once more gave signs of slight annoyance, and if imagination had not pictured the possible anger of a loving brother, she might have answered even more tartly than she did—
               "Well, dear, as you are so well versed in the philosophy of happiness, personal and conjugal, I hope the young ladies of England will not look in vain to you for an example of prudence and good management."
               Mrs. Hargreaves concluded with a clearing of the throat which she intended to signify doubt whether ever the young ladies of England would be called upon to turn their eyes in any such direction. Emily had "discrimination" enough to see the intention of her mistress, and "refinement" enough to feel it somewhat, but in her heart there was a secret which sheltered her securely against the full fury of her ladyship's stormy invective,—that is to say, an invective which would have been stormy but for the pacifying apparition of the intelligent, refined, and conscientious brother.
               For a few moments there was silence, yet both the ladies were evidently revolving some aspect of the subject; and, were the full truth known, it would be found that both were revolving that aspect with fear. At length, Emily resumed—
               "Do I understand you to say, ma'am, that you don't like Mr. Octavius?"
               "Yes, Emily; that is a point on which you may clearly understand me, if you please."
               Emily sighed, and said—"I am truly sorry."
               "Sorry? Child! whatever can you be sorry for? I should think that you have seen enough of him to see that my dislike is easily accounted for?"
               Emily colored deeply and said, with strong emphasis, "No"—then she sighed the sigh of stifled anger, and the low long sigh of hopelessness.
               "He's a conceited and self-involved fellow, Emily, that he is, you may rely upon my word,—a worthless fellow!"
               These were the words of unbidden rage, and as they entered Emily's heart, they made her not so much say as shriek, "No."
               "He's bad enough for anything!" Mrs. Hargreaves answered, and answered so violently that she might have been under the influence of her favorite beverage.
               "I was going to mention a subject, but——"
               "A subject?" Mrs. Hargreaves exclaimed, reddening with wonder, and trembling with passion, "what subject? I hope to heaven you don't mean courtship? Say, you don't?"
               "You have, ma'am, always been so very kind to Ben and me that I feel I ought not to keep a secret from you, but I shall not do so at the risk of exciting ill feeling."
               Mrs. Hargreaves, as the enemy of Octavius, would have exploded in tremendous fury; but Mrs. Hargreaves, the friend of Benjamin, and through him the friend of Emily, was kept in an undeveloped condition, for reasons best known to herself; it was prudent, therefore, to check the rising rage, and to say:
               "I should think you could never reconcile yourself to keep a secret from me; you know that my judgment is always at your service."
               Emily knew this too well, but poverty is not able always to break the bonds which gall it, and therefore must drill itself, so as to excel in the virtue of endurance. In this virtue poor Emily Dudgeon was surpassed by few.
               "But may I first pledge you to secrecy, ma'am?" she timidly inquired.
               "Pledge me to any thing, dearest, only take me into your confidence. I have more secrets than yours, and you know how little I have said."
               This was true enough literally. Mrs. Hargreaves, though so refined a woman, had a peculiar taste for secrets, and though she knew where and when to give them an airing, she was in the habit of letting people know that her breast was a very hive of secrets, and whenever a special name came up she gave signs of being custodian of something in connection with that name which everybody didn't know.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THIRTY WITNESSES.—FAITHFUL.
               WHILE this conversation was proceeding, the attention of the two ladies was arrested by an unusual noise proceeding from one of the upper rooms; it was such a noise as might be made by any one tearing up boards and driving nails, and as Mrs. Hargreaves was not aware of the presence of carpenters in the house, she at once rung the bell and ordered one of the servants to ascertain the reason of the noise, but the maid returned from the errand merely to say that Mr. Dudgeon, she thought, was in his room, mending something, but wasn't sure, because as the door was locked she was unable to look in. The door being locked flung the circumstance right into the region of mystery, and yet they concluded there could not be any thing so very far wrong, otherwise there wouldn't have been so much noise. Mrs. Hargreaves, in fact, was too much interested and excited about the recent disclosures to pursue any inquiry into the occasion of the noise, and was just about to continue the conversation, when Ben (supposed to be in his bed-room, though for unknown reasons,) was seen coming towards the front window. Mrs. Hargreaves at once exclaimed:
               "Why, Emily, here's your brother! How is this? He must be ill."
               Mrs. Hargreaves was not more surprised than gratified to see Ben, and with cordial politeness asked him to step into the drawing-room.
               "Are you ill, Mr. Dudgeon, that you have come home earlier? Allow me to hope that such is not the case."
               "No, ma'am," said Ben, "I am quite well, thank you—only I had a little private writing to do, and Mr. Hargreaves was kind enough to say, ma'am, that I might come home and do it."
               Whenever Ben spoke to Mrs. Hargreaves he freely availed himself of the services of the word, "ma'am," knowing that it was particularly agreeable to the ear of that fastidious and discriminating woman. It helped to assure her that she was, in reality, as well as in imagination, a perfect lady, and that there must be something in her presence and behavior to enlist the favorable opinion of every sensible person. The idea of "private writing," though, was not quite so comprehensible and agreeable; "private writing," on the part of a young man, being one of those phrases which are open to a variety of interpretations.
               "But what a noise you made in your bed-room," said Emily pleasantly; "you were not doing any 'private writing' then, I should think?"
               Ben gently patted her upturned cheek, and said: "Oh! yes; I must have become excited with the subject and taken to stamping—eh, Em? That's it, bonny sis."
               "The subject was exciting, then, Mr. Dudgeon?" Mrs. Hargreaves said, not, of course, in an inquisitive or unlady-like spirit, but cheerily and rallyingly, simply for the reason that—she wanted to know; but as Ben was not in a communicative temper, she turned gracefully and said:
               "I'm glad, at all events, that you have a partial holiday, Mr. Dudgeon, for I have often remarked to Emily that you are certainly working too hard."
               "Well, ma'am," said Ben, who knew the woman well, "I can lay my hand upon an honest heart and say that, in no single instance, ma'am, have I ever opposed, or even thought of opposing, your judgment, and so great is my horror of presumption (Em knows it well) that I must say I have no intention of doing so at this moment; I do, therefore, ma'am, most fully concur in the opinion which you have so elegantly expressed, and if your usual courtesy will permit me to say so, ma'am, I will add, that but for the charm of refinement which marks our evening intercourse, I really couldn't think of continuing in an employment so truly laborious; I should not, indeed, ma'am—no."
               This declaration went straight to its intended mark, and in the intoxication of her delight the young mistress looked at Emily, as though to say: "You see now how refinement can appreciate refinement, and what reason I have had to feel satisfaction in your brother's society."
               "Permit me to say," Mrs. Hargreaves answered, "that I have always taken the liveliest interest in your well-being—in the well-being of both of you"—(here Emily nodded thankfully at Mrs. Hargreaves; poor Em!)—"and after so long a residence here the Holly would really become quite another place if either of you should leave—which, however, I sincerely hope will not be the case."
               "You quite overcome me, dear Mrs. Hargreaves," said Ben, with well-simulated emotion; "I am quite at a loss to describe my feelings—quite. Emily knows that I have often said to her: 'Em, all the attributes of a perfect lady are combined in our young and excellent mistress;' haven't you heard me mention the subject at least a hundred times, Em?"
               "Quite," said Em, which was true enough so far as the subject was concerned. Ben had once more chosen one of the words peculiarly agreeable to Mrs. Hargreaves—the word 'young,' as it served to remind her of the great disparity between her husband's age and her own.
               At this point Mrs. Hargreaves felt melted into the purest generosity. Her heart warmed and expanded with benevolent emotions toward two young people who were practically orphans, and whose tastes harmonized so exquisitely with her own; and to her discriminating mind (at that moment not quite free from the influence of her favorite medicine) it appeared that they both clung to her as to one in whom they could implicitly confide.
               "I can only say," she continued, "that I have so high an opinion of your refinement, that if ever I can render any service to either of you, the circumstance will greatly enhance my felicity; either of you may command my right hand."
               Emily could only look her thanks, but Ben must attempt expression in words—"That hand, madam," said he, "is itself a sceptre; and under any circumstances I should feel myself safe under its control," and in these wild words Ben proved that his father's injunction, not to "bury his conscience," was a forgotten echo,—long ago had the silent death-bell announced the decease and burial of Ben's moral monitor.
               Mrs. Hargreaves's attachments were, of course, all founded upon an æsthetic basis. She had no vulgar preferences. Her very friendships were living exemplifications of some of the underlying canons of the fine arts. Her life was an oblation laid upon the altar of taste, and her words were the soft or thrilling music evoked by the equal pressure of the sublime and the beautiful.
               "Refinement," she replied, "necessarily clings to refinement, and for that reason I cling to you both."
               Ben was silent for a moment. Some deep under-current was sweeping through his soul. He wanted his next arrow to fly to the farthest target, and was evidently considering the ways and means. Under these circumstances he took his arrow out of the quiver of piety; so at least it may be thought, for he turned up the white of his eye, and piety, it is generally considered, has chosen that part of the human fabric as one of its most expressive memorials, and having done so fell upon his prey through the following gyration—
               "O Mrs. Hargreaves, how much there is, ma'am, to remind any discriminating person that there is such a thing as providence! At all events, it would be a difficult thing to persuade me that there was not a providence in my coming home at this hour; I take the liberty of saying 'home,' ma'am, for I'm sure the kindness we have received here"—("don't name it, Mr. Dudgeon," Mrs. Hargreaves interposed)—"I must name it, ma'am, even at the risk of grating upon your refined feelings,—I say, ma'am, that the kindness we have received here makes this our true home, and to show you that there is a providence at work, I shall be very glad if you will grant me the favor of a quarter of an hour's interview without the presence of a third party."
               "Certainly, Mr. Dudgeon, with very sincere pleasure, for I'm sure that providence does operate in ways and manners, as the clergyman observed last Sunday, and as I afterwards remarked to Mrs. Booker as we were walking home, that really put our discrimination to the test: will you then, sweet Emily, go into the nursery for a short time, and your brother can remain here."
               Emily at once departed, but not without wondering why she could not be allowed to remain during the interview. Her mind naturally turned to the subject of the 'private writing,' and invention instantly began to forge links which would connect the one secrecy with the other. Ben, she reasoned, had always been confidential to her, and had in fact made her his chief counsellor in times of difficulty; whatever, then, could have happened to cause him to exclude her on the present occasion? That question must stand over for the present: her deep, never-suspecting, and never-fading love compelled her to believe that Ben would yet put her in full possession of all his secrets. They always walked to church together on a Sunday morning, and then she would put his love to the test, and become as well-informed as Mrs. Hargreaves herself.
               When the two were left together, Ben looked so singularly—so thoroughly shamefaced and perplexed—that Mrs. Hargreaves felt called upon to open the interview. With all the palpitation of a great wonder she said—
               "Well, Mr. Dudgeon, what have you to bring under my attention? You know that I can discriminate more than most people, and I should say that at this moment you are in some kind of trouble; and if my conjecture be right, permit me to say that in me you have a sympathizing listener."
               Ben looked at her, but his lips were sealed. An encouraging word was needed—
               "I have had trouble in my own life, Mr. Dudgeon," she added, "and trouble is the true teacher of sympathy;" here Mrs. Hargreaves shook her light foot gently as was her wont in the season of sorrow.
               "Mrs. Hargreaves, I do hope you will not lose your good opinion of me—I would rather lose an eye than forego your confidence—but really, now that we are together, I can hardly summon courage to say what I intended—my heart misgives me—I couldn't have believed it—just look how that hand shakes."
               Ben held up his right hand, but it may be fairly questioned whether the nerves and muscles were performing an irresponsible part; at all events the hand was shaking.
               "I do hope you won't be deterred, Mr. Dudgeon; your fund of language I have always regarded as peculiarly rich."
               "Yes, ma'am," Ben said, "but so much depends upon the subject; I have, ma'am, the poorest of all poor vocabularies, when the subject is one like the present——"
               "Name it, Mr. Dudgeon; friendship is valueless if not sealed with confidence."
               "I am overpowered, ma'am, with your kindness. I feel quite unworthy of such——"
               Ben paused and looked, and held his trembling hand up as proof of emotion.
               "Tell me, Benjamin, what I can do."
               This was the first time that Mrs. Hargreaves had addressed him as Benjamin, and the use of that plain name was regarded as a sign of kindly feeling, as Ben proved by venturing to grasp her hand with all the fervor of speechless gratitude.
               "I know," said Ben, "that you have nobly placed this hand at my disposal, and if you will allow me to say so, I would add that this is the only hand in the world that can be of any service to me in this most critical hour of my history;—yes, ma'am, I speak advisedly when I say, this critical hour."
               Ben looked to ascertain the effect of the terrible words, "critical hour," thinking that they might prove too powerful for the refined nerves of his hearer.
               "Mrs. Hargreaves," he continued, "will you spurn me from your presence in the hour of my calamity? Can your noble heart flame into indignation against one who values your smile above the light of——O dear, O dear,——this is trouble."
               "Benjamin!" Mrs. Hargreaves replied, "haven't I just said that your trouble shall be mine? What more could I say? What more could your sister have said?"
               "Nothing, ma'am, said Benjamin, "nothing, ma'am, and did I not feel that your kindness is equal to your discrimination and refinement, I dare not, ma'am, have begged the liberty which you have so nobly granted, but the fact is——"
               "Yes, let us have the fact now."
               "That, ma'am, is precisely what you shall have, we say that facts are stubborn things, but in this case, ma'am, the fact labors under a double disgrace, for I grieve to say that it is ugly as well as stubborn; so I may just say at once, without going round the bush, that I am wrong in my accounts to the extent of fifty pounds—I have pledged my gold watch for twenty, (there is the pawn-ticket to show that I am speaking the truth) and if you, ma'am, could by any stretch of pity and hope see your way at all clear to—to—lend me the remainder, I shall be all right the day after to-morrow, our money-day, but if not, I shall be driven to madness!—O, Mrs. Hargreaves!"
               Ben adopted the criminal's refuge, that is to say, he placed his head in his palms (with such adroitness, however, as to be able to see the lady from between his fingers) and rocked himself from side to side, as if a very Euroclydon of grief had caught his sails in its furious power. Here was an opportunity which the discriminating young lady-housekeeper knew how to value and how to improve. Of course she had a sister's affection for both Ben and Emily, and was only too glad of an occasion on which to display its depth and purity. She knew that, practically, they were orphans, and that the part of holy Mercy is to accompany the tear of pity with the hand of help. Besides this, she was benevolently anxious to have some voice in determining the destiny of two such lovely creatures—(twin roses!) so refined, so discriminating, so likely to arrest the world's changeful admiration and fix it on themselves, with the repose of full satisfaction. The next best thing to being great is to help the great; the next best thing to being the rose itself is to be the stem or twig on which it grows; the next best thing to being the Dudgeons was to be their patron and the arbiter of their fate. With such feelings, it was impossible for Mrs. Hargreaves not to regard the attitude of a suppliant as the most graceful and interesting which Benjamin could assume; it showed him off to the greatest advantage; it proved that his humility was equal to his native dignity, and dignity never looks so truly royal and commanding as when it sits on the stool of humility and confesses its dependence on the generosity of private friendship. Mrs. Hargreaves, as a woman of taste, as a high-priestess in the temple of refinement, quite luxuriated in the spectacle; it was worthy of her capacious powers, it was a very banquet on which her soul could feed without endangering the organs of her moral digestion. A woman born to be a queen naturally displays a partiality for government, and a capacity for dealing with the problems of fate. At the same time she is not insensible to the power of sympathy, nor forgetful that dungeon keys may dangle gracefully on a girdle of love.
               "I see, Benjamin, how it is," said the sympathizing lady; "your disposition is heavenly in its generosity; you have seen some one in distress, and in the pardonable excess of your philanthropic enthusiasm you have sought to mitigate human woe; tell me, Benjamin, if I at all approach the reality of the case."
               "Mrs. Hargreaves," said Ben, holding up both his hands as an expression of wonder and awe, "you really make me tremble! I declare, and I hope you will not deny it, that you must know something more of the case than I have ventured to relate. You must. Has any one been guilty of espionage? Has any one told you the particulars?"
               It might have been thought that a lady so refined and sensitive would have resented the doubt of her integrity implied in the words, "I hope you will not deny it;" and so, under other circumstances, she might, but in this case the compliment paid to her discrimination was so transparent and every way so precious that she could afford to treat the finer fibres of morality in a way that may be described as free and easy.
               "Not a creature, I do assure you, Benjamin," said she, with a toss of her ringleted head, which implied that she never took a shilling without examining it on both sides, "has ever mentioned the subject to me; no, no, you may be aware, by this time, that I don't see by proxy."
               "You don't, ma'am; that is pretty well known in this family-circle, as Mr. Hargreaves, in particular, could testify if he were a candid man; your eyes have penetrated him; however, that is neither here nor there, for in this case I find the most wonderful circumstance outside the Bible, for you have indicated" (O Ben! have both Conscience and Catechism gone?) "the precise state of the case! Precise!—Marvellous discrimination!"
               This was putting all the sugar he had into the lady's cup; but it would be a short-sighted economy that pronounced the investment a "waste," for Ben was agriculturist enough to know that in some soils you may sow sugar in order to reap an auriferous harvest, and at this moment his foot was standing on this very description of soil! So much for the masculine side of discrimination.
               Yet the thing didn't show itself so mysteriously to the feminine observer; she had an explanation at hand, and in a tone of the gentlest reproach invited Ben's attention to the secret.
               "But don't you know, Benjamin, how it is? Don't you see—I know you do—that fellow-feeling is the secret? where there is true sympathy—where souls are en rapport—that people can easily understand each other, without the help of dictionaries, or the necessity of tedious explanations? You see I am in the habit of striking into the spiritual centre of a subject, without entangling myself by petty details——"
               "Happy woman, that can so 'strike,'" said Ben, in a tone which expressed the profoundest veneration.
               "Well, as to 'happy,' we'll talk about that presently; but in the meantime I must say that the poor and the distressed always excite my sympathy——."
               "You have just proved that, ma'am," Ben interposed in a sighing whisper.
               "Why at the present time I have boxes of cast-off clothes which must be disposed of next winter——."
               "Indeed!"
               "And I gave every garment belonging to the late Mrs. Hargreaves away to the poor, the very first winter I was here."
               "How thoughtful!"
               "And I was mentioning to the clergyman some ideas of mine respecting a soup-kitchen."
               "Good ideas, no doubt."
               "But, really, he thinks more about sermons for himself than about soup for the poor."
               "A basin of soup is a very good sermon itself, ma'am."
               "What are clergymen for, if not to visit and relieve the poor? that's what I want to know."
               "And may do, ma'am."
               "What do the poor want with theological definitions?"
               "What indeed, ma'am; you say truly there, as usual."
               "Theological definitions are well enough——"
               "Yes, ma'am; but the best theological definition on earth wouldn't put my cash-book right the day after to-morrow."
               "Just so."
               "Yes, 'just so,' ma'am; and what would the clergyman do for me in this my hour of need? And yet if he were a wise man he would see how much more influence he would gain over his parishioners if he were more anxious to keep them from insolvency than from heresy; his sermons would go down twice as well."
               "And especially," Mrs. Hargreaves added, with her usual power of enlargement, (which power arose from the nicety of her discrimination) "when people have run themselves short in consequence of relieving the destitute."
               "Exactly, ma'am; I thank you for having given pungency and force to my unfinished argument; 'the destitute'—just so. Now it is not as though I had been a foolish fellow going up and down buying brooches and bracelets and pearls and diamonds for some silly girl. I reckon and I hope, ma'am, that your arithmetic and mine will agree, that when a fellow gets wrong by doing things of that sort that he is quite undeserving of sympathy or support."
               "There, Benjamin, our concord is perfect: that is not relieving the destitute, that is vanity and wastefulness."
               "Yes, ma'am, a good theological definition would meet a a case of that kind exactly, though I doubt it wouldn't pay the jeweller."
               Ben was now getting anxious to dismiss all cases of fancy, and to draw attention to the one case of reality. Time was getting on, too, and such an opportunity as the present did not occur every day or every week. He gave such signs of impatience as led Mrs. Hargreaves to say—
               "But Benjamin, supposing I can make it convenient to meet the case, what am I to expect from you in return?"
               "Anything, Mrs. Hargreaves, anything! If you save me from madness or death, you will certainly deserve my eternal gratitude."
               So far, so good. The generous woman had made her terms. Exactly. Didn't he say—"anything?" He did. Well, that is a pretty supple word, and will bear a good deal of pulling. Didn't the fugitive Elisa, better known as Dido, buy as much land on the African coast as she could cover with a bull's hide, and didn't the cunning woman cut that hide into thongs, and make it large enough to cover sufficient land on which to build the citadel of Byrsa? Very good. Here, then, is a historical precedent for making the most of your advantages. Mrs. Hargreaves had obtained as much control over Benjamin Dudgeon as is involved in the word—"anything," and, of course, she can cut up "anything" into innumerable small thongs, and encompass a good deal of the Carthage of his future. Thus supported by a classic precedent, the refined lady proceeded to a secret drawer, and possessed herself of the requisite amount.
               "Well, then, Benjamin, here is the sum you mention—thirty pounds—and I am glad that I can be a friend in need."
               In accepting the sum Ben felt that kindness so unprecedented demanded a stronger expression of obligation than the hackneyed "much obliged to you," which has to run all the errands of every-day gratitude. But of what device could he avail himself? He was, of course, limited in the range of methods, and therefore took the lady's right hand into both of his own, and wrung it and swung it until his enthusiasm passed into a white heat.
               "Madam!" said he, "you have bound my heart in a slavery that is perfectly delicious! A luxury of luxuries! Here was I, only an hour ago, mourning and moaning, and counting all the gateways out of this horrid world, and now by one touch of your benevolent genius, I'm free! free! the day after to-morrow is turned from a lion to a lamb! O millennial bliss!"
               They were one in heart. Refinement sat with refinement. Sympathy blent with sympathy. An overmastering force destroyed their duality, and made them one. Alas! that overmastering force was poison distilled from the fruit of some tree of hell!
               This was the time for sapping and mining a little in the business to which Emily had mysteriously referred. Mrs. Hargreaves knew that opportunities were given to be used and not looked at—
               "Benjamin, what is your opinion of Octavius? I think he is a sly fellow, myself."
               Ben answered with the thirty pounds safe in his pocket, and still over-brimming with joy and thankfulness—
               "You have in that succinct sentence exactly summed him up. Exactly! His school-fellows always thought him sly, and upon my word, he gets worse and worse every day. You never know what his next dodge will be."
               "Precisely, Benjamin; now that's just where he baffles me."
               "And if he baffles you, ma'am, I shouldn't wonder at him baffling a consistory of cardinals."
               "Well, Benjamin, he does baffle me;—my discrimination was never so much at fault as in endeavoring to make him out,—he is the most perfect enigma I ever heard of,—he never joins us in anything,—he is always moping over his book,—in fact, it may be prejudice, but, in my eyes, he has the very appearance of a conspirator."
               "Yes, ma'am; as usual you have selected the right word, I never knew any one who had such skill in singling out the word that most forcibly represents your meaning, and the only improvement that I can suggest in the present case is that he should be called a downright conspirator."
               "No objection to that criticism, Benjamin, he certainly cannot be called upright: mope, mope, mope, all the evening, as if he were planning some scheme to ruin us; and what occasion is there for him to be reading and writing so much? He is quite as silly as that decrepid little fool at Skulford, what's his name? You know who I mean—Hunter."
               "O! fy," said Ben; "now, ma'am, if the question is fair, what is your opinion of that family? They have done business with us a long time."
               "I haven't seen much of them, Benjamin, but that one with the crutch is certainly a curiosity; and I think that the daughters are a little more dressy than is becoming in the children of farmers, there's one walks down our lane very frequently, and the last time I saw her I thought she had some things on that didn't correspond with her position."
               "O," said Ben, "all girls are fond of a little frippery; they wouldn't think they were born, if they hadn't pinks and satins, and caps, and muslins, and all that sort of thing; you see a boy would rather have a hammer or a wheelbarrow than all the muslin in Europe."
               "Still, Benjamin, there is such a thing as propriety——"
               "Granted."
               "And refinement is at once shocked by any impropriety——"
               "Truly and properly——"
               "Either in speech or in dress, and I do contend that for the daughter of a farmer to be attempting the style of a lady, is to be taking a dangerous liberty, to say the least of it, with the temper and patience of the high-bred and well-educated."
               "You have assumed a position there, ma'am, out of which I believe it would be impossible to dislodge you."
               Ben felt that he had travelled far enough along that road to get his eyes filled with dust, and therefore, accepting the first suggestion of discretion, he turned short round, and would have quitted the room after another elaborate expression of thanks, had not Mrs. Hargreaves been intent on pursuing the old subject.
               
               "Do you think Octavius has any regard for Emily? Of course, I mean any particular regard."
               "Why, ma'am, as to 'particular regard'," Ben answered, "that, as a matter of necessity, involves the question of capability; now, for example, I don't believe he is capable of feeling any such regard for Emily as you have just manifested towards myself: you have put into my hand thirty faithful witnesses of appreciation and trust, and I hold that Octavius Hargreaves is utterly incapable of feeling that expansion of soul necessary to the display of so practical a veneration, for any character."
               "Just so; but do you think he loves Emily? That's the point I am anxious to be at."
               "The fact is, Mrs. Hargreaves, as I have just stated, I cannot make him out, I can only see bits of him—he pops out and in like a water-rat, but as we are confidential, I may just say, entre nous, that I have my suspicions." Ben nodded his head to intimate that "suspicions" was quite as far as he dare go. But it was far enough for the lady, in the meantime, who thought she was on the exact scent, and pursued her game with all the zest of a veteran sportsman.
               "Indeed! now as we are confidential, may I beg that you will state the grounds on which your suspicions rest?"
               "There, ma'am, you rather puzzle me, for suspicions often have a very mysterious genealogy—won't give up the names of their godfathers and godmothers—but just hover about you and tease you without saying much, and in my opinion, no man should be hung on suspicion."
               "Well, I don't know about that," said the lady in a doubtful tone, "that depends on circumstances—"
               "So it does"—
               "And circumstances may be condemning in this case for anything I know; at the same time, Benjamin, I must so far reciprocate your confidence as to state that I have my suspicions—"
               "Grounds?" said Ben quietly.
               "No, I sha'nt state my grounds until you have had your turn: has Emily said anything to you on the subject?"
               "Not a word, ma'am, not a breath,—no!"
               "Most singular."
               "She has been mum as a mummy."
               "Very suspicious."
               "Awfully suspicious, ma'am, I do assure you when a woman holds her tongue."
               "Has Octavius been impertinent enough to say anything? Now I wonder whether he has."
               "Ah, madam, I was sure your discrimination would have it at last, sure as the clock strikes—"
               "Well really!"
               "Quite the fact, ma'am, I do assure you; the nail has gone home—"
               "So, so!"
               "Yes, ma'am, it has,—straight home!"
               "Well, and what did he say?—Impertinent fellow, I've no doubt he said enough."
               "Now that nail, ma'am, didn't go home,—where it went I cannot say, but certainly it has not gone home, for Octy did not say enough."
               "Just like him."
               "There now! there's another nail home! If you miss once you are sure to hit twice."
               "So, so; indeed,—well, now, Benjamin what did he say?"
               "He said nothing, ma'am——"
               "What?"
               "Nothing, ma'am, exactly to the point, but he has described the kind of woman he would like for a wife, and the description has answered to Emily to a t, u, v; but then he has always talked about money in a way that has led me to suspect that he wouldn't marry a penniless girl, like my bonny Em."
               "O, he's on the outlook for money is he?"
               "Don't say so much as that, ma'am, only cash is the devil's surname, and he may have been tempting the young gentleman a little,—but can't say, for the devil might haul me up for libel,—the devil's queer at the best."
               "So, ho! Octavius courts a purse,—um."
               
               "Daren't say that, ma'am, but if he courts Em he courts an empty one."
               "Ah, but he only talks about the money in order to mislead you; that's my idea."
               "And your idea is final, ma'am;—another nail gone home."
               "The sly fellow has a back-door to every arrangement he makes."
               "Madam! the figure is at once architectural and philosophical,—'pon my word that is as true as the multiplication-table, if I may use many figures in one."
               "Then you have nothing precise and definite from him, Benjamin?"
               "Nothing, ma'am, that would stand the glance of your discrimination for the briefest moment."
               "Hum;—I was hoping that you had the key of the secret."
               "No, ma'am, I have no such key at present."
               "Nor I."
               "I don't think Mr. Hargreaves has any suspicions of the case, ma'am, do you think he has?"
               "Well, that may or may not be——"
               "Another nail home." (whispered.)
               "But you see I shouldn't describe Mr. Hargreaves as a person of discrimination in such matters;—sharp enough in business, I have no doubt, but take him out of business and where is he?"
               "O Lord ma'am! where, indeed!—He's neither on land nor sea, I know."
               "Quite so."
               "Quite so, ma'am; out of business and where is he? That's a puzzler!"
               "And you've actually seen that, Benjamin, have you?"
               "Actually seen it, ma'am, I do assure you,—actually seen it, and it has pained me to the heart to see a man who occupies his position in the market, making such a fool of himself out of the market as to lead people to say, where is he?"
               "Truly sad."
               "Would break the heart of a stone."
               "And the worst of it is, Benjamin, he doesn't really seem to know it."
               "Well, ma'am, you see (though I feel the delicacy of the subject very keenly), the fact is, that though Mr. Hargreaves is as sharp as a case of needles in business, yet when he is at home I've observed (and the observation has made me 'blush and hang my head to think myself a man') that his discrimination cuts a very sorry figure beside your own; at the same time 'comparisons are odious,' no doubt."
               
                  That depends upon which side of the comparison your particular name happens to stand: Mrs. Hargreaves's was on the sunny side, so that her refinement was not shocked by the odiousness.
               "And you have noticed that, Benjamin, have you?"
               "'Twould be a lie to say I hadn't, ma'am, and a good deal more I've noticed besides that."
               "Indeed! Benjamin, and pray what may you have noticed? I should like to compare notes with you."
               "Why, ma'am, to go no further, there's the matter of refinement, polish, or elegance of style, call it what you please, but suppose we call it refinement, now in that particular, I must say that the contrast is truly striking."
               "Isn't it now, Benjamin, isn't it? Well!"
               "The fact is, ma'am, Mr. Hargreaves can hardly be said to have any refinement,—can he?"
               "Not a whit, Benjamin, really not a tittle, why just look at his pronunciation, as I was saying to Emily, I believe this very day, and that will prove how far he is from being an educated man: now you have used the word 'dodge' to-day——"
               "What a memory you have, ma'am!"
               "Rather too good sometimes, Benjamin."
               "One should be careful what one says to you."
               "Well I was remarking that you used the word 'dodge' to-day, but it fell from your tongue so trippingly and neatly as to acquire quite a respectable appearance; but if he had used it, it would have sounded most vulgarly and odiously."
               "So vulgarly and odiously, ma'am, that 'dodge' would never have forgiven him."
               
               "You really cannot tell, Benjamin, how such roughnesses as I have to put up with from Mr. Hargreaves do grate on my feelings—"
               "No, ma'am, I am sure I can form but a very remote conception of the martyrdom which you must daily undergo,—my only wonder is that you didn't drop down dead in the very hands of the priest when you heard the bridegroom mutilating his part of the marriage service so savagely,—quite a miracle, ma'am, that you have survived."
               "And yet, Benjamin, isn't it strange that I cannot get Emily to see the hardships which I have to endure? Whenever I refer to them and endeavor to show her exactly where the pain is, she is sure to turn round upon me, and say that 'Mr. Hargreaves is very kind'; and that you know, Benjamin, is very silly—"
               "Quite so, ma'am, I call it the height and depth of silliness, but it's just like our Em, poor thing, just like her; I never did see such a girl as she is, anybody may lead her by the nose, if you'll excuse the expression (I use it because I am in so great a hurry to agree with you that I havn't time to select another) if they'll only be 'kind' to her.
               "How very silly."
               "Extremely so, ma'am, the height and depth as I have just remarked, and one can hardly help admiring the spirit of the little pet, for just look at my own case to-day,—here I hold thirty substantial proofs of your kindness to me, well now, if anybody were to say one awkward word about you, don't you think I should at once proclaim the generosity of your heart and defend you to the utmost of my poor ability? Now don't you think so, ma'am?
               "But don't you see, Benjamin, where the cases differ? Don't you see that your arch has no key-stone?"
               "Ah, ma'am, your discrimination is about to take vengeance upon me; I always dread these sword-questions of yours—they cleave a poor fellow's bones right in two."
               "But don't you see what I mean?"
               "Madam! I must undergo the humiliation of saying, No."
               "Then let me show you where your poor parallel lines form an angle——"
               "What a wide field of illustration you have, ma'am!"
               "I know a little of geometry."
               "Your humility, ma'am, makes you say 'little;' I'm sure Euclid wouldn't agree with you."
               "Well, the cases differ here. I have just lent you thirty pounds, and that is a substantial act of kindness; but what substantial act of kindness can Mr. Hargreaves have performed to Emily?"
               "Just so."
               "Don't you see?"
               "Clearly."
               "Then how can she keep repeating over and over again that Mr. Hargreaves is such a very kind man?"
               "Oh! I should think it is just Mr. Hargreaves' free and easy talk that Em likes, ma'am; you know that the master's talk is all in lumps and heaps, and I suppose some girls like that sort of thing; it can be nothing else I'm sure, and it is so different to the stiff, formal kind of thing we had at The Thorns that I suppose she is captivated by it."
               In this manner the quarter of an hour's interview had grown to unexpected dimensions, and Mrs. Hargreaves looked amazed when she saw Mr. Hargreaves and Octavius in the distance, coming to tea. The conference was hurriedly concluded by Mrs. Hargreaves saying:
               "Keep your eyes and ears open about Emily; she must not marry a sly weasel like Octavius Hargreaves."
               "Just what I say," Ben added, and went to his own room.
               While the preparations for tea are being made we shall run over to Skulford Farm.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               "UNDER THE CIRCUM" AND HIS WIFE.
               FROM time immemorial the Hunters had been an agricultural family, and so little had they been given to change that they could boast that Zachariah's grandfather's great-great-grandmother had bought the old eight-day clock which stood at the foot of the bed in the kitchen, and that it had never been moved from the identical spot on which it stood in the days of Benjamin Dudgeon. They had an ancient and jaundiced invoice which Zachariah kept in one department of his tobacco-fob, and always produced if any upstart questioned the antiquity or respectability of the family. Hunter and Skulford were words which went together as naturally as fish and water. The residence of the Hunters was in so interesting a neighborhood that many antiquarians were in the habit of calling at the farm, after visiting the site of Hadrian's rampart, or the foundations of the Roman Wall proper, and more especially because the Hunters had certain horse-shoes, coins, poinards, and other curiosities which were said to have an illustrious pedigree, and with which they never could be tempted to part. These continual visitations of the Roman foot-prints effectually redeemed Skulford Farm from the charge of loneliness or dreariness, which, under other circumstances, might have been honestly preferred against it. The house itself, though old, was certainly not wanting in comfort when the ancient fire-places were modernized, and the ponderous joists well laden with flitches and hams and bladders of snow-white lard. The out-buildings, too, were commodious and substantial, so that altogether any lay-observer would come to the conclusion that gold and silk and fine linen would be sure to grow on that farm.
               Mrs. Hunter (the notable wife of "Under the circum") had kept a small shop in the village of Skulford, about a mile or a mile and a half distant, whence she was conducted in early life to the farm as the farmer's bride. For more than a quarter of a century she had been the industrious mother of several children, and was considered through all the countryside a model housekeeper in the particulars of cleanliness, foresight, and economy. As her family increased, and her cares multiplied, and the price of corn diminished, she became painfully anxious respecting the future, and in the gloomier hours of her despondency would console Zachariah with the prophecy that in a few years he and she would land in the workhouse. Such tidings, dismal enough in themselves, were made doubly dismal by her manner of communicating them—her voice being extremely low, and her pronunciation singularly elongated. This was particularly felt on what her three daughters called her "bilious days," days of sore headache and severe vomiting, when she insisted on having the shutters closed, and the farm servants walking about in their "stocking feet." Then it was that the prophecies fell on Zachariah's ear like the voices of the white-robed ghosts of Lang Lonking Hall, and the poor fellow alternately sweated and shivered as he listened to the knell of fate. Then, too, it was that the old woman's temper was liable to ignition. Woe to her fair daughters if she found a speck of dust on the great oak-table, and if either of them sought to palliate the circumstance by saying that the sun was so bright that every atom of dust was seen, the pleader would be sharply reminded that the sun only showed the dust and didn't make it. And another woe to them if they burnt the edges of her dry-toast, or were a minute too late with her cup of tea (without milk or sugar) about the middle of the forenoon; a circumstance, however, which didn't often occur, as the inhabitants of Skulford Farm made a point of conscience of having the kettle always "on the bar," and the tea-pot continually on "the hud."
               Then in a day or two the bilious fit would pass off, and the gentleness of the mother shine and glow to the delight of the family in general, and the husband and daughters in particular. A lovelier woman than Mrs. Hunter, with the exception of the bilious extravagances, never had a family to take care of. Her words could fall as the morning dew, while her devotion in the season of family sickness was unremitting and self-forgetting in an unsurpassed degree. We owe it to her memory to say this. She sleeps in yonder village burial-ground, deaf alike to eulogium or reproach, yet the heart must pay its debts, and one of them is an expression of veneration for a woman whose defects were outshone and overwhelmed by unobtrusive but genuine excellence.
               No man could receive the predictions of a crash with greater equanimity than did patient Zachariah. Whether he had become "used to it," or whether his temperament was so exquisitely regulated as not to receive the contagious influences of his wife's occasional distemper, it is impossible to say, but the fact is none the less important (and was none the less gratifying to the children), that he always displayed an equanimity which strangely contrasted with the perturbation of his wife. And this very equanimity was one of Mrs. Hunter's greatest trials. Could she have so aroused Zachariah as to have made him go howling up and down among the horses and cows and sheep, "Ruin, ruin, ruin," her anxieties might have been a little allayed; but so far from this, when her fears for the next rent-day were heating into agony, Zachariah could actually be taking his afternoon nap, as though Lord Clumpton had sent in the account receipted and done for. O phlegmatic Zac! why didn't you curse the night-cap, and go out storming among the cattle, and show a proper concern for your family by frothing at the mouth and hurling posts at the heads of your sleepy ploughman? Why didn't you do so? Didn't the very clods applaud the fretfulness and despondency of your wife? Didn't the very hens, on taking their morning-meal, look her in the face as if they would have spoken to her but for fear of being kicked by her anxious foot? And the very dog, didn't he dispose of his tail in the humblest manner when his eye caught her going in the direction of the rolling-pin? And yet you, Zac, a responsible being, just sniftered and yawned and ate your eggs and bacon as though Lord Clumpton had told you to forget the rent-day! O Zac! your coolness would provoke a tortoise; your napping power would exasperate a succession of wives.
               Poor Mrs. Hunter's fears were not always so lively. There had been times of prosperity, when a bowl of corn was worth taking to the market, and butter was worth so much per pound, and in those sunny days they could afford to spread an inviting table, and give the antiquarian visitors a welcome to unbegrudged hospitality; not like Mrs. Culper, down the hill, who was always telling them, when she brought out two or three slips of fat bacon for their dinner, that she could have boiled a couple of fowls, or roasted a young turkey, if she had only thought of it, but who, to the disadvantage of the visitors, never did think of it;—no, no, Mrs. Hunter couldn't do things in that shabby way, her heart was warm with generosity, and every man was welcome, in her days of plenty, to the best she had in the larder. The visitors soon got to know this, and with the native dignity of Englishmen turned their backs on Mrs. Culper's fat bacon. The elder branches of the family cherished the memory of those golden days, and made the ears of the latter-born tingle with romances in which game and fowls, and ham, and butter, and cream, and pastry endless, were the dominating heroes, and in short, talked with the air of fallen aristocrats to a poor plebeian generation.
               "Under the circum" was a man of many peculiarities, as most farmers of his day were. Among these was the idea that he must be extremely mindful of his p's and q's when he paid a visit to the neighboring large town, in order to dispose of his farm-produce. It was a most extraordinary thing—a thing to be talked of and lamented at home for many weeks—for him to enter an omnibus, and when he did so, he invariably paid his fare before getting in, and shook hands with the conductor when he alighted; and on the solitary occasion on which he employed a hackney-coach, he spent some time in apologizing to the coachman for having given him so much trouble, assured him that if he ever brought a party out as far as Skulford, he should have a warm reception at the Farm, and explained that he would have infinitely preferred a walk, had "circumstances" favored that ancient and economical mode of locomotion.
               Another peculiarity of Zachariah's was a settled horror of the use of either top-coat or umbrella. Under no possible combination of circumstances would he condescend to enjoy their services, nor would he ever speak more censoriously of the most tempestuously rainy day than merely to acknowledge that it was "dampish." The use of an over-coat he regarded as one of the signs of the predicted degeneracy which is immediately to precede the consummation of the present economy,—his view being that it proved better than any Hebrew or Greek manuscript, better than the opinion of Rabbi or Masoret that men were becoming "lovers of their own selves," and that the age of Olympian robustness, if not a fable to begin with, was a discarded fiction, or a vanished dream. For this grace and virtue of robustness the old man had a special regard, as might be proved by a copious citation of maxims and counsels which he had always on hand, and also by a delineation of habits which long years had made like second nature. One illustration will explain: Mr. Hunter never entertained the idea of troubling the mail to carry any letter which bore his own signature, in fact, he so far disbelieved in epistolary communication as never to have written a letter in his life! "Never to have written a letter in his life?" Quite so. That is the literal fact. Immediately that he received a letter of any importance, bearing, of course, on the interests of the farm, he picked up his hat, and proceeded to answer the epistle in his own proper person. It is happily true that he didn't receive more than perhaps two letters in the year, which he deemed worthy of notice, otherwise his walking-stick would have been glad of a proxy, but in the course of his long life he did, again and again, walk six, ten, and even twelve miles for the simple purpose of giving an oral answer to a written communication. Writing was associated in his mind with what one of his laborers called the "wrangling and jangling of the House of Commas," and words which had to be explained by dictionaries were, in his estimation, extremely prejudicial to the farming interest: besides all this, he had an idolatrous veneration for the memory of his mother, and in her dying moments she particularly said, (at least twice) "Zachariah, keep thy hand off paper."
               Mrs. Hunter, on the contrary, believed in writing, and with most commendable perseverance urged Zachariah to consent that the daughters at least should have a fair education; and as she never lost sight of this object, even in her "bilious days," he was only too glad to accept any terms which his afflicted wife might dictate. The girls were accordingly sent to Polis—a town at a considerable distance from Skulford—where they could enjoy very marked advantages for a price which harmonized well with their habits of economy. To Polis they were accompanied by one of their brothers, already sneeringly spoken of by Mrs. Hargreaves, (whose name, Jeremiah, was cut down to a minimum, and uniformly pronounced Jy)—who unhappily was born lame, and doomed to make his way through the world with the aid of a crutch; but as his feelings were particularly sensitive on this point, some of his more sympathetic school-fellows compromised the matter by denominating the crutch, a stick; and one, more polite than his politest contemporaries, met the difficulty by describing the crutch as "Mr. Jy's convenience." For such consideration poor Mr. Jy looked in vain in the rustic educational establishment where he picked up the rudiments of his learning, for in that most uncivilized academy the lads knew no better fun than to ask Jy for the loan of his crutch (while he perched himself on a wall or a heap of stones) that it might be held by two boys—one at each end—that the others might take lessons in the art of leaping, and not unfrequently the roistering fellows would cry out, "hold Jy's crutch higher up," or, "hold Jy's crutch lower down," every such call going straight through Jy's soul, and leaving a gaping wound behind. It was no wonder, then, that with such an introduction to the hardships of the world, Mr. Jy valued most highly the sympathizing manner of his polite associates in the Polis school. He had been brought up in a region where "sir's," and "ma'ams," and "if you pleases," were sounds unheard, where every man got the plain name that his godfathers and godmothers gave him in baptism, or some neat and handy modification of that early gift, and where a naked "yes" or "no" had to decide all questions, both in law and equity. It was a most unpolished region. The uncouth inhabitants seemed determined to wrest the pronunciation of every word, as though some virtue attached to the power of vitiating sounds: only think of it—they called "water," "wetter,"—"very," "varra,"—"coward," "coord,"—"Campbell," "Camel,"—"London," "Lunnon,"—"flowers," "fluooers,"—"down," "doon,"—"ground," "grund,"—"whistle," "whussel,"—"soot," "seeat,"—"chimney," "chimla,"—"coal," "cooal;" and so on, every other word that could be twisted was sure to be wrenched. In addition to these barbarisms, they kept up a style of expression never heard in any other neighborhood; for example, if the roads were muddy, they said, "the grund is varra clarty," or "varra claggy," and a man earning four-pence ha'penny a day at breaking stones, would be described as "airnin' fowerpence ho'penny a day at brickin' steeans." They made the same havoc among the proper names, so that William became Wully; Richard, Dick, or Richy; Matthew, Mat; and Augustus, Ussa. Their contempt of all proper pronunciation was most marked, most withering. If any aspirant to respectability came to the neighborhood, and issued a card announcing that he was a merchant tailor, they would say—"hez thee seen that chep's caird? Ho coles hissel' a merchant tailor'—humph! the bit teelier body wad like to be varra fein!" And in due time our "merchant tailor" would discover that he must do as they did, or they "wadn't let'm meeake their briches, or mend their cooats."
               Yet those uncouth inhabitants were not without their virtues. They were men of clear head and warm heart. They developed slowly but surely. They were oaks not mushrooms. A southerner at ten years of age is as sharp as a needle, and will chitter chatter at an amazing speed, whereas a lad of that age in the Skulford region would run behind a hedge if he saw a lady coming who had "a bonny shole (shawl) on," or would contemplate her charms from behind a gate-post or a dykestower; and if any polite boy began to talk what he called "bonny toke" he would grin at him as a curiosity or possibly tell him he was a "feeool." And the same spirit, with varying modifications, prevailed among the elders of Skulford; yet they were a most real people, having a hearty horror of all shams and bubbles, all stucco and gilt, all starch and blacking, against the use of which they had an unwritten eleventh commandment fraught with the penalty of fire and brimstone. Offend them and they would heap coals of fire upon your head, (but not with apostolic intentions).—Win their confidence and they would fill the sacramental cup with their own blood. Altogether it was an inscrutable providence which brought the refined and discriminating Mrs. Hargreaves to a part of the world which had been left at rough ends, yet she was there, and must resign herself to the operation of a will which she couldn't avert.
               All the Hunter lads, with the exception of Mr. Jy, were brought up to the plough. The "Independence of Agriculture" was the highest sounding phase they knew, and though it never became more than a sound to them, yet it was so thoroughly interwoven with all their associations that they never cast a handful of seed into the earth without a secret hope that Pherephata would breathe upon it, and multiply it into a golden harvest. They could never surrender the conviction that there were good times in store, and would often seek to stimulate their desponding mother with the prediction that one day they would be able to keep a gig and roam about the country like gentlemen. But that shrewd woman always complained of the soil; and always had a long account against "Providence," for she had marked for many years that their thrashing machine always broke at the most unlucky moment, that if anybody had a disease among their fowls it was sure to be themselves, and that the very frost seemed to have a spite against the work of their hands. Still, the soil itself was bad to begin with, and that was the root of the mischief. Skulford farm, in particular, had evidently suffered during the search of Ceres for Proserpine, and had been maliciously avoided by Triptolemus in his endeavors to restore the fecundity of the soil. How then, could her sons be so silly as to cheat themselves with the obvious fiction that they would one day roam about the country in a gig like gentlemen? She overlooked the fact that their hopes were founded upon the genius and scholarship of Mr. Jy. He would, of course, return from Polis as a scientific agriculturist and though the crutch would be a fatal objection to his personally following the plough, yet he might sit in the intellectual chair, sway the magic sceptre of a mental monarch, avenge the malice of Triptolemus, and by the multitude and brilliance of his ideas teach the barren farm that the age of brute force had yielded to the dominion of spiritual power. Mrs. Hunter couldn't see all this. She was so utterly destitute of discrimination and refinement as not to be able to see the connection between algebra and agriculture, fluxions and foddering, mathematics and manure, classics and cow-keeping: the only Bacon she knew anything about was that which they cured in her own cellar, so that to have quoted the maxim of the lord who bore that unhappy name, would only have excited the most unpleasant reflections, without relieving the aforesaid workhouse-apprehensions. The utmost of her expectations from the genius and scholarship of Mr. Jy was that Mr. Jy would take a few boys to teach, and that his scholastic operations could be conducted in the large bedroom.
               Mrs. Hunter had a more practical method of meeting the difficulty than the round-about plan of Mr. Jy's literary and scientific acquirements. She first of all surrounded herself with a number of fundamental principles, and like a wise general conducted all her movements on a philosophical basis: in the first place, the soil was bad,—she never put this in the form of a postulate—she didn't believe in "let it be granted"—there was the fact that the soil was bad; stony, sapless, indolent soil: the next point was the rent; the soil was bad and the rent was too high, in fact if there hadn't been any rent the case would just have been met: soil and rent then were the foes; and Mrs. Hunter had her plan of attack, which was never to omit an opportunity of bringing the original depravity of the land under the personal notice of its great proprietor, Lord Clumpton, who indulged the gracious habit of calling upon his more respectable tenants once a year. On these occasions Mrs. Hunter showed the purity of her descent and the native exactness of her taste by always addressing the aristocrat as "My Lord;" she was not like Mrs. Cream on the hill-top who always brought out the "LORD" so prominently as if the grandeur of the title lay in that word, but she vividly displayed the tenderer word "My" in order to show how thoroughly she understood and valued her personal relations to his lordship. His lordship was, of course, a clear-headed, generous gentleman, who entered with intelligent sympathy into Mrs. Hunter's feelings, but who always took care to prime himself with a harmless joke before calling upon that lady, so that he might have a pretence for laughing when his slender gravity was put to the rout by her reverential and elongated "My."
               "My Lord, the soil of this farm is very bad." (Here his lordship laughed, and here Mrs. Hunter looked, not knowing what he was laughing at.)
               "Excuse me laughing, Mrs. Hunter, but I was just thinking of what little Tommy Cream told me a few minutes since; I was in there, and the little fellow came up and said—my brother hath thot suth a pretty bird, we don't know whether ith a cuckoo or a hoolet, or what it ith, but suth a pretty bird,' and the idea of his calling an owl a 'hoolet' has quite up-set me; ha, ha, ha!" off went his lordship into "suth a pretty laugh," that his tenant forgot the soil in her fit of sympathetic joy. A lord joking! It was enough to set the whole household a laughing, and even Zachariah could not, "under the circumstances," refrain from the indulgence of a most unbecoming levity. This practice was in every sense a capital joke on the part of his lordship, and especially because it saved him from the discussion of the original depravity question and any unpleasant treatment of the rent hardship. He met difficulty, you see, in a humorous manner. He did not attempt to fight his opponents with patent armor, but quietly picked up a pebble of wit out of the mouth of Tommy Cream, or Zedekiah Cheese, and floored Goliath on the very soil which the giant was about to curse. Had any one less than a lord quoted the words of Tommy Cream, Mrs. Hunter would have seized the circumstance as an illustration of what she had always said about the ill-management of his mother, both as a nurse and a teacher, and would have pronounced a malediction upon her head for permitting her children to nickname the creations of providence. But a circumstance which had charmed a lord, swept far beyond the range of her ambition as a critic.
               On Mr. Jy's return from school it was soon found that his brothers cut a very poor figure beside him in the matter of general information. Night by night, when the stabling operations were all concluded, they gathered round the one half-penny candle, which was all the protest which the Hunters ever ventured to enter against the darkness of the longest night, and wonderingly listened to Jy's discourses upon subjects too recondite and sublime for their comprehension, and greeted his eloquence with the loudest demonstrations of delight. Jy was the authority of the whole of the male-family on literary questions; it was he who was called in to decide whether "of course" or "in course" was the proper form of expression, and whether it consisted with the solemnities of grammar to assign a feminine personality to a plough, by saying "she wants sharping." While he pronounced upon those matters with the pomposity and decisiveness of a concentrated House of Lords, his proud father surveyed him through spectacles largely endowed with the power of magnifying, and gave the mother a nudge which intimated that the money had this time gone into a good soil. Mr. Jy took care that his brothers should know the course of mental discipline through which he had passed, and should understand how that he had grappled with the difficulties of arithmetic, perched himself on the apex of a triangle, and represented the unknown (that widest of all subjects) by a solitary x; but when he passed from these abstract topics and launched out in blasting denunciations upon the prevailing immorality of the farming population, he struck terror through their blood and bones by declaring his perfect hatred of all shams and his adoration of any arrangement that was "bono fido." Here was the glory of the whole! His ethics were fresh gathered from the slopes of Sinai, and to the solidities of scholarship he added the lustres of virtue. Henceforth his very crutch was venerated as the crutch of a philosopher, and had they been sure that it had been cut out of an Arcadian oak they could hardly have regarded it as more vividly symbolical of cultivation and refinement. Every farmer in the neighborhood knew the thud of that crutch, and many of them hailed it with gratitude, because it reminded them that in the chest of drawers upstairs there were tax-papers and schedules of divers kinds which Mr. Jy must fill up and sign on their behalf. Some of the farmers declared, with admiration and thankfulness, that Mr. Jy was as good as a magistrate among them, for he could turn the longest words upside down in a quick-stitch, and read off the government papers "so bonny" that they sounded "just like rhyme." One poor old farmer in particular, whose ignorance stood out like Dwhalagiri above the neighboring ranges of heathenism, was so puzzled with the various schedules, that he humbly confessed to Jy that "one was so like both he couldn't tell t' other from which," and this wrought so powerfully on Mr. Jy's tenderer feelings that he stopped to tea, made a pen out of a feather which the old man plucked out of the wing of his most elderly hen, and filled up the blanks of the formidable sheet. Jy was thus a blessing to the neighborhood; he did what every new magazine proposes to do, viz., supplied a want which had been "long and deeply felt," and so highly did he stand in the estimation of the neighboring agriculturists that most of them desisted from keeping their accounts on the back of the door by chalk-strokes, and added to their possessions a pen and ink by which the youthful scholar could commit those accounts to the more dignified form of written history.
               There was only one man in the parish who begrudged or dreaded Jy's scholarship, and he was the village preacher, whose early education had been distressingly neglected. Mr. Jy had so keen a scent for grammatical blunders that he regularly ularly went, every Sunday afternoon, to hear Mr. Chapter's sermon and take a note of his verbal inaccuracies. Mr. Jy had been so liberally educated that he could not listen to the most exalted thinking, or permit himself to be affected by the most passionate appeal, if an adverb got to the wrong side of an auxiliary verb, or a conjunction shouldered out a half-bred preposition. Jy held that if Mr. Chapter was wrong in grammar he might also be wrong in theology, and therefore he had closed his heart against every argument and entreaty which the unlearned apostle might employ. This will account for the fact that no sooner had Mr. Jy set down his crutch in the corner of his pew than he took a piece of pencil (certainly not longer than the first joint of his middle finger) and spread out an inverted envelope, and then looked most challengingly in the direction of the pulpit. And, of course, all the farmers were on Jy's side; they knew how clever he was, and though Mr. Chapter foamed at the mouth in his own defence, they clapped Jy's shoulder with the enthusiasm of a gratitude that had made up its mind not to be snuffed out. They would back Jy against the parson, and declare that they wouldn't give a "toss-up" for the latter gentleman's information. Mr. Chapter had been highly esteemed by them before Mr. Jy had come home as a scholar; but now when Mr. Jy turned up his cuffs and dared the preacher to a grammatical and philosophical combat, there wasn't a man to hold the reverend gentleman's coat, or warm his back with a hearty slap of encouragement. Before Jy's day they would have carried Mr. Chapter shoulder-high through the village, as a very monster of wit and polish; but as soon as they found that his verbs were improperly arranged, and that he cruelly placed six feminine nouns under the care of one lordly adjective, they deemed him a grammatical Mormonite, and transferred their hero to their cold shoulder. The most marked fault which Mr. Chapter committed was the misplacement of his h's. It was so glaring a fault that Mr. Jy was open at all times to lay a wager that in any one sermon the preacher would commit at least a hundred and fifty mistakes. No sooner would the unhappy man say "heach and hall" than Jy's head would be down; and when, on one occasion, Mr. Chapter so far forgot himself as to say "dust and hashes," Jy couldn't help snorting, as he committed the blunder to the custody of those solemn jailers, Black and White. Poor Mr. Chapter knew by report that "Revenge is sweet," and he became wishful to put the accuracy of that report to the test. But how? He was not wanting in mother-wit, but in so delicate a case he might, by throwing in an h or two irregularly, dim the brightest flash of that revengeful mother, and expose himself to bitterer scorn. He could, therefore, do nothing better than wait. He believed in a day of retribution, and purposed that when he did get the sword it should fall somewhere in the neighborhood of Jy's head. Mr. Chapter was preaching with even more than usual fervor, on one of his favorite subjects, and in one of the most triumphant bursts of eloquence he so thrillingly appealed to mothers to bring their sons to the "haltar" that Jy had to stuff his worsted gloves into his mouth to keep back the loud laugh of derision. It was an unlucky hour for Jy. The indignant preacher, whose blood was a-fire with eloquence, turned towards him with a look that might have withered the pomp of Lebanon, and said: "Hit his very well for some people to think themselves very clever, but hI would remind them that long before to-day han Hass saw han hangel where a prophet saw nothing." This well-merited and well-paid compliment to the solitary talking donkey made Jy glad to seize his crutch as soon as the Amen was pronounced, and hasten home to anoint his wounds in secret.
               This time the farmers were somewhat taken aback. They could relish an argument in which an ass formed the central figure; but two or three of the more benevolent, who were not able to fill up their own schedules without Jy's help, were inclined to pity his misfortune; and assuming the high ground of mercy, they suggested that it was hardly fair to run over a lame lad with a donkey. They could have stood by and seen him devoured by a lion—they could have watched an alligator gulp him, crutch and all—but to see him trampled upon by a Hebrew donkey, by a quadruped Jew, awoke at once their injured nationality and their native compassion. Jy never forgot his encounter with Balaam's ass, and never forgave Mr. Chapter for the ruin of his fame. Ever after, the sound of Jy's crutch was waited for in vain on a Sunday afternoon; Mr. Chapter was left to maltreat the h's, and the question of superiority was left open by the farmers in all their debates upon the relative merits of the preacher and the pedant.
               Mr. Jy's attendance upon Mr. Chapter's ministry had not resulted in the acquisition of great biblical or theological information, but as he was marked by considerable originality and independence of thought, he assumed the responsibility of proclaiming his own interpretations of the more abstruse language and doctrines of Holy Writ. His brothers, through a very pardonable partiality, attached infinitely greater importance to Mr. Jy's system of hermeneutics than to the rambling, chaotic, amorphous un-system of the illiterate Mr. Chapter, and consequently brought all their biblical difficulties to the lame philosopher who (to his credit be it spoken) had always on hand an explanation of everything. He had a philosophical habit of reading the lore of the Past, in the strong light of contemporaneous events; he held that "Now" is the dictionary which alone can explain "Then," and in admirable consistency with this view, he solved the enigmas of history and science. Having been reared under a most frugal dispensation, he naturally associated the ancient expression—"Economy of Grace—with some of his own mother's temperate habits; as for instance, when she put one nob of sugar into his tea when she knew that his palate regarded four as the pet figure,—and having himself been brought up in a large family of males, he explained to his pagan brothers that "Arcturus and his sons" referred to an old man who had more children on his hands than he well knew how to find wives for. Mr. Jy was further in the habit of contending with great zeal that the word Ararat was mis-spelt, and he supported this opinion by a theory which may account for many of the misnomers which disfigure the social nomenclature of the current century. Jy affirmed that when the Ark, (usually called Noah's ark, though it is supposed that the hippopotamus and the cricket had a personal interest in it as well as Noah) suddenly struck against a certain hill-top, that Noah was beguiling the wet weather by re-naming the animals, and just at that particular moment, he was saying to one of them, U, ar, a, rat, and that this circumstance induced him to wish the hill to go (as if a hill could go anywhere!) down to posterity, bearing on its noble head that somewhat ignoble designation. This view of the subject quite charmed the ploughing part of the family. There was such an air of likelihood about it, that all the brothers warmly declared—"it stood to reason," and if once they were convinced that a thing stood to "reason," they would stand by that thing forever. They believed in "reason;" they laid it down as a fundamental principle that the eye was the only organ of vision, and that to walk by "faith" was the likeliest of all methods of walking into the ditch.
               After the unhappy collision with Mr. Chapter, it was observed that not only was Mr. Jy compelled to wear medal number two, instead of medal number one, but that his views of right and wrong had undergone slight modifications which awoke quite a fluttering in the breasts of those who had formerly intrusted their schedules to him for filling up. It was even observed that his crutch did not beat quite so regularly and musically on the macadamized roads, and that his whistling took a somewhat wider range than formerly. It was not without alarm that his pachydermous brothers noticed a little declension in the moral region, their alarm principally arising from a fear that Mr. Jy might so arrange the family accounts as to cause more pocket-money to fall to his own share than rightfully belonged to him. This was a point on which they could no more live by faith than they could exist on arsenic and strychnine. Their fears deepened into terror, and actually sweltered into agony, when, on one occasion, Jy became so excited with the general affairs of life that he declared, after thumping the table with the palm of his left hand, that immorality and immortality were the same thing to a t!
               
               When the affecting circumstance was confidentially brought under the notice of the parents, Zachariah indirectly blamed Mr. Chapter for his savage attack on the young lad; and Mrs. Hunter, after carefully looking at the statement in all possible aspects, quietly begged that the thing might never be mentioned out of their own house.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THE HAUNTED HOUSE.
               ENOUGH of Mrs. Hargreaves has been seen to justify the conclusion that she was a sharp, gifted, ready-tongued, and, in many respects, weak-minded lady. The briefest period spent in her sober society was sufficient to prove how thoroughly polite and agreeable she could be, even to those who had no special claim on her courteous attention. Under other circumstances, however, she had a fatal gift of uttering words which made the whole household quail: so long as her inflammable nature was confined within the grate of conventionality, it radiated a most comfortable warmth, but if once that grate was removed it involved the entire establishment in flames. Her sentences were balls of fire—her glances were forked lightning—her passion was madness! Alas, for the frippery of poor Refinement in that unholy hour! How wildly its silken robe was thrown into rags can be understood by those only who have seen the gentle lady under the concurrent influence of brandy and contradiction,—she then showed how extremes could meet—how the lamb-like lady could spring into a merciless tiger. Persons who have a taste for rough sports could not have a finer opportunity for gratifying their passion than a meeting between Mrs. Hargreaves and Mrs. Tweddle would afford. They should be placed together in a jungle, far from the carpeted and cushioned haunts of civilization, to inaugurate among lions and tigers a fiercer, savager combat than is known by the wild rangers of the forest. Two women fighting! Two ladies planning an attack upon each other's eyes! Two lovely, gentle creatures clawing each other's hair, and spitting poison with mad energy down each other's throat! That is a sight for taming a tiger,—the meaner blood-bibbers might shrink abashed and ashamed from the sight of such civilized inhumanity, such jewelled and silked diabolism. Talk of Mr. Hargreaves, indeed! He was confessedly rough and heapish in his untutored talk, and could say most ugly and unendurable things, but as contrasted with Mrs. Hargreaves, his talk was a rill of milk and honey replying to a cataract of gall, or worm-wood, or vitriol, or—fire! No one knew the inequality of the combat better than did Mr. Hargreaves himself. He kept a sharp look-out on the domestic barometer, and as he knew too well the faintest premonition of a storm, he prudently arranged his (unnecessary) business-journeys so as to be at a comfortable distance from the Holly in the time of thundering and lightning. In the overflowing of our Christian pity we bemoan the condition of those who, in ancient time, were said to be "possessed with devils," and we freely congratulate each other that no such "possessions" torment or distract the later births of the ages;—but do we thus utter words of wisdom? What do our teachers mean, when they declare that the demons are not now permitted to enter into men, and afflict them with grievous maladies? Have we not been too sensuous in our notions of the diabolic tenants? When a devil is said to have "gone out" of a heart; do we not instinctively represent to ourselves a black, hideous, frightful personality, somewhat between a beast and a man,—and watch him moving away step by step? But demoniacal possession must have some profounder meaning than we get from such sensuous representation. When a human being loses the majesty of self-control in temper or in appetency, that being is under diabolic dominion; he whose heart is cankered or burnt by envy, jealousy, revenge, is truly "possessed of a devil,"—he, whose foul appetites give him no rest, but are ever urging him to deeper draughts of unlawful indulgence, may be a man whose cloth makes a way for him in respectable society, but under that cloth there is a grinning, festering, soul-murdering demon. Mrs. Hargreaves was undoubtedly "possessed." It was the dominion of a very legion of devils under which she writhed and trembled in her paroxysms of anger. But we need not unduly anticipate this phase of the lady's character; we had better linger while we may on that side of the hill where the birds sing, and the violets bloom.
               We are to join the party at tea. Hardly had the family assembled, when Mr. Hargreaves (having had a pleasant day in the city) assumed his jolliest expression of countenance, and opened a conversational vein of some interest—
               "Well, Benjamin, have you finished that private writing of yours? Some woman in the wind, I guess."
               "My dear," said Mrs. Hargreaves, knowing that she was in the presence of one who could appreciate her discrimination and refinement, "you have just said that the writing was private; I do hope, therefore, that you are too gentlemanly to wish to intrude into the secrecy of Mr. Dudgeon's heart."
               "Thank you, ma'am," said Ben, warmly.
               "Hang 'gentlemanly," said the host, "I never did see such a woman as you are, Ada, for gabbling about 'gentlemanly': you've seen enough of the Hargreaves, I should think, to know that there's nothing sniftering and namby-pamby about them;—straight for'rd, that's what I like."
               Mrs. Hargreaves had an excellent opportunity of throwing a ball of fire at her husband here, but the sweet remembrance of her sympathetic communion with Benjamin appeared to hold her in most beautiful and charming restraint.
               "So do I like 'straight forward' in a right cause, Mr. Hargreaves, but I call your suggestion a crooked one."
               ("Another nail gone home," Ben whispered, just as he was about to drain his cup.)
               "Aye, it is cruckt," said Mr. Hargreaves, "it is that, hussever, and I'll diffy any man to make a suggestion that isn't cruckt, if there's a woman in the subject; that is, ye know, if he would be consistent with the question, d'ye see?—Now, I say, Ben, wasn't there something about a woman in that private writing of yours? Don't answer without it suits you,—all in good fellowship, you know, only I thought the wife would like to know how you——," Mr. Hargreaves nodded, and said, "you know what I mean."
               Mrs. Hargreaves could bear these references to a "woman" with perfect composure, because her discrimination had penetrated the real secret of the subject; but for that circumstance her suspicions might have been thrown into a state of alarm at the possibility of being deprived of Ben's refined society.
               "I'm surprised, Mr. Hargreaves, that you have no higher discrimination," the lady answered, but with a playful pleasantness which showed her secret conviction that he could not start a fox out of that particular cover.
               "'Surprised'?" said Hargreaves, "why, I thought your 'surprise' about me had gone out like a candle-snot."
               "My dear! your figures are not at all agreeable—"
               "That's what all debtors say," Hargreaves interrupted; "but I suppose that unless discrimination be born in a man, it can never be planted."
               ("That nail is home," said Ben, as before.)
               "No, that it cannot," said Hargreaves, laughing his spectra laugh, "or you would have stuffed it into me long since, my old woman, but it was no go, eh?—I say, Ben, she'd have matched your old governor,—him wi' 'conscience,' and her with 'discrimination'—confound me, I hate these long words that you have to have a railway across."
               Ben saw that the door of Mrs. Hargreave's vanity was ajar, and he gracefully popped in—
               "Yes, sir; but I feel bound to say, if Mrs. Hargreaves will kindly excuse me (I could say more, and say it more freely, if she was not present), that Mrs. Hargreaves does, at all times, evince a discrimination which shows her to be as true a philos opher as she is a perfect lady."
               "Thank you, Dudgeon, thank you, bravo! for your compliment to my taste! heh, heh, heh. I was determined, when I went into the garden a second time, to pull a bonny un, and there she is! And still she keeps on saying that her husband has no discrimination! Why, she's a witness to the contrary! I think if a fellow goes to the fair and buys a downright good horse, that he's a downright good judge; and so, if a fellow can marry so much discrimination as I have married, all in a ump, he must have the usual number of eyes in his head."
               This way of looking at the subject "stood to reason," as the ploughing Hunters would say, and evidently required to be examined in various lights before a proper answer could be returned, but so much time was being consumed in the examination, that Mr. Hargreaves took an opportunity of pronouncing judgment on his own wit—
               "I think I've got the right pig by the lug," said he.
               Whether to meet this vulgarism with the chilling rebuke of silence, or to explode into laughter, there was not time to consider. Nature sometimes supersedes the little ladders of reasoning by which we scale "the height of a great argument," and this was one of the cases in which she was pleased to do so. The allusion was so unique, so unexpected, and so manifold in its possible applications, that Ben indulged in a fit of laughter which amply repaid the host for his perilous dash at the highest order of wit. Refinement, too, was taken by storm; being caught, not by the genius of Mr. Hargreaves, but by the fury of Ben's contagious laughter, and therefore she laughed because he laughed, while neither of them knew the exact relation in which the witty host intended "the pig" to stand.
               "Come, now, Ben," said he, "do tell us about this wench."
               There seemed to be no escape from the governor, so Ben said—"If it will at all gratify you, Mr. Hargreaves, to know the purport of my private writing, my tongue is quite at your service—"
               ("How very polite," Mrs. Hargreaves whispered to Emily.)
               "But I should rather turn to some other subject of more general interest."
               "Fire away, Ben, fire away! and I'll pledge the ladies to be the best listeners of the lot,—and mind ye, they can discriminate." Mr. Hargreaves fixed his eye on a point equi-distant between Mrs. Hargreaves and Emily, and nodded a nod which was intended for equal division.
               Before accepting the invitation to "fire away," Ben had a condition of some importance to hint at—
               "May I ask, though, Mr. Hargreaves, whether you are prepared for unpleasant disclosures?"
               The inquiry naturally startled the company into great wonder der and excitement. Mrs. Hargreaves assumed the expression of unutterable surprise. Was she about to be exposed? Had a deep-laid scheme been devised for the revelation of her true character? Had she been the unsuspecting victim of one of Octavius's infernal machinations? In a moment of terror, her misgiving heart shot up these piercing questions, and withered her usual strength. She fixed her eye upon Octavius, then flashed it upon Benjamin, and then penetrated poor, shrinking Emily, who always dreaded that word "unpleasant."
               "I'm prepared,—fire away!" said Hargreaves. "But," said Ben amid breathless silence, "are you prepared for disclosures which may disturb your domestic arrangements? The question is too delicate to be trifled with."
               "Good God!" Mrs. Hargreaves exclaimed, "whatever can have happened? Mr. Dudgeon do be careful!"
               "Ben!" was all that Emily said and Octavius took no farther notice than to twirl a knife round, and then look at a pamphlet which he had brought from town.
               Go on, Dudgeon,—what on earth are you hinting at? I'm prepared for anything—I suppose you think of marrying, and leaving us, eh?"
               "Well sir, you have urged the subject, or I don't think I should have named it yet, but the fact is I have suffered a martyrdom, but I've suffered in silence——"
               "Just the way in which refinement always suffers," said the lady, still unrecovered from fear.
               "A martyrdom?" said Emily.
               Octavius didn't say anything, but quietly looked at Ben's broad flat shoulders to see if the martyrdom had taken any effect there, and his observation appears to have been quite satisfactory for he relapsed into pamphlet-reading without any apparent difficulty; still, Mrs. Hargreaves with her usual discrimination, noted the fact, that though Octavius had been professedly reading, he had overheard the word "martyrdom," and (guilty people being always suspicious) she regarded this as a presumption that the deep-laid scheme was taking a turn which he hadn't expected, and consequently had looked up in order to remind Ben that there was a certain line in which he should proceed. Mr. Hargreaves had, of course, no such thoughts or suspicions; he heard the word "martyrdom," and was now on the outlook for the martyr, that led him to say—
               "A martyrdom, Dudgeon? Why it must be a very milk and water sort, if I know anything about martyrdom."
               "Exactly my dear," said Mrs. Hargreaves, "but you see that 'if' stands between you and a fuller comprehension of the subject; you are not remarkable for sensitiveness on some points, though on others your sensitiveness is a little too refined,—a refined mind may be suffering a martyrdom upon a subject which might not take the slightest effect upon you."
               "There may be a point in that, missus; but my opinion is that 'martyrdom' would hash any of us up, refined or not refined, missus;—jingo, I can tell you 'martyrdom' is a fire that 'ud nip the best of us up into a cinder in less time than you can crack a whip."
               "Don't go on, Ben," said Emily with winning softness, "tell me about it, bye and bye."
               "I do trust, Mr. Dudgeon will be careful what subject he is about to introduce, yet," said Mrs. Hargreaves, "I do feel the most perfect confidence in his taste and judgment, so that if it would at all relieve the awful feelings which he has endured it may be well that he should now be heard,—don't you see that, dear Emily?"
               "Yes, ma'am; but the subject appears to be so awful that I think it would be better for me to hear it alone before it be mentioned in a company." Emily prided herself in the fact that Ben had always sought her confidence, and that her gentle loving heart was positively crammed with all sorts of things which didn't properly belong to herself, but which Ben had trustingly placed there. Her anxiety in this instance, turned upon the fact that Mrs. Hargreaves and Ben had been closetted for at least two hours, and what had transpired in that closetting had not yet been transferred to the said crammed heart.
               "The case, Em," said Ben, "is one in which you are not personally concerned, so you needn't flutter; you know that I never keep any secrets from you, bonny dove, eh?"
               
               Mrs. Hargreaves winced, and intimated by looks that her discrimination was not charmed with the beauty of any such arrangement; Emily looked gratefully pretty as her clear blue eyes shone wildly above the pure blushes which mantled on her young cheeks; and Mr. Hargreaves assumed an impatient and defiant expression of face—
               "Do go on, Dudgeon," said he, "the ladies are protesting and quibbling and coaxing, yet all the time they are dying to know what it's all about,—go on, I tell ye."
               Ben cleared his throat and said, "Well sir,"—then cleared it again, and put himself into a more erect position on his chair, and said "Well sir." Here there was a dead stop for a moment, and finally Ben (being by nature somewhat oratorical) sprang to his feet and said—"Well sir, I cannot bear it any longer—the plain matter of fact is I have been writing to an acquaintance this afternoon to try to get me another situation for—(and, Mrs. Hargreaves, I grieve to say it in your presence)—this house is haunted!"
               "This house haunted?" was the general exclamation again and again repeated as though each was urging a question on the other. In this commotion Octavius took no part. He didn't even look up from his pamphlet for more than half a moment, and then there passed over his face the faintest possible smile, which was excited more by the wonder than by what was wondered at. Ben fixed a rigid look upon the mantle-piece clock as if he needed some time for self-recovery after giving existence to so important an announcement.
               "Nothing of the sort," cried Hargreaves, "my father lived here, and his father lived here, and we never heard nothing nor see'd nothing—haunted? Tut, man, ye're mad: no, no, the ghosts and the Hargreaves 'ud soon part company."
               "Sorry to oppose you, Mr. Hargreaves, very sorry, you know if it had been a question in business I shouldn't have whispered after you had given an opinion, but in this case, I can only say, that if you'll share my bed to night your hair will be as white as Mrs. Hargreave's hand in the morning."
               For once in her life-time Mrs. Hargreaves found herself in water which she couldn't bottom. That there should have been anything in that house of an apparitional nature—aught hazy, misty, gusty, shapeless, and ghostly in that house—aught that passes lightly by, and yet, in its passing, causes the marrow of the strongest man to harden into iron, or frizzle into oil,—aught that solidifies the blood into a substance harder than the diamond which glittered on her snowy hand—was a reflection which threw all her notions of propriety into complete disorder, from the fact that her million-eyed discrimination had utterly failed to anticipate Ben's discovery. She dare not, however, commit herself to an opposite opinion because that policy would place her in antagonism with Ben, and might end in exploding her reputation for supernatural sagacity. She wisely concluded, therefore, to keep her mind in a receptive state until sufficient evidence was at hand to enable her to chose that side of the case which she could occupy to the greatest advantage. Ben looked at her with a view of ascertaining how far this "nail" had "gone home," and was proud to observe that its very head was buried. Then he examined Mr. Hargreaves's condition, and found that the master was fully committed to a foregone conclusion, and resolutely determined to abide by it until Dudgeon established his words in a business-like manner. His face testified to his disbelief by an expression of scorn for all ghosts in general, and this hobgoblin in particular. Then too, he had his reassuring laugh at command: under its merry he, he, he, ha, ha, ha, he, he, all the principalities and powers of ghostdom collapsed, and the timid little Emily felt her courage coming back at full speed into her palpitating heart. Mr. Hargreaves persisted in crying—"ghosts?" "ghosts?" "who believes in ghosts now-a-days?" accompanying each inquiry with a tone of derision far deeper than genuine bravery ever employs. He was too heroic to be a hero.
               "What is't like?" "Tell us what you have seen?" "Does it come in the day-time?" "Is it like a man or a woman?" and many other interrogatories mingled with appropriate exclamations were freely flung at Ben, who felt a growing certainty that, notwithstanding the splendid defiance of his master, he had sent a red-hot ball into the magisterial heart. He held his peace for a moment, having a pretty correct idea of the power of a well-placed pause. Ghosts are naturally fond of silence, and a well-regulated silence naturally befits the rehearsal of a man's encounter with spiritual enemies.
               "I can tell you well enough," Ben said at length, "what it is like; I'm too familiar with it to require much time in order to find a proper description, and I may say I shouldn't have borne with the thing for a week, if it hadn't been for the sake of Emily."
               Ben looked at Emily with a sublime fraternal affection, with the intention of showing that she was under more obligations than she had taken account of; and Emily in her turn looked at Ben with a sublime sisterly gratitude, which shone gloriously from under the veil of wonder which overshadowed her sweet countenance. Hargreaves kept his eye steadily fixed on Ben, determined to discover whether Ben was reading out of the book of Imagination, or out of the book of Fact, his heroism not having lifted him quite out of the levels of doubt; and as he looked at Ben's immovable features, and heard Ben's unwilling sigh, any one accustomed to read the hieroglyphics of a human face could see that surprise was settling into doubt, and doubt just trembling on the brink of fear, especially as Ben proceeded, amid breathless silence, to say—
               "I can hardly lie down sometimes (for it isn't always alike) until flashes of various colors—like a discharge of brilliant fire-works—are seen flying about the room; and something which isn't exactly a figure, but a sort of shadow, passes swiftly to the wash-stand, and as it passes it makes a sound like the waving of a large fan, and then there commences such a splashing just as if fifty people might all be washing their hands at the same moment, and it goes on splashing, splashing, until, I should think, about midnight, and then it ceases all at once,—all at once there's a dead silence; and I can tell you, Mr. Hargreaves, though you have given me the lie, that I've listened to it until the perspiration has streamed out of me, and I seemed to be lying in a pool—I've drenched as many as twelve pocket-handkerchiefs in one night,—the shadow never came very near the bed—never looked particularly larly at me—in fact, never seemed to know that there was any one in the room, but——"
               Mrs. Hargreaves was visibly trembling; she looked with terrible anxiety towards her wonder-bound husband who, poor mortal! was utterly unable to express himself, having no more control over his ashy lips than he had over the awful apparition itself. Mrs. Hargreaves also turned a specially discriminating eye upon Mr. Octavius who was as much absorbed in the affair as any man who didn't believe a word of it could be expected to be, and this circumstance suggested to the lady that somehow, directly or indirectly, he was the mainspring of this horrible business: she had always thought that a judgment would befall the house, when such a silent, moping, melancholy person was in it, and now that he was calm, when all the family was excited, was proof more than sufficient to confirm her worst suspicions. She knew nothing as to how there could be any connection between Octavius and the invisible world, nor was it any business of hers to discover the secret;—it was enough to know that a judgment had befallen the house, and that he was the cause of the dreadful calamity. Emily changed her seat, and coming next to Ben put her hands round his arm, and by her loving glances told him how she pitied the sufferings which he had patiently and silently endured.
               As Ben had an eager audience, he continued—"It is more distinct at some times than at others; now there was only last night, I wish Mr. Hargreaves had been with me, he wouldn't have looked so calm now"—(poor Hargreaves was anything but calm)—"as he does; first of all there was a very little face in the air, just in front of the bed, I'm sure it wasn't bigger than one eye of your spectacles, sir, when I first saw it,—then it widened and widened and widened, and reddened and reddened and reddened, and its eyes shone like white balls of fire—and then it grinned such a grin—its mouth seemed to go back to its ears, and its tongue was like a long sharp rod, with a thickish vein of a blue color running right along its under side, which seemed to me to be poison, and I shook, and covered myself up, for fear the poison should be spurted at me!—Then in a moment it contracted into the same little face, and the next moment the washing began with greater fury than ever, and I thought I should be drowned—O, dear!"—and Ben put his arm around Emily, saying at the same time, "truth's truth."
               "O brother," Emily said, "let us leave this place, and go a begging;—you shan't, you shan't sleep there again!"
               "Dear, dear," Mrs. Hargreaves exclaimed, and darted fiery and vengeful glances at the head of Octavius, who sat unmoved.
               "Nothing more? Mr. Dudgeon, I hope," she then said. "O yes, ma'am, plenty more, but I think enough has been said to show that Mr. Hargreaves gave me the lie rather too flatly."
               "Yes, indeed," Mrs. Hargreaves replied.
               "The most regular thing," Ben continued, "is music; every night there's sure to be music, and such music I never heard, though I've heard your music, Em, and that's as good as any mortal can play: nobody can tell where the sounds come from; sometimes I think they come from one corner and sometimes from another, but the tunes are always beautiful."
               "Very good," said Hargreaves, whose courage had recovered slightly from the effects of the first shock, "I have a taste for good music, so I'll share your bed to-night, and if my hair is grey in the morning you shall have a day's holiday."
               During the remainder of the evening it was impossible to introduce any other subject than the ghost, though Mr. Hargreaves made two or three unusual attempts to provoke his wife into a happy mood; and once actually, he did what he had never been known to do, that is to say, he began to whistle! The whistling wouldn't take, however, for in spite of it the whole party, as if by common consent, drew closely together, and endless wonderings were expressed. Other ghost stories were rehearsed, and notes of visions were minutely compared. Mrs. Hargreaves was well versed in the ghost lore of the West of England, and every thing she could remember tended most curiously to confirm the probability of Ben's literal accuracy. Even Emily, innocent little witch, had recollections of tales in the same department, which went at once in the same direction, and helped to render the assault on the master's fortitude more certainly successful.
               "I think," said he, "you cannot have made all this up, Dudgeon, and yet for the life of me I cannot see how it can be true."
               "But haven't any of you heard noises in the house?" Ben inquired, with all possible innocence.
               "No," said Hargreaves, "never! never so much as the switch of a rat's tail."
               "Stop, there! my husband," said Mrs. Hargreaves, "I've had occasion to tell you before that you don't hear everything; now, Mr. Hargreaves, you have given Mr. Dudgeon the lie, but he, with characteristic refinement, has not resented the injury, and now I can tell you that only this very day I heard noises from that identical room which made me tingle from head to foot."
               Hargreaves couldn't make headway against collateral evidence. The bullet struck his courage on the head, and tumbled it into the mud.
               "I never heard noises,—never," was all he could say.
               "But you know the history of the place well enough," said Mrs. Hargreaves, "and if you will look back, you may easily see whether anything has been done in the family to account for such things."
               "If any thing has been done, it has been done since you came, Mrs. Hargreaves, so you had better look back, and see if your doings have been all square," was the husband's reply to this challenge to review the family history.
               "I thought this painful matter might have an unhappy effect on your domestic arrangements," said Ben, "and that made me unwilling to introduce it, but now that the thing is plainly before us, I should certainly advise Mr. Hargreaves to look back and familiarise himself with the real state of things."
               Mr. Hargreaves was never much disposed to encourage the habit of retrospection. He liked to live in what he called "this present time," and let "by-gones be by-gones." He had no idea of raking up the dust of the dead and subjecting it to any chemical analysis with a view of ascertaining exactly what kind of stuff the Hargreaveses had been made of. He had the general impression that from the time of Adam they had been as good as most people, and better than a good many, and that they were never so much as a Sunday's dinner in anybody's debt. He didn't know, he said, that there had ever been a parson in the family, but he knew that there had never been a lawyer, and that was a circumstance which any family might be proud to refer to.
               By degrees Mr. Hargreaves was led into a recital of the domestic narrative, and had Mr. Dudgeon the elder been present he would have seen the workings of conscience to his heart's content. Conscience went into the cemetery of the Past, and in reply to the ringing peal of its trumpet there was a resurrection which stiffened the limbs of every auditor. Forgotten years breathed again, and many vanished events stood forth in terrible distinctness of outline. The historian himself became fascinated with the theme, and expressed many a wonder as he penetrated the family vaults and inquired of each departed one the explanation of the business which Ben had introduced. Particularly did he express wonder at the tenacity and vividness of his own recollections. So plainly did every event face him that he seemed to be but recalling the history of yesterday, and this fact worked so powerfully on his superstition that he was on the point of confessing that after all there might be a shadow of truth in what Ben had said. That night Mrs. Hargreaves got more information about "the Hargreaves" than she really cared to acquire. She found that for generations they had been a money-making family, and in one or two cases she thought the money had been made by processes which no conscientious sun would for a moment think of shining upon. She heard also that one of the sons of the first Hargreaves that had ever lived at the Holly had concealed a child in one of the attics, and by bribing a servant had clandestinely kept it there for some months—who or what the child was, or what eventually became of him, Mr. Hargreaves was quite unable to state. The revelation couldn't but excite the lady's suspicions, and whenever those suspicions were fully aroused she fixed a penetrating look upon Mr. Octavius, as though all kinds of for-bodings had a natural right to look in that direction. Mr. Hargreaves, now fairly in motion, couldn't forbear going on and telling all he knew; step by step he steadily advanced until he reached the period of the late Mrs. Hargreave's illness and death, and the moment he stepped on that hallowed ground, poor Octavius covered his face with his hands and wept in silence. Hargreaves was not the man to manage a point of this kind very delicately; he regarded Octy's tears as a compliment to his own pathos, and therefore dwelt upon all the particulars with a most harrowing minuteness. He said that his first wife died in that very room that Ben had, and that on the night of her death she laid certain charges upon him which he had neglected to fulfil, and that she spoke of seeing a vision of angels and hearing the most enchanting music, and seeing a countless number of happy beings robed in garments of the purest white, and marching on and on from brightness to brightness till they veiled their faces and fell down before the wounded feet of their Most Glorious Leader. He told, also, how she had asked for Octy to be brought very near to her, that she might lay her hands upon him and pray for him, and that she said he wouldn't be very long in joining her in the temple-city and enjoying the felicities of heavenly life.
               "Didn't she, Octy, my boy?" said he, wishing to be confirmed as a truthful historian; but Octy's words were sunk under the billows of a great woe.
               Poor Mr. Hargreaves became quite melted himself in passing the old days in review; once or twice he called upon his big laugh to prove that he knew well enough where he was, but his laugh played false with him, by only shaking the big tears off his eyelids and rolling them down the cheeks which had never been deeply channelled by the streams of grief.
               The narrative, so unlooked for, and yet so naturally in place, 'considerably changed the mood of the whole party. Every brick and beam in the dwelling seemed to have a voice, and every ear was quickened to hear what the voices were uttering. Mrs. Hargreaves put all the particulars very carefully together, and as her discrimination enabled her to see quite as much in Mr. Hargreave's manner as in his words, she mingled the spoken and the unspoken in one cup, and obtained results which looked so much like crime that she couldn't repress the fear that after all an avenging hand might have been thrust into her abode, and that in spite of her refinement and discrimination the end would be marked by terrible disasters.
               "That part about the hidden child explains something to me," said Ben.
               "Indeed!" said Mrs. Hargreaves.
               "What is that?" Emily said, pressing in very closely to Ben's side.
               "I never could make out about that child before," Ben continued, "but now I see a glimmer of explanation. I have told you already that the appearances are not the same every night, but I forgot to tell you that very often I see a little child with black eyes and long black hair, as if its head had gone into eternal mourning for a lost mother—and only the other night I felt as if I had that child in my arms, and when I grasped it the little thing seemed to be in awful agony, and something just like flakes of snow kept falling off it. I never saw such a sight in my life——"
               Emily put her arm round Ben's waist, and looked awfully frightened.
               Mrs. Hargreaves looked at Mr. Octavius, and said, in the language of the eye, "You see what you have brought upon us."
               "I could hardly attend to business the day after," Ben said, "my arms ached so awfully, for though it was quite a little thing, it seemed to be as heavy as lead, and its convulsions made it so difficult to hold;—I knew well enough that I hadn't had the child literally in my arms, but the sensations were just the same as if I had been trying to nurse it."
               "Now, how on earth can that be," said Mr. Hargreaves, "how can a man feel his arms aching, with something that he never did?—There! Ben, you have put yourself out at last!"
               "Ah, sir," said Ben, with a fine round tone of compassion, "you take a superficial—"
               On hearing the word "superficial" Mrs. Hargreaves shook herself, as an expression of mingled horror and disdain.
               "View of the question; there is, sir, let me tell you, a subtle and mysterious connection between psychology and physiology,—a continual inter-action between the dominating mind and the servile body, and that which you flippantly treat as an impossibility, is one of the most striking illustrations of that great fact."
               Mr. Hargreaves, being now "out of business," was in that undiscovered isle, named, by Benjamin in his interview with Mrs. Hargreaves, "the Lord knows where;" and he looked as though the "aching" might have come into the world on the back of philosophy, but had certainly not travelled by any of the ordinary carriers, among whom he had a pretty extensive business-acquaintance. Mrs. Hargreaves quickly saw that her undiscriminating husband was not on his feet, and as she knew of no other alternative than that he must be on his back, she resigned herself to the conclusion that the agile wrestler had destroyed the perpendicularity of his master, or rather his employer, and had, like herself, flung him in the mud in pledge of victory. A period of wondering silence ensued, in which Mrs. Hargreaves shook her foot, as usual, in times of excitement, and in a few moments suffered a severe nervous shock by a second attempt at whistling on the part of Mr. Hargreaves. The master had a strong persuasion that whistling was the only effectual mode of disenchantment, and that unmusical whistling, in particular, was eminently adapted to make a strong impression on ghosts who practised a high order of execution in the article called music. Mr. Hargreave's whistle was singularly unrefined,—it was a kind of hoarse blurr,—a sort of asthmatic bellows-blowing,—a kind of spiteful puff in the face of the whole universe of melody; in short, it was a perfect contrast to the kind of whistling which Mrs. Hargreaves deemed fit to be heard in select society, and calculated rather to excite the vengeance of the spiritual world, than to allay and pacify the tenants of the air. At the time when she was startled by the first note, Mrs. Hargreaves had passed from a slight expansion of Ben's psychological argument, to a concrete view of the whole subject, the upshot of which was a direct appeal to the suspected origin of this traffic in hobgoblins.
               "Well, Octavius,—"
               Octavius quite started on hearing his own name from such lips, the fact being that Mrs. Hargreaves had not spoken to him for many months.
               "You have sat very quietly while this exciting question has been under consideration; pray, let me ask what you have to say on the subject?"
               Octavius looked at her with eyes yet dim with filial tears, and replied: "We are under God's dominion; he who trusts, has peace."
               "Singular answer, Octavius," Mrs. Hargreaves said.
               "Slightly clerical," Ben added, in a subdued tone.
               "We are not in quest of a theological view of the subject,—are we?" said Mrs. Hargreaves, turning the question upon Ben.
               "No, ma'am; theology once a week is as much as my digestion can manage,—in fact, it always gives me the heart-burn."
               "Can you cast any light upon the subject? Mrs. Hargreaves continued, addressing Octavius.
               "Not such light as you would like, ma'am: God ruleth in the heavens, and all spirits are his servants,—they fly or rest, at his bidding."
               "Well, sir," said Mrs. Hargreaves, "I never had any satisfaction in talking to you, and I never shall."
               "Never;" said Ben, with the air of a prophet.
               Emily, however, was of a different opinion; Octavius's words fell soothingly on her heart, and touched chords which had long been silent.
               "Will God protect us to-night?" said she, anxious to bring all doctrines to a practical bearing.
               "If we trust him," was the short reply.
               Octavius here imported an element into the conversation which was quite novel in every discussion which took place at The Holly. The inhabitants of that dwelling had no God, except a kind of painted deity which they tried to look at for about half an hour on a fine Sunday morning, while they listened to the clergyman's "beautiful sermons,"—all the sermons being "beautiful" to Mrs. Hargreaves, whose idea of preaching was that it should let her manage her own wine-cellar, and attend to her own tastes, without trying to play any tune on the organ of her conscience. No: these Holly people had no God. Their universe, too, was very small,—and the evening and the morning were the boundaries of their brief eternity. They recognized no Central Power,—had no particular opinions upon the Creation in which they lived,—accounted their drawing-room infinitely more important than the celestial canopy—never interrogated a single star—never asked the sea to tell the secret which agitated its unresting breast—saw no covenant written on the rainbow—heard no music in the sanctuary of silence—had no creed to live by, that could keep their heads above a flood—and looked upon death as a rough kind of process by which man accomplished his return journey to nothing. They were, consequently, just the people to fall into bondage to superstition, and become the dupes of any crafty or selfish joker. Octavius's sudden projection of a theological view of the subject will at once explain how a lady mentally constituted as was Mrs. Hargreaves, could never find any "satisfaction" in talking to such an impracticable thinker: why, in her estimation, theology itself was but a cloaked ghost,—the very word had something about it from which human nerves instinctively shrunk, and if men had not made a trade of expounding it, she certainly would not have tolerated such a word in her establishment.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               SEEING'S BELIEVING.
               MR. HARGREAVES being "out of business," was unable to pursue any subject of thought very persistently, and in truth, so far as this case was concerned, he was quite as unwilling as unable. As the evening wore on, in the course of which he made one or two mental excursions to the warehouse, he became considerably bolder in manner, and towards bed-time openly declared that in his opinion Ben had been trying to palm off "a lot o' trash."
               "I'll prove it, too," said he, "I'll smash the hobgobs, Ben; they shall play their last tune and take their last splashing to night, ha, ha! Confound this nonsense, about ghosts, and confound the ghosts, and confound you, too, Ben, for mentioning such infernal things," and he whirled round on his heel like a hero.
               "I shall not go to bed to-night," said Mrs. Hargreaves, "nor shall I leave this room; I'm so sure that Mr. Dudgeon is correct in his views that I dare not go, you may do as you please, Mr. Hargreaves, but I shall have a good fire here, and not stir from the spot."
               "But, Mrs. Hargreaves," Ben said, "there is a point, ma'am, to which I must call your attention: don't you see how the case stands?—"
               "Precisely—"
               "Yes, ma'am, but this point I mean—I have made a statement, Mr. Hargreaves has given me the lie and called my statements 'trash,' I am of course anxious to show that my honor has been unwarrantably impeached, Mr. Hargreaves accepts my challenge to sleep in my room to-night—"
               "Yes, along with you," said Hargreaves.
               "Oh, of course," Ben said, "but if the conditions are not left as usual, the nocturnal visitors—"
               "Hang 'nocturnal,'" growled Hargreaves—
               "May not come as usual, and so my honor will be unjustly stained, and Mr. Hargreaves will (as some great poet says) have the crow over me."
               "Hang your 'poets' and 'gurnal visitors,' Hargreaves said, 'what do we want wi' sic critturs here? Confound 'em, I'll clear them off to-night; get me a hammer, Octy, and I'll try the thickness of their pates,—'potes' and 'gurnals'!"
               Mrs. Hargreaves saw Ben's point in a moment, but could'nt see any point in Mr. Hargreaves's absurd wish to have a hammer; she looked at him more in the light of a maniac than of a philosopher, and actually felt a momentary sympathy with the faint smile which played round Octy's nostril, and then took wing from his cheek-bone.
               "Well," she said, "I must at all events have a fire in my bed-room, and Emily and the servants must remain with me, or I'm sure the morning will find me a corpse,—sure of it."
               Ben entered once more into an explanation of the philosophy of the subject, dwelling with learned emphasis upon the importance of the conditions, but eventually agreed to the compromise out of tender regard to one who had generously met a great business-ghost and given it a decisive blow with a golden hammer. The parties accordingly divided, in due time,—the female element going into Mrs. Hargreaves's room—Octy proceeding to his own dormitory—Mr. Hargreaves and Ben entering the rendezvous of ghosts.
               "Just to think of that strange young man going to his room alone," Mrs. Hargreaves said to Emily.
               "There is something very grand about it Emily answered," "do you know, dear Mrs. Hargreaves, it makes me feel as I have never felt before—I quite venerate his unboasting fortitude,—noble fellow!"
               Ah! Emily, child of nature! your words are more terrible to your mistress than all the ghosts that people the air. She cannot understand your chivalrous love of chivalry,—your passions are deeper in their origin, and loftier in their purpose, than her own, and she cannot interpret the language of your veneration. Your heart is a good book well cut but unread.
               Mr. Hargreaves, though "out of business" had taken the precaution to arm himself with numerous weapons, being materialistic enough in his notions to believe that even a ghost would'nt like to maintain a discussion with a six-barrelled revolver, and that a bill-knife would interrupt the ablutions of a congregation of sprites. Ben, who was more spiritual and refined in his notions, who had less of the butcher in his constitution, was totally unequipped for the encounter, and could'nt but regard the master's preparations with much compassion, as the evidences of a state of intellect worse than barbaric.
               Having placed the weapons at such a distance from his side of the bed as would permit him to make ready use of them in the crisis, he said—
               "Let me look under the bed, Dudgeon,..... all right there. Now, into the wardrobe ..... all right there. Now we had better empty the ewers out at the window, so that the 'gurnals' and 'potes' may wash in the dry if they can ..... now, we've done all we can."
               A shriek was heard from the lady's room, it was the voice of the mistress, and much excitement was created: Mr. Hargreaves and Ben both ran—
               "What's up? up? up?" said Hargreaves.
               "She's heard 'splashing,'" said Emily softly, as she stroked the lady's hand.
               "I've heard 'splashing,'" the lady herself said.
               "Nonsense! wife," Hargreaves said, "I'll tell you what you have heard, you have heard the water which I flung out of the window, because I was'nt going to let the devils wash at my expense, so if they want to wash they may find their own water."
               Ben concurred in this view of the subject, and assured the lady that she might postpone fainting for at least two hours, for he felt sure that she would be required to faint and it was of no use to drop off before the proper time.
               On returning to their room Ben laid his hand upon Mr. Hargreaves's shoulder, and said—
               "Sir, have you a clear conscience as to the manner in which you treat your wife? Now don't get into a passion—the ghosts are in the immediate vicinity, and they are the ministers of vengeance!"
               "I should like to know, Ben, where your impudence is, to talk to me about my wife; stop till you get a wife of your own and you'll have something to think about."
               "Very good, sir," said Ben "very good; now let me ask you one more question upon another subject, do you believe that the Hunters of Skulford are solvent? Are you acting wisely in carrying on business with them?"
               "I dont care a spit out, Ben, whether they're solvent or not solvent, old Zachariah is as decent an old brick as ever came into our place, and he's welcome to anything I have: how on earth he's brought up yon great family——"
               "Do you hear splashing, sir?"
               "Splashing? Curse a bit of it; do you, you dog?"
               "No sir, not yet: it is quite early times."
               Hargreaves undressed himself partly, and said he would keep on his under garments."
               "Now," said he, "I'll get in first, and you can put the candle out ..... wait a bit ..... let me tuck myself properly in push that chair nearer me and turn the handle o'that bill-knife this way ..... there now make sharp and come in."
               As said, so done. Ben entered the bed just as he was in the act of expressing a hope that his honour would be redeemed from the foul imputation which his bed-fellow had cast upon it.
               "And mind you, Mr. Hargreaves," said he, "I expect that as a man of honor you will awake me if you hear or see anything, and not lie there in selfish enjoyment—"
               "Wake you?" said Hargreaves, "Egad, I hope you are not agoing to sleep? Are you?"
               "Certainly, Mr. Hargreaves, I'm just going to take a bit of something, about the size of half a marble, which puts me into a soundish snore, so that I let the nocturnal visitors have all the fun to themselves,—that's my plan, so you must wake me, but not with a cut from the bill-knife."
               "I hope they'll come soon, if they're coming at all, Ben."
               "They'll be here about twelve o'clock, sir, so you'd better refresh yourself with a short nap."
               Hargreaves made a faint attempt at whistling, but suddenly recollecting that whistling was'nt intended by the patentee to be practised under a pile of blankets, he desisted, and laid his hand close against Ben's shoulder. Ben feigned to be asleep in a few minutes, but listened to every throb of Hargreaves's uneasy heart. A full hour elapsed without any unusual sound attracting the anxious ear of the master. A quarter of an hour more went, and nothing was heard or seen. Slowly, slowly went the pendulum of the little timepiece which stood above the fire-place. Hark! What's that? Hish! List! It's Hargreaves calling in an emphatic whisper—"Ben—Ben—Ben." What's up? Ben is under the influence of the half-marble. "Ben." "Ben, listen!" Ben turns over and says—"What's the matter?" "Don't you hear music, Ben?" True enough, there was music. Such music! A trembling and quivering, a tingling and swelling, the softest notes broken in upon by piercing tones,—now, it was like the ringing of countless tiny bells; and anon, like the advancing of foaming waves. Hargreaves said he was sure it was in the room, and it seemed to be coming out of every corner of the apartment, and he said he thought he had heard some of the tunes before; he said further that it did'nt sound like human voices, but like the whisperings of other but not unhappy beings.
               "O Ben, it does sound so strange."
               "Yes, sir, you'll know who the man of honor is presently,—you will," and Ben tucked the blanket under his chin with the air of an injured prophet.
               "Don't talk about honor, Ben."
               "I shall have a holiday to-morrow, your hair is whitening I know: to-morrow, Mr. Hargreaves, is mine."
               Hush! List! Still! What's that?
               "O Ben, don't you hear?"
               "Hear what, sir?"
               "Splashing, splashing, quite plain!"
               "O no, sir, you are dreaming: you said that it was all trash."
               "Ben reach me the bill-knife."
               "Reach it yourself, sir, it's on your side."
               Mr. Hargreaves applied his hand to his head to assure himself that his hair was'nt entirely singed off, and in a spirit that would have felt truly thankful for no greater a calamity than a little discoloration. But what could he do in business if his skull were singed? What indeed? He preserved silence for two or three moments, but Ben knew from the manner in which he swallowed his saliva that the power of darkness was resting heavily on his soul. Then, hush! quiet! What's that? Only Hargreaves shaking a little, and a little more, until the bed was rocked as if by a mighty tempest. He wanted to reach the pistol, but was afraid that his hand would be severed from his arm by an unseen blade; and then, what could he have done in business? And if he was taken out of business, when was he? And if he was to spend all his time at such a place as "the Lord knows where," what would become of his respectability?
               "Ben reach the pistol, will you?"
               "Reach it yourself, sir, it's at your side."
               The fact is, the pistol was not at Mr. Hargreaves's side, for Ben had picked it up and brought it round to his own side of the bed.
               "O Ben! I'm perspiring—I'm in a bath."
               "That's where I've been many a time," said Ben.
               "Good God, deliver us!" Mr. Hargreaves said, and it was about the only hearty prayer he had ever been known to utter. Something touched his forehead very lightly, and he screamed "Mercy"—"Mercy"—"O, O, O, O."
               At that moment the pistol was discharged into the corner where the ware stood, and produced a fatal impression on the empty ewer. The sound alarmed the females, and a loud, ringing, varied shriek proceeded from the corner in which they were all huddled together. Hargreaves could endure no more. In his terror, he sprang right in among the ladies, and looked at them with eyes glaring with madness. He was panting, too, as though he had run a mile, and shaking his head as if he dare not look steadily at his fate.
               "No mistake about this—no mistake—never heard the like—I stood it till one of the 'gurnals' fired the pistol—O, O, O,—shan't stay another night in this house—we're off to Skulford first thing in the morning."
               Fainting and moaning and sobbing were the accompaniments, on the part of the females, to Mr. Hargreaves's grief. For a long time the most hopeless disorder prevailed, during which Benjamin made no appearance, though loudly called for by Emily. Octavius came to the scene just as Mrs. Hargreaves was relieving herself of her cloak of refinement, and her eye glared most vengefully on the young man, especially when Emily went to him and put her hand trustfully into his. Emily looked at him with all the veneration she had professed, as though he had influence in the spiritual regions which could control all spiritual manifestation. In a time of order or quiet, or even in the time of unusual joy, Emily would not have ventured thus to seek the sympathetic hand of Octy, but a soul-shaking terror lifted her above all the petty considerations of artificial life, and developed the natural trustingness and simplicity of her uncompanioned and misinterpreted heart.
               "Didn't I always wish you to leave this accursed hole?" said Mrs. Hargreaves to her unrecovered but now most pliable husband; "haven't I used every argument and every entreaty to persuade you to seek another home? Be ashamed of your cruelty, Mr. Hargreaves! Blush, sir, blush, from the sole of your foot to the crown of your head! Lay your hand upon your treacherous heart, and humble yourself in the presence of your own servants! Unrefined, undiscriminating, unmanly, and ungenerous, I knew that ghosts would track your way and avenge your insults to your wife. Look at the history you gave us last night! Aren't you ashamed of it? What robbery of the poor! What injury of the weak! What trampling upon virtue! Do you think that the hidden child hasn't left a spirit in the attic to yell out vengeance upon you? And you, Octavius, you mean, secret, moping wretch, it's you that I blame for all this—you, you are the blame! Off! off! you young traitor! You are in league with devils—you link this house with hell! Off!"
               Octy's calmness remained unshaken. He clasped Emily's hand more warmly, and said to his violent accuser:
               "Some day you will know better."
               "Man!" she yelled at Hargreaves, "will you not separate those hands? Have you no command over your own child? Am I to sit here and be stung to madness by this impertinence?" and with these words rivers of boiling tears rushed from the fiery fount.
               "Better go to bed, Octy," the father said.
               "Now," Mr. Hargreaves addressed his wife, "he's gone, so do be quiet, and first thing in the morning——"
               "'First thing in the morning,' sir! why didn't you heed me months ago, and leave this horrible den before it came to this? Look at me; my nerves are gone! my strength has gone! What's the use of taking me away now? If I die, you are my murderer."
               Mr. Hargreaves couldn't scold. He could only tremble, and stare vacantly at every one in the room. A horrible obfuscation settled on all his faculties, and with many wonderings, he waited wearily for the day. Ben, at length, came into the room, and said:
               "It will now be seen what I have had to suffer for many months past."
               "Blame the guilty, Mr. Dudgeon, and clear the innocent," said Mrs. Hargreaves, whose foot was now swinging at great speed.
               "I don't blame you, ma'am, let me assure you very warmly."
               "Don't blame any one, Ben," Emily said, in terror lest she should pour another malediction upon the head of Octavius.
               "First thing in the morning," Mr. Hargreaves persisted in saying over and over again, without preamble or addendum.
               "First thing in the morning" came as a matter of course, and Mr. Hargreaves, who needed no spurring to quicken his movements, sped to Skulford and made arrangement for an immediate possession of the house so long coveted by Mrs. Hargreaves. The master was in most excellent trim for bargain-making gain-making—no bating down, no stipulation for papering and painting—anything, anything, to be into that house the same night, and leave the ghosts to perform their antics in a deserted mansion. Not a moment was wasted after the "first thing in the morning." A swarm of workmen seized the furniture and transferred it to Skulford in an incredibly short time. Nobody cared to be particular about this or that—the ghosts were "purring" at the workmen's "heels," and this took away any disposition to be either indolent or fastidious. To be out of the one house and into the other, constituted the business of the day, and ere the evening shadows closed round the scene the business of removal was within an hour or two of perfect completion.
               "Thank God, we're in here now," said Hargreaves as he flung himself into an arm-chair, and a more fervent acknowledgement of obligation to heaven never escaped his lips. He was not addicted to the habit of praying, any more than was Mrs. Hargreaves, whose religious life never had a fuller expression than in the dubious words, "Good gracious!"
               "Thank God, say I, master," said Ben; "but we must recollect that spirits are not particularly attached to places—ghosts follow consciences, and if any man amongst us has a foul conscience (mark you, I have a hereditary right to speak on the subject of conscience), I shouldn't wonder if even here some crafty hobgoblin should pounce upon him."
               
               Not more than twenty-four hours elapsed before Mrs. Hargreaves and Ben had an opportunity of conferring privately.
               "O Benjamin!" said the lady, "I do feel that but for your presence I never could have borne this crushing terror, and, indeed, even now I quite dread the reaction."
               "I'm very glad, ma'am, that I have been of the slightest service to you, and now that the matter is over we must try to catch a bright view of it."
               "I doubt there isn't a 'bright view' of such a subject, Benjamin."
               "Well, ma'am, you are the lady to see exactly what views are to be taken of any subject, but just at present, ma'am, your discrimination is slightly bedimmed, and not to be wondered at either, but now let me ask you one question, ma'am, shall I?"
               "Certainly, Benjamin."
               "Haven't I heard you condemn the Old Holly, and describe this house as the 'very cream of residences?' Can you remember that, ma'am?"
               "Quite well; but, O Benjamin, whoever could have thought that I could have come to it through such an awful process?"
               "That's all right enough, ma'am; as to 'awful processes' they are everyday affairs with me."
               "Dear, dear, I'm shaking from head to foot."
               "You'll be all right presently, ma'am, it has been an 'awful process' as you say, but I have got quite used to 'awful processes.'"
               "I am sure there needn't be any wonder at that, when you have every day to come into contact with that sneaking, cunning Octavius. Didn't it strike you as exceedingly strange that he never exhibited the slightest emotion when you were relating the horror through which you had passed? I couldn't but look at the fellow, and watch his unconcerned appearance: he neither trembled nor perspired, and just looked as though he didn't believe one word you were saying;—I never was so provoked in all my life."
               "And you've often been provoked, ma'am, since you came to the Holly."
               "Provocation has been my daily bread, Benjamin."
               "Yes, ma'am, and if you hadn't had something better to drink than you have had to eat, you'd have been where 'the wicked cease from troubling' long before now."
               "Ah!"
               "What was your impression about Octavius in this horrid matter, ma'am?"
               "My impression was and is that somehow or other he is in league with those ghosts,—I'm quite convinced of that: moping fellow!"
               "Not impossible, ma'am, but I feel a sweet satisfaction in reflecting that you've now got the house on which your heart has been set so long."
               "And yet there is a bitter even in that sweet, Benjamin, if you will consider."
               "Ah, ma'am, your discrimination is recovering itself; name the bitter, ma'am, if you please, for I don't see it"—I don't really."
               "I like the house amazingly,—it is precisely what I wanted, for I have often said to Emily that a bed-room and a drawing-room on the same floor would exactly meet my taste—so far, all that is as right as it can be; but the bitter is this, that I should be indebted to Octavius for anything: I would rather have wanted the house than had it in any way through his influence."
               "Then would you like to return to the Holly if those ghosts had notice to quit?"
               "Not at all, Benjamin, not for a moment,—no more Hollies for me, but I cannot bear to think that even a joy has come to me through the hands of such a conspirator——"
               "'Downright conspirator,' ma'am, was the word we agreed upon."
               "Exactly,—'downright conspirator.'"
               "Well, for my part, I should light my cigar at any man's candle; my motto is to cross an ugly stream on the back of anybody who will carry me,—lowish morality, I have no doubt."
               "That you may do innocently enough, but would you drink a mixture that had been prepared by any body? Eh?"
               "That's a piercer, ma'am, and admits only of one answer—certainly not."
               "Very good, Benjamin, then you see your illustrations touch only one aspect of the question."
               "Another nail, gone home, and gone in by the front door too.'
               "I'm quite shaking, even yet, Benjamin."
               "And will do, ma'am, until you have breathed the fresh air: the day is particularly fine, and if you will take a run over in the pony chaise to the Holly I shall be glad, for I want to take a peep at the haunted room in daylight."
               "O Benjamin, you make me tremble."
               "Needn't tremble, ma'am, in my protection you are perfectly safe, and I am particularly anxious that you should accompany me to the chamber of horrors,—I put the request in the form of asking you a great favor: the power of refusal is of course, in your hands."
               Mrs. Hargreaves had never yet refused any favor which Benjamin Dudgeon had requested, and her nerves were at this time too much shaken to permit her to summon resolution enough to conduct even an argument against his proposition. She wouldn't have entered the ghost-room in the company of Mr. Hargreaves upon any consideration, but in the society of one who had long coped with its horrors she felt safe and happy.—
               
               "This is the room, ma'am, looks harmless enough, ma'am, don't it?" said Ben, when they had arrived at the familiar spot.
               "I'm still trembling, Benjamin."
               "Lean on my arm, ma'am, and steady yourself."
               "The very air smells of ghosts."
               "Splendid discrimination, ma'am, my nose is singularly uneducated."
               "And this is the room, is it?"
               "The identical room, I do assure you, ma'am, and what do you think, ma'am?"
               "I don't know what to think, Benjamin."
               "Why, after the pistol fired, I found Octavius in this very room, ma'am,—I did; now what do you say to that, ma'am?"
               "Good gracious! doesn't it just prove what I have said all along? Now doesn't it, Benjamin? I put it to you as a reasonable man. Well, well!"
               "And there couldn't be any mistake on my part——"
               "No, indeed."
               "For I caught him in my arms, and almost swore at the fellow, my indignation was so raging. I did, indeed, ma'am, I actually nearly swore when I found him lurking about here in the dark!"
               
               "Good gracious! It's quite dreadful! That young man will bring ghosts and ruin upon us wherever we are! He ought to be sent to lodgings, but who dare lodge such a creature? I think Mr. Hargreaves ought to insist upon him leaving home."
               "Mr. Hargreaves will be ready to make any arrangements you may suggest, ma'am, and if he is rather callous I can tell you what to do to bring him to book."
               "What is that, Benjamin?"
               "Do with him as Delilah did with Samson. She was a model woman; a week under her instructions would have done my own father a world of good—'she pressed him daily with her words, and urged him so that his soul was vexed unto death'—that's the plan, ma'am, for doing a good stroke of trade in the conquering line."
               Mrs. Hargreaves made no comment on Delilah's conduct, but said—
               "And this is the room, is it?" just as though she had never seen the room before.
               "Yes, ma'am, this is the room, as I have some reason to know, and there is the mark of the shot on the wall. If Octavius had just happened to have been on that very spot! Some people would have seen a providence in it, I am quite sure."
               For a few moments they stood in silence, Ben looking eagerly towards the ceiling, as if in search of the apertures through which the ghosts passed and re-passed. He wasn't, in reality, doing anything of the sort, but was rather planning a gentle attack on the discrimination of his trembling companion.
               "Did you ever make a mistake in your life, ma'am?"
               Ben threw a good deal of wonder and admiration into the tone with which he put the question, so much so as to hint that he wouldn't be surprised if she never did make a mistake.
               "That's a singular question, Benjamin. I can only say that I make a point of avoiding mistakes as much as possible."
               "You wouldn't like Octavius to know that you had made a mistake, ma'am, would you?"
               "No, indeed, I shouldn't like to be humbled in his eyes—that would be humiliation."
               "Well, then, ma'am, look at me, steadily if you please—Octavius is as innocent of this horrid business as the babe unborn—you have more to do with it than any one else——"
               Mrs. Hargreaves did look steadily.
               "Octavius knows well enough that the house is not haunted, that no place is haunted, that ghosts are all humbug, and that nobody is frightened by them except the unrefined, the vulgar, the undiscriminating, and the mad——"
               Mrs. Hargreaves did look steadily, still.
               "He was a wise man not to discompose himself in listening to my stories about the hobgoblins—in that instance, ma'am, begging your pardon, he showed himself to be the only philosopher in the company, and this time you have made a great mistake! You have! It is a sad illustration of my favorite passage of Scripture—'to err is human'—and altogether would produce an unfavorable opinion of your discrimination if repeated in the neighborhood——"
               Mrs. Hargreaves did look steadily, still.
               "You heard me knocking the other day, ma'am, didn't you?"
               Mrs. Hargreaves nodded, Yes.
               
               "Em asked me in your presence what I was knocking about. Did I answer her satisfactorily, ma'am?
               Mrs. Hargreaves shook No from her ringlets.
               "Very well, then, look here, ma'am;" and so saying, Ben pulled up two of the boards in the floor, and having turned them aside, said again, "look here, ma'am."
               Mrs. Hargreaves looked, and saw a long string which was connected with a little metal plate, which metal plate was curiously attached to a basinful of water, which basinful of water was carefully fixed between two joists.
               "Now, ma'am," Ben continued, "we'll have a little of that horrid splashing; this is the dodge (I know you like my way of pronouncing that word); just pull this string, and the little metal hand flaps the water yonder, and makes it gurgle, for I'll show you how this gurgling is managed. See, this plate is slightly hollow on the under side, and the little air that gets into the cavity fights the water, and the gurgle is just such a sound as a drowning ghost would make——"
               Mrs. Hargreaves did look steadily even yet.
               "Very well, ma'am, so much for the splash part of the business; now about the music. I bought a splendid musical box the other day, and I piled a lot of clothes upon it, and kept it at my side of the bed, and at the proper time I turned the key, and then came out the wonderful resonances which so mightily charmed the governor. Of course I was philosopher enough to know that if I could get up any splashing, and any music, that imagination is so thoroughly versed in the multiplication table (a table which no gang of spirits has ever yet turned), that the poor master would soon think he heard a storm at sea, or a brilliant performance on ten thousand brass instruments. I see now, that I was perfectly correct in all my calculations, and though there is one most bitter reflection connected with the business, I have yet the consolation of knowing that I, not Octavius, have supplied a necessity of my mistress's heart, in short, that I have found the key which nobody else could find, and that Mrs. Hargreaves is, through my ingenuity and perseverance, an inhabitant of Skulford——"
               Mrs. Hargreaves looked as steadily as before.
               "The fact is, ma'am, I had three points to carry: in the first place I was determined that you should have the house at Skulford——"
               "But the horrid face, Benjamin?" This was the first word Mrs. Hargreaves had uttered during Ben's disclosure; she had even yet a faint hope that her humiliation was not complete,—there was still the face to account for.
               "O," said Ben, "the face, with all its contractions and expansions, came entirely out of my own noddle; there never was, there never could be, such a face on the earth, or in the air, or anywhere else. That was a triumph of my artistic skill; you don't know how strong a talent for face-sketching I have."
               "And the baby," Mrs. Hargreaves suggested.
               "Just so, ma'am. Mr. Hargreaves spoke of a hidden baby, and I thanked him for it mentally, at the time; for a man who has his wits about him is always thankful even for a baby's help in trumping up a story. That's how the thing stands, ma'am."
               Mrs. Hargreaves felt herself in those peculiar circumstances, more easily imagined than described, which are generally supposed to surround a man who feels that, 
                     notwithwithstanding
                     notwithstanding
                   a host of palliating and redeeming reflections, he is regarded as a——fool.
               "Don't you think Emily ought to know the explanation?" she suggested, endeavoring to retrieve by benevolence what she had lost in discrimination.
               "That ma'am, brings me to my second object in arranging what we have always called this 'horrid business;' there is one thing, at least, in which I believe we are cordially at one, and that is a determination to prevent any union between Emily and Octavius,—am I right?"
               "You are perfectly right, Benjamin."
               "Well, then, is it not clear, ma'am, that Emily should be kept entirely in the dark with respect to the nativity of this 'horrid business?' Don't you see that if we can delude her with the notion that Octavius is in league with devils and ghosts we may work upon her nervous system so powerfully as to compel her to surrender him, even if an attachment be already formed? The silly little dove, for whom I would cut off my right hand, will never suspect that her dear brother Benjamin was so naughty as to frighten the 'kind' Mr. Hargreaves, but of course will blame Octavius. Every time she sees Octavius she will see ghosts sporting among his hair, ghosts peeping down his nostrils, ghosts creeping out of his ears, ghosts leaving the breast of his waistcoat, ghosts all over him, and will never venture more to shake his ghostly hand. That's the way of managing it. Don't you think so? Eh?"
               "Good gracious!" was all that Mrs. Hargreaves could answer.
               
               "Yes, ma'am, the nerves are the things to operate upon; you might tell her about moping and selfishness and bad temper forever, but if you could find the way to her nerves, and play a tune upon them, she'd as soon think of living in a tiger's den as of mating with the friend of spectres and the patron of hobgoblins. Touch the nerves, say I."
               "Then, of conrse, Benjamin, you won't think of telling Mr. Hargreaves?
               "Certainly not. We must hold this affair over his head like a rod of iron; and if ever he opposes our plans we can bring up the flake-fleshed child, and the infernal face, the splash and the music, the feather and the pistol——"
               "'Feather?' what 'feather?' I haven't heard anything about that."
               "Only this. I provided myself with a longish feather, something like a quill, and when Mr. Hargreaves was dying of terror I drew it gently across his brow, in imitation of a ghost's wing, and that little feather shook him from head to foot; aye, even a feather's touch made his soul tremble."
               "That was the power of guilt, Benjamin."
               "It was the power of conscience, as my dad would say," Ben answered.
               
               Before returning to the pony-chaise there was one point which Ben was anxious to test.
               "Now, ma'am, you are too magnanimous not to pardon me if I err, but I cannot permit this opportunity to pass without asking you to chastise your discrimination very severely for having practised such a deception upon you. Discrimination is the excellence which you pet most—you make an idol of it—you display it upon every occasion—you flash it in the eyes of your husband—you hold it forth as a model; now just see where it has led you! You have been duped by the concoctions of my fancy—you have been led about like a frightened child—you have been baked, boiled, roasted, and stewed—you have trembled like a leaf in a hurricane, and have felt in your own experience that you have been frightened by straws and conquered by shadows; now isn't it cruel on the part of your penetration? Doesn't your sagacity deserve to be put on the treadmill for a month? Wouldn't skinning alive be too merciful a lot for your stumbling discrimination? Eh?"
               "Don't reproach me, Benjamin, for I must say that all along I had my suspicions—at least up to a given point; besides, discrimination has nothing to do with ghosts—my discrimination refers to human affairs and practical questions, and not to the mysteries of spectres and visions."
               "I see," said Ben, "your discrimination has a sphere of its own; it is sublime in the market-place, transcendent in the family, and unexampled in affairs of love—in all these regions your discrimination stands alone for brilliance and power, but on the question of ghosts it is about as stupid as an owl. Just so. But now look at the case of Octavius; his penetration is splendid on the very subject which strikes your penetration blind! He went to bed that night like a man; he didn't ask for the coachman to sleep with him; he put out his candle and lay down like a philosopher; but you, with unsurpassed discrimination, were huddled up in a corner among a lot of servants, and were trembling from head to foot."
               "And so was Emily, Benjamin, your own sister."
               "Quite so, ma'am, but poor, gentle Em makes no pretensions to discrimination, and that is the difference between you and her; and besides that, if we were to put the case before her in its true light, she could smite us with a victorious answer; she might say: 'Well, as I am so undiscriminating on the subject of ghosts and apparitions, there is the more need for me to have a husband who can penetrate into such things and shield my weakness from all the trials to which wicked men may expose it,' and I confess that such an answer appears to me to be overflowing with sound sense."
               Mrs. Hargreaves felt her position, and assumed a troubled expression of countenance, but could not reply to her own satisfaction. Ben felt his position too, and was determined to push his victory as far as he could without endangering his domestic comfort. For some time he and Mrs. Hargreaves had been playing at the same game. They were anxious to master each other, and all kinds of stratagem were adopted on both sides to secure this great object. Ben saw all her plans quite clearly, and though he often put his foot into the trap on purpose to please her, he took care that the trap was of such construction as did not admit of mortal injury being done to his foot. He saw a useful victory now within reach, and was determined to make it his own.
               "Mrs. Hargreaves," said he, "there can be no doubt, upon such a mind as yours, that you have been outwitted, and as I consider candor a greater virtue than discrimination, I should advise you to meet the difficulties of your position by a magnanimous avowal of the fact; in one word, I should advise you to confess that you have been a fool."
               The appeal to her candor and magnanimity was perfectly successful. It was a recognition of virtue and power which was very grateful to her under the circumstances, and as she gazed on the long string and the metal-plate and the basin of water, she said:
               "Benjamin, I am a fool."
               "Another nail gone home," was Benjamin's significant answer. Victory, number one, was his. He saw more fights ahead if life continued, but solaced himself that the memory of this triumph would be his inspiration in future contests.
               As they rode to Skulford, Benjamin was anxious to test the depth of the humiliation to which he had reduced the lady, and knew of no better method (indirect though it may seem) than that of ascertaining at what degree the mercury of her benevolence stood:
               "Mrs. Hargreaves, now that we are entering on a new period of domestic history would you object to call the thirty pounds a gift instead of a loan?"
               "Not at all, Benjamin, you may consider that matter as cancelled; may I hope that you, in return, will never give any explanation of the ghost-business to any one in the house?"
               "Nothing but fair, that, ma'am; your confession shall go no farther than my own ear, and all I desire of you is to remember that the cleverest person may fall into the strangest mistakes."
               Lamb's wool is now Mrs. Hargreaves's clothing, whether there be a wolf in her heart remains to be discovered.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               A LOVER'S LETTER.
               OCTAVIUS HARGREAVES was the mystery of the household. Misinterpretation is not unfrequently the bitter lot of silence. Silence is a problem which the garrulous world has never solved,—and probably never will solve. The voice of Octavius was seldom heard in the family circle,—his hand seldom seen in the family amusements. He was an unanswered, and, many thought unanswerable enigma. How ever he could thrive so wonderfully on the nutriment of his own thoughts, and keep such a pleasant light in his intelligent face from his interior resources, was a puzzle which perplexed and confounded people who had a visible way of getting on in the world. And when he did talk there was mystery in his sentences. His words, to the intelligent, always gave the idea that he was mentally opulent, that he had penetrated the way to every conclusion which he maintained, and was not a man to be gulled by sophistical speech or sophistical action. A great chasm, (it might have been the diameter of a universe), separated him from those in whose society he lived. What is it that most effectually divides man from man? Not mountains, not rivers, nor even seas. Souls can commune though continents intervene. Minds can pierce the mountains, or on strong wing can soar to their solitary summits and there be one. Sympathy heeds not the sea's calm or storm, but speeds over the deep to be present with the kindred of love. Ideas divide man from man. Taste, disposition, mind, heart, draw the boundaries within which we live, and are utterly regardless of the lives of dominion which kings have drawn with the points of their dripping swords. The philosopher and the fool may live under the same roof, but are they therefore one? Is contact true nearness, is physical nearness mental proximity? We are near to those we love, and are at an infinite distance from those whom we loathe. Even strong, conquering death cannot rob our hearts,—he can but take away the objects on which our bodily visions rest. Love holds its own forever. It breathes the breath of life into the sacred dust every day. It talks with angels,—is familiar with God. Love is evermore surrounded by those who speak its own seraphic tongue. Octavius Hargreaves was, in part, an illustration of what we mean. His speech was misunderstood. His companions were invisible. His purposes could never be explained by the dictionaries. He was, what we have just said, an enigma unanswered, if not unanswerable. He was an embodied secret,—master the secret and you understand the man.
               And why was he so disliked by Mrs. Hargreaves? She was pre-eminently a woman who had no sympathy with stillness. She worshipped the god Clatter, and infinitely preferred even the crowing of a cock to the subduing eloquence of the god Silence,—this may, in part, explain her aversion to the quiet member of the household. That aversion, at all events, could not arise from anything that was unattractive in his personal appearance, or repulsive in his personal behavior. He was a slenderly-built, blue-eyed, golden-haired lad,—such deep, gleaming, ethereal eyes, he had! Not immense, lobster-like eyes, that are always apparently afraid of falling over their appointed boundaries; but deep-set, brilliant, expansive, penetrating, and eloquent eyes. And his hair! innocent of a single curl, and even of any wavy tendency in the direction of a curl, hung well-nigh down to his shoulders like a curtain of gold-tinted silk, and in front was flung back from a forehead which boasted a sublimer decoration than coronet or diadem. God has not fashioned many such foreheads. It was a glorious arch; looked at from any point it presented the spectacle of beauty leaning on strength—of imagination receiving its orders from the eye of judgment—of the various faculties of mind waiting the will of a throned and sceptred power. All men looked at that forehead and even those unversed in the interpretation pretation of such signs felt that it was such a brow as genius delights to sit upon. Even at school the lads called Octavius by the name of Napoleon, and justified their selection of the title by saying that "he had a big brow like the Frenchman."
               He was refined, but never spoke of refinement,—so pure in taste as never to criticise the taste of other people. Mrs. Hargreaves, even in her proudest displays of refinement, dreaded the glance of his clear eye,—that glance, in fact, was more to be feared, than an hour's spoken criticism: it was like a flash of fire in the midst of dried stubble,—she could have faced the glare of a tiger more calmly than she could endure to be searched by that piercing eye. Then, too, his manner, so simple, so unstudied, so natural, threw the manners of the whole company into strong and most disadvantageous contrast. He made no effort at elegance, and yet he never did one inelegant deed, or one deed inelegantly. His very touch was the touch of the purest refinement. Every turn of his body, every exercise of his hand, gave the impression that he was a born nobleman; and yet he was, to all appearance, perfectly unconscious of any peculiar excellence, or dominating charm, either in his person or his behavior.
               Why, then, the hatred on the part of Mrs. Hargreaves? Why did she shrink from refinement so pure, though boasting daily of her polish and elegance, and culture? This might have remained an unanswered question but for the quiet yet enchanting influence of Emily Dudgeon. She was the magician who could open the silent man's heart. She carried the wand to which petrified streams immediately and gratefully respond. She was the unconscious conqueror,—or the central orb which presides over the revolution of attendant globes. For many a month she had occupied the empress's place in the silent man's life. She had kept him more in the dining-room than ever he had been for several years. Aforetime he was accustomed to pursue his studies in secret, but gradually he had abandoned solitude and endeavored to combine the art of reading and the art of listening. As a silent man he kept his own counsel until it became too great to be kept any longer in his own heart. He nursed his love secretly, until it grew beyond the bounds which have been provided for such secrecy, and then resolved to commit his story to writing and place it in the hands of his queen. Many an effort he had made to place himself with the form which his story should assume, but failure marked the successive attempts; at length the patience of his love was wearied and he placed in Emily's hand the document which follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I have long desired, dear Miss Dudgeon, to put you in possession of a few facts which will help to explain what you may have regarded as mysterious in my conduct, and, as I am more expert at writing than at speaking, you will grant me the indulgence which a generous heart never begrudges to inability. Have you not often been at a loss to account for my reticence? And has not my abstinence from the so-called amusements of the family-circle occasioned conflicting conjectures as to its cause? Did you not many a time interpret my dumbness into obstinacy, and regard my indifference to passing events, as decisive of an unexampled vanity? If you were to answer these inquiries with the most emphatic Yes, I could not blame either your penetration or your taste, for as the world's maxims stand, I do not see how you could have adopted a more generous conclusion. Yet I claim to be a living witness of the fallacy which lurks in every one of those maxims, and propose, with your permission, so to withdraw the veil which conceals my true disposition as to show you that silence may have a better foundation than obstinacy, and solitude a nobler source than pride. I claim, in other words to have a heart, and that heart now yearns to commit its long treasured secret into your keeping. But how shall I allow that secret to pass from a spirit which has so long guarded and honored it? I own that the bare contemplation of such an act fills me with horror which few can understand, for in making the surrender I yield up a secret which has endeared itself to my deepest and purest affections,—it has, indeed, been a mute companion of mine in all the varying seasons of life, its sadness has afforded me a profound and mysterious joy.
                           
                           With such a secret no man can willingly part; and, as I wish to be frank, let me say that I have never seen a human being but yourself who has had any power to tempt a surrender, even for a moment. You will not betray me, will you? You will rather share my companionship and be a co-partner of my grief, won't you? If your heart (impossible!) be saying no, then let me beg you in mercy's name not to read one line farther, but return me this sheet, and the dove shall continue to abide in the ark of my heart. Don't blame my hesitation. I feel as one who is unused to swimming might feel when about to leap into an unknown stream. I feel, too, as though invisible eyes might be looking at these lines and reading the sacred secret which they contain. A wondrous mistrust, a cruel jealousy, steals into my heart, lest the very breezes should conspire against me and bear away my treasure on their wandering wings. You call this folly, but you probably don't know what it is to nurse such a secret as mine, a secret in which there is not a little that is ghastly and cruel. Will you hear me, then? Will you shield me from the insatiable curiosity of the vulgar ear? Shall a love which has never yet spoken, break silence now? An old and hallowed memory answers No; but I am weary, weary—my heart yearns for sympathy—longs for companionship—and therefore trusting to the purity and gentleness of your heart I must lay down my burden in your presence.
                           Were I to select one word which would approach an adequate expression of my feelings it would be the word—desolation! Do you know the meaning of that dreary word? Does it sound to you like a reproachful wind which has a thousand complaints to utter, and tells its melancholy tale to the leafless forest? Just look at that word desolation and tell me whether you see in it what I have discovered: is there any figure in human speech too vividly expressive of horror to be applied to it? Such figure has escaped my search. The very letters of that word appear to me to shape themselves into a scorched, streamless, flowerless desert. It is a word whose hollow breast is a tomb into which death flings the purest joys and highest hopes of humanity. O that yawning sepulchre! My delights have gone down into it, and yet it is there still, yawning as though not a single treasure had sunk into its soundless caverns. A few years ago, had you asked me for the meaning of the word desolation, I might have pointed you to the commonest dictionary for an answer; but my heart has realized the impossibility of dictionaries explaining such words. Interpretations of deep things belong to the wounded spirit of the race; they disdain pens, they elude the fingers of the typographer, they are printed only on the heart. There are cases in which an appeal must be made to the blood-written lexicon of a bitter experience ere you can construe the language which falls even flippantly from the world's tongue, and of such language desolation is not the least conspicuous word. There are no symbols in human speech worthy of citation as the representatives of a widowed heart. At least such symbols have eluded all my researches in the regions of fact and fancy alike. Such a heart cries and yearns, with voice and pangs unheeded, for companionship in its blank melancholy. It longs to meet something which it can hail with the salutation of kindred, but nowhere is that something to be met. Compared with a heart out of which death has pilfered every flower, a firmament whose every orb has been quenched by death, the dreariest wilderness in the dreariest of worlds is but the grateful shadow cast by summer's loveliest paradise. My eyes are weary with fruitless watching for any true sign of my loneliness. I have thought that in the graveyard—that blank home of death—I might find an illustration of my meaning; but the very mould, quickened by the flesh and blood and bones of our holy dead, has been pulsing and blushing with a happier life than mine. Often, too, when lingering in the twilight by the side of the sea, I have looked upon the waste of waters, when not a sail could be seen, when the very sky seemed to have a quarrel with it and to have withdrawn its bright gladdening smile, when not one white wing as of a visiting angel flashed across it in rapid and joyous flight, but even there my empty heart found no restful companionship; I knew that the sails would again display themselves, that on the morrow the sky would forget its sullenness, and the kind, though silent, sun would glorify the waves, and that the great billows would hurry to the shore and fling themselves, like white-clad worshippers, at their Creator's feet. That melancholy sea was, therefore, no true witness of my melancholy breast. Nor, I again say, can any such witness be anywhere found. Never till this moment did I fully realise the poverty and feebleness of the language which is at my command. While I write, my heart is scorning the effort of my hand. The love which I bear the dead would leap from my spirit and avenge the insult which such poor expressions offer to its sacredness and dignity. My heart, in owning its irreparable bereavement, is even now saying 'don't compare me to sepulchre, or tempest-swept sea, or unflowered wilderness; marry me not to such poor parallels, let my solitude be its own sad joy—its own mute companion.'
                           "Terrible are the exactions of love—devouring are the flames of jealousy! How it scorns the pencil of genius, and writhes under the rough tongue of the most polished eloquence. Have you, Emily (may I not say Emily), any such love as that? Any memories which dash the chisel from the sculptor's hand, and bid him abandon the soil in which he would fix the storied stone? Any buried treasures, to which epitaphs are but the mockery offered by impotent art? If so, you can sympathise with the poverty of my expression, and comprehend the hesitation with which I throw open my tomb-like heart even to your gaze. But will you condemn the jewel on account of the casket? Will you condemn a royal spirit because it inhabits an ungainly body? Your wisdom and your love have anticipated the reply, and you assure me that will read love with the eyes of love. Wise reader! To such eyes love will reveal her most treasured treasures, and in their quiet light even I could display the secret of my sadness. Possibly, however, you have not passed the bitter discipline which yields such memories as I have described, and are therefore impatient with what seems to you to be tediousness on my part. I can fancy you now saying: 'What is this desolation of which he speaks? What the unrent darkness which he mourns? What the demon which has broken his goblet of joy, and snapped the strings which once trembled with music? Hasn't he a father? Hasn't he everything which money can command? How, then, can he be suffering from horrors so dreadful?' If you are putting such inquiries, as your eye rests on this page, I cannot blame you; they are the inquiries of a happy inexperience—that happy inexperience which can read the outside, but hasn't skill or power to rend the seal and penetrate the shrined mysteries. It is true that I have everything which money can command; but gold is after all only the king of a petty kingdom. What can gold command? Has it a key cunning enough to surprise the lock of yonder tomb in which my venerated one lies in undreaming rest? Can it bring back the long hours of sweet intercourse which sanctified my earlier life? Does it carry by its side a trumpet which can people the present with the warm realities of the past? No, alas! In these things it is but a magnificent delusion; nay, more, it is the bitterest of taunts, it is the savagest of sarcasms. Sorrow is not necessarily clad with rags. Orphanage may sit at a banquet-table. A pendulum of lead may be ticking out the seconds of life, under the most gorgeous drapery of purple. Don't, then, even in your guileless inexperience, mock me by repeating that I shouldn't be sad because I have everything which money can command. To-day I could renounce every luxury of wealth if by doing so I could recall the vanished joys of my life.
                           "I am alone. Can you understand me? Yes, even when sitting with the family I am alone. Though moving every day in the crowded streets, and transacting business with many pleasant men, I am alone! Solitude in a city! Alone in society! You start, perhaps, at the glaring paradox, and deem me frantic, or morbid, or mad. Yet that paradox must remain—I mean it—my soul is in it. But I was not always alone. Once I had sweet companionship, and the memory of its joy holds me in delicious thraldom. Though I now shiver in unknown and unpitied loneliness, yet the blessed power of living our joys over again is the guardian angel which keeps me from dashing my foot against the stone of ruin. I live in the charmed and ever-charmful past. My spring of pleasure gushes through a grave. I wander among the tombs early as the break of day, and often while lingering there and dwelling upon the sadness of my lot, a well-known voice (every note of which is music—music!) falls softly on my ear, and thrills me with gladdest rapture by the pronunciation of my name.
                           "'But,' you say, 'he wanders; what is his secret?' I own I wander, and fain would wander on, for grief warms the very heart it has chilled, and the destroyer would become my healer. Let me, then, come close to your ear and whisper the sorrow which feeds on my vitality. SHE who was my guide and stay and friend has gone away!—gone away to the bright heavens, the meeting-place of purity and peace, beauty and joy. She seemed to have a right to present herself in so holy a place, for she was pure and most peaceful, she was beautiful in soul, and all her hopes shone and sang like angels. Gone away! But every hour my eager imagination recalls her to my side, and the quick ear of love (so generous yet so covetous) preserves forever the cadences of her inspiring voice. Ah! ye overarching skies! ye are precious to me, ever since ye flung back your blazing portals to receive the spirit of my loved, my gentle mother! and the shining stars which guard your shimmering crystal flash with diviner meaning, since that spirit swept past them in its flight to the Infinite Bosom! The heavens are to me no longer a mere arch of glory, they are rather a partition of light which intercepts my vision of the disembodied worshipper who first folded my hands in prayer. And I cannot but think that even now, if permitted to look for a moment from the Unveiled Face, she turns a glance of love on her lonely lad. 
                                 
                                    'Say, dear departed mother, say,
                                    Art thou still watching o'er thy child,
                                    Or is it a delusive dream
                                    By which my fancy is beguiled?
                                    
                                    But 'tis not false: I know, I feel
                                    She's hovering round me even now;
                                    This is the very breath of heaven
                                    That plays so softly on my brow.
                                    And Faith's all-piercing eye beholds
                                    Visions of beauty gleam above,
                                    And brightens as it there discerns
                                    The lost one of my early love.'
                                 
                              
                           
                           "You never knew her, Emily; how wild, then, must seem the utterances of my passion! A woman, so entirely self-forgetting as my own blest mother, can never be truly or appreciatively known by a world swayed by despotic selfishness; but I had reason to know her—the chambers of her heart were thrown open to me—and my knowledge, thank God, is the inspiration and the defence of my love. Her words, indeed, were comparatively few, but to me they were more than golden. Those words were radiant with intelligence and warm with sympathy. The many children of penury and sorrow who poured their streaming tears upon her grave would be the best witnesses of her gentle heart and gentle speech; they knew that her best offices were ever at the service of honest poverty and helpless grief,—they knew how unostentatious was her benevolence, how softly she dropped the gift of sympathy into the hand of want, and how sweetly the word of hope was uttered in the ear of despair.
                           "I can never forget the expression of their grateful veneration on her burial day. I value the wail of their sadness as they pressed round her coffin infinitely more than the roll of muffled drums heard at the burial of kings.
                           "Every day I review as much as I can remember of her daily life. I say her daily life, because her goodness penetrated and sanctified every hour of her history. She had no days of special pomp,—no occasions of elaborate demonstrations of piety. If she fasted, her face was washed and her head anointed, so that no one knew of her abstinence; and when she prayed, her door shut out every eye but the eye of her Father in heaven. In all my attempts to recall her life, I cannot find a look which did not beam with benevolence, or a word which did not burn with earnestness. Her home was a charmed sphere, in which she shone as the central light, cheering and blessing all on whom the rays of her affection fell; and though we have been driven from that home by a foul conspiracy, or a malicious selfishness, yet the room in which she waived her farewell will be for ever holy to me as a thrice-consecrated temple. Methinks the angels know that room, for there she uttered unnumbered prayers, there she dwelt in happy confidence upon 'the exceeding great and precious promises,' and there she softly sang at last— 
                                 
                                    'Lend, lend your wings, I mount, I fly—
                                    O grave! where is thy victory, O death! where is thy sting?'
                                 
                              
                           
                           "My earliest memories are associated with that room. Far back, in the sunny days of childhood, when bright-eyed Hope doesn't know its sullen brother Doubt, times which remembrance holds dear, she led me, perhaps even carried me (I was so young), into that room, and opening the sacred book, would read to me the words of Jesus, and explain them to my opening mind; and then, kneeling side by side, she would commend me, as a little lamb, to the Gentle Shepherd's tenderest care. She spoke so familiarly, yet reverently, about me, that sometimes I have ventured to open my eyes in the full expectatation of seeing Him to whose warm bosom all little ones are welcome. Alas! these happy years seem far gone, and in the hallowed moment in which memory brings them back, I am blinded by the tears of filial veneration and love. Such prayers she prayed! Her tones are floating on my ear now, and giving me a snatch of the vanished joy. So simple, so beautiful, so earnest, they made me hold my breath, as though angels were poising themselves above her head and listening with wonder to her melting pleas. I may be prejudiced by a fond partiality, but I must assure you, Emily, that prayers equal in simplicity, fervor, and importunity, I do not remember to have heard. Then, after prayer, how beautifully she would talk to me. She encouraged me to ask her questions, and state any difficulties which I had felt in understanding what had transpired: 
                                 
                                    'And gentle words my mother would give,
                                    To fit me to die and to teach me to live;
                                    She told me that shame would never betide,
                                    With truth for my crest, and God for my guide.'
                                 
                              
                           
                           "Can you not, then, partially at least, interpret my conduct and understand the gushes of my grateful affection? And can you not see why I should indignantly, with all the energy of insulted grief, repudiate the idea that anything ghostly should appear in a room which has been made for ever sacred to my fondest recollections? Do you imagine that I felt any terror while your brother was recounting his imaginary horrors? I felt that every word rose from a blasphemous heart, and that every charge was a sword intended to be plunged into my breast. But while you were all shaking with mysterious dread, my heart was enjoying the sweet repose of filial trust, and not a nerve trembled at the touch of pain. My answers, you may remember, were short and abrupt, but the abruptness was occasioned by the fulness of an aching heart; I dare not risk a long answer, under such circumstances, or I should have been overmastered by my feelings and doomed to the martyrdom of shedding tears before those who cannot comprehend the mystery of weeping. I have learned to save my tears for secrecy. Sorrow should betake herself to the unfrequented hollows, and there treat herself to the luxury of tears. I have learned, too, to make silence a shield for a heart which has been often gashed, and for that reason also I refrained from discussion. Let me assure you that there is not one word of truth in the statements made by your brother; he was under the power of Satan, when he uttered that tissue of lies, and if I mistake not, he is under that evil power more firmly now than ever. It pains me, as you can easily understand, to write thus of your brother, but I should be cruel to you in withholding the cruel truth that he has gone far down the incline to hopeless ruin. I would to God you could bring some happy influence to bear upon him, and thus save him from an abyss from which few hapless victims are able to return.
                           "My sainted mother died. It was in the early spring that the insidious complaint which conquered her compelled her to keep her bed. I remember that sweet but sad spring-time with perfect distinctness. I have no other diary than that which is written on the heart, but to-day not a letter of the inscription, I find, has faded. It is within me clearly as the night ever wrote its name on the skies with unclouded stars. We hoped that the spring would revive her, and that the genial breezes of early summer would be grateful to her tender lungs. But she seemed to look upon our hopes as her own fears, for she felt a longing to fly away to perfection of character and completeness of repose. In the morning when we opened her window and she saw the branchlets of the wall-trees she would sweetly say, as though some very happy hope were singing in her heart, 'ah! before these reach their maturity I shall see the tree of life.' But she was mistaken. Her tedious complaint seemed to delight in prolonging its fatal repast; so she lingered on until the full summer shone, and when the birds warbled to the sun she gave the event a spiritual interpretation and said with smiles—'ere long I shall take part in the new song.' But still the disease refused to let her go, determined, as it were, that her spirit should not pass away through the summer brightness. Then came autumn with its rich fruit, much of which she could see in the fields and gardens as she was propped up in bed, and when the sickle was heard doing its work among the ripe corn, it brought to her mind memories of the perfect teacher, for she said, with exultation, the wheat will I gather into my garner.' Friends came to look at her, and all said that she looked beautiful,' they delighted to look on her placid countenance, though they knew too well the meaning which shone in the dazzling brilliance of her eyes. It always made me sad when friends spoke of her beauty, and even when they spoke of her patience and resignation, my heart became very heavy and my lips trembled with emotion. Towards the close of autumn the dear sufferer sank most rapidly. Her cheek became paler with every hour, and her eyes shone like a brightening flame. Her poor hand, too, how it wasted! It was once round and soft and smooth, but now the attenuated fingers had become almost transparent. She asked the nurse to lay that wasted hand on my head, while she breathed upon me her final benediction. Then, with a great effort, she gently waived that hand and spoke of hovering angels, which beckoned her away. At last she said but little, but when the fatal blow was struck, I leaned over her and heard her say—'more than conqueror.'
                           "When we laid her in the grave the snows of early winter fell upon her coffin, pure and white as 'the fine linen' which she now wears in the presence of her Lord. Gone! Gone! and I am alone! She has left me a rich inheritance of prayers. She has enkindled aspirations and cherished tastes, which cannot be satisfied with anything that I find in the daily life of this house. I cannot drink at the fountains to which my associates repair, and my soul is forbidden to come into their secret! If, for an instant, I am tempted to join them in their senseless or sinful engagements, a voice from the grave calls me to caution, and urges me to resistance, and it seems as though if I heeded it not, it would swell into louder and louder thunder until all creation became a peal of warning. Oh! for one short hour with my blessed mother. I feel as though I could creep around the globe just to enjoy that luxury. I would freely pour my tears upon her loving breast, and tell her every sorrow that is gnawing at my heart; and she would strengthen me with such gentle words—she would take away all feeling of revenge from my heart—she would bid her disconsolate boy trust in God, and would support the precept by a spotless example,—she would again place on my head the diadem of her blessing, and once more I should be happy! But it cannot be. The dead return not. They cannot open the golden portals of the celestial city, and bring with them draughts from the crystal river, or fruit from the tree of life. She will not, cannot come. She said I should soon follow her to swell the hallelujahs of the skies; and but for you, Emily, I could turn the prediction into prayer.
                           "May I dwell further on the charms of my mother? I could speak long of her affection,—affection constituted of wisdom and love. Her discipline was a beautiful compound of firmness, prudence, sagacity, and tenderness. She never connived at error. Never would she permit any tampering with the broad line which separates right from wrong: that line was drawn by the finger of God, and must not be meddled with by the finger of man. She was no ascetic. She did not robe religion with garments of mourning, it was rather an angel adorned with singing robes, making all the household happy. My mother had no sympathy with pietism and cant. Persons occasionally attempted to deceive her by simulating a desire to be good but her penetrating eye often saw through the hollow pretence, and the very gentleness of her rebukes made the hypocrite's heart beat with horror. No one ventured to trifle with the solemnities of religion in her presence, for they soon felt that they touched the apple of her eye, and must speak with veneration, or be altogether silent on a theme which encompasses the universe.
                           "My mother was a woman of strong intelligence, and of great native refinement of mind. I am not aware that she had many advantages of technical culture, but she was endowed with noble powers, and those noble powers were under the direction of a most pure taste. Few could understand how a woman so gifted could take so lively an interest in the minutest affairs of her household, nor shall I attempt to account for this, but will bless her memory, that, while she was a child of genius, she never neglected a single duty devolved upon her by the double relation of wife and mother. I can give you one illustration of her mental power and refinement (I have many indeed, but one may suffice to redeem her name from the scandal which has occasionally been thrown upon it.) Before I was born my mother had a little girl,—described as a sweet, charming, beautiful creature. Very early death came and covetously bore the child away. My mother's heart was smitten. For some time she sat beside the open coffin and mourned the faded floweret. She felt as though she could not allow the lid to be attached, she would look, look, look, and again look, as if the eye might after all only be closed in sleep, and would open in joyous life. But, no! Death sat heavily on the eyelids, and couldn't be charmed away. At length thought brought faith, and faith brought triumph, and taking a slip of paper, she wrote the following lines upon the shut-coffin. Read them, and tell me if I have not reason to revere the memory of such a mother:—
                                 
                                    "Let the Angels take her?
                                    In God's acre
                                    Dust to dust,
                                    Can we thus forsake her?
                                    Aye, we must! We must!
                                    Here no sound will wake her;
                                    Here we lay God's trust.
                                 
                                 
                                    "Here's the blossom tender!
                                    Earth! defend her;
                                    Gentle rest
                                    On thy bosom lend her;
                                    Warm and finger-prest
                                    Mine no more will send her
                                    Slumber soft and blest.
                                 
                                 
                                    "This is our's no longer!
                                    Death is stronger
                                    Than our love:
                                    Will the stronger wrong her?
                                    Her? Why, she's above
                                    Where God's angels throng her
                                    She, an household dove!
                                 
                                 
                                    "'Tis our home's undoing,
                                    Oh! the ruin!
                                    Yet we're dumb;
                                    For we see her wooing
                                    Thither us to come;
                                    Still, our loss accruing,
                                    Greater is the sum!
                                 
                                 
                                    "Back to her Creator,
                                    Is it greater
                                    That she go
                                    To the joys that wait her,
                                    Than God's gift? Ah no!
                                    Peace! a little later,
                                    We shall see it so.
                                 
                              
                           
                           "And now the same angels have taken the mother also, and together they are forever happy.
                           "Now my secret has gone from me! It is no longer mine; henceforth it is your's as well as mine. You will not dishonor the confidence of an aching heart? I need not charge you by the name of the sainted dead to set a seal upon the door of the chamber into which this secret enters. Your tenderness has often won me, and has gone far, indeed, to rekindle the hopes which the death-damps quenched long ago. I am thankful even for your presence. The light of your eye is pleasant to me, and the sweetness of your voice charms my sadness. Don't regard me as a recluse or a misanthrope. It is in your power to cheer and bless me. You can give life to my buried heart! Will you? Can you return my affection? Can you find rest in companionship with me?
                           "Let no eye ever rest on this paper. Inscribe its contents on your heart. Forgive the errors and repetitions. May the unfading sun pour his light evermore on the path you tread, and the angel of peace be the abiding guest of your heart. Adieu! You need no other sign than
                           
                              O. H."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This was a style of address to which gentle, timid Emily had never been accustomed, so that her first want was felt to be the presence of an interpreter. The deep religious earnestness of some parts of the history were to her mind truly awful. They contrasted so strangely with the superficial talk of Mrs. Hargreaves, as also indeed with her own merely technical religious training, that she felt a dread of the man whose heart had passed through such wonderful experiences. He was working in deep strata, while she was quite on the surface; and but for the overflowing affectionateness of her nature, she would have deemed Octavius slightly beyond the bounds of sound sense and propriety.
               Not many days elapsed before the writer and the reader met, and earnest conversation ensued.
               "Do you understand my conduct any better now, than you did before?" Octavius inquired with ill-suppressed eagerness.
               "O yes," said Emily with timidity, anxious that he should be well rewarded for his pains, "and I'm much obliged to you for the explanation."
               Octavius was in that humble mood in which the smallest donations of gratitude or compliment are thankfully received, and therefore heard the acknowledgment of obligation with much satisfaction. While he was indulging the delicious reflection that he had so far conquered as to win this acknowledgment, and partly also wondering at what point he could next break in, for all his pre-arrangements had unluckily escaped his memory, Emily relieved his anxiety by introducing one of the topics in the paper:
               "Then it appears that you had really nothing to do with the ghost-business?"
               "No more," he answered, "than an unborn child, I do assure you; and, what is more, it is all lies from beginning to end."
               "But how could it happen, Mr. Octavius? You know your 'pa was as much frightened as Ben."
               "Just so, Miss Dudgeon, but it is all lies for all that; it's just the work of a wicked and lawless imagination,—depend upon it."
               "But I'm sure," said Emily, as though her own powers of fancy might be taken as a fair specimen of other people's ability," I never could have imagined anything of the sort; and surely Ben would never do such a thing for the sake of a lark,—it was too serious for that."
               "You may rely upon it, Miss Dudgeon, that's just what he has done, but I don't suppose he'll ever confess it; I may just repeat, what I have said in the letter, that I'm afraid Ben is getting into habits that will ruin him."
               "Well," Emily said, "that is a point in your letter which made me very unhappy—indeed quite wretched—and I don't know how to make it out, for Ben appears to be very much as usual—he is as kind and gentle to me as ever he was." As she uttered these words, Emily looked at Octavius with piercing eagerness, all her sisterly solicitudes combining in one long and penetrating glance.
               "I allude," said Octavius, "more particularly to his extravagance; now, just to give you an instance of my meaning, many a time I find little parcels (just such as jewellers might wrap up) lying on his desk, and not very long ago I heard him offering a price to a wandering Jew for a very handsome musical box, which you may have seen, probably, as he told me that he had bought it."
               
               "No, I haven't seen anything of it, and I'm surprised at that. I wonder, now, whatever he can have done with it."
               "I don't like the men he dines with, either," Octavius continued, "I know that it is impossible to keep company with them without spending a great deal of money, and they wouldn't let him go with them unless he could do his share either one way or another."
               "I wonder whatever has made Ben act in this manner," Emily said, mainly in soliloquy, "I wonder if one could do anything to prevent him from going farther."
               When Octavius saw how deeply Emily was laying the matter to heart—(this he ascertained more by her manner than her words)—he gave a view of the question which unintentionally turned the drift of conversation—
               "Perhaps, Miss Dudgeon, I may be too particular,—many young men, I have no doubt, would treat my fears with ridicule."
               "That's not unlikely to be true," said Emily, "you are so very good—too good for me I'm sure—I do wish I was as good as you are—I never did know anybody so good as you, Mr. Octavius." This was said not at all in a bantering style, but with the simple earnestness of moral aspiration.
               "You may think me good," Octy answered, with no feigned sadness of tone," but every heart knows its own mysteries best, and I can assure you I have neither cause nor disposition to boast; I have a desire to be good, and I have an ideal of goodness, but how far I have fallen short of that ideal no one can know so well as myself."
               While Octy was musing on his interior corruptions and necessities, or on some other subject more immediately concerning both parties, Emily interrupted his reverie by a gentle attack upon christendom in general—
               "I have always had the idea," said she, "that religious people were weak and silly; just look at almost any novel and you will find that the religious person is always played with, and laughed at: I was reading, only the other day, a novel with some such name as 'The Melancholy Man,' and almost in every chapter he was bantered for his religious whims and fancies; but you don't seem to belong to the class I have read so much about."
               "Thank you, Miss Dudgeon, I hope I do not belong to any such class, but let me assure you that I never go to novels for certificates of character."
               Emily had not seen that her argument exposed itself to this animadversion, for in her simplicity she received every statement in a novel with a most charming credulity, bordering, indeed, on that superstition which many unsophisticated people feel in relation to anything that comes before them in the dignity of print. She felt the reply to be more pointed than Octavius had any intention of making it.
               "You must pardon me then," she said, "for I suppose that religious people—I mean people who are very good,—as you are—would think it wrong to read a novel. Is it so?
               "Not at all, Miss Dudgeon, not for a moment: there may be religious people who object to novel-reading, but I have never encountered one of that pharisaical class: I consider that a well-planned and well-executed novel is neither more nor less than a vivid delineation of life, and life is the second-best of all books. A great novel, Miss Dudgeon, (you may be surprised to hear me say so,) is, in my opinion, a great sermon. Just look at the discourses of Jesus Christ and see how he availed himself of parabolical or pictorial teaching; there's that parable of the Prodigal Son, now examine that, and you'll find it to contain every element of the most powerful novel that was ever written——."
               "How is it, then, Mr. Octavius, that novelists always make religious people such silly characters?"
               "That is not difficult of explanation: first of all the novelist himself may not be religiously disposed, and then it requires a higher order of genius to manage religious questions successfully than any other, and lastly, I believe that there isn't a heavier drug in the literary market than an ill-written religious novel. That is one class of reasons; and then there is a consideration of another kind which may partly explain what you mean—religious people cannot fight with such weapons as their opponents use: they are, in novels, often pitted against men of bluster, who delight in smart, sharp sentences, and are not at all particular as to the accuracy of their statements; they bear everything before them in a storm of banter and ridicule, and are altogether regardless of what swells their stream, provided that it is strong enough and that it will flow in the channel they have marked out: but you see, Miss Dudgeon, a truly religious person must adopt a different course; he must abide by the truth, and he never will consent to fabricate a joke out of the solemn realities of his religious faith."
               A pause ensued. Emily had never heard Octavius talk so copiously before, and was not aware that he could utter more than a very few very short sentences; but there he was, at her side, talking away like almost any other human being, and patiently explaining the mysteries of the religious life. And there she was, too, by his side, listening most eagerly to his words, and displaying an ardent desire for the triumphant vindication of all good people generally, and Mr. Octavius himself specially.
               "Then you don't think that religious people are so very weak as the caricaturists make them."
               "I believe," said Octy, "that many religious people are extremely weak, but I deny that religion is accountable for their weakness; the people I refer to would have been quite as weak had they been atheists,—in fact, religion has nothing at all to do with it."
               The conversation had thus taken a turn which Octavius had not anticipated, yet in tracing its origin he could not see that it had arisen unnaturally, or that it swept hopelessly beyond the circuit which he had intended to traverse. He felt, too, as one interested in the study of human nature, that the conversation was affording him glimpses into the heart which had already conquered his own sadness and turned it into joy, and therefore, he was willing to be led by Emily either in the capacity of psychologist, philosopher, teacher, or admirer: to be in her company was enough in the meantime, so long as he had the hope that the conversation would take a providential turn and lead to the declaration of mutual intentions. Emily sat thinking after Octy's daring reference to the atheists, and as the interview was calculated to foster a confidential state of mind, she said—
               "Well, I'm sure I should like to be good,—as good as you are, Mr. Octavius, but I don't know whether I should like to be religious, for I have read in some book about a man who became religious, and he went through such sufferings and convulsions—and—things—."
               Emily felt at a loss for words; she was in a region she had never travelled, and couldn't make her way for want of a knowledge of the dialect. She was establishing an unexplained distinction between "good" and "religious," but Octavius came to her aid and exploded the error into which she had been betrayed—
               "That is a very old, and a very common, mistake," said he, "and I think I can show you that convulsions are not at all indispensable in cases of a religious nature. All persons have not to pass through precisely the same process—much, of course, depends on the life which has been led. If you take a very desperate character, for instance, some confirmed drunkard, or notorious blasphemer, or cruel tyrant, and trace the method by which such a man became good, it is very likely that you may find the agitation and convulsions to which you allude; but if you take the case of a well-trained young person—one who has walked unblameably before the world—who has been virtuous, kind, well-meaning, and altogether what is called harmless or innocent; the characteristics of moral transformation will be, and will be necessarily, totally different. In such a case it will be more like the dawn of day, or like the opening of a blossom, or the springing of a blade of grass—all is perfect quietness—not a sound is heard—the change is divine and thorough, but the process, so far as man can see, is as different as the sun-rise and an earthquake."
               Emily had relapsed into a most thoughtful mood, out of which even silence did not startle her. Her face presented a singularly wondering aspect, of which Octavius could make no satisfactory translation. But he paraphrased it into a sign of self-examination, out of which he expected her to come a wiser and happier woman. Quite a minute elapsed without a word being spoken; at length Octavius inquired—
               "Do you understand the distinction I have tried to present?"
               "I think so," she said, "but I have no hope of becoming religious; I shall try to be kind to the poor and the sick, but I'm sure I can never be religious; I am too bad for that."
               "Too bad, Miss Dudgeon? Whatever can you mean by being too bad?"
               "Well, I am too bad, somehow; at any rate I could never become so good as you are."
               "You may be surprised at what I am going to say, Miss Dudgeon, but this very expression of hopelessness doesn't at all discourage me. When a man feels hunger he is likely to ask for bread, and when he is weary he is anxious to have rest; and so, when we feel the darkness that rests upon our souls, we are led to hope and yearn and pray for the light. I should, then, advise you to pray for forgiveness,—God's ear is not heavy that it cannot hear."
               "I know that," said Emily, with a most disconsolate accent, "but I cannot pray—my heart is dead, I am sure,—quite chilled and lifeless—prayer is entirely out of the question."
               "But do you know what prayer is, Miss Dudgeon? Come now, give me your idea."
               "Prayer," she answered, with the precision of a theologian, "is asking for what we want."
               "Exactly," said her instructor, "you could hardly have given a simpler and clearer answer, but let me startle you a little by saying that I have often prayed, and prayed successfully, too, without uttering a word."
               "'Prayed without uttering a word?' Impossible! Why, whatever can you mean, Mr. Octavius? You seem to me to contradict yourself when you say so."
               "Let me explain then. Now you have a good deal to do with children, and children get many things which they never ask for in words. Haven't you seen a little child who couldn't speak, point to some article which it would like to have, and which it might have with advantage, and the mother has at once handed the article to the child?"
               "O yes," said Emily, new-born light gleaming in her ever beautiful eyes, "I have seen that many a time, and only yesterday one of the children pointed to a toy, and Mrs. Hargreaves gave it to him at once, without either of them speaking a word."
               "Very good, then, that explains precisely what I mean by praying without uttering a single word. Sometimes my wants have been so many and so great that no language could give them fit expression. I could only look and point at the coveted blessing. But God sees the uplifted though trembling finger of want, and in his abounding mercy answers its dumb yet effectual eloquence. God knows the poverty of our language, and he knows all the subtle and mysterious workings of the human heart, and so good is He that he expands a sigh into a supplication, and reads the unspoken meaning of a pleading tear. He doesn't ask for refined and pompous and elaborate expression; he waits for the eager throbbing of the broken heart—he listens for the wail of contrition, and the vow of repentance, and the confidence of loving trust. Don't, Miss Dudgeon, listen to the devil when he says you cannot pray or cannot be forgiven; it is a lie, awful as hell, and you must repulse it with every energy of your being, or you will become a slave for ever."
               Octavius grasped Emily's right hand, as if determined to lead her into the same glorious liberty in which his own soul was enfranchised, and looked at her with eyes which even men could see were lit up with prayers and hopes. Emily, however, had relapsed into the old, thoughtful mood, as though no voice had been appealing to her attention. She fixed her eyes upon a standard rose-tree, on which three beautiful roses blushed under the glance of the sun, and seemed to be wondering what such pure blushings could signify; then she shuddered (as one would shudder who had been snatched from the brink of a precipice), and returned the grasp of Octavius's warm hand. Octavius was always careful to honor the silence which ensued so naturally on conversations tions such as had just transpired. "Perhaps," he soliloquized, "perhaps she sees the truth in some subduing aspect,—perhaps she is anxious to reciprocate my confidence by communicating a secret of her own,—perhaps she is affected by the prospect of Ben's ruin,—or perhaps she is a little confused with the suggestion with which I closed my paper." These cogitations came and vanished in less time than the pen requires for their record, and hardly had they fled from their birthplace when Octavius was startled by a most unlooked-for question,—a question which had no possible connection with the subject immediately in hand—
               "Tell me," said Emily, with an earnestness which would have no patience with an evasive answer, "do you love Mrs. Hargreaves?"
               It was now Octy's turn to assume an aspect of bewilderment, and involuntary perplexity gnarled his countenance, a countenance usually as open as the rose before him, and took the accustomed suppleness from his lips. "Can it be possible," he reasoned with himself, "can it be possible that she wishes to entrap me? Is it not the paw of a disguised tiger which is now lying so softly and warmly in my hand? No! She must be suffering from the dominion of Mrs. Hargreaves, and anxious to receive sympathy from me; and as I have intrusted to her confidence the dearest secret of my soul, why should I refuse to enter upon an explanation which may mollify her wounds, and probably aid the attainment of my ultimate purpose?" With a nervous twitch of the hand, and a nervous glance of the eye, and a nervous suppression of the breath, he said—
               "Your question, Miss Dudgeon, is a direct one, and if anybody else had asked it, I might have declined to answer; but tell me one thing, will you betray the secret I have already disclosed?"
               Emily used only one word in reply, but she made that solitary word quake and shiver with the passion which she threw into its utterance; it came almost like a song (a long string of demi-semi quavers, headed by the stoutest breve) as she said, with quivering emphasis:
               "Never!"
               "Well, then," said Octy, who liked a covenant that was fair all round, "let me try a woman's plan with you; if I tell you my opinion, will you tell me yours? Nothing unfair in that I hope?"
               Emily saw nothing unfair in it either, and at once cordially agreed to reciprocate all the confidence with which she might be intrusted. Is there any more truth-telling test of mental unity than that of cozily emptying heart into heart, and as every drop falls, shaking the head in sign of secrecy? It is at least suggestive of kindred of soul, and, other things being equal, may lead on to results which come rather within the range of imagination than of description.
               "I wish to have a proper regard for Mrs. Hargreaves," said Octy, "but you must have seen from the paper I gave you that her tastes and tendencies are altogether so opposed to those which were created and fostered by my mother that anything like sympathetic fellowship is entirely out of the question; you must, however, understand me quite clearly, for the religion I profess would be a poor thing if it did not elevate me beyond the influence of mere spite, or rancor, or petulance, I have not the slightest animosity towards her; the fact is simply this, her views and feelings are such that she cannot sympathise with me, and mine are so earnest that disguise is impossible."
               "Why, then, do you reside in the house," Emily inquired; "you are of age, and can provide for yourself, would it not be better to leave?"
               "I am afraid, Miss Dudgeon, that the question lies deeper than that; there are influences operating on judgment and conscience which we cannot altogether set aside, and there are plans and purposes which require a good deal of patience in working out. I cannot quite see my way clear to leave the house. I think that perhaps some good may come out of my suffering after all; and besides, you know, I take pleasure in your company now, and I am not disposed to forego that joy. Now tell me what your opinion of Mrs. Hargreaves is?"
               Emily blushed and stammered when her turn came, nor was her natural bashfulness at all relieved by the confession in the latter statement of the young man; there was no honorable escape, however, so she answered: "To be honest, I cannot say that I do love Mrs. Hargreaves; God knows that I wouldn't intentionally injure her on any account, but I cannot persuade myself that she is a genuinely sincere and true hearted woman; I often find it difficult to credit what she says, and that makes me feel most uncomfortable. There is always something more in her meaning than there is in her words, and I think she would be very glad to make a tool of anybody that is under her; but you know our circumstances—you know we cannot do just what we would like—and she appears to think that there's no one in the world so good as Ben—so we must put up with as much as possible; there now, perhaps, I have said enough, but it relieves one to be able to express one's feelings freely."
               "You've said enough, Miss Dudgeon," Octy replied, "to convince me that we are thoroughly at one upon this subject. You are perfectly right about her insincerity. Her words are often fair enough, and straightforward enough, and all that, but there are after-signs, and curious expressions of eye, and a general hollowness, which have convinced me that sincerity has no place in her heart; and that is one of the virtues which my dear mother always inculcated and exemplified—every word she spoke was a spark of truth—she never sacrificed conscience to compliment—whatever she had to sacrifice in feeling, she would never surrender a single conviction."
               "There's Mrs. Hargreave's singular habit," Emily resumed, "of always claiming to be such a refined and extraordinary lady, and yet the way she stoops in order to get any gossip from the servants, or even from the hawkers at the door, is most disgusting to me."
               "That reminds me," Octy said, "of my mother's habits with the servants. There wasn't a kinder mistress in England than she was; she took a lively interest in the servants, got them entertaining and useful books to read, and when they were ill they had every possible attention; and they quite loved her in return, and not one of them ever left her without expressing both regret and gratitude. But she never made tools of them, never made them channels of gossip.—O Miss Dudgeon, I wish she had been here now!"
               Such a wish—pure, but in vain!—was fittingly succeeded by a few moment's silence. As they wore away, Octavius felt anxious to make some progress with the special question, but his well-nursed courage utterly forsook him! He turned, and shuffled, and looked in various directions, but his intention couldn't struggle into day-light through all the superincumbent bashfulness of a love which as yet had never opened its young, soft, rosy lips. Long and earnestly had he been coaxing his heroism to rise to the dignity of the occasion, and many a hope had his well-patted determination enkindled and sanctioned; it had pledged itself to achieve the most decided and brilliant conquests, but in all its elaborate preparations it had forgotten to select an initial word! It had all the rest of the programme in readiness but that—if he could only surmount the one difficulty his heroism would do wonders for him. He examined several introductory words, but found that they were either crooked, or ugly, or prickly, or shabby—in short, they were anything but what they should be. He had covenanted with himself to "play the man," by heroically abjuring the booby, yet he sat by the side of that enslaving girl having his pockets—his heart-pockets—crammed with notes, and couldn't advance an inch for want of one small coin. Happy, yet unhappy Octy! In prison, and the key lost! Could he but find the key and come forth, his friends on the outside would do anything and everything for him; but, of course, he must first come out. He begged his heroism to break open the door without waiting longer for the key, but his heroism belonged to the family of the proprieties, and resolutely refused to do anything which would risk the permanence of its respectability—so he burned and trembled and swooned for want of an opening word! "If you cannot speak you can splutter," suggested his fastidious heroism, and as Octy knew that "half a loaf is better than no bread," he made up his mind to "splutter" a little.
               "I suppose"——(long pause after "suppose")——"that you have read"——(long pause after "read")——"the concluding"——(long pause after "concluding," as if he had been shut up)——"sentences"——(extraordinary long pause after "sentences"——"of my letter?"
               Capital! He's out of prison now! The air is ringing with salutations! O, the sweet, deep joy of his heart, as he meditated that it was not his turn to speak. He had rolled the onus off his shoulders (the shoulders of his heart of course) and was now in the position of a man who has asked a question. Blind reasoner! Infatuated lover! The onus was not rolled but actually shot back in the blinking of an eye, for with cruel brevity Emily simply answered—
               "Yes."
               Most awkward, yet most natural, answer. This quiet monosyllable quite padlocked his lips, and drove him into the ill-furnished store-house of his own expedients. He couldn't but feel that he had failed; had failed, in fact, in selecting the right shape for his question, had it been "do you respond in the affirmative to the concluding sentences of my letter?" the monosyllable would just have met the case, but as the matter stood the monosyllable was not of the slightest use to him—it it was a child's answer—for practical purposes he might as well have asked "have you a nose?"—it was not foundation enough for the most modest superstructure—it was, to change the figure a twig too weak for any of hope's bright-winged birds to alight upon. Then came another bout of blushing and swallowing, of burning and twitching, of vowing and vowbreaking, but suddenly his heroism dashed the spur into his side and he bolted forward gallantly as far as—
               "Well?"
               But the affair could not be managed with monosyllables, though perhaps it did not require any special attainments in the classics. Poor Octy felt that the wheel of fortune flew with terrific rapidity, and that his turn to speak came much sooner than it was welcome, when, Emily coolly answered—
               "Nothing."
               "But you will give me an answer soon, won't you? I could pluck that rose you have been looking at, and make it entirely mine, and I do wish I could have your consent to be transplanted into the garden of my heart—What say you?"
               Triumphant courage! O despair, thou dost give man strength of nerve, and directness of utterance. Octavius was now acting under the desperating influence of despair. He had tried to win her by indirect inquiries, and remote allusions, and delicate intimations, and modest suggestions, but the free girl couldn't be caught in his imprisoning arms by any such civil and shaven methods. Something more rugged, something of a bolder grandeur, something more sublimely daring must be attempted. Emily was a pearl which must be dived for under stormy water, or an eagle whose dwelling must be reached by a hardy mountaineer, or anything which poet's fancy can create, which requires the exhibition of unfaltering fortitude and uncomplaining patience. Why not answer him, Emily, at once? Won't you? Consider his splendid position, reflect on his glorious training, revert to his sweet profound unselfish piety, remember the equality of your ages, dwell upon the guilelessness of his heart, and say whether you will not surrender, and be his own for ever? Her heart is hard to conquer,—there must be a thick incrustation of ice, yet it is perhaps thawing a little,—hear this—
               "I must think about it."
               There is hope in that word, surely. Octavius will never cease to remember its soft, tremulous, inspiring music.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               CROSS PURPOSES.
               IN their next interview Mrs. Hargreaves and Emily occupied positions which were not mutually understood, for while Emily was made aware of the secret of Octavius's silence, and the tenderer secret of his fully-resolved love, she was in total ignorance of the true state of the ghost-story. Mrs. Hargreaves had now two objects to work for, neither of which she dare avow quite so openly as she would like; first of all she wished thoroughly to encoil Benjamin Dudgeon, so as to make him her slave, and secondly, she was resolved to thwart the suspected designs of Octavius. These purposes, however, soon disclosed the most conflicting features; she saw that unless she could bring consummate skill to bear upon the latter she would defeat herself ignominiously in the former: arouse Emily's anger, and Emily might cast herself upon the sympathies of her brother, and the brother, naturally taking his sister's part in a serious question, however much he might tease and oppose her in one of lesser moment, would disenthral himself and defy consequences. Mrs. Hargreaves had discrimination enough to perceive the difficulty of hitting with one arrow the bull's eye of targets which stood in opposite directions, and her divided counsels were harmonised in a resolution to risk the battle upon the ground of the ghost-case, rather than upon the ground of the young man's personal merits. The adroit lady consequently assumed a tone of maternal sympathy, and addressed herself to the tenderest aspect of her case—
               "My dear Emily, your appearance, of late, has occasioned me much uneasiness; you are so very pale and thin, not at all so plump and rosy as you used to be; I'm sure you havn't recovered covered the effects of that awful ghost-business; that dreadful young man is really deserving of the severest punishment,—hanging is too good for him."
               "Indeed, ma'am!" Emily exclaimed in great surprise, "so you have found out the criminal! Well, that is a triumph of discrimination! Do tell me, Mrs. Hargreaves, all about it. Well! well!
               "'Found out,' child? Why do you mean to tell me that you haven't found out the criminal? Dearest Emily, can you look at me without cowering under my eye and say that you haven't found out the wretch?
               "Yes, ma'am, I can look at you without blenching, and say that I do not believe that even Ben, though he is so fond of fun, would venture to carry a joke so far."
               "I should think not indeed, but the ghosts must have turned you superannuated if you think that Benjamin is the only young man in the house; recollect yourself, Emily, and tell me how many young men belong to this household?"
               This allusion to the family statistics reminded Emily that she had a deeper regard for Octavius than she had allowed herself to believe. He had insinuated himself into her heart too far to be thrown out at one effort, even had she felt dis posed to make it. Emily's first impulse was to fire upon his behalf, and avenge the long series of insults which her mistress had offered to the young man; the hot words were on her tongue, and her fast-beating heart would have supplied a thousand more quite as fiery, but discretion interposed and succeeded in cooling her down to a milder expression of her opinions—
               "I am quite sure, Mrs. Hargreaves, that Mr. Octavius knows nothing at all about it; I have had a quarter of an hour's conversation with him, and he has given me his word for it that he is as innocent as I am;—and I believe him."
               Emily had occasionally called the young man by his simple name—Octavius—but on this occasion she availed herself of the more formal designation, partly to show that she recognised the superiority of his position to her own, and partly to check the familiarity and even flippancy of his step-mother. It is an old device this, of drawing one's self into a dignified attitude and repelling familiar advances by designating even the maid of all work by the stiffening title of Miss Longbrush. The announcement which Emily had just made produced an immediate effect on the irascible nerves (the physiologists will pardon a layman for making any slight addition to the human structure) of Mrs. Hargreaves—
               "What?" said she with bristling eagerness and offended wonder, "Octavius talking to you—talking to you for a quarter of an hour? Why, child, you alarm me—you must be dreaming! surely it is a mistake in identity! My timid Emily could never talk to a young man who has been guilty of such diabolical conduct!—Relieve me, child,—relieve me!"
               "I cannot give you the sort of relief you want, ma'am," said Emily with the coolness of a steady resolution, "I have had the quarter of an hour's conversation with him, and am perfectly convinced from his manner of talking, that he is not only an innocent but a most deeply-injured young man."
               "'His manner of talking' indeed!" the lady replied with a sarcasm which constricted her lips, and a passion which made her words drunk with rage, "Emily, you must be turning silly—I don't know how you manage to conduct the studies of the children—how long must I keep telling you that Octavius Hargreaves can talk in any manner but a proper manner?—O Emily! I doubt he has got an evil power over you—I doubt he has—and I tremble as I think of the consequences." Mrs. Hargreaves did tremble as she uttered these words, but a very severe criticism would certainly assign that demonstration of feeling to the account of malice, rather than to the credit of a sensitive and apprehensive morality.
               Emily lost none of her coolness as she said—
               "I never deceive any one if I can help it, and I shall not deceive you, Mrs. Hargreaves, so I tell you plainly that there is something very attractive about Mr. Octavius, and that every day I become more and more interested in him; he has something in his mind that mine can rest upon, and I believe that the more he becomes understood the more he will be respected."
               Fire! Fire! Fire! yelled at midnight by a thousand voices never produced a more awful sensation, than did these words as they fell on the ear of bewildered and maddened Mrs. Hargreaves. The lady paced the floor to relieve her rending torment, and shot glances at Emily which were intended to turn her, body and soul, into a cinder. Again and again she returned to her work-box, but couldn't see what she was in quest of; again and again she tried to sit down, but her chair had become a brake of thorns; again and again she searched her vocabulary for words which would cut Emily, but not go far enough through her to wound Benjamin. Up and down, down and up, she paced and swung and stamped and glanced, and could have shed tears of vexation had they not been licked up by the fiery tongue of her fettered anger. She was a petticoated volcano, a ringletted Etna, disgorging time had come, but the heaving mountain dare not discharge its volley of death. Time cools, and time sharpens; hear the lady now that time has stroked her—
               "Emily, I suppose you know I have a character for discrimination?"
               This was a significant mode of attack. It was intended to be the preliminary stroke of a master-tactician. Find a man adopting the Socratic trick—hedging you about with axioms—trapping you into concessions, and you find a man whose ultimate intention is to pop you into an abyss head-foremost. Emily had some fore-casting of this fate, but faced it with unabated coolness—
               "Certainly, ma'am."
               "And I farther suppose, Emily, that you are aware of my good feeling towards yourself?"
               "You have been very kind, ma'am."
               "Well, then, I suppose once more that you know that your brother loves you deeply."
               "No doubt about that, ma'am; he would do everything in his power for me,—would never cross my will."
               Mrs. Hargreaves didn't like to believe that there was any truth in this latter statement, though she had a secret dread that it might have been farther from the mark.
               "Well, now, just see how the whole case stands, and do be reasonable I beg you—you know that I have no other motive—can have no other motive—than your welfare—here am I, at eight and twenty, married to a person who is five and forty, and from the very great disparity between our education and refinement and taste you know quite well that there is not the faintest sympathy between us—well, Octavius and you are unequal in age, but after all, that is neither here nor there if other things are right, but I put it to your common sense whether in such a case other things can be right? Haven't you seen what a moping secret-minded creature he is? Dosn't he avoid us in everything? Doesn't he coil himself up like a snake in the grass? Doesn't he always look as though he were plotting some one's ruin? Very well then," (this, she said as though Emily had nodded an affirmative to every question) "just see how the case stands on the other side, here you are an inexperienced child, never seen the world upside down, always had everything provided for you, never known what it is to pass one day's misery; why, Emily, when I think of these things my heart is like to burst through my breast from sheer vexation; I tell you again, child, that to marry Octavius is to sell yourself into everlasting bondage."
               The truth is that Emily had never used the word "marry" when speaking of Octavius and herself. All that she had ever said to Mrs. Hargreaves, respecting the young man, was perfectly consistent with the nature of a merely heroic friendship that is determined to guard innocence from aspersion and gentleness from tyranny. But now that Mrs. Hargreaves had pleased herself, without amusing anybody else, by settling the whole question upon a philosophical basis, Emily thought she would test her argumentative skill by putting a case—
               "But wouldn't it be possible, Mrs. Hargreaves, for a prudent and loving wife to mould Mr. Octavius a little according to her will? Is he neither ductile nor malleable?
               "I do declare! Good gracious! When will girls be wise? Oh, when will they be wise? All the girls I ever knew in my life have talked in that same foolish way! Oh, dear, dear! The world may be going round for anything I know, but, good gracious, it doesn't get one inch forward! I did expect more from you, Emily——."
               'More what, ma'am?"
               "More sense, child. Good gracious me! how you do talk,—talking about moulding a man, and especially a man of the name of Hargreaves! Don't you know what my experience has been? Have you lived this length of time with us without seeing the impossibility of any such thing as moulding a man? Do you think that a Hargreaves is a lump of wet clay that you can roll into any shape that pleases you? If you do think anything of the sort, let me assure you of your great blunder: the Hargreaves's are what I call an awkward family—now mark the word I employ, that word is awkward—as for myself I'm peppery, but good gracious me! peppery is neither here nor there; I say they are awkward, sullen, stupid, boorish and hog-headed,—bless you, child, a Hargreaves can hold his tongue for a month together, and look at you with leaden eyes till the tears roll down your cheeks,—he can! Why, Emily, I can tell you," (dropping into the minor-key so dear to true confidence) "that if it hadn't been for my little stimulant" (a modest characterization of half a pint of brandy per day,) "I never could have endured what I have had to go through." Here she shook her foot, and twirled her thumbs, and sighed to intimate that if she went much longer without trying the effect of the stimulant, (a medicine which never failed) there would be a case of fainting even in the new house, and that would be laying the foundation of a history which, in after years, would require the presence of ghosts to smite the Hargreaveses with further retribution.
               "Well, ma'am, without saying anything about either moulding or marrying, I must be honest enough to myself, and honest enough to Mr. Octavius, to assure you that he is perfectly innocent of this horrid ghost-business: I certainly did wonder that he was so unmoved when Ben was going on, but I can account for that now, and I believe him most fully when he says that he had no more to do with it than any one else."
               "So do I, Emily, so do I; but need I call your attention to the form of his disclaimer! He says 'than any one else,"— precisely so! 'than any one else,' to be sure! that way of putting it is a capital instance of the fellow's craftiness. Don't you see that the expression is full of loopholes out of any one of which a slippery eel like Octy might bolt in a moment? Of course some one must have had to do with this business, so that when Octavius Hargreaves says 'than any one else' he leaves himself playground enough. Ah, Emily! Your want is a want of discrimination. You are too simple, too easily persuaded and entreated, and that is not matter of much wonder considering how little experience you have had."
               "But, Mrs. Hargreaves," Emily answered, with an air of honest perplexity, "what is the use of living and talking with people, if you are always to be suspecting their honesty, and regarding them as thieves and villains? Why shouldn't we give each other credit for saying exactly what is in their hearts?"
               "Just so, my dear, that would be all very good in a pristine condition of society,—I dare say Adam and Eve found that plan work very well for the first few days, but ever since that you may depend upon it the majority has always voted in the devil's lobby."
               "Well then, I wish I could shut myself up somewhere and never see anybody, for I do so dislike to be turning every word over and over to see whether there is any soft place in it,—there's nothing I like worse than hypocrisy."
               "And you'll find plenty of that in Octavius, my dear, ask your brother and he'll tell you."
               "My brother, ma'am," said Emily, "is not the young man he once was,—it grieves me beyond measure to mark the change which has come over him——."
               "Through connection with Octavius the Apostle, no doubt," Mrs. Hargreaves parenthesized.
               "He isn't so trusting and clinging as he used to be; he always appears—I don't know how to express myself—but he always appears to say something less than is really in his heart, and I doubt he is getting into company that will do him no good."
               "Pshaw! Emily, what kind of talk is that?—"
               "It is a sister's talk, ma'am; you can never know how we loved each other, and trusted each other, and it makes my heart sore to think that my brother doesn't keep in the right company."
               "I suppose that the dear, pious Methodist has been telling you that, in his quarter of an hour's talk, eh?"
               "A sister's eyes can see a good many things, ma'am, but I am not bound to give up my authority, I hope?"
               "O no, Emily, not at all; but it's a pretty style of talk you are now adopting, and it just shows me that you are contaminated by associating with an unworthy person; is it right for you to stab your brother's reputation, and then to screen your authority for doing so? Now is it right? Ha! ha! you have been reading a chapter out of Octavius's strange Bible."
               Mrs. Hargreaves's temper was now becoming unamiable. In her face were the shadows of swift-passing demons. A scowl lay across her brow, and her eyes glared ominously. Probably this was partly to be accounted for by a recent application to the "little stimulant" with which she was upon terms of growing intimacy, but quite as probably it was the result of a wicked passion which held her in abject bondage. Anger is generally sincere. When we do permit the devil to come visibly into our face, and to make a public use of our tongue, we are, as a rule, too far gone to avail ourselves of the little artifices which love employs with singular skill and success.
               "I shall let your brother know," Mrs. Hargreaves energetically continued, "that there is an enemy in the camp, and that it becomes him to be on his guard—dear, simple, young man, he's as guileless as an infant in arms, and is no match at all for one so deep and secret as his pious comrade,—I shall let Ben know the true state of the case—he shan't go on in the dark any longer—that saint of a man wouldn't care to alter the figures in Ben's accounts, and in that way seek to have him imprisoned, and perhaps transported; and then what would you think of your sisterly affection? What would you do then? Depend upon it, Emily, you have given me a clue now, and I shan't drop my hold—I shall follow the thing up—if you have lost all regard for your brother, it is quite time that other people should take him under their care, and see that he is not injured. You may have done worse mischief in your quarter of an hour's talk with Mr. Octavius, as you call him, than you can repair in a lifetime;—a quarter of an hour's talk—only to think of it makes me giddy! There's no telling what you may have done and said in a quarter of an hour. I dare say you talked about me as well as about Benjamin; but if you will keep company with cunning and designing people, you must just take all consequences."
               Emily, gentle Emily, was not one to continue a battle of this sort, and was always willing that her pertinacious antagonist might have the comfort of the last word which should linger in her ear as an echo of triumph. The wounded child dare not, on this occasion, continue longer in the 
                     presencc
                     presence
                   of her calumniator, lest her trampled feelings should overcome her affronted judgment, and results accrue which would disarrange the plans of a lifetime. Had this trustful, inexperienced child, had a happy home, she would have sought refuge there, and felt herself safe under the strong hand of paternal love; but in reality she had no home,—there was a man whom the law called her father, but the heart cannot be cheated by legal technicalities: old Mr. Dudgeon was cultivating his conscience at The Thorns, and theorising upon all possible phases of life, but was so constituted that he could live in perfect enjoyment without ever seeing the children on whose training he had bestowed endless care. Dudgeon's was love in prose, not love in poetry,—a lofty, dignified love, which could sit comfortably on a chair of flint, and take a commercial view of the vagaries of a woman's heart. Emily might have told her tale to Mr. Dudgeon, but Mr. Dudgeon would have stripped it of all its romance, and reduced the whole case to half-a-dozen cold, stony, abstract propositions which would have caused a shiver to pass through the hardiest axioms of Euclid, and thus her heart would have been misunderstood, mismanaged, and horribly gashed with the knives of a commercial, philosophical, and prosaical surgeon. A profound, but most unhappy, consciousness sciousness of this fact, turned Emily's steps in the direction of the nursery, where she endeavored to stifle her fast-kindling passions, and find repose in labor.
               Mrs. Hargreaves found an early opportunity of calling Ben's attention to the latest phase of the subject, not doubting but that Ben would at once take fire and insist upon a pledge that Emily would never more hold a private conference with Octavius. Mrs. Hargreaves was altogether ignorant of the turn which Ben's affections were taking,—didn't know that he was bound hand and foot, and determined to treat her according to the character which she wisely gave herself in the deserted house,—but imagined that his heart was still an open field on which many a conquest might be achieved."
               "I must really give this matter into your hands, Mr. Dudgeon, and I do entreat that you will speak to Emily with the authority of a brother, and put an end to this vexatious business."
               Ben chloroformed his conscience, and unctuously answered—
               "But if you, Mrs. Hargreaves, a lady of universally-acknowledged discrimination—if you, I say, have failed to devise a method by which to terminate this most unfortunate affair, how can I, your inferior in that faculty, hope to succeed. Don't you see the difficulty?"
               "Putting it in that light, Mr. Dudgeon, there are, certainly, difficulties of no ordinary magnitude, for a woman should certainly be the best interpreter of woman, and the best antagonist, too."
               "Exactly," said Ben, "now had you repeated on this occasion what you said to me confidentially in the haunted-room, I might have emboldened myself and done something; but I dare not presume to cope with your discrimination."
               "What did I say in that room, Mr. Dudgeon?"
               "Nay, nay, ma'am, you mustn't look to me as the keeper of your recollection,—be kind enough to turn a page or two back and you'll see what I mean."
               Mrs. Hargreaves colored deeply as she saw, in immense red capitals, the word—FOOL; a word which she hoped Ben had forgotten.
               
               "Now, ma'am, if you could say that word once more, probably I might summon courage to try my hand at the game you've been playing at, but that hand would be withered up under the blaze of your discrimination."
               "I have no objection, Mr. Dudgeon, to repeat that: I certainly did think that your lucky device about the ghosts would have shaken Emily so thoroughly that she would abhorred the very presence of Octavius;—why what do you think? She had actually been talking to him for a whole quarter of an hour—true!"
               Ben offered a suggestion upon this point; "it may have been," he said, "a parting interview, and we may hear nothing more about it: parting interviews you know, Mrs. Hargreaves, are often very sad, and may be prolonged a few minutes without the parties knowing how long they have been talking,—tempus fugit, as Lord Twinkle says."
               "It was no 'parting interview, Mr. Dudgeon, you may take my word for that,—the way in which the little puss—"
               "Don't call my pretty little Em, a 'puss' ma'am,"
               "Of course, Benjamin, I meant it as a term of endearment, but if it doesn't please you I can change it into 'the little queen'—"
               "Don't change insolence into sarcasm, ma'am."
               "Dear, dear, how very touchy you are—now don't be silly—I think it exceedingly improper that two young people should be together in that way for a whole quarter of an hour,—I do."
               "Well, then, Mrs. Hargreaves (of course I speak now to Mrs. Hargreaves the twice-confessed fool, and not to Mrs. Hargreaves the lady of discrimination) I must say that I cannot agree with you for a moment in seeing any impropriety in their being together for a quarter of an hour or a quarter of a day either; cannot they be a quarter of an hour together, quite as innocently as we can be together for two hours? What do we know what the old governor himself is up to while we are engaged in our private interviews?"
               "O Benjamin, you must hardly be awake not to see the great difference."
               "I don't see one atom of difference," said Ben, "and I want to warn you about your conduct and its consequences: my sissy is the most simple-hearted girl in the world, she has no more idea of doing anything wrong than she has of flying, she believes everything she hears, and if anybody speaks a kind word to her she is set up for a month, especially if it's a man that speaks it. You see, ma'am, our father kept such a well trained conscience that he could never afford to be genial and funny and playful like other fathers, I never remember him perpetrating one joke, and if ever he tried to smile it was the faintest possible attack upon the rigidity of a face which might have been made of marble; he was so stiff and punctual and regular, and made us so perpendicular and sour and savage, that we hardly know how to use our liberty when we got it. Don't you see? Now that explains a good deal, don't it? Well, then, girls love boys, somehow they can't help it, and so when Octy looks at Em rather smilingly, poor Em thinks it is heaven on earth, and imagines she could live all the days of her life in a coal-hole, if Octavius was only there to keep her company,—mind you, she hasn't told me this, but this looks like the philosophy of the case."
               Mrs. Hargreaves had discrimination enough left to know that Ben's hand was now upon the very core of the business, yet she came to the practical aspect without delay—
               "But can't you devise some plan of putting an end to the intimacy?"
               "'Plan,' Mrs. Hargreaves? Why I shouldn't think that I'm just the man to get out the very best plans on the shortest possible notice; but there is one serious drawback."
               "And what is that, Mr. Dudgeon?"
               "I know, ma'am, that I have to co-operate with a lady of exquisite refinement, and I fear that some of my plans would shock her ideas of propriety,—that's it, ma'am."
               "Well but, Mr. Dudgeon, I think if we can save a young woman, so simple and gentle as dear Emily, from the power of a bad young man—"
               "But do you really think, ma'am, that Octavius is a bad young man?"
               
               "I'm sure of it, Mr. Dudgeon, quite sure and certain: I never told you of a dream I had, and I may just say that my sisters have often assured me that my dreams never fail to come true,—oh, it was such a dream that it made me wretched for days; I dreamt that Octavius got hold of your books at the warehouse and secretly altered the figures, that you were tried, convicted, and sentenced to fifteen years' penal servitude, and I quite tremble lest it should come true,—he is quite capable of doing it, and I do believe he has some design upon you—I do," Mrs. Hargreaves set her foot in motion, and looked the very picture of distress.
               "Do you really?" Ben said.
               "I do, and for that reason would urge you to break up the connection between Emily and him."
               "The fact is, Mrs. Hargreaves, (a fact which you must know well enough without my telling you) that whatever plans I might devise, there is positively no plan by which you can frighten girls who are thoroughly in love."
               "But do you think the case has gone so far as that, Benjamin?
               "I should say, ma'am, that if they have had a quarter of an hour's interview there can be no doubt about it,—however could they occupy a quarter of an hour without reciprocating confidence, and swearing immortal attachment?"
               "Well, go on—what plan have you, Benjamin?"
               "Plans, ma'am? I have plans, ma'am, that would frighten any man on earth out of his wits in five minutes; I could weave a thousand likely stories which might chill the blood of a man to all eternity, or set it boiling with such madness that it would boil over and fiz for endless ages; there is positively no limit to the fertility of my genius—my brain at this moment is teeming with plans—I could make the air red-hot—I could shake the foundations of the earth, and plant an arrow in the very centre of Satan's skull—I could turn Octavius as blue as indigo before you could spell his name; but mind you, Mrs. Hargreaves, we are not talking about a man but about a girl, and my opinion is, that any true girl would defy a cauldron of bubbling lead, or fight her way through a squadron of devils, rather than be baulked in her purposes; jingo! lasses are not lads!"
               Mrs. Hargreaves saw that there was a sprinkling of truth in the last observation, but was not equal to a reply upon the whole statement. Again and again she felt the ambiguity of her position, for she wished to attach Ben's regards to herself, and was resolved to interrupt the friendship of Octavius and Emily. But she musn't be awkward—musn't show more than the cloven foot—the full force of her anger (which could be fittingly expressed only in streams of fire and brimstone) must be restrained—indiscretion, under such circumstances, would be ruin, so she chafed against her prison-bars like a sleek but untamed beast.
               "Well, Benjamin, you only increase my perplexity," she said; "the case is every hour assuming some new and odious feature; I feel quite at my wit's end."
               "But I hope you have taken a return ticket, ma'am; you musn't take up your permanent abode there."
               This nettled the lady a little, and she chafed more furiously against the hard fast iron. "Come, come, Mr. Dudgeon, you wish to make a joking business of this, but it is no joking to me. Let me tell you what my determination is; I'm determined that Octavius Hargreaves and Emily Dudgeon shall never be married, and if you wont help me, I must take the case into my own hand. If I poison them both and be hanged for it, I shall consider that I die in a good cause. I fully relied upon your helping me in this matter, and I grieve to see you turn my embarrassment into ridicule."
               "People must have a little fun, Mrs. Hargreaves; don't allow yourself to get angry, for anger robs the countenance of all beauty, divests advice of all dignity, and degrades the warmest declarations of friendship. Pardon this hint, ma'am, and—improve it."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               DOES SHE LOVE?
               SO very useful was Mr. Jy to Ben's interests at Skulford Farm, that Ben, who was an acute observer of providences, declared he must have been born on purpose. Mr. Jy, not being one of the laboring classes, was always within call. Even Mrs. Hargreaves became acquainted with the aforementioned thud of the crutch, and began to observe to her husband that "Hunter's little cripple was always in everybody's way." So he was, though the statement may appear to be suffering from the disease called hyperbole; of course, he had nothing particular to do anywhere, in the way of business, and was consequently at liberty to become private postman between the fair and the brave. Mr. Jy's pockets, too, were always sufficiently disengaged to allow him to carry, secretly, sundry articles in the jewelry line, and other trifling memorials of heart disease, to his youngest sister, who never made a conscience of inquiring as to how Jy became possessed of such valuable property. Altogether Jy was regarded as a most important auxiliary, and was generally rewarded, by Ben, with the most flattering commendation. Mr. Jy was so refined and exalted in his tastes that he valued this compensation more highly than he would have estimated the pelf which is so precious to sordid minds. As to Mrs. Hargreaves' sneering remark about Jy's ubiquity, Ben was able to account for his own partiality for Jy by saying that it was "as good as a play to have an hour's talk with the lame philosopher."
               Mr. Jy's malformation invariably made a liberal demand upon Ben's compassion. Ben's heart was always easy of access, particularly if the appellant were lame or blind or dumb—these being the three forms of ailment which saved Ben from the isolation and sourness of misanthropy. Mr. Jy came under the first form, and had the full benefit of Ben's tenderest commiseration. "I don't know how it is Jy," he would say, "but I cannot look at your game leg without thinking about the catechism which I learned years ago." Mr. Jy couldn't see the point of attraction between his crutch and Ben's catechism, and therefore assumed the aspect of bewilderment. "The fact is," Ben continued, "that your leg is so curiously formed, or malformed, that the conviction is settled in my mind that if you were not born in sin, you were certainly shapen in iniquity." This, of course, was very soothing to Mr. Jy's mind, affording, as it did, a theological view of a most unhappy fact in his personal experience; the explanation carried every difficulty triumphantly before it, and provided for Jy a hidden spring of unpoisoned consolation.
               Jy's character would not be faithfully portrayed, were the fact omitted that he was a little addicted to the habit of taking vengeance with his own hands. This spirit of retaliation led him to make a full disclosure to Ben of the various insults which he had received from the neighborhood in general, and from Mr. Chapter in particular. Ben, too, was so ancient in his theological notions that he believed an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth was, after all, about the easiest and safest method for bringing social brawls to an amicable conclusion; and his motto being that "fair play is a jewel," he volunteered to accompany Jy to the scene of Mr. Chapter's labors, and devise a plan for hurling back the odious imputation which had been cast upon the lame listener. Ben dwelt with great amplification and vehemence upon the unmanliness of attacking a person where he had no opportunity of reply; not, indeed, that poor Jy would have had any disposition to reply, had heaven and earth been called to silence, and the most golden opportunities for speechifying been put within his power, still there was the all-condemning fact that Mr. Chapter had had the question entirely his own way, and that fact, in Ben's opinion, ought to be promptly and triumphantly avenged. Arrangements were at once concluded. Ben and Jy were to attend Mr. Chapter's service on the very next Sunday. Jy (knowing the preacher's special weakness) urged Ben to keep a sharp lookout for the h's, not that Ben needed any hint on such a subject, his ear being too well trained and too wide awake, to allow a solitary h to escape on the back of a word to which it could lay no rightful claim. Ben had no patience with h's that were always riding out into the fresh air on the back of vowels which nature had fore-ordained to remain unsaddled for ever. He liked fair play all round, from the monarch upon the throne to the meekest and obscurest vowel in the English alphabet. This was a point, too, on which Mr. Jy displayed great skill. He was thoroughly master of the use and abuse of h's, and soon made Ben acquainted with that fact. Jy had a sincere compassion for vowels which were condemned by illiterate men, like Mr. Chapter, to carry a great fat capital H into society, and was equally moved at the sight of a vowel going out into the cold air without the protection of the aspirate which a merciful nature had provided for its comfort and defence. He looked at both sides of the question. He had as much pity for the one hardship as for the other, and frowned impartially on all sorts of indignities. Beyond this point, much honor cannot be claimed for Mr. Jy's profound acquaintance with the niceties and accuracies of the English language. He had not brought away much grammar from the cloisters of Polis, beyond a peculiar mumbling in the throat, which Ben was at a great loss fully to understand, but which he eventually resolved into something about "various modifications and derivations." Up to this point in grammar, Mr. Jy was as sound as a bell, and many a pedantic rustic he had levelled to his native clods by rehearsing the formidable words, "various modifications and derivations." Mr. Jy had a notion that all words ending in ation belonged, immediately or remotely, to the family called classical, a word by the way which has an ass in the middle of it, and therefore not unlikely to re-open the wound so cruelly inflicted by Mr. Chapter. Mr. Jy was extremely fond of all such words as ended with ation, and dwelt, with much enjoyment, on their "various modifications and derivations."
               Poor Mr. Chapter had not advanced far into his discourse when he made a daring oratoric flight. Erecting his body, uplifting his forefinger, and elevating his voice, he uttered an eloquent appeal to the "fiery horbs," by which Ben understood him to mean, that from the pulpit, he had seen a field of beans on fire, because in the vernacular of that district, the word herbs would be pronounced exactly like "horbs." Afterwards Ben discovered, to his great chagrin, how very dull his apprehension of the preacher's meaning had been. Mr. Chapter was in one of his humorous moods on the day in question. In the course of his remarks he took occasion to speak of the cruelty of doing anything which would make "a weak brother stumble," and then Ben pointed significantly to the crutch: farther on, Mr. Chapter quoted a text like this, "call no man master," and added, "much less a ooman, my friends." Ben regarded this as a desperate lunge at the whole family of Tweddles, or perhaps a spiteful reference to the rumored domination of Mrs. Hargreaves further on still, Mr. Chapter stuck fast in the middle of the word tergiversation (evidently wishing to give the g both a hard and a soft sound, so as to harmonize contending critics), and Jy's lips began to move as if he "wished an opportunity of replying," but, on inclining his ear, Ben found that Jy was merely consulting the "various modifications and derivations."
               There was nothing in the sermon that Ben could lay a very strong hold of, except, of course, the usual number of capitations and decapitations in the matter of the h's, and innumerable affronts to every member of the Syntax family. On the whole, Ben was pleased with the simplicity and earnestness of Mr. Chapter's manner, and confessed that he could remember more of that sermon than of any sermon he had ever heard in his life. The farmers were present in strong force, and paid a good deal more attention to the behavior of the two strangers than to the doctrine and argument of the clerical orator. Of course they enjoyed a lark, and were profanely indifferent as to whether it was occasioned by the pulpit or the pew,—anything that afforded them a good laugh (and how these farmers did laugh! Cartloads of laughter. mountains of haw, haw! cataracts and volcanoes of roaring!) was acceptable, not one of them caring a snap of his finger what he laughed at, provided there was plenty of laughing to be done.
               One thing Ben determined upon carrying out. He couldn't persuade himself to rest until he had waited upon Mr. Chapter, with Jy, and effected a reconciliation between two such prominent and influential members of society. Jy didn't just see the desirableness of this course, though he had complained of not having an "opportunity of reply;" but, as the stronger will always conquer, Mr. Jy was prevailed upon to accompany Ben, heartily wishing that for once he could have been independent of his crutch. The visitors were duly introduced into a reception-room. Jy shook violently as he got clearer glimpses of an "opportunity of reply," and handed Ben a slip of paper bearing these words, "have you anything in your pocket to enjender moyster?" Ben thought, at first sight, that the last two words were French, but the truth at length dawned on his dull intellect that Mr. Jy wanted something to wet his lips. To the great relief of the nervous visitor, a servant returned from Mr. Chapter's study with the message that her master would not be at liberty for about two hours, after which time he would be happy to speak to any of the congregation.
               Ben wasn't going to be bothered, he said, with going back to Chapter, but as a school-fellow of his had become a clergyman, he knew something of the examinations through which clerical candidates had to pass before they could get a pulpit, so he would write out a list of questions with a view of ascertaining the extent of Chapter's literary attainments. For his own part, Ben added, he didn't see what on earth such questions had to do with preparation for the pulpit, any more than darning a stocking had to do with making a shoe, but as such questions were put to clerical tyros, he didn't see why Chapter should escape. Having thus resolved the matter into the form of an argument, it lay heavily upon his conscience, and faced him every day with all the solemnity of a personal destiny. At length he prepared the following list of test inquiries, and forwarded it to Mr. Chapter:—
               1. A fat asthmatical student suddenly sticks fast between the Æolic aorist and the second aorist: what will be the best plan for getting his wind again? Defend your answer.
               2. A corpulent and unwieldy mathematician in making his way along the diagonal of a trapezium suddenly slips his foot and comes down all in a lump: describe in Hebrew, the hardships which would befall the base under such circumstances.
               3. A pew-holder, six feet and one-eighth of an inch high, in his stocking-feet, becomes slightly intoxicated (to the great grief of his family) with supralapsarianism, what mixture would you prescribe in such a case? State your objections to rhubarb and magnesia.
               4. Dwell pathetically on the woes of a young algebraist who has been unlucky enough to meet with an x which positively refuses to represent the unknown quantity.
               5. Write out in Syriac a minute account of the Diophantine Analysis, and prove your illustrations by copious citations from the Targum Yerushlemey.
               6. A hapless geometrician in taking a postprandial walk along the pons asinorum was unlucky enough to meet the old asinus himself, behind which there was a frisky asina, and in the dim perspective there was a pullus asininus: trace the connection between these donkies, and shew where they differ from the biped species, such as, stultus, insulsus, stupidus, and fungus,—then trace the connection existing between the whole of them and that ancient onager usually known in this district as Baalam's cuddy.
               7. How long may a clergyman set the undertaker at defiance if he has nothing to dine upon but the cube-root?
               8. Suppose (forgive the profanity) that a clergyman who is no scholar vies with a clergyman who is a scholar, what fable in Esop will be most strikingly illustrated? Quote the original, parse every other line, and render into pentameters the concluding sentence— 
                     
                        "Novissime indignata, dum vult validius
                        Inflare sese, rupto jacuit corpore."
                     
                  
               
               
               Mr. Jy looked at the questions with an air of satisfaction which showed that he knew on which side the conquest would lie. On returning it to Ben, which he did with a most cheering smile; he did not forget to bring the old rumble into his throat—"various modifications and derivations."
               The list was properly signed by the Examiner and forwarded to Mr. Chapter, but as he never took any notice of it, Ben concluded that the reverend gentleman was an ill-bred person, entirely destitute of education, and that Jy should consider himself complimented by the censure of such a man.
               "Well now, Jy," said Ben, "what sort of times are these for the farmers?"
               Ben knew that farmers are born to grumble, and that they bring the heaviest charges imaginable against the earth they cultivate, and was, so far, prepared to hear the rising generation echo the impeachments of the elder agriculturists.
               "Bad times these for our trade," said Jy, modestly, but not honestly, availing himself of the first person instead of the third," we are now on 'the most broth, the most dumpling' plan, and that's always a bad sign."
               This unique expression requires explanation. In the Skulford district the farmers, and other work-people, always began dinner by supping at least one basinful of broth, then they advanced to besiege the pudding, and finally brought their forces to bear upon the joint. The head of the house, if a man given to economy, always urged his children and workpeople to drink as much broth as possible, holding out as an inducement for doing so that whoever drunk most broth should have the largest portion of pudding, his real aim being so to satisfy the guests with broth that they would be unable to eat much pudding, and then to give them so much pudding that they couldn't endure even the idea of eating the animal food. The adoption of this artless device often cheated the ploughman out of his pound of pork, and yet it was so popular and so fascinating a stratagem of economy that the profoundest experience of yesterday wouldn't have the slightest effect upon clodhopper to-day: he would go again at the broth and the pudding with the ravenousness of a man whose ulterior purpose was to appropriate the whole joint to his own stomach.
               Ben couldn't pursue any connected conversation with one so rapid in his mental movements, as Mr. Jy made up in mental velocity what he wanted in bodily agility, so that he could be caught only at occasional points in his rapid flights. Ben was not at all put out of the way by this peculiarity in the mental constitution of his message-bearer, but like a clever man of business made the best of his circumstances.
               "Do you think now, Jy, that your Lily has any love in her breast for me?"
               "Sure on't," said Jy, "quite sure on't: if you were to see how she nabs your letters out of my hands, and then dabs down on one knee and writes the answer, you would know whether she loves you or not."
               "Well, but she writes such business-like letters, Jy, that I cannot see much love in them."
               "Don't know about that," said Jy, "but she asks me a peck of questions about you, all how you look, and what you say, and what you have on, hee! hee! hee!" and Jy lowered his head between his shoulders and looked just as a lad looks who has been stealing sugar behind his master's back.
               "That's very good, Jy, very good indeed; I like that uncommonly: what did she say when you gave her the portrait and the whistle?"
               "O lots, lots! She kissed the portrait, hee! hee! hee! she did," (Jy nodded thrice) "and she said the whistle was silver, and would be capital for letting you know when she was going through to Skulford, hee! hee! hee!
               "Good again, Jy, good again; I like this better and better, it quite warms my heart,—she is so sly and shy when I see her that I don't know exactly how she feels."
               "Aye she's a sly'un, our Lily. When mother asks her what's she's a-writing about, she's always a-writing or a-going to write to somebody in Polis; hee! hee! hee! and when father says he hopes that she is not writing to some bondey-kite lad, she always mentions somethin' about Harriet Pearce, of Polis, hee! hee! hee!" and down slunk the head between the rising shoulders.
               "That's 'cute, Jy,—uncommon 'cute, I call that."
               
               "'Tis 'cute," said Jy, "but mind ye, our Lily never tells a lie, she always is a-writing or a-going to write to somebody that don't live in this neighborhood,—quite true that."
               Mr. Jy, then, was a most useful medium between the loving spirits, his only fault (or virtue, as the case may be) was that he supplemented his postal duties with sundry comments and other particulars of his own, to which the receiving parties always attached special importance. Mr. Jy was not strictly literal in all his translations of the human countenance, but even when due allowance was made for "various modifications and derivations," enough of accuracy remained to render his statements thrillingly interesting to both his patrons.
               Benjamin Dudgeon and Lily Hunter always managed their affairs with sufficient discretion to baffle any curiosity which would certainly have been excited by less prudent tacticians. By the aid of the said silver whistle on the one hand, and the assistance of a powerful opera-glass on the other, they arranged for meetings without calling in the professional help of the Skulford bellman. Lily was rarely-gifted in the talent of mumness; she could look at an inquirer with the most provoking repose, and always touched the helm of conversation so opportunely and so skilfully as to turn the vessel from forbidden latitudes. She had great power of banishing all traces of intelligence from her face, and assuming the aspect of a full-born woman whose foot had not yet touched the first round of the sacred ladder of knowledge. This is a priceless talent for all kinds of diplomatists, whether they are the representatives of crowns, or the representatives of a tender determination to conquer a human heart without discomposing the serenity of the world.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               THE THIRD POINT.
               AS time wore on, associations and relationships underwent many changes. Octavius sedulously improved every opportunity of presenting himself in the most winning aspect to Emily, who did not return his attentions with any marked cordiality. On the part of Benjamin there was a decided abatement of familiarity with Mrs. Hargreaves. For a considerable time, indeed, he had imperceptibly turned his course, and been rapidly moving in a direction which he was well aware Mrs. Hargreaves would stigmatise with eternal infamy. Yet he could not, he would not, arrest his progress: mighty agencies were irresistibly hurrying him on, and as the voices heightened and strengthened, his heart responded with determination and enthusiasm. Unhappily, however, his disposition outran his resources, and his unwise generosity involved him in hopeless difficulties. Ben couldn't do anything with a niggard's hand. He must lavish his proof of attachment upon the object of his love,—his liberality couldn't contract itself to a rill, it must deepen and widen into a river: his was eminently a giving love,—a flame which brightened by continual burning. What to do next? was the cruel question which pierced him every day, but of all the answers which his fertile fancy suggested not one contained the faintest probability of success. Man naturally turns to his experience, in the time of his difficulties, and to this well-worn refuge Ben instinctively betook himself. He had been in embarrassment, he reasoned, and had been kindly and unexpectedly disentangled, why could he not be again redeemed? He knew that Mrs. Hargreaves's attachment to him was so inordinate that even his declining attentions to her seemed but to give impulse to her unreturned regard, and that a certain course which he could mark out would be crowned with perfect success. But the difficulties! the dangers! By pursuing that course, he would not only be dishonoring his convictions, but cheating his heart and defeating his long-cherished and well-devised purposes. A plain revelation of the real state of the case would simply be a plain overturning of every scheme on which he had risked his fortunes and his happiness. What could he do, then? The very slightest error in manipulation would involve himself and Emily, and probably others, in unquenchable flames, and an abstinence from any action would torture his affections and almost compel him to increase the difficulties by which he was secretly surrounded and overwhelmed. With well-pondered calculation he betook himself to his critical business, choosing a point of approach sufficiently remote from the centre to allow the practice of many gyrations on his way to the bustling and eagerly-guarded citadel.
               "I think, Mrs. Hargreaves," said Ben, in his politest and gentlest manner, "I said I was determined to carry three points in arranging that ghost business at The Holly? Do you remember?"
               "Yes, Mr. Dudgeon, I remember, though a good many months—let me see—it must be nearly or quite twelve, have elapsed—but my gratitude is as fresh to day as ever."
               "Glad to hear it, ma'am; I have no faith in transient thankfulness,—I like a gratitude which deepens and dignifies with time."
               "Yes, Benjamin, you express my sentiments better than I could express them myself."
               "Can you remember, ma'am, what the third point was?"
               Mrs. Hargreaves assumed a recollective aspect, and after mentally turning over the bygone scenes at The Holly, confessed that she could not recall more than two points.
               "Quite so, ma'am, that is an instance of your accuracy and conscientiousness; the fact is, I didn't mention more than two points at the time; but now, if you will kindly permit me, I shall name the third."
               "Certainly, Mr. Dudgeon," said Mrs. Hargreaves, without any attempt to disguise her curiosity, "I shall be most happy."
               "You don't, of course, trouble yourself much about the business, ma'am, but do you think it would be right for Mr. Hargreaves to allow Mr. Hunter, of Skulford Farm, or the Beech and Firs, for it's one and the same thing, to get very deeply into his debt?"
               "Nothing, Benjamin, nothing could certainly be more unwise than to do so; and, to tell you the truth, the only drawback I have to my pleasure in Skulford is the presence of these Hunter people. There's that little cripple of theirs is always prowling about our lane,—I'm quite frightened that the children should be contaminated by him, for he is, no doubt, an uneducated and unpolished clod; and as for his sisters, I am quite disgusted with them: there is one, in particular, who always looks at us when we enter church as if she expected some sign of recognition—she certainly has the most staring countenance I ever saw in my life."
               This was an ominous beginning, but Ben was intrepid.
               "Perhaps she is like a good many other farmer's girls, fond of looking at a lady—a true, genuine, elegant lady. I know that young women like to see an article of that sort."
               "Probably so," said Mrs. Hargreaves, relishing the nectar, "but a lady naturally shrinks from being looked at as though she had a tiger's skin for a cloak; but these farming people have no native delicacy."
               "Farming is an old trade, too, isn't it, ma'am?"
               "Antiquity is not necessarily a virtue, Benjamin."
               "That's an apothegm, ma'am, that ought to be written in letters of gold on the brow of Satan, ma'am. I don't recollect a more successful condensation of ethical principles,—it exhausts the subject."
               "But what is this third point that you have been carrying in your heart so long? I was so agitated at the time that I didn't observe the missing point."
               A man would naturally be very careful how he made his way along a passage paved with red-hot iron,—in such a case two crutches would be of extraordinary value.
               
               "But can you bear to hear an unpleasant story, ma'am?" Ben inquired.
               "Let me say, Mr. Dudgeon, that I have a rooted aversion to all subjects which require to be prefaced in this manner; why not enter upon the question at once? Your introduction quite alarms me!"
               "Beg pardon, ma'am, but my respect for your feelings is such, ma'am, that I wish to be very careful how I shock such nerves as yours. You have just alluded, ma'am, to one drawback to the pleasure of your residing in Skulford,—now do you think it would be well for me to get up another plan to frighten Mr. Hargreaves so that we may move once more, and move this time beyond the range of annoyances in general, and the farming annoyance in particular?"
               "If you can devise any plan for moving the annoyances I think it would be much better; what do you say to that, Mr. Dudgeon?"
               "Capital!"
               "But come, Benjamin, don't tantalize me, what is this third point of yours?"
               "The fact is, Mrs. Hargreaves, I am once more in need of your discrimination,—I am, indeed!"
               "More money difficulties, Mr. Dudgeon?"
               "Let me explain, ma'am; but first of all, will you promise me the benefit of your discrimination?"
               "Most certainly."
               "Then I may as well say at once that I am over head and ears in love, and don't know which way to turn!"
               "Ah! I see, Benjamin, you relieve me very greatly now; for a considerable time I have noticed a difference in your manner towards me, and have been at a loss to account for it; but I see now that the very intensity of your regard has constrained and stiffened you: quite so,—the whole thing is now in sunshine—I see it—I appreciate it—and feel that your very silence is more to be valued than your choicest eloquence would have been."
               "I have heard, ma'am, that silence is gold, and speech is silver."
               "Really! that's a beautiful figure."
               "Yes, ma'am, the figure is beautiful; but how are my difficulties to be met?"
               "In the first place, you had better state your difficulties—although, I might spare you that difficulty, for I can easily imagine them,—but go on."
               "You are no doubt aware of my willingness to consult your tastes and promote your comfort to the furthest possible extent?" said Ben.
               "Of that," Mrs. Hargreaves replied, "I cannot entertain the slightest doubt,—but go on."
               "Well, ma'am," Ben continued, as if fear had thrust an onion into his throat, "you are further aware that my plans for our mutual happiness are sometimes attended with great danger to the nervous constitution of the household,—just think of the ghost-business, ma'am."
               "A well-managed business was that, Benjamin,—but go on."
               "Well, ma'am," here the onion was poked further down, "I have formed a deep plan for breaking up the Hunter family, but I dare say you haven't nerve to hear me explain."
               "Oh, Benjamin, how clever you are, and how good! If you'll supply the plan, I'll supply the nerve."
               "I don't think we shall be able to hook Octavius in this time, though; he must be kept on the outside."
               "I shouldn't care, Benjamin, where he were kept, if he were not kept here; but I'm glad to say I believe that Emily and he are not upon very affectionate terms, nor have they been for sometime."
               "They may be carrying on slyly, for all that," Ben suggested.
               "I don't think they are, myself,—but go on."
               "Well, then," said Ben,—reassuring himself that he was sitting on a chair, and not upon a bale of smoke, and looking with his eagerest eyes at a woman who was about to undergo the severest disappointment which the human heart can know,—"perhaps I had better put things into a connected form, and ask you to be kind enough to hear me without interruption: I told you I had three objects in coming to Skulford, and what two of them are, you know already, now you shall know the third—"
               Mrs. Hargreaves imitated Ben's example by reassuring herself that she was on a chair—
               "You wanted to come to Skulford, so did I; you had a partiality for Skulford, so had I; you wanted to come to Skulford for one object, I for another; you know that Mr. Hunter of The Beech and Firs, or Skulford Farm, which you please, it is one and the same thing as I said just now, has been doing a good deal of business with Mr. Hargreaves, and I was anxious to know whether Mr. Hunter could really pay his way—"
               "Very kind of you, Benjamin."
               "Wait a moment, ma'am; well of course I had to go to The Beech and Firs sometimes, and there I saw all the Hunters, including the lame lad, and the one who stares at you in church, and the fact is, ma'am, she stared so hard at me, and I stared so hard at her, that we have enslaved one another and are now anxious to be married—"
               "Benjamin Dudgeon!" was Mrs. Hargreaves' piercing shriek.
               The stricken lady required breathing time before she could proceed. Her tongue was stiffened—her eyes dried up—her hands rigid! Her face, too, was an awful study; pale as the cheek of death one moment, it would redden into fiery intensity the next, and the dry eyes fix themselves immovably upon one object. Now, her breast was peaceful as though its busy tenant had ceased to beat, and anon, it heaved and swelled and surged as though a hundred hearts were throbbing in wild fury. Not a word came. Not a glance was wasted on Ben, who sat, motionless and wondering and heavy-hearted, regretting that he had divulged a secret which had grown too hot for his own breast. Ben didn't know what to expect, for he had never seen a case so desperate. Suddenly, however, as a heavy cloud is sometimes rent, the silence was broken by Mrs. Hargreaves,—her voice trembled as she said,
               "It must never be."
               "But how can I get out of it, ma'am?" Ben hastily inquired; secretly glad, however, that the unhappy woman had shown signs of reason, "I must make you my confidant, the fact is, we have corresponded secretly and I have made her some valuable presents: in fact, my kindness has not been warranted by my means, and at the present moment I am involved in serious financial difficulties,—there, now you know the case!"
               Mrs. Hargreaves partially relapsed into the state of rigidity, and looked as blank as vacancy.
               "Now let me hope that you will be as kind as you were before, and relieve me from my difficulties,—I should like to live in this neighborhood," Ben continued, hardly knowing what to say, but determined to ramble on rather than suffer silence to reign again, "and I'm sure we might be happy and comfortable——"
               "Did you dress her with the thirty pounds you had from me?" Mrs. Hargreaves suddenly and piercingly demanded.
               "You might be farther from the truth, ma'am, but do be quiet and reasonable," Ben answered.
               "Have you been deceiving me all this time, Benjamin Dudgeon? Have you no regard for me?"
               Ben saw that the blankness was giving way before the awful power of returning consciousness, and that the crisis was at hand; he had due regard to these facts in making his reply, and, as if by instinct, he moved the poker with the tip of his boot to the greatest possible distance from Mrs. Hargreaves, to whom it might have proved a temptation.
               "Of course, ma'am," said he, "I have a regard for you, but just look at the facts of the case, and do be reasonable;—you are a married woman, and I am an unmarried man,—you have a most interesting family—if we loved each other with dying passion it would be impossible for us to marry—neither of us could think of an elopement, that would ruin everybody belonging to us for ever, it would be leaping into a bottomless pit and I haven't courage for that"—here Ben tried to smile, in order to rally Mrs. Hargreaves who was again drooping, but the tame device failed, failed utterly.
               "Then, sir," said the lady, "I must put the case emphatically, and it is this: marry Lily Hunter and you kill Ada Hargreaves—now mark my words, I feel a spirit in me now that you know nothing about yet, so I say again that the day of your marriage will be the day of my death; there are many doors into eternity, thank God, steel, rope, laudanum, water, arsenic, and so on, and through one of these doors Ada Hargreaves will go."
               Ben tried, in the first instance, to reason the frantic woman into calmness. He adopted her own method of starting with first principles, but you cannot always kill a warrior with his own sword.
               "Don't be mad, Mrs. Hargreaves, let us talk about this matter in a rational manner; let me bring you to a proper starting point—you are married, ma'am."
               "Married to a brute!" Mrs. Hargreaves ejaculated.
               "But married, nevertheless, ma'am."
               "Then remain with me, and cheer my captivity," she added.
               "I cannot be responsible for your unhappy marriage, ma'am," Ben said, intending this to be an appeal to the fountain-head of government.
               "You can alleviate what you cannot cure," Mrs. Hargreaves retorted.
               "But I wish to marry, too, ma'am, and Lily Hunter is my choice."
               The maddened tempter now glared round as if in search of a weapon of attack. Again and again had Benjamin Dudgeon foiled her, and laughed at her in mockery and triumph, but surely vengeance was now within reach. With the subdued and taunting voice which irony knows so well how to use, she leaned towards Benjamin and said (chilling him as she said it,—making ice of his very blood as every syllable fell)—
               "Didn't you speak just now of financial difficulties?"
               The question doesn't look so formidable to a stranger's eye, but the manner in which it was said, the time at which it was uttered, and the atmosphere through which it came, invested it with a significance which caused a chattering among Ben's teeth, and a misunderstanding between Ben's knees.
               "Yes, ma'am, it is too true," said Ben, "that I am involved in very serious pecuniary difficulties."
               "How do you expect to rid yourself, then, young man? How can you get rid of the iron which grips you?"
               "The fact is, ma'am," says Ben, with a void in his breast which told him that he had no hope in his own words, "I have had such a happy experience of your kindness that I have been quieting myself with the idea that you wouldn't allow me to sink in trouble;—I know the generosity of your heart."
               "And how do you intend to proceed? You are in prison now, and I want to know how you intend to regain your liberty?"
               "If you don't help me, ma'am, I must devise some other plan——"
               Mrs. Hargreaves literally yelled as she scornfully interrupted this suggestion——
               "You devise some plan! ha! ha! clever fellow for getting up some twopenny-ha'penny plans that any noodle can see through,—will another ghost come to lovely Benjamin's help? Is some runaway devil on the road, coming to rescue poor young Dudgeon? bah! bish! you villain of villains, I would have you flung into fire and brimstone, only it would be too good for you! You talk about refinement, indeed! Out upon such scoundrels!"
               Here followed a scene of cursing, stamping, tearing of the hair, and banging of the unoffending furniture, which must remain unrecorded. Ben had never seen a woman in desperation before, and judging from the complexion of his countenance and the bewilderment of his manner, it was pretty evident that one such sight would satisfy him for a life-time. His antagonist paced the room, as in the case of her threatened outbreak with Emily, but with more blazing and defiant fury; every chair she flung from her with vengeance, and the sofa which stood in her way she could have hurled through the window. "Refinement," she cried, "and discrimination, and sympathy! And here am I, deceived and tormented by two wretches who have lived on our bounty, and all the time they have been making tools of us to work out their secret purposes! O my head, my head, my head will burst. O, O, O."
               
               Then backward and forward she ran, smiting the furniture, cursing the house, and breathing thunder-blasts against the quiet farmer's family.
               "Zachariah Hunter, indeed! A miserable lot of clodhoppers to be enjoying themselves at my expense! A miserable, lame, little braggart, always peering into the window, and lying about like a hedgehog to trip everybody up;" and then came the boiling torrent of interjections and ejaculations, like the tempestuous storm after flashes of forked lightning. "I'll be revenged upon the whole of them. I'll strike her staring eyes blind. Let me find that limping cripple near these premises again, and I'll hang him on his own crutch."
               "Ada Hargreaves, you are mad!" said Ben.
               "Don't Ada me," was the fiery answer, "stand back in your proper place, hireling! The devil has hold of the reins now, and where he'll drive me to nobody can tell, but at any rate we'll drive you down," and she swung her arms round Ben's head, and then pointed at him mockingly, while her lips were blue with rage. "We'll settle your schemes for you, we'll put Hargreaves on your track, and Lily Hunter—hist!—we'll have to strip off her fine ornaments, and the charming Benjamin will see who his master is. Pshaw! demon, demon, wither away, away, before my damning scorn!"
               "Mrs. Hargreaves, you are mad!" Ben repeated, unable to add more.
               "Yes—I am mad, and I have a right to be mad. Here am I married to a man with whom I have no sympathy—I thought (O what a fool to think any such thing!) that I had found in you a friend, a companion, a sympathizer, and now I am supplanted by an ugly, penniless, shameless——O, O, O, my head, my head, my bursting head!"
               The malign reference to the absent loved one cooled and steadied Ben's nerves.
               "Mrs. Hargreaves," he said, "you may name me as you like—I can bear your hardest blows—but beware how you speak of Miss Hunter."
               "Miss Hunter!" cried Mrs. Hargreaves, with scorching irony, hissing and mocking in her fiercest manner, "ha! ha! a poor old farmer's daughter risen into a pretty dignity! A little half-grown milk-maid and shoeblack become Miss Hunter! How pretty! how genteel! how refined! O Miss Hunter, indeed! We are rising in the world! hee, hee, hee! They would be glad of our cast-off clothes, and be rich upon half a sovereign, but still they are Mr. and Mrs. and Miss Hunter! Well-a-day, well-a-day!"
               "Now, Mrs. Hargreaves, do let me reason with you,—did you ever speak to Lily Hunter?"
               "Silence, sir! How dare you insult me by asking any such question? I speak to such a withered thing! Where's your impudence, bold dog, to imagine that I would degrade myself by speaking to such a person? Do you know that you are addressing a lady?"
               "Well now," Ben said, still anxious to try the issue before the tribunal of reason, "just see how irrationally you talk. Here is a young woman who has no wealth, that is true—according to some people she hasn't much beauty—but her character is beyond reproach. I never heard her utter one unkind word about anybody, and never knew her to do a deed that wouldn't bear the severest scrutiny; well, I wish to marry this girl, and you fly at us both like a hungry vulture; I say, ma'am, it is diabolical."
               During the delivery of this judgment Mrs. Hargreaves was still hurrying up and down the room, without paying the slightest heed to Ben's protest—she caught the word "diabolical," however, and flew round to the old charge.
               "Of course, sir, it is diabolical, and I mean to be diabolical, for nothing that isn't diabolical would be in keeping with the treatment I have received. You are a diabolical farrago, the whole of you Dudgeons. Who took pity upon you when you were left like orphans? Whose bread have you been eating? Who has kept you in respectability so long? You know well enough that you would have been claiming a parish coffin somewhere if we hadn't saved you from a vagrant life; why Hargreaves is a king when compared with you—you are not fit to sit down in his presence—he has petted you more than his own children, and now you turn round upon us in this way!"
               
               Ben could contain himself no longer. He had endeavored to parry the blows of his fierce assailant, being anxious, if possible, not to imperil Emily's happiness, or, in fact, to alter their several positions in the judgment of the family; but the iron had gone too far into his soul, he had been stripped of every rag of manhood, insults had been showered upon him, his understanding had been ignored, his affections trampled on, his rights laughed at, and his difficulties first mocked and then turned into weapons of punishment. It was now his turn to be desperate. His patience had been utterly consumed, and any remnants of delicacy completely annihilated.
               "Madam," said he, "you and I are done forever; but before I leave you, I insist upon saying what I think of you. I have been weak——"
               "Say you've been a fool, Benjamin."
               "Madam, I have been a fool. When I came to live here I was young, and comparatively innocent—I knew little or nothing of the ways of the world——"
               "You know too much now."
               "But you treated me in a way that was calculated to give any man wrong notions of the dignity and sacredness of married life, and you led me like a fool——"
               "That's twice you've confessed yourself a fool."
               "To do and say a hundred things that I never meant to do or say, and now I've lived to repent my folly; but mark you, I blame you, and you alone, for all that I have been led to do. You are a weak woman, you adore every man but your own husband, you are eternally railing against the poor fellow though he does everything in his power to please you, you are continually admiring and praising other men and telling him how nice and kind and good they are—and now, madam, let me tell you that your gentleness is hypocrisy, your refinement is a flimsy mockery which never deceived me for a moment, you have a heart more merciless than a tiger's, you are a bon-netted devil, you would ruin any young man with your soft words, you would train any soul for perdition, nobody can ever know how radically and incurably bad you are, it is in your heart, ma'am, it is part of your nature, you are born to deceive and destroy! You talk of putting Hargreaves on my track, but I'll put Hargreaves on your track; don't imagine that I'm frightened of you—don't think I'm going to run away; no, ma'am, I shall stand my ground, and defy you to do your worst, and before that sun goes down, I'll make Skulford too hot for you, if you don't apologize for your insulting behavior."
               Ben uttered these words as though he meant them, and returned Mrs. Hargreaves's challenging glances with desperate determination. For a long time Ben had foreseen a great battle, and now he declared his readiness to test his strength on the field which Mrs. Hargreaves had thrown open.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               A SISTER'S TRIALS.
               BEN wouldn't listen to another word from Mrs. Hargreaves at that time. He sprang to the door, and having beckoned Emily from the nursery-window, the brother and sister were soon absorbed in deep conversation. He had left the tiger in the den roaring and chafing in self-tormenting impotence. A few hurried sentences sufficed to convey to Emily an idea of her brother's pitiable plight. He now realized the bitterness of his circumstances, and gave way to a momentary but most affecting lamentation. The ground on which he stood became paralyzed—his old props were rapidly snapping or rotting, and he felt as a man may feel whose only hope of not falling into an abyss is a feeble grasp of a yielding sod. His love, generous even to an excess that was criminal, having betrayed him into extravagances which his own income could not support, he had, for a considerable period, appropriated funds on which he had no claim. This appropriation had been kept secret by a tampering with the books, so elaborate, complex, and ingenious, as to baffle the most careful oversight. He had now reached a crisis. Safely over that crisis, he saw an easy method of redeeming his honesty, and a comfortable subsistence for himself and an economical wife. But the crisis was the first thing that came to hand, and every angle of it was like a barbed arrow. Skill and courage were alike baffled by such a crisis. But for the immoral element which it involved, he could have braved and defied it, but purity is man's power, and when that is gone he is a shattered reed. Strength is not external—it is the tenant of an honest heart; might is not muscular—it is moral. Once more, then, Ben had to consider the question, What is to be done next? The remotest hint given to Hargreaves might lead to inquiries which would terminate in conviction, and conviction was inevitable transportation.
               Mr. Hargreaves was notoriously severe on the matter of dishonesty. The most of men have their pets among the virtues, as well as their choice of joints and wines, and it so happened that Mr. Hargreaves had taken the rough and substantial virtue called honesty under his special protection. A man might, in Mr. Hargreaves's estimation, blaspheme like an unclean spirit, and yet be a respectable member of society, but if he touched a pin that he couldn't show black and white for, Mr. Hargreaves would have drummed him into everlasting disgrace. Of course Ben was well aware of the election which his master had made among the virtues, and for that reason apprehended the issue with trembling and dismay. The gloomiest forebodings thickened around him. His father could not survive the stroke—his mother would die of a broken heart—his connection with Lily Hunter would terminate in infamy—and (most distressing reflection of all!) his childlike, unsuspecting, gentle sister would fall a victim to those who were savagely thirsting for vengeance on her brother: these considerations, rushing upon him like a swollen cataract, made him "stagger to and fro like a drunken man." On no side could he see a door of deliverance except, indeed, that Mrs. Hargreaves's courage might fail her, and she dare not reveal his secret, because she herself was criminally involved, as he could prove by the gift of the thirty pounds and attendant circumstances; the issue, then, hung upon this slender thread, viz, will the malice or the prudence of an erratic and heartless woman triumph? Would she risk her own position and the reputation of her family by a shameless disclosure of the whole affair, or would she maintain an ignominious silence, and mortify her affronted and vengeful pride? He felt the question to be a difficult one to settle. He knew that the struggle in the lady's heart would be fierce, but indulged the hope that pride would vote with prudence, and that a revelation (at an enormous expense of malice, would be prevented. At all events the confidence which Hargreaves had always reposed in him was too strong to be shaken by anything less than ocular demonstration, so that should the worst come to the worst he would still have an opportunity of escaping from the hands of vengeance. This reflection determined him to make his appearance at the evening meal as usual. But Emily must be made a coadjutor.
               "Then, whatever will you do, Benjamin?" said she, "what you have said has made me quite ill."
               "You must not give way to your feelings, Em: you must raise all your strength now, and do your best to save me: we must work somehow through Octy. I wish I had cultivated his acquaintance a little more, but it is too late: tell me, how do things stand between you and him?"
               "O dear me, Benjamin, you mustn't mention that, I hardly know;—I'm not good enough for him?"
               "But does he love you?"
               "He used to say he did, and he may love me yet for anything I know, but we haven't spoken about it for a long, long time."
               "Well, if he loves you," said Ben, "we must work through him, because he can get me through gloriously if he likes, and you must tell him that if he cares anything for you, he must save me."
               "But, Ben, does Mrs. Hargreaves know that the books are wrong?"
               "Yes, I gave her a hint, thinking, perhaps, that it would make her pity me, but I believe it has worked the other way: she thinks she has hold of me upon that point."
               Emily clasped her hands, and looked the very picture of distress;—
               "I am so sorry Mrs. Hargreaves knows—O why did you tell her Ben? No Octy on earth can save you from that woman; her heart is as cruel as death—she cannot be pacified—you don't know what passions I have seen her in—she has been very mild and polite always when you have been there, but she has a most awful, a most pitiless disposition."
               Ben knew more about Mrs. Hargreaves's disposition than Emily was aware of; he had just come from a fearful battle, and could quite understand Emily's dark allusion to the horribleness of the woman's temper.
               "But you don't know all that has happened, Emily; you don't know to what lengths she has gone in conversation with me, and how she has first lent and then given me money so that I might keep the accounts right, and she knows I could tell things which would make Hargreaves hate her—I could." Ben looked consolingly into Emily's face as he made this announcement, by way of intimating that there was a light behind the cloud.
               Emily made a suggestion here which coincided remarkably with one expression which Mrs. Hargreaves had employed—
               "Perhaps if you tell anything about her, Mr. Hargreaves will take her part all the more, and then you'll be worse off than ever. He's a very kind man, and wouldn't like anything to be said against her."
               "There may be something in that," Ben said, "but a good many things belongs to all things, and I've made up my mind to try what can be done. The fact is, we have been working upon a wrong foundation all this time, and I cannot help blaming the training we had at home for all the mischief we have got into: Mrs. Hargreaves has never been content with her own husband, and she has been trying to make us necessary to her happiness, and we have served her purpose only too well: its quite plain that she is the weakest woman upon earth, she's too young and gay and flashing for Mr. Hargreaves, and we have flattered her so much that she cannot bear to be contradicted,—I see clearly where we have all got wrong, but it cannot be mended now."
               "I don't see how you can meet each other at the table again," said Emily.
               "That'll be all right, Em," said Ben trying to cheer his sinking sister, though he much needed cheering himself, "you'll find me at table just as usual, and as I have got so far wrong, I don't see why I shouldn't go a step farther, if necessary, so cheer up my blue-eyes, and don't tremble any more; I never saw you so stout and handsome—let me kiss you as I used to do in our nursery at home,—there and there again,—ta' ta!"
               
               That ta' ta' was, to Emily, the connecting word between a dismal past and a still more dismal future,—how blackly dismal none could know so thoroughly as herself. Her womanly instincts, though quickened by that greatest of all quickeners, secret woe, failed to help her. She stood as if in a brazen creation out of which no guiding voice could ever break upon a sickened and forlorn soul. To make her appearance before Mrs. Hargreaves, which she was bound to do at a certain time, was the most unendurable of trials. She would rather face a ravenous lion, with the smallest possible chance of escape. Ben had not told her, but enough had been said to assure her, that her home was now a house of danger. Her swelling heart and swimming head intimated but too plainly that an enemy had smitten the roots of her being, and could a grave have opened at her feet she would have gratefully committed herself to its cold embrace. At once, she summed up the tremendous possibilities of the case: Ben ruined, father and mother distracted with grief, and herself cast upon an unpitying world without one hand to sustain her shattered frame. Standing on that spot where the footprints of a delinquent brother met her eye, she might have attracted the pity of angels: the gathering of clouds was most timely, and most befitting,—the moaning wail of the disturbed wind was in concert with the voice of her heart (a voice unheard except in heaven), and the drops which fell upon her head might have been the tears shed by the winged messengers of mercy. Blessed angels! ye are the invisible servants of necessitous man; we comprehend not all the mysteries of your being and function, but your name is dear to us as signifying somewhat of comfort and strength and joy. The timid, gentle girl had heard her brother's dreary tale—in addition to this she was in possession of a secret which she had not communicated to Octy, which was smiting and stinging her heart day by day, and this double affliction was too heavy for her young and wronged spirit. She had no companion to whom she could confide her story, for Mrs. Hargreaves had sedulously prevented the cultivation of any acquaintances beyond her own narrow circle, and this loneliness was not the least of her trials under the accumulation of her griefs. Woe relieves itself by rehearsing its history. Calamities are diminished by communion with sympathy. 
                     "It soothes poor misery hearkening to her tale,"
                   but voiceless sorrows, dumb distresses, dry up the life-currents, and express themselves by the withered cheek and the furrowed brow. Ah! the mystery of lines on the human face! They are biography in cipher: they are experience in hieroglyphics: they are the graves of united griefs.
               But it must be done: yes, Mrs. Hargreaves must be seen, and should the lightnings of her anger carry death on their wings they must be promptly and resolutely encountered. Persuaded of this, with a heroism which is born only on the eve of desperate occasions, Emily girded herself for the shock, and in due time stood face to face with Mrs. Hargreaves.
               And what a presence! Passion had spent its devouring flames, the devils had torn their victims with terrific cruelty, and she lay before Emily a scorched and blackened thing—a thing which life had cast out with shuddering disgust—a thing of which death itself seemed ashamed, and from which it shrunk with loathing. A woman on whose head the crown-jewels of virtue and gentleness no longer shone! A woman out of whom the last spark of self-respect had long ago flickered! Earth has not, in all its domains, a spectacle so humiliating, or a spectacle which so strongly illustrates the all-damning depravity of the human heart. Emily could but gaze and wonder and gaze again. She saw that the combat had been no mockery. It had been no sham-tempest which had battered down the hapless woman,—no painted fire that had rent her unhappy heart. Long silence ensued. While the tongue was hushed the eye was busy; every line was examined, every feature silently interrogated: the eyelids were closed, but not by the gentle touch of sleep—there was stillness without repose, quiescence without rest. Emily drew very near to the wretched woman and with a voice whose tones were sweet as music and soft as love, she said.
               
               "Dear Mrs. Hargreaves," and then trembled as if she had trodden on some savage beast.
               The blistered eyelids quivered,—opened,—fell again. "Everlasting fire to you all—to all the Dudgeons," was the fierce reply,—"where's Benjamin, dear Benjamin, loving Benjamin, refined Benjamin, faithful Benjamin? Ha! ha! your blessed brother is in my hands now, and he shall feel how soft and gentle they are—do you know that, you simpering half-born mademoiselle?" The epithets were uttered and prolonged as if they had been hissed out by combined devils, and all the sentence was delivered with the bellowing fury of a maniac; the speaker literally shook with madness as she gloated over her affrighted victim.
               Sisterly love was in the ascendant. Emily had a prize in view that was well worth every risk she could make. Her life was bound up in Ben's life, and for such a brother she felt she could dare the most extraordinary dangers. Love is the pulse of heroism.
               "Mrs. Hargreaves," she said, "do be yourself. Let us talk as we used to talk, perhaps things are not so bad as you imagine,—do speak kindly to me, for I'm heart-broken with one thing and another," and the poor girl confirmed the declaration with many tears.
               But what are words and tears to a wild beast that is rending the forest with the cry of hunger? Are wolves subdued by emotion? Is pity an attribute of the vulture?
               "And you still love dear Mr. Octavius, don't you?"
               "Mr. Octavius and I are done with each other now, ma'am, there now, do be quiet—you talk wildly."
               "Will you do me a favor, Miss Dudgeon?" she asked in a much subdued tone.
               "That I will, Mrs. Hargreaves, O name it, and I shall run."
               "Quite sure, Miss Dudgeon?"
               "Quite sure, ma'am; do name it, I shall be so glad."
               "But perhaps you'll deceive me, like your lovely brother Benjamin?"
               "I shall not deceive you, Mrs. Hargreaves; what is the favor?"
               "Go," said Mrs. Hargreaves, "go and buy me poison enough to poison one of Hunter's daughters, she's a very little one, so you needn't buy much,—go!"
               Emily, though in a most conciliatory mood, could not forbear exclaiming—
               "O for shame! for shame!"
               The words, just what Mrs. Hargreaves had expected, had hardly been uttered, when the wretched woman shrieked out, "leave me, leave me, let me die!"
               From such a mandate there was no appeal. The manner of the command left no doubt as to the sincerity and resoluteness of the speaker. Gladly would Emily have remained, and by all the innocent artifices of love, endeared herself to the sufferer, but she had been too long under training not to know that her motives would have been misconstrued and her attempts frustrated by haughtiness and scorn. Sad and weary, with grief piled on grief, did she first go to the nursery to kiss her unoffending pupils, and then betake herself to the solitude of her cheerless chamber. She knew full well that she had only a stranger's place in that mansion, that virtually she was fatherless, and that nothing was left but submission to a tyrannic will. All that transpired in the lonely chamber can never be described. The sobbings, the convulsions, the agonies, the wild dreamings and visions, the fervent vows, and the reproachful wails, mock the most industrious and patient pen. God knows them—God has them! Not a sorrow escapes his notice,—not a tear falls without its sound echoing in the skies. All human experiences are part of the history of the universe. Lives are volumes. Discipline is a hint of futurity. Chastisement carries an iron rod, with which it smites disloyal man, and then points out the sphere towards which every pulse advances the wondering soul. Emily's sorrow made Emily's chamber a sacred place. Aye, sinner though she was, God would not look on her bursting heart, but with a father's pitying tenderness. The sinner finds more mercy in God than in man. Priests and Levites deal out iron justice, glory in a reputation for sternnesss, mistake austerity for righteousness, and feel themselves applauded by every groan they extort from a captured sinner. Thank God, they are not the arbitrators of eternal fate.
               Evening came, and with it, as usual, came the male members of the household. Ben was there, as he had vowed. He was there for the honor of one woman and the protection of another. Emily did not present herself, but as she was occasionally absent when the children required her services in the nursery, the circumstance did not excite unusual attention. Ben marked it and wondered. Mrs. Hargreaves's resolution had been formed, and she was there to give it effect. She was determined to enkindle fire that night, even though it reduced the whole household to ashes. She feared life more than death, and malignity shut out of view the real magnitude of consequences. As Ben marked the fiendish expression of her countenance, his knees smote each other as before. Mr. Hargreaves and Octavius were entirely ignorant of what had transpired, and consequently paid little or no attention to Mrs. Hargreaves's singular appearance, especially as they knew her temper and were aware of her belief in stimulants. Everything was laid as usual, and the lady occupied her accustomed seat, but instead of supplying the guests with tea, she sat in stony indifference, looking at nothing in particular. Her lips were shut as if never intended to be opened again. Her air was that of complete abstraction, an extremely insalubrious air for men who are in want of refreshment.
               "Come, wife, let's ha' the tea," said Mr. Hargreaves, in a rallying tone, "what are you moping about? Remember we come here to take in coke and water."
               Ben's knees now shook with greater violence, and a painful, stiffening sensation worked in his jaws, so much so that he was sure that even if he had anything to say he would be utterly unable to say it. Invisible and impalpable hands, too, were operating curiously among his hair, and little tongues of fire appeared to be thrusting themselves through his cheeks.
               Instead of answering her husband, Mrs. Hargreaves deliberately placed her elbows on the table, and, having placed her chin in the bowl of her hands, said—
               "What is that serpent's name?"
               "Serpent," said Hargreaves, while both he and Octy looked round in wonder, "what do you mean? I see no serpent,—are ye mad?"
               Still the fury-lit eye was glaring on speechless Ben, and after a moment she exclaimed: "That serpent," pointing to Ben, and accompanied the words with fiendish laughter, which pealed and rang and shivered around the room. The three men rose instantly, and Hargreaves said: "Why, wench, you are mad; that's Benjamin, Benjamin Dudgeon, your favorite, when did he turn into a serpent? Summat must be up, wife. What is it? Is it the drink as usual?"
               "Aye, man, it's only drink," she replied. "I just put my mouth to the brandy-cask this morning and drained it off, and I think the stuff must have got into my head—hee, hee, ha! You know I am no teetotaller, Rufus? Eh? Nor you either, old gentleman? Aye, sure enough," she continued, "it is Benjamin Dudgeon! I must be mad, Mr. Hargreaves; did I call the lovely and faithful Benjamin a serpent? Never! Surely not! How could I put two such B's together as Beast and Benjamin? Ho, ho, ho! I am mad—my head is afire—I see the smoke—I'm burning all over!" and so saying she rapped the solid mahogany table with her bare knuckles till the china and tray rang and danced, and her fingers bled.
               "What's up? What is it?" Mr. Hargreaves and Octy exclaimed in one voice. And then turning to Ben, Mr. Hargreaves said: "She must be out of her head, Ben? I never saw her so bad as this." Mrs. Hargreaves assumed her favorite fixed look for a few seconds, and then said, with incomprehensible coolness and softness of manner, as if pleading for a special favor: "Here, man, here, put this knife into my heart—I have sharpened it on purpose—I have had the brandy, now let me have a touch of cold steel—don't, Hargreaves, don't tremble like a great coward or a nervous baby—thrust it in, man, I tell you, and then——"
               "Good God!" shouted Hargreaves, "whatever is the matter? Come, Ada, speak out, and don't be foolish."
               Octavius had never been so lively in Mrs. Hargreaves's presence before. He was as eager to know the reason of this demonstration as was his father. Turning to Ben he inquired if he knew anything, but Ben merely shook his head and deepened in pallor, while Mrs. Hargreaves looked at them both and actually foamed with rage. She had not committed herself so far, and Ben still hoped that the affair would terminate in this fit of unexplained madness. His silence, however, his want of eagerness as compared with the vehemence of the father and son, might be regarded as a symptom of guilt, and as he was resolved to maintain as much as possible the simplicity and bravery of innocence, he rose and exclaimed:
               "Where is Emily? That woman is mad, and what she has done with my sister I must know. Where is she, Mrs. Hargreaves?"
               Has cruelty a smile? Can revenge curl its black lips into anything like a wreath of pleasure? The tormented woman must have partook of the storied ranunculus, for a most horrible, incipient laugh quivered round her face as she bitingly inquired:
               "Is it the dear and faithful Benjamin whose gentle voice I hear? Has the pet-dog broken silence? Never spoken until this moment! How genteel, how considerate, how refined! I'm sure he ought not to be called a serpent," and with these words the smile multiplied into a bray of laughter which might have proceeded from the mouth of a maniac.
               Octavius now terrified himself with the idea that Mrs. Hargreaves had realized his worst apprehensions. He knew, of course, on Emily's own testimony, that his implacable stepmother was mortally opposed to his interests as a suitor for Emily's hand, and was further prepared to believe that she could adopt extreme measures rather than be foiled in her intentions. He had not to be told of the insensateness of the woman's heart, nor of the fearful capabilities of her temper, and everything he had seen that evening went to show that she was gloating with something like satisfaction over a circumstance which she hesitated to explain. Mystery is self-supporting and self-propagating; a shadow soon deepens into darkness, and darkness speedily shuts out the last glimmer. It was an awful darkness that deepened round Octavius as he echoed Ben's question:
               "Where is she? Where is she?"
               "Ask those who know," Mrs. Hargreaves answered, accompanying the words with a sharp rapping on the table as before. "Is it the pious saint who inquires about Emily? Of course they love each other as saints ought to love——"
               "Madam!" said Octy, "let us have no more of this foul mockery; who knows what a mad-woman may have done? Don't let us stand here any longer, father; we can never get satisfaction. Benjamin Dudgeon! ring that bell." Octavius had never displayed so much energy in Mrs. Hargreaves's presence, as we have said, but his earnestness seemed to serve no higher purpose than to amuse the unhappy woman.
               "Speak up, dear Octy!" she said, "make yourself well heard; you will turn out a capital parson, with such a sweet voice; do speak up, dear"—(nodding at him, and smiling fiendishly)—"let the coachman hear you in the stables; your religion, dear, is only a thin plaster—there is a little devil in you somewhere."
               The banter was interrupted by the servant whom Octy sent to inquire whether Miss Dudgeon was not coming to the dining-room. The servant went into the nursery, but Miss Dudgeon was not there; went to the chamber-door and knocked once, twice, thrice, but Miss Dudgeon was not there; came back, and looking very pale and frightened, told what she had done, and with what results. The announcement struck terror into Octy's heart; he laid his hand on his father's shoulder and said:
               "The thing is plain enough! she's murdered! or she has been driven to suicide!"
               "Hush! pious Octavius," said the woman, lifting her finger, and looking with mock solemnity, "hush! you should speak gently when the corpse of your sweetheart is in the attic; but no, no, speak up, for noise cannot break her slumbers! ha, ha, ha!"
               Mr. Hargreaves had been asking questions all the time by his countenance rather than by audible speech. It mustn't be thought that he was an indifferent party, though his voice was not heard.
               "But let us all go," Mrs. Hargreaves continued, "and take a look at Emily,—but no, the serpent mustn't come, the sight might shock his tender heart—come away, Rufus, love, and come Octy, saintly dear, and see!"
               Not a man in the company felt himself able to utter a word. Every one's lip trembled with a deep curse, which an invisible power prevented from falling. The whole business was too grave, too appalling, to be canvassed in other than the most solemn and searching manner, yet consternation overmatched expression and a fearful silence rested everywhere for a moment that seemed an hour. With hearts whose peaceful throbbing had been exchanged for a violent dashing, the three Hargreaveses proceeded towards the door. Suddenly, Mrs. Hargreaves seized her husband's arm and said—"O Rufus, how dare you go? You remember the ghost at The Holly? You remember the horrid face that was like a pin-point at first and then widened till it became like a sheet? You remember how your marrow was changed into lumps of stone? How dare you go!"
               "Come away, father," said Octavius, "don't listen to such stuff any longer."
               They went. A knock at the chamber-door brought no answer. They tried the latch, but admission was impossible.
               "The mad woman must have done something, Octavius," Mrs. Hargreaves hissed into his ear.
               "We must be in, father," Octy said, without taking any notice of the serpent at his ear, "I'll run, and bring a hammer."
               When Octavius turned his foot away, the bewildered father could not help saying—
               "O Ada!—we've come to ruin."
               "Aye, lad," she said, "we've come at last, but we may as well be there as anywhere else."
               At this juncture two or three of the children came out of the nursery, but at their mother's fierce—"back!" they fled away in terror.
               Snatching the coal hammer from Octavius, who returned in less than a minute, Mr. Hargreaves smashed in the door with two heavy blows, and the next moment the whole three were at Emily's bed-side. There was—what?—not a corpse, as Octavius expected—but something more terror-exciting than a lifeless body. Emily was there. There was no mistake as to her identity, but some desolating storm must have suddenly swept over the beautiful and gentle creature. It was not the Emily of the morning. It was not the sunny, genial, hope-lit face of the girl who gathered primroses in Copse Wood, and made the face of Ellerby lake smile as she flung on the water an offering of cowslips. It was a different Emily. Torrents of boiling tears must have rushed down her channelled cheeks—the pallor of death was upon her countenance—and her only language was the too-bright gleaming of her deep blue eyes. The unexpected sight checked, for an instant, the madness of Mrs. Hargreaves.
               "Why didn't you speak, when we knocked, Miss Dudgeon?" Octavius inquired, not knowing what to say, or how to meet such circumstances.
               Emily's lips moved: Octavius inclined his head—
               "Too weak," Emily softly whispered.
               "'Too weak'?" Octy repeated, turning an inquiring glance upon Mrs. Hargreaves, "how, 'too weak'? What has happened?"
               Emily replied in tears which she had no strength to dry.
               Hargreaves didn't speak—Mrs. Hargreaves didn't speak, and Octy was unable to do more than grasp the sufferer's hand. The silence was soon to be broken by oaths and curses. It was a short lull before a tempest-crash. We know that just before the livid clouds resolve to tell the secret which burns in their bosom, all nature is hushed in expectancy, and awaiting the revelation of the mystery in syllables of thunder. It was much the same in Emily's chamber. Expectation sat on every countenance. There was mystery, but no interpreter. By a great effort poor Emily laid aside the covering, and nestling by her side was a babe new-born.
               The scene, made strangely awful by the absence of words stung Mrs. Hargraves to ten-fold madness, a madness in which she could not conceal her triumph over the object of her long-deepening and ever-burning hatred.
               "Octy! Octy!" she shrieked with frightful energy, "why it has been a mad man who has had to do with this business! It is not your mad stepmother after all—you are the villain—oh, you pious, bible-reading scoundrel, I always knew what a devil you are."
               The father, who had ever been proud of Octy's nobility of character, dropped his head in dumb but burning disgrace, and was about to retire when Emily was seen to be making a motion with her pale hand.
               "What are you waving about?" cried the vixen.
               Emily pointed to the elder Hargreaves, who was just passing through the door.
               It was enough. It was an eloquent finger. It saved Octavius from injustice and shame. It pointed out an unexpected pit.
               The seducer fled.
               Impenetrable darkness gathered around Mrs. Hargreaves.
               Horror upon horror! A thousand midnights in one!
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               "REFINED" AND "CONSCIENTIOUS" CRUELTY.
               AND was Benjamin so indifferent to the fate of Emily as to abscond without assuring himself of the true position of affairs? It was impossible for him to be indifferent, in any circumstances which involved the interests and happiness of his sister, and therefore he crept quietly, and without observation, within hearing distance, and assured himself that Emily was living. The details of the conversation which took place in the chamber he dare not remain to hear, for his own untoward circumstances demanded immediate and decisive action. It was sure to be his turn next. His antagonist had gone too far to permit her to allow the matter to drop, so that farther bravery on his part would be sheer madness. The consternation occasioned by the discovery drove away, for the time being, every other idea from the mind of the Hargreaveses, so that Ben had ample time to carry out most of the plans which he had resolved to adopt, "should the worst come to the worst."
               What was to be done at home? It was but too true that Mr. Hargreaves (neglected and despised by his own wife) had imposed upon the credulity and simplicity of a comparative child, and his wife's passion flamed through all restraints, and fell with scorching force upon all whom she encountered. Upon Emily she poured the bitterest and foulest reproaches which human imagination can conceive, or human tongue employ. All was clear now, she exclaimed, as to what Emily meant by insisting that Mr. Hargreaves was "a kind man." It is quite true that this feminine apostle of vengeance, this eloquent defender of domestic sanctities, had tampered with Benjamin Dudgeon—quite true that she had given him money to escape the detection of Mr. Hargreaves,—she had secretly hinted at the pros and cons of elopement—and, in short, had done everything to win undue regard, and to show her dislike of a husband against whom she never could bring a heavier accusation than want of refinement and discrimination. All this was literally true. And yet this betrayer of the holiest bond of humanity no sooner discovered her husband's guilt than her righteous anger burned as an oven. The loftiest integrity, the purest virtue, the tenderest affection, could not have exploded with hotter indignation, nor could the tongue of uncorrupted justice have scattered more profusely the withering anathemas of an insulted and avenging law. All this, we know, was flagrantly inconsistent, but what is the value of any consistency which so sunken and debased a heart could have fabricated? Must not error, especially such error, necessarily pass through a series of self-stultifications? The great builder has so contrived the stupendous pile—so arranged its corridors—so distributed the preserving and directing forces—that the evil-doer must continually be coming into collision with realities and agencies which test his strength and expose his rottenness. The angles of creation are too sharp to be easily turned by a vagabond heart, and the chasms too numerous to be avoided by the nimblest feet of guilt. Mrs. Hargreaves was a most palpable illustration of these latent arrangements. The law which she had ruthlessly bent for her own moral accommodation, suddenly became a double-edged sword when infracted by her husband;—she herself trampled in scorn the dictates of rectitude, and was deaf to their appeal, but no sooner did her husband set his foot upon them, than she uttered the crashing voices of an ignominious doom.
               Her resolution was soon formed. Revenge quickened the tardy steps of logic. Pity had long ago abandoned that crater-like heart. The demands of vengeance were not for a moment interrupted by the entreaties of tenderness. She determined that, live or die, Emily should not remain over another day in that house; yes, ere another sunset, she said, there shouldn't remain upon her premises a solitary trace of the Dudgeon family. This was the lofty policy of an outraged virtue,—the strong, far-resounding tone of a wronged and irate purity. Two criminals had left that house, and a third should quickly follow. A young man and an old man, were alike taking to their feet, and fleeing as if hotly pursued. Why does violence flee? Doesn't innocence stand in dignity under the most unpropitious circumstances? Cannot honesty and purity and honor go down into glowing pits of fire, and there walk in company with a fourth, divine as God, as in walking between walls of sapphire and treading a pavement of pure gold? All history says so; and history is the soberest summary of man, and the most rigorous interpreter of God.
               The following morning had not run far up the orient steep, when Mrs. Hargreaves had made her arrangements for visiting Mr. and Mrs. Dudgeon. A miserable night of restless slumbering had not done much to repair the ravages of yesterday, and when a man must carry his yesterday and his to-day upon the same back, the burden becomes oppressive. The "little stimulant" was, of course, indispensable under such circumstances. A short hour sufficed to bring the parties together.
               "Glad to see Mrs. Hargreaves," said Mr. Dudgeon, in his most solemnly gracious manner, as he rose to give her the established sign of welcome.
               "Won't long be glad, I can tell you," Mrs. Hargreaves answered with much tartness.
               "Mrs. Hargreaves!" said the astounded father, for once contenting himself with a short sentence, and "Mrs. Hargreaves!" exclaimed the agitated mother, with the same look of anxiety and astonishment.
               "Aye, that's my name, I believe—Mrs. Hargreaves—so they used to call me; and perhaps, after all, it's as good a name as Dudgeon."
               This extraordinary style of remark excited an equally extraordinary state of feeling on the part of Mr. and Mrs. Dudgeon, and led the venerable Mentor to the use of plain terms—
               "Madam!" said he, assuming quite a judicial aspect, slightly tinted with the red glare of anger, "there's no stain upon the name of Dudgeon (though in one business transaction I was unhappily deluded), whatever may be on the name of Hargreaves; I have always trained my children to value conscience, and in fact to sacrifice everything for conscience, and that I have no doubt they will do in all circumstances." Mr. Dudgeon drew himself up like a man who had said something which would require an answer.
               Mrs. Hargreaves was in the habit of practising quite a refined cruelty. She seldom availed herself of the stunning blow, or the decisive thrust; she preferred rather to dally with her victim, to turn the hapless creature gently over and over, to tempt and lure and mock the doomed one, and this savage habit she indulged on the morning in question.
               "Of course they will," she answered Mr. Dudgeon, "of course they will. I am sure that she would be a very cruel woman who could utter one word against the faithful Benjamin or the pure Emily."
               Mr. Dudgeon did not penetrate the disguised irony—he didn't know the peculiarity of his antagonist—and, as he read everything literally, he inquired with all possible simplicity—
               "Then, ma'am, it is my duty, as a parent, considering the manifold duties which are associated with that solemn designation, to ask you, in a proper manner, to afford me an explanation of the language you employed about a minute, or it may be a minute and a quarter ago!"
               "What an elegant mode of expressing yourself you have attained, Mr. Dudgeon."
               "Yes, madam, long intercourse with a world distinguished for its blindness of comprehension and its mournful inaccuracy of statement, has led me—"
               Mrs. Dudgeon was about to say something, but a frown froze her lips—
               "To study and adopt the most approved methods of communicating the divers thoughts which an active brain is prone to conceive."
               "Good gracious! I see now how it is that the faithful Benjamin became so eloquent,—he has inherited your gifts, sir."
               "It gratifies me to hear you say so, ma'am. I have nothing now to live for but to mark and approve the conduct of our offspring, which I have every reason to believe will be such as will commend itself to the enlightened judgment and sensitive conscience of their anxious father."
               Mrs. Dudgeon had begun to fumble among the old magazines once more, as she was wont to do in the days of long ago, but as she didn't like the appearance of Mrs. Hargreaves she resolved to make a cut into the conversation as soon as her husband's mill ceased to grind. There was a pause in the machinery, and she said—
               "But what do you mean, ma'am, by reproaching the name of Dudgeon? You do mean more than you have said, ma'am, I can see that."
               "Only a little fun, Mrs. Dudgeon," she answered, with deepening sarcasm and kindling earnestness, "I have no very particular charge to make against your family, except that Benjamin has robbed his master, and that Emily is a mother; that's all; and the old maniac laugh broke out, and made the Dudgeons pale as death.
               "Madam, you lie, you rave!" Mrs. Dudgeon exclaimed, forgetting in her maternal excitement that "Adam was first formed, then Eve."
               "Of course I do!" was the mocking answer.
               "Explain! explain!" cried both father and mother in quick succession.
               "I have explained," said Mrs. Hargreaves, in a business-like tone, "my time is short, I didn't expect to remain so long, and shouldn't have done, but to hear the old man's silly talk—great baby that he is! Benjamin is a robber, and will be transported,—Emily is a mother, and will be sent down in that capacity in about an hour,—good-bye!"
               Without farther ado, Mrs. Hargreaves quitted the house, and drove back to Skulford, leaving the distracted parents to settle all the difficulties which attended the double calamity. The interview extended over but a few minutes, yet, in that brief space, the Dudgeons had entertained a visitor who brought the most desolating tidings which can fall on the parental rental ear; and now that she had gone, the whole transaction assumed the mysteriousness of a vision, or the impalpability of a dream. There had never been much connection between the Hargreaveses and the Dudgeons, and what little there had been was put an end to by the removal of the former to Skulford. While they resided at the Holly, they were obliged to go within a short distance of the Thorns, on the way to business, but from Skulford there was another and shorter route, which they adopted. The younger Dudgeons had, of course, no inclination to go "home" and meet their conscientious parent, though they would often have been tempted to visit their indulgent mother. This combination of circumstances, together with attractions which were multiplying in other quarters, accounts for the little intercourse between the respective households.
               Left to themselves, the father and mother were at a loss for the best method of re-opening the subject. Mrs. Dudgeon had recourse to the old magazines, amongst which she fumbled more violently than ever. Mr. Dudgeon took a philosophical and commercial view of the question, and indulged in a complacent retrospect of his whole history. To what angle he would eventually bring his processes of recollection, review, and meditation, may be easily guessed.
               "If this awful representation be true," said he, "it will be a singular confirmation of what I have told you all along, that your want of sympathy with my modes of training would, in the long run, involve the ruin of our offspring; had you been as careful in watching and developing the conscience as I have been, we should never have experienced this most humiliating affliction."
               Don't exclaim, "Impossible!" It is not only possible but true, that the philosophizing man of business rambled thus through a tedious and senseless circumlocution. He liked to begin at a point where there was some probability of establishing a sound argument in his own defence, and showing that had his personal exertions been seconded by zealous co-operation, a millennium in his family would have been a dead certainty.
               Mrs. Dudgeon was driven to her old medicine bottle—labelled "Grin and bear it"—and looked, while taking a draught, with mute but most devouring indignation at the everlasting lecturer.
               We may not have a better opportunity of stating, that during the prolonged absence of their children, Mr. and Mrs. Dudgeon faithfully maintained their respective positions as speaker and listener. The old gentleman, being free from the toils of commerce, became increasingly skillful in the accumulation and concatenation of words, and went far to prove, what Mr. Hargreaves once said, that "he could empty a dictionary between tea and supper." It had always been a serious affair to engage to listen to Mr. Dudgeon's answer to any inquiry, but for some time previous to Mrs. Hargreaves's unwelcome visit it had become positively dangerous to call his attention to the simplest question; for it was evidently laid upon his conscience to take into full consideration all its related and collateral subjects; nor would this necessity have made such mournful havoc of the listener's patience had it not occasioned innumerable self-corrections and re-constructions of sentences. Every word was arrested immediately after enunciation, and underwent a series of revisions ere it was permitted to drop into the dead and bottomless sea of his melancholy conversation. The elder Dudgeon was an embodiment of the very last refinement of conscientiousness—the very echo of his sentences (to say nothing of the sentences themselves) might be taken as an illustration of the extent to which a properly-conducted ethical education might be carried. The very vibrations of his voice were like notes floating from the harp of righteousness; and the very twinkle of his eye was as reliable a guide as the beaming of the polar star. He was, not a portable, but a movable, edition of an anonymous compend of the most advanced moral philosophy; he was Mount Sinai in boots; he was Ethics in breeches; in short, he was Conscience who kept a tailor. Does love practice the same verbosity as did this man of conscience? Does love take the wordiest route to its object? What is the name of that daring, eager, flying thing which instinctively avoids the curves and angles and makes straight headway to its object? Is it conscience or love? What is it that is so hasteful as to be sometimes perplexingly elliptical in its talk? What is it that stumbles and blunders among the monosyllables, and says a hundred things a day which it never meant to say, and forgets a hundred more which it had arranged to put first and foremost? It was certainly not what Mr. Dudgeon most prided himself in. He was a living protest against all the freaks of love, all the dreamings of poetry, all the creations of fancy. Poetry might be wrong in its calculations, fancy might play fast and loose with accuracy, and as for love, there was not a word of its glib tongue to be regarded as true. Such was the high-hard-and-dry creed of the venerable Dudgeon.
               Mrs. Dudgeon did not resent the insult which her husband offered in his summary of the case. She was too much in earnest at that moment to fight a battle about the past; her one, all-absorbing desire was to know what should be done at once.
               "I think," said she, "I had better go and see for myself."
               This brought Dudgeon to the plain statement of the conclusion which he had conscientiously adopted.
               "She shall not come into this house, my dear,—no,—it will be quite impossible for me to see her,—she must be taken to the place provided for such people,—I shall certainly not tolerate her under my roof,—whatever can have become of her conscience? Where can my education and example have gone to?"
               "But, Mr. Dudgeon," the mother warmly and tearfully expostulated, "you can never be so hard-hearted as to turn your own child upon the world without a morsel or a rag?"
               "Mrs. Dudgeon, remember that I have a character to maintain; take away my character and what have I left? Call to mind that my character is the substantial growth of many years—it is not the ephemeral product of a day, and I assure you it must be maintained and honored at any expense,—no, no, evil-doers shall not tarry in my sight." When Mr. Dudgeon uttered these words, he gathered himself up into an attitude of dignity, such as the apostles would never have ventured tured to assume,—he was, in fact, the very picture of resolute virtue.
               "You are too bad for anything," Mrs. Dudgeon replied; "you haven't a father's heart in your breast,—if I didn't taste bread for a week, my own child should have something,—and so she shall, even yet, if I work my finger-ends off to get it, poor thing!"
               "Yes," said the man of business, whose eye always glittered when he saw the nexus between cause and effect, "it is this softness which has made things as they are; if you had been more of my disposition, and attended more carefully to the injunctions which I have laid down from time to time, we should have been saved from this catastrophe; but this softness——"
               "It is not softness, Mr. Dudgeon, so just hold your tongue,—it is love, a mother's natural pity and love, and you know nothing at all about it,—if you had been more like a father, as I've told you many a time, and treated your children kindly, you would have had more command over them, but they dread your very shadow. I don't wonder at them not coming to tell you their trouble, for the poor dear children dare not come near you—you would have talked them deaf, and frowned them out of your sight,—O my dear, dear children!—Whatever shall I do!"
               Mr. Dudgeon was proceeding to dilate upon the iniquity of the times on which he had fallen, and the manifold hardships which must befall any man who attempts to live conscientiously in an unconscientious world, when the expected sound of wheels was heard, and in a moment more the vehicle was at the door. Time for words had gone: the hour of action was at hand. The wolfish-hearted Mrs. Hargreaves has been steady to her purpose, and the poor creature on whom her scorn rests is now at the door of her father's house, and silently is her wounded spirit appealing for vengeance to the God of the helpless. Her uplifted eyes, beautiful as the azure at which they gaze, must be looking for the ancient sword which was never wielded but to cleave oppression and cruelty.
               "Now, do let her come in, my dear," said Mrs. Dudgeon very pleadingly and tenderly, as she laid her hand on the door-latch.
               "No," was the inexorable answer, as became a man of conscience, "I shall not see her—I cannot see her—there is a proper place for such persons—say no more."
               The mother knew too well the material with which she had to deal, to offer any remonstrance. No rod of anger, no gleam of love, could strike the rugged rock so as to make a stream. Hurriedly throwing on her bonnet and shawl, she sped to the carriage in which her ruined Emily lay, and, having given the driver necessary instructions, they proceeded to the house of a kindly woman whose good offices might always be relied upon in the time of necessity. Mother and child held their first communications in bursting sobs. It was no time for questioning. The sad fact seemed to anticipate and answer all inquiries. The mother was near her wrecked Emily, and in the meantime was regardless of all else. Hating the sin, she yet yearned over the sinner,—cursing the victimizer, as only a mother can curse, she drew nearer and nearer to the living ruin, and in her melting tenderness proclaimed the immortality of a mother's love. Wondrous love, spark from eternal fire which warms and cheers the boundless universe, it glowed over the shivering prodigal, and fell like the sun's argent stream upon the drooping flower. This love is a divine prophecy. While its music and its glory and its tenderness remain, men will live in the presence of angels. It is a protest against Atheism. It is the throb of a divine power. It will be the last angel to take wing from a shattered orb. Till then, Mrs. Dudgeon did not know how much she loved. The full passion did not heave her breast, till she saw the crushed and hopeless child of her own youth. Her heart became a temple into which the penitent could pass, and find an altar, on which an angel's hand had written FORGIVENESS, and a home, into which the prodigal could enter without hearing the harsh words of reproach. Oh, mother's love! How pure, how noble, how all-embracing, all-forgiving, self-forgetting is that holy love. It has made all men debtors. It is the world's noblest martyr, and the world's sublimest conqueror: many a scar is on its blushing cheek—many a gash in its immortal heart, but to-day, as ever, it is the brightest light which falls on a degenerate race.
               For a few days Emily was too weak to enter into any explanation of her unhappy state. With returning strength, she evinced no disposition to keep from her anxious and sorrowing mother the particulars of the case.
               "But tell me, mamma, why I am not in our own house? Haven't we a home now?"
               "Your father, my love, your father," said Mrs. Dudgeon, "you know the rest—you know his manner of doing things—say no more about that—it has given me pain enough; now tell me all, all about yourself and Benjamin."
               "But where is Ben, ma? I don't think he knows what has happened. I haven't seen him since——"
               "Are you aware, love, of anything wrong at the counting-house? When Mrs. Hargreaves called, she talked like a mad woman,—we didn't know what to make of her; she called Ben a robber, and went on awfully, and really I am quite heart-broken with one trouble and another."
               "Then," said Emily, "it is too true, dear mamma, both your children have brought disgrace upon you: Ben told me plainly only a short time since, that he had been led into extravagances which his salary couldn't support, and that he had tampered with the books so as to prevent any discovery."
               The poor mother, thus cast into a deeper sadness than could have desolated her heart by a double bereavement, laid her hand on Emily's shoulder, and sobbed bitterly and agonizingly, in the wildness of her terrible grief. For long years she had lived in her children. Failing to find a common subject of sympathy with Mr. Dudgeon, she had turned to Ben and Emily, and beguiled many a weary hour by planning such earthly destinies as she could wish for her loved ones. In her sky—a sky always heavily clouded—there had been two bright blue spots which inspired and supported a good hope, and when the cruel shadows stretched across them, she shrunk away in the darkness, to enjoy the only luxury which is permitted to grief—the luxury of much bitter weeping.
               
               "Why, Emily, dear," she would say, "I can hardly believe that it is true even now; Mr. Hargreaves used to call and tell us such good news about you, that whenever I saw him coming, I was glad, for I felt sure he would speak kindly about you both; he just talked like a father, and many a time I've wished that your papa had been as kind a man, and when he was going on praising you, your father would take all the credit for his way of training you, and now that all this has come out, he turns round and blames me for it."
               "Don't cry, ma'," said Emily (an advice she had often given her), "I can believe how easily pa' would turn round upon you and make you suffer by his bitter reproaches; but I know the real state of the case, and it makes my heart very heavy: his way of training us has done the mischief—we never had to see anybody—we knew nothing about people's ways of going on—we heard nothing but conscience, conscience, conscience, all the time we were at home—so when people were kind to us, we never thought of doubting their sincerity—we were pleased with every smile—we were thankful for every good word, and we went on from one thing to another until we are what we are,—just hated by everybody."
               "But my dear Emily, I really don't see how all this mischief could happen; it looks to me quite impossible, when you were all living in the same house and meeting as a family every day."
               "No, ma', I don't wonder at you not seeing how it could happen, but if you had lived where we've been, you would have seen clearly enough. You don't know what sort of woman Mrs. Hargreaves is, and you might be with her a long time without understanding her disposition and habits. I never heard of such a person; I have read of many strange people, but never read of any one that was exactly like her: she can be as blithe and pleasant as possible, and any one seeing her for a short time would think her the most agreeable person in the world, but her temper (especially after she has had brandy) exceeds in violence anything you can imagine. She talks so very much about refinement and discrimination, that really, at first, I thought the poor creature was jesting, but I found out that she was perfectly serious: the plain fact is, she feels the inequality between Mr. Hargreaves and herself,—she doesn't like him—she wants him to spend his money in keeping regular rounds of company, and making a great display, and that's the sort of thing he cannot do, for he hasn't been accustomed to it; the consequence is they are always fighting and quarrelling about something. So Mrs. Hargreaves grew extremely fond of Benjamin; she was always praising him before Mr. Hargreaves, calling him refined and intelligent and gentlemanly, and saying how much satisfaction she had in conversing with such a gifted and scholarly young man, and the result was that Mr. Hargreaves cared less and less for his wife, and now I can see what I didn't see then, that he took his revenge by being kind to me, and he was kind—most extravagant in his compliments and promises, and I valued his kindness all the more because I hadn't been used to such treatment from my own father, and so one thing after another went on until——," the remainder of the story was told in the eloquent language of penitential tears.
               The policy of a disorganized family must always be fruitful of courses which baffle the comprehension of those who live in domestic sympathy and enjoyment. There are so many things which the Dudgeons might have done, or might have said, or might have been naturally expected to do or say, that their absence can be accounted for only by the eccentricity of the orbit which the Dudgeon intellect described. Many days passed without the occurrence of any particular incident,—days made long and sad by a thousand fears, streaked here and there with the faintest possible light of hope.
               Emily had now subjects enough for wonder: where was her brother? what had happened at Skulford since she left? what would Octavius think, and what would Octavius do? how would she be able to penetrate her way through the valley of darkness, to the land made glad with sunshine? what was the destiny of the little helpless one whose maternity could require no proof so long as those young deep blue eyes shone with life? could any circumstances possibly transpire, which would restore any measure of her annihilated happiness? Benjamin and Octavius were both in the world, could either of them break through the boundaries which barred her off from virtuous society, and bring her some word of deliverance, or pardon, or hope? Not a moment came without bringing its special problem, and her now morbid imagination was fertile with solutions which plunged her spirit in darkening despair. It would be unjust to omit that most of her reasonings coiled around one centre, and that centre was Octavius. Nothing could be clearer, so she reasoned, than that Octavius would henceforth associate her name with everything that was horrible and repulsive; that she would never be permitted to gaze again on the beaming countenance which, in many cloudy and troubled days, had been her only light. Yet her heart did not follow the track of her understanding; her logic was compact as linked armor, yet her affection pertinaciously disputed every conclusion; her reason had long ago blown out the light, yet her love persisted in declaring that there was even yet a fitful kindling in the far horizon. Aye, and she saw it spread too, till the blackest cloud of all was almost persuaded to roll off, or became impregnated with shafts of light. Mysteriously, tenaciously, perhaps foolishly, she trusted in Octavius: again and again she sought to persuade herself that his religion—a thing altogether beyond her full comprehension—would somehow give him the true view of her guilt and punishment, and incline his heart to clemency. She thought, too, that if he knew all, and knew the peculiarity of the circumstances, that he would be the first to drop on her the tear of a forgiving hope, and speak words whose best rebuke would be their unmerited tenderness, and whose greatest power their God-like sympathy. She dare not look to a cold, inflexible justice. The eye of a rigorous virtue—a virtue which had never reeled in the hour of temptation, or perhaps never been called to encounter an antagonist—was too steady and pitiless for her to look upon, yet she could timidly glance at the religion of Octavius Hargreaves, and hope that it would become her healer and deliverer. She had seen how that religion dominated in his life—how it had given him the strength of endurance as well as the strength of conquest—how it had made him gentle and calm, and tender and loving—how it had taken away the earthliness of ordinary speech, and given to his words the charm of refinement, without the pomp and hollowness of affectation—how it had placed him at an angle which commanded the profoundest and truest view of human nature; and though there was much about these things, which her understanding could not grasp, yet her unquenchable love yearned over them and trusted in them and in the most sacred depths of her heart did she cherish the faith that by some means unknown, Octavius Hargreaves would break the desperation of her grief.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               SYMPATHY.
               IT was a cold November day, not a patch of blue could be seen through the murky atmosphere, and, at times, a heavy drizzling rain fell, when Mrs. Dudgeon and Emily were seriously talking of the future. Up to this time the tender-hearted mother had availed herself of every legitimate method of supplying her daughter's wants, and had even denied herself some necessaries that she might provide a few delicacies for her shrunken and dilapidated child. The time had come which imperatively called for the settlement of a course by which her sustenance could be maintained. Every likely plan was canvassed with anxiety—needle-work and teaching divided their attention for a time, but the current was turning strongly in favor of the former, when a visitor's knock was heard at the front door. By some means Emily had come to regard every such knock as having special relation to herself. Though cast out of society as an unworthy thing, she could not dismiss the idea that one day society would recall her, and cancel the memory of her guilt. Every morning brought with it the hope that that day something would happen, and thus buoyed up with delusive hopes, Emily had lived until the day in question. Instinctively, Emily set her door a-jar whenever the old knocker announced a visitor, and on this occasion the door was opened as usual.
               "Is Miss Dudgeon living here?" was asked, (softly and secretly, as if a forbidden name had been pronounced), by a voice which Emily instantly recognized.
               "Yes, sir." (Emily's door was opened still farther.)
               "I wish to see her; please take this card, and ask if I can see Miss Dudgeon," continued the voice, in the same subdued and secret tone.
               
                  Mrs. Dudgeon hastily passed into the adjoining bed-room—it was an inner room and could be entered without occasioning any noise on the landing. It was no stranger who was at the door, though the agitated mother did not at once identify the voice.
               "I believe it is Ben," she said, "and if so, don't tell him I'm here; you'd better talk together for a few moments and then I can come." But it was not Ben. The visitor was none other than Octavius Hargreaves, who had been unable, until that day, to discover Emily's retreat, else, as he warmly said, he would have been at her side to offer advice and otherwise render help. For the first few moments, as usual, the bitterest emotions prevailed upon both sides. The days of horror were lived over again—days made all the more horrible by the remembrance of some seasons of bliss which they had lived together, and which Octavius hopefully accepted as prophetic of more golden days unborn. Emily would gladly have surveyed Octavius without his having been able to survey her in return. She had good reason to evade his pure eye; she dreaded its glance infinitely more than in her first agony she would have dreaded the lightning, yet her vision would wander to his animated face, and rest nowhere but on the too bright eye of her benefactor. The confusion of both parties may fairly claim to be added to the long list of things which are "more easily imagined than described." Both wanted to speak, as on another occasion, but both were at a loss how to begin. To refer to commonplace topics was rendered not only impertinent but impossible, under the circumstances; and how to touch the many wounds without adding to their agony was an experiment which involved the exercise of consummate delicacy. Even the oil of sympathy should be dropped so carefully as not to irritate the sore it is intended to heal. There is nothing so hard to bear as unsympathetic sympathy. The true soul—the soul strung to the music of divine progress—even in its most abject woe, turns with terror and disgust from the infliction of an inquisitive and artificial pity.
               When silence was broken, both parties spoke as if they had no right to speak. Their voices had lost the familiar and joyous ous ring which distinguished them in happier days. They seemed now to talk as if by mutual sufferance, for even Octavius, though untainted as a child, felt in the presence of guilt, as though he, too, had lost the crown of honor and purity. Yet was his heart burning with noblest feelings. There was an unspoken gospel in his soul, which should be heard so soon as he could settle the conflict between judgment and emotion.
               "What about Benjamin?" said Emily, in the midst of one of her sobs.
               Octavius shook his head, and said it was "a bad case; Ben had been spending money which wasn't his own, and to conceal his guilt he had altered the books."
               Thrice, at least, had these words fallen like lead into her heart, and thrice had she accepted them as true, but now that they fell so gently from the lips of the gentle Octavius, they seemed to palpitate with a more awful truthfulness than ever. Before, she had an inexpressible feeling that, though the words were true, yet they might be exaggerated; but now that he pronounced them, she apprehended their full purport, and for the first time realized the fact that Ben was a robber.
               "How much was he wrong? Can I ever pay it back?" she inquired. "O, Mr. Octavius, I will work day and night if I can only save him."
               "No, Emily, you can never pay it back—it isn't so very much after all, but it is more than you can ever refund by working—but it is about yourself, Emily, that I want to know."
               "God bless you, Mr. Octavius, but do tell me where Ben is. Is he in prison? Is he in England?"
               "The fact is, Emily, I don't believe he is in this country, but where he is I really cannot tell you."
               "O dear, dear Ben; I would gladly go miles and miles on my hands and knees if I could only see him, and save him,—I fret more about Ben than about myself."
               "And I think about you both, Emily, but especially about you."
               "You cannot have any regard for me, I am sure, Mr. Octavius, after I have done such wickedness,—O no, no," she replied, still hoping, however, that his religion had provided a deeper fund of pity than was found in the common herd of mortals.
               "I have a very deep regard for you, Emily; you have been diabolically wronged—you have been betrayed by a foul spirit, and I am determined to stand by you till the last."
               "O, Mr. Octavius, may God bless you for this kindness; I am sure this is your religion,—but I have no religion, none—none!"
               "It is my religion, as you call it, Emily; it makes me hate the sin with implacable hatred, but it gives me pity for those who have been injured."
               "You know that I have done wrong, Mr. Octavius, so you must hate me."
               "Don't misunderstand me, Emily," Octavius continued, his energy increasing with every word; "I know you have done wrong—I dare not connive at that fact—I want to look at it, steadily, in all its blackness and hideousness—at the same time, I wish to distinguish between going headlong into crime and being 'overtaken in a fault,' and from my heart, I believe you did not rush into this great sin with your eyes open, but were lured into it, and, though my own father is the guilty man, I must denounce and reprobate his conduct as long as I live."
               "O yes, Mr. Octavius, I was led into it—I am sure, I never intended to do wrong; I felt as if I was given up to his power—I didn't seem as if I had any will of my own—O, how my heart burns now that I look back and see how silly I have been."
               "And not only 'silly,'" said Octavius; "let me keep your mind to that point for a moment—you have been guilty as well as foolish; there is a great sin attached to your name; there is a deep stain on your history; at the same time you were the victim, not the victimizer; you were coaxed and wheedled and tempted, and the tempter must bear the heavier part of the burden."
               Ah, ye pietetic, pharisaic commiserators of a ruined world, would to God ye had more of this young man's spirit! Have you ever known the overwhelming power of a great temptation? Can you refer to any fierce conflicts in your own moral history? Or have you been shaded as artificial flowers, and watched by the eager eyes of parental love, and shielded from the roaring tempest of diabolic assault? Is yours a patented, self-protecting temperament, cold, unimpressible, unresponsive to the luring voices of a disguised or hidden hell? Is your selfishness so much on the alert that the fear of consequences restrains the tendencies of your depravity? Away with your hollow righteousness! Avaunt, your sapless, soulless, godless morality! How can you pity and save the blind, and halt, and withered, and maimed in this great moral-hospital world. The very milk and honey of Christ's own glorious and everlasting gospel would freeze on your wintry lips, and drop as icicles on human misery. You cannot comprehend the nature and the necessities of guilt; your vulgar rectitude concludes all distinctions and variations of error under one scornful and damning curse; but know ye, that ye cannot be righteous as God, until ye are pitiful as Christ, and that anathemas can only sit with dignity on lips which have been hallowed by the utterance of beatitudes.
               Emily was overcome by the faithfulness and magnanimity of this young apostle of Hope. She felt that his words were as a stream of consolation which must be supplied by a fount embosomed in celestial hills. In her former condition she did not understand his references to the deep things of spiritual life; they were words only which fell upon and rebounded from the ear,—but now they met the necessities of her experience, and her heart drank them with the avidity of a prolonged thirst. Precious is the light of hope. Morning is a birth which may be hailed by the hymns of angels. It is a glad word, is that word morning—it is the peal of a joy-trumpet—it is beautiful with the tints of hope, yet solemn as a resurrection of yesterday. The morning-light softly fell on the inflamed eyelids of Emily Dudgeon, and her heart quivered with a gladness long forgotten.
               "Many a time," said Emily, "I have read the paper which you once gave me, and it has comforted me in my melancholy. Do you remember that you once said I could be forgiven? Do you think I can be forgiven now?"
               "I say the same to-day, Emily, as I said then," Octavius sweetly answered; "it is my joy to tell you that God not only pardons, but abundantly pardons—he overflows, so to speak, with pitying and pardoning love—his love is like a river which is too vast for its channels,—O, how it gladdens me to think of it! You have sinned, but the Saviour will bear your sin forever away, if you penitently and trustingly ask him to do so; he will stretch out his wounded hand and snatch you from ruin, and not only will he say, 'neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more,' but he will forget the past, and make the future glorious and blissful."
               Octavius was inclined to expand this theme somewhat, but the word, "forget," arrested Emily's attention and caused an interruption—
               "But how can I forget the past?" she inquired.
               "It is not necessary for you to forget the past; God says he will forget it, and that is enough. It is well that we should remember the past, for its memory keeps us humble and thankful,—the scar reminds us both of the wound and of the healer, and it is quite right that it should remain upon us, until we are transformed and glorified into the perfect image of the Good."
               Emily was unable to follow Mr. Octavius in all his theological disquisitions and representations, but her heart was quick to detect the love which vitalized and pointed all his utterances, and this gave her a joy and rest which cannot be attained by a mere technical acquaintance with the deep principles which he enunciated and expanded with such genial and firing energy.
               "And can you so far understand my case, Mr. Octavius, as to have any regard left for me? I am but a poor withered flower that is fit for nothing but to be cast away."
               "It is well to think so," Octavius remarked, in his most serious tone, "but while I live, you shall never be cast away;" and as he thus committed himself to the ministry of restoration, his ever glorious eyes shone with a deeper meaning ing, and melted with a truer tenderness than Emily had ever seen.
               "Yes; while you live, Mr. Octavius," she said, with plaintive earnestness, "but may I say that I have noticed how you have coughed this afternoon? I am sure you should not have been so far from home this foggy and rainy day."
               "This cough will soon go off," Octavius answered, with brightest hopefulness, "it is only what is called a chest cough, and when the spring begins to warm, I shall be as well as ever."
               Ah me! how many poor mortals look with weary and longing eyes for the spring, expecting it to bring healing balm! 'Tis a weapon plucked from the armory of the future, with which to smite a tyrannous and darksome present. And when that future of many a golden dream and many a singing hope does come, it is dimmer than the expectation, and the bright ideal passes into a dreary real. Octavius Hargreaves had mortgaged the spring. The spring was to bring with it, from an unseen land of unimagined sunniness, not only flowers and music, but a genial and healing power that would renovate and establish his energy. Upon this mortgage he lived. For a time, it made him rich in happy prospects, and loosened his tongue in the utterance of corresponding resolutions.
               Emily turned the drift of the conversation a little, by reading aloud a short page of her gloomy experience—
               "Do you know, Mr. Octavius," she said, "but I dare say you religious people do not know,—that I really don't see anything worth living for? Everything seems to vanish when one attempts to touch it—we all seem to be waiting and waiting for something that never comes. We retire at night, hoping that something good will come next day, and next day comes only to disappoint us,—and then we hope for the next, and next, and next, and they all go away without bringing what we want,—somehow it is all like a dream. How do you manage to keep yourself from a thorough disgust of life?"
               "By going back to first principles, Emily,—there is no other way," Octavius answered, with the familiarity of a student who had solved the vexing problem.
               "But what do you mean by first principles," said Emily, "you know you use many words that I don't understand,—now what are first principles?"
               "First principles, Emily, are the foundations which God has laid, and no power can uproot them."
               This language was still more puzzling to Emily, but she was anxious to arrive at any principles which would put a purpose into her heart worth living for, and strike a brightness into all the gloomy realities which frowned upon her from every side. Her life had been so simple—so superficial—that Octavius's somewhat axiomatic or categorical mode of stating things quite set her penetration at defiance. As an earnest student, however, she frankly confessed her difficulties—
               "I don't just see what you mean, but I know you are a patient teacher."
               "Very well," said Octavius, "now if that were true—that I am 'a patient teacher'—it would have in it something of the nature of a first principle;—you say you 'don't just see what I mean,' and then you say 'but:' now it is exactly the same in what we have been talking about; I know as well as you, that everything in life is dream-like—that our hopes are often delusive—but (now here comes a first principle,) God has been pleased to make life as it is, and whatever he does must be right. If it was not for some such foundation as this, Emily, the whole fabric of life would fall down, and the sooner the better."
               "But I want to know why God didn't make life differently? Why didn't he make things so that they could never disappoint us? Why does he send us along so many bridges that break down when we get to the middle of them? Why doesn't he kill the devil, and make every human heart strong and good and like himself? These are the things that I cannot understand."
               "Ah Emily," Octavius interrupted, "you are touching some deep questions now."
               
               "I cannot understand what we are living for at all; I don't see what things are to end in; the world is fighting and fighting, running and running, getting and getting, but when all the fighting and running and getting are over, what then? People seem to forget all about the end because they stimulate and excite each other into a kind of temporary madness, but really when one is shut up alone, and begins to look at life calmly and seriously, it is difficult to make anything but a dream of it,—as for myself, I feel as if I were only killing time, as people do in a coach office when they are waiting for the coach."
               Octavius listened, like a wise physician, to the delineation of his patient's heart-sicknesses, all the time keeping steadily before his own eye the peculiar constitution of the human frame, and listening intently to the tidings of the truth-telling pulse. At length he said—
               "I see, Emily, that you won't be quite right till you have dug down to the foundation stones; shall we begin?"
               "Do begin, please."
               "Well, then, in the first place, do you believe in the existence of God?"
               "O dear, Mr. Octavius, how can you ask me such a question?—dear, dear, how strange!"
               "Well, that is merely a round-about way of saying yes, so I shall take it as granted: let me ask you again, do you believe that God is interested in the well-being of his creatures?"
               "It would be very wicked not to think so, I am sure."
               "Just so, Emily, just so; but we mustn't believe a thing simply because it would be wicked not to believe it,—we must feel that it actually is so, and be able to declare it with all the force of personal consciousness and experience."
               Emily felt that the language was becoming slightly shadowy again, yet it was transparent enough to warrant her in proceeding to the modest length of—
               "Just so,—go on."
               "But I might have asked you first, did you place yourself in this dreamy vanishing scene?"
               This was about as plain a question as a philosopher could put, and one to which Emily could extemporize the plainest of answers—
               "Certainly not."
               "Very good; now do you believe that God, who made the world and all its inhabitants, and who is interested in the well being of his creatures, had any particular object in view when he created man, or was the creation of man a mere freak of boundless power?"
               "I don't know about that," said Emily.
               "Well, but think: here we have an intelligent Creator fashioning intelligent creatures, and I want to know whether you don't think it reasonable that he would have a distinct object in view?"
               "I should think he would have a distinct object in view," said Emily.
               "And so should I: now just put these and a few similar admissions which might be made, together, and reason upon them—there is a God—he placed me here altogether apart from any exercise of my own will—he is benevolently interested in all his creatures—he has surrounded man with certain conditions, which, if properly developed, will produce blessed results—he will eventually call the human family around his throne, to know how far his sovereign purposes have been realized by man;—my simple business, therefore, is to employ the energies he has given me, to improve the opportunities he provides, to serve him according to the revelation of his will, to await his appointed time, and to long for his appearance, as an absent child longs for reunion with a loving parent."
               Emily declared that this explanation was "just like preaching," but as she never could understand preaching, it left her very much where she was at the beginning.
               "All that you have said, may be true enough," she replied, "but it seems to me, that to tell any one to be happy with such views is like telling a blind man to see, or a dumb man to speak. I want to know how things came to be so ill-arranged, so deceitful, and so disappointing: we all seem to be cheating each other by assuming false appearances and holding out false promises; we say things we don't mean, and we do things we don't mean, and every man is suspecting every other man, and somehow things all seem to be upside down: why was your father made to tempt me, and why was I suffered to be overcome? What is the use of having sin in the world? What good can ever come of having a devil in the creation? Why not destroy him, and let poor human hearts have a little peace? O dear, dear, these questions will torment me day and night, and even when I try to drive them away I feel that I am only trifling with myself, and playing over again the part of the silly ostrich—."
               "How did you come to think so much about these things, Emily?"
               "Ever since I got into trouble, I have thought about them continually, because I wanted to know why I should have been allowed to get so far wrong; couldn't God have saved a poor simple child from all this sin and misery?"
               Emily wept as she uttered these words, and her countenance became wrinkled with grief. She was led by a bitter experience into metaphysical reasoning,—a species of reasoning, indeed, to which she had no original inclination. Thus do extremes meet. Experience tapering into metaphysics—sorrow weeping itself into philosophy—bewilderment interrogating the Infinite! Our griefs throw us back upon ourselves, and pierce our souls with many questions which stretch into the dark unknown. The riven heart sends up many a penetrating inquiry to the head. Philosophy has not a severer cross-examiner than is sorrow. Metaphysics are the amusement of the priest and levite, but they are the sternest realities of the wounded man, whose double-edged "why?" puts the armies of sophistry to flight. In such cases, the heart is its own arbiter: men talk about the power and dignity of intellect, but when skirmishing deepens into real fighting, it is found that feeling is a severer and juster judge than intellect.
               
               "I see the ground you occupy," said Octavius, "and if you can give me your attention for a few moments, I shall tell you all I know upon the subject—"
               "Do go on, sir," said Emily, in a pleading tone.
               "There is," Octavius continued, "nothing easier than question-asking tion-asking, nor, perhaps, is there anything more natural. I am sure, Emily, we shall flounder hopelessly, if we don't take first principles as our guide: we should specially remember two things, the first of which is, that 'we are of yesterday, and know nothing'; why, Emily, the oldest man, what is he after all? He is less than a babe, whose age can be reckoned by moments, when compared with the mighty beings who have existed for thousands upon thousands, and tens of thousands of ages, and they are but new-born compared with the I AM, whose syllables are universes, whose glances are suns, whose frown is annihilation! We should farther remember that we see things in their incomplete state; it is not time for judgment yet; our present business is to wait, and that is a business which makes heavy demands on every faculty. What would you think of a child who pronounced an opinion upon the house while the foundations only were being cut? Would it be just or sensible to criticise a painting when nothing but the roughest outlining is upon the canvas? Would you be treating a machinist fairly, by coming to a conclusion upon his work when his wheels and screws and pulleys were all lying in a detached state? Now, if it wouldn't be fair to judge a human artist until he himself pronounced his work ready for inspection and criticism, how can it be right to arraign the processes of the Divine Being, and treat them as results? I grant that there is very much in the processes which we cannot understand; it baffles and pains us often, but there is not a process in creation which we can fully comprehend: look upon the earth to-day,—the fruits and flowers have deserted it—not a note of music is poured upon the thick, murky air—but then we know it is November, and we expect in November to see precisely what is now before us; let any one, to suppose a case for the sake of illustration, who hasn't seen the glories of July, be told that by-and-by the sun will shine with dazzling brilliance, and all the gardens will be covered with flowers, and the air ring again with happy voices,—he would be struck with astonishment—he could hardly credit the news, yet we know that every word of it is perfectly true. And it is very much the same, Emily, with God's government of the great world: it is winter now, so to speak, with that government; there are many bitter winds and keen frosts and heavy storms, but in due time the heavens will be cleared—the Sun will mount his zenith-throne, and God's righteousness will be justified and glorified for ever. I cannot explain why there should be any winter, but I know that there can be only one God, and that a wisdom, which is infinite, may be safely left to answer all questions at the right time, and turn all mysteries into jewels of his own crown."
               Emily was a reverent listener. Her tormenting doubts were far from being exorcised, yet she laid hold of a principle or two which supported her in her trembling. She could listen to Octavius now, for his warm gentle words went directly to her case, as no other words could have done. They were as rain to the thirsty flower. The intercourse upon these topics had occupied so much time, that there was not opportunity for the introduction upon subjects on which Emily would have liked a little information; and, indeed, the sacredness of the topics was such, that a transition to other themes would have done violence to both hearts,—he who has just walked in sun-blaze feels awkward in taper light.
               The heavy fogs had broken into a drenching rain, and Emily insisted, on the ground of his health, that Octavius should remain, and share her humble meal—an invitation which he gratefully and promptly accepted. Emily went into the bedroom, where her mother had anxiously remained during the entire interview, and having whispered much of what Octavius had said of his personal feelings towards her, she took leave of her mother for the day, and sent her out by a side door. The frugal repast was painfully suggestive. It is permitted to little things to open great doors, and so this scanty provision flung open two sorrowing hearts, and called a river of tears from the secret fount. It brought to remembrance their innumerable meetings at the well-spread table at The Holly and at Skulford, and the emotion created by such remembrance was not the less profound because of its solemn silence. The tea having been drunk, there was still no sign of improvement in the weather. It was a considerable distance to Skulford, and Octavius was unwilling to expose himself to the combined unpleasantness of darkness and tempest.
               "I must now go, Emily," said he, "but before doing so, would you object to our praying together?"
               Emily answered by immediately falling on her knees. She had never heard Octavius pray,—had never heard any one pray, in fact, farther than the usual service at church. Octavius followed her example, and with a voice often stifled by a mastering emotion proceeded to commune with God: he sweetly spoke of Christ's pity and love for undone humanity—he clung to the cross as the everlasting memorial of infinite mercy—penitentially he confessed his own sins, and oh, with such delicate delicacy he told Jesus of the sin of Emily,—yes, he even mentioned her by name, while speaking to Christ, and the sound of that name, under such circumstances, made her sob with a passion which could not be restrained. The voice of the intercessor had never sounded so sweetly in her ear before, and even the interruptions occasioned by the cough invested the exercise with singular charm and solemnity. It was felt to be a holy hour,—one of those hours which must shine throughout an immortal history. As if caught up on the strong wings of a mighty angel, Emily felt herself borne along into purer, brighter climes, where she heard the voice of forgiving love. For the time being, penitence mastered guilt—faith vanquished doubt—and while "the excellent glory" encircled the forgiven child of sin and shame, she would have fain built a tabernacle and remained forever in the high ecstatic vision. She felt that her very weakness was her omnipotence with God,—that as the wail of helpless infancy arouses maternal love even at midnight, so the wail of her powerlessness brought the loving Savior to her side through the thickening darkness of unutterable remorse.
               When the suppliants rose, they had but few words for each other. They had freely communicated their feelings, and now it only remained to breathe a mutual good-bye. Emily truly felt an awe for Octavius, as one should do for any man who is a prevailing advocate before God. Yet it was an awe made beautiful by love,—veneration tinted with rainbow beauties. Octavius put his hand to his breast-pocket, and taking out a small parcel requested Emily not to open it until he had gone; then, grasping her hand with the ardor of a noble friendship, he bade her look up and trust in God until he had the joy of seeing her again.
               The rain was still falling, though not quite so heavily, when Octavius started for Skulford. Through a side window Emily could catch a glimpse of him, and stood there half-encouraging the hope that he might have occasion to turn back and say one word more. There she stood long after every trace of the retreating figure had vanished, and when he turned, she involuntarily exclaimed, "God bless him." There was still one joy left. The parcel was to open. The parcel! his dear hands had folded it! the string had been knotted by his pale fingers! When opened, it was found to contain a pocket New Testament, a case which inclosed a beautiful portrait of himself, and within the Testament was carefully placed a ten pound note: there were also the following lines—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAREST EMILY:
                           
                           "Not being sure whether I shall be permitted the pleasure of an interview with you, I venture to offer for your acceptance a book, which has been my guide and solace in the loneliest and dreariest paths of life: I inclose also a memorial of one who has long known no other joy in human society than your own genial smile, and who trusts that light will soon break through the great darkness which now broods over you. Don't be angry with me for enclosing a note, which may be of some use in your present circumstances. I shall call again as soon as possible, and if you have no objection, I shall be glad to spend an hour with you. I need not add more than.
                           
                              "O. H."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Emily's was a grateful heart. Her first impulse on receiving any tribute of esteem, was to plan a method of returning an acknowledgment of it in the most delicate manner. Even poverty cannot conquer such a spirit: it may remove the customary resources, but the heart is fertile in invention, and will express itself in actions which are fragrant with gratitude though not golden with wealth. What had she? Nothing but the rich ringlets of her girlhood, and one of these she at once transferred to an envelope, and wrote the following lines:— 
                     
                        "No costly gift I offer thee
                        Of gold or gem, but wilt thou take
                        This small memento of regard,
                        And keep it ever for my sake?
                        And wilt thou, gentlest, give to me
                        A lock of thine own golden hair?
                        Methinks 'twould be a treasured thing,
                        I'd wear it aye, and place it—where?
                        Why in my heart, and would be far
                        Prouder, than if a monarch's star
                        Had glittered there."
                     
                  
               
               This was to be given to Octavius on his second visit.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               BEREAVEMENT.
               A NEW hope now shone upon the path of the lonely. From that happy day, Emily and her mother had a fruitful subject of conversation. Emily never had the shadow of a misgiving as to the faithfulness of Octavius, and upon that faithfulness her busy imagination reared many an enchanting superstructure. But a new grief was in store. We outsiders should hardly have deemed it a grief, but so curious a thing is human nature, that we never know how heavy such a blow will be until we feel its crushing force, for events, against which we have studiously steeled ourselves, rend us with unforeseen sorrows. It was so with Emily. The little life, more than half of which was her own, began to tremble in its frail tenement; and in its first quivering, Emily felt that removal from such a world would be the happiest lot that could befall the child; but when it lay in the stillest of all slumbers, she yearned and mourned as though God had smitten her too heavily. All who were acquainted with the circumstances secretly rejoiced, but the childless mother (the saddest of all names!) felt that she had still less to live for, that the plucking of her one little flower had reft the bleak earth of its tenderest charm. There was but a solitary heart now in whose beating she heard any cheering music. And the days were becoming numerous since she had seen the face which glowed with its manly benevolence. Octavius had not made his appearance at her lodgings since the dismal night on which she watched him hurrying through the rain. Still, her faith in his fidelity kept the fires of her hope in full blaze. What knew she but that every rising sun was a prophet of good tidings? And did she not look earnestly upon the golden sunsets, hoping that at the very same moment, he too was looking at the manifold glory, as if to avail himself of any sudden rent, and discern the figure of his sainted mother? Precious jewellery of the heavens! Separated hearts delight themselves in fixing periods at which to gaze on the same bright spot; they say: "Let us go out at star-time and mark the milky way, or let us anticipate the dawn, and, at the same moment, fix our eyes on the eastern horizon." Emily knew how fond Octavius was of watching the various lights, following with a poet's eye the many-colored clouds, and numbering the arrivals of the stars, until the radiant multitude overwhelmed his short arithmetic; and for that reason she, too, learned to take pleasure in tracing the phantasms of clouds and the variations of splendor. Love unites and harmonizes human tastes. But suns rose and set for long weeks, aye, even for dreary months, until her heart ached with weariness. She called to mind every word—she lingered on every accent—specially she remembered the cough. Her imagination had dwelt on every possible horror, and yet she bravely struggled with every conclusion that forbade her to hope for re-union. All the while the clouds multiplied, blackened, and widened, and if an occasional beam did flash through the blackness, it came but to tell her how dense was the gloom from which it had escaped. Then she began to mark out a course which it would be incumbent upon her to pursue; she would go stealthily to Skulford in the dusk—she knew his bed-room window, and if she saw a light there she would watch, and if it continued for more than an hour she would conclude that he was ill, and if ill, she would send him a letter addressed in a disguised hand. One by one her little devices, intended for the next interview, were relinquished. She had invented many innocent plans for the entertainment of Octavius—many a question (for she knew how well he liked to be interrogated by herself) had she treasured upon the subject of religion; and, indeed, her heart was all written over with a rich programme which was to direct their next conference. But now, she was afraid of every additional question which suggested itself, lest it should be doomed to remain a question for ever. Day by day she nursed her grief, as if it had been a child or friend; she had become so accustomed to its grim presence, that all her soliloquies turned upon the possibilities which it involved. The mournful friendship existing between her young heart and this dread grief had quite ripened, when an unexpected visitor arrived, and opened a new chapter in her melancholy experience. This visitor was Lily Hunter. Emily and Lily could hardly be said to know each other, but their common grief formed a centre and bond of union. Lily had, indeed, come upon her own business, yet the concerns of the one so interpenetrated the concerns of the other, that it was difficult to say where Lily's business ended and Emily's began. Grief has an etiquette of its own. It is impatient of ceremony. Two hearts were overflowing, and they fell into sympathetic communion, naturally as two mountain streams blend in their journey to the sea. The one loved the brother of the other, and upon this love a sisterhood was at once established.
               "Can you give me the slightest information about Benjamin?" Lily eagerly inquired.
               "Nothing very cheering, Miss Hunter. I have reason to think he is not in England, but where he is I cannot tell."
               "Ah!" said Lily, "I was afraid he had left. I wonder if he thinks my feelings towards him have changed? I wish he knew they were just the same."
               Emily had a question to ask, but her heart sank when she attempted to express herself. The inquiry was on the lip, but turned to ice when she tried to utter it. Lily was aware that Emily must have a painful interest in whatever pertained to Skulford, and therefore said:
               "It was very touching, Emily—(let us be sisters, at least in our sorrow, and call each other by our simple names)—very touching indeed, about Mr. Octavius Hargreaves, wasn't it?"
               "Mr. Octavius Hargreaves?" said Emily, not caring to conceal her excitement, "what about him? Do tell me!"
               "Why is it possible that you haven't heard, Emily?"
               "Not a word—not a word—do tell me everything; poor Octy—I'm lost now," and she pronounced the word lost, as though it were the grave of her heart.
               "You surprise me, Emily; we have had a good many changes at Skulford, considering it is only a little place, since you left, but of course I thought you would know all about us; yet I don't see how you could do so, when I come to think about it—"
               "Go on about Octavius," Emily urged, her tears now flowing copiously.
               "I seem to have touched a very tender chord, Emily; of course I was not aware that there was anything between you and Mr. Octavius."
               "My guardian angel—my deliverer—my everything, he was," Emily exclaimed.
               "O dear, Emily love! I wish I hadn't come, but I wanted to hear about Ben; don't distress yourself so, dear Emily; if I'd known, I shouldn't have come for the world."
               "I'm so glad you've come, Lily, and so glad you know something about Octy, for I've been longing and longing to hear something about him, and nobody has sent me one word; now don't keep anything from me—tell me the very worst—tell me everything."
               "Why do be still then, dear, and don't agitate yourself so. I know all about the case, because the woman who nursed him often comes to our house, and she told us every particular. I never was in the house myself, but the woman told us all."
               "O Lily, I'm so glad; now I shall know everything—O how, my heart aches!
               Lily began her narrative: "Mr. Octavius had been somewhere from home several months since, and had to return to Skulford through a very heavy rain, and it appears he wasn't well at the time, so he caught cold and became extremely ill—"
               "Dear, dear, dear;" Emily interrupted with much grief, "I see how it was! Why, Lily, that is the very time he left this house; he came to see me and cheer me, and I remember what a hollow cough he had, and it was such an awful November night! Blessed boy, in trying to save me, he killed himself! O God, what do we live for?"
               
               "Aye, what indeed?" Lily responded.
               "Go on, Lily, go on; your words are like drawn daggers, but I must hear every one of them—tell me all."
               Lily continued: "The poor young man became consumptive—just like his mother, the nurse said, but I never knew her. He wasted away very rapidly. I often saw him walking past our window, and sometimes leaning upon our gate—"
               "How was he treated? O Lily, had I been there!"
               "The nurse says that his mother-in-law couldn't have treated a dog worse; she always treated him as if he was in her way; she never once asked the doctor how he was, and never suggested any nice little thing for his appetite; but for myself," Lily added by way of comment, though alas! it was no information to poor Emily, "I don't wonder at it, for every body in Skulford knows what a monster she can be."
               Emily wrung her hands in grief, and sobbed most piteously; it was the climax of a long accumulating sorrow; it was agony agonized; but her ear was covetous, while there was one word more to utter, she persisted in listening to it—
               "The way he spoke to his father," Lily continued, "was very beautiful; he often begged his father to read a little, and when the reading was over, he tried to pray a few words, but his breath was very short, the nurse said, and when he finished prayer his father used to cry like a child, and say it reminded him of what had happened years ago. The nurse says, she never saw any one so 'cut up,' as she calls it, and that she had strict orders to spare no expense, but to get him everything he fancied."
               "O," said Emily, "if it had only been reached to him by a loving hand, it would have been so much sweeter. Did he ever mention Ben?" she ventured to inquire.
               "O yes, I shall never forget that part," said Lily, "that is the best of all to me; one afternoon, the nurse says, he put his arms around his father's neck, and said he had a favor to ask, and his father said, 'my child, it shall be done whatever it is.' So Octy told him he wished Benjamin Dudgeon to be forgiven, and Mr. Hargreaves said, 'I do forgive him, and
                  I wish he knew it.' O Emily, that has made me so glad. I wish Ben knew he was forgiven, and then he would come back to England."
               At that moment, Emily was too much absorbed in Octy's case to respond to this wish. "What more?" she said.
               Lily proceeded: "Mrs. Hargreaves never looked into the room where Octy lay a-dying—never! The nurse told me, that a few days before he died, Octy wished his father to remain with him a little longer than usual, as he had something to say, and when his father said he would remain, Octavius seemed as though he couldn't say anything, at last he asked his father if he could remember how his mother died? and then Mr. Hargreaves sobbed and cried, and Octy cried, and the nurse says, she couldn't help crying, so there they were altogether—"
               "O Lily, Lily, why didn't somebody tell me he was dying? O, how cruel not to tell me: I must have gone to see him—I must, I must! O, shall I never see him again?"
               "Well, let me finish, love, and do calm yourself."
               "Heart-broken! heart-broken! O, was anybody ever whipped like me? My God, do take my life!"
               When the great grief subsided, Lily went on—
               "He said he couldn't die happily unless his father would grant him another favor——"
               Emily trembled with anticipation.
               "And when his father said once more, that whatever it was it should be done, Octavius asked him to read a few verses of the New Testament every day, and pray for God's forgiveness,—'and there's another thing, father,' he said, 'tell Mrs. Hargreaves that I quite forgive her for all her unkindness, and I pray that God will forgive her, too, and that we may spend a happy eternity with Jesus.' After that, the nurse says, he was quiet for a good while, and on coming round again, he said, 'father, kiss me,' and when he had been kissed, he looked at his father and said,"—here Lily covered her eyes—"'poor Emily,' and never spoke again."
               
               
               "They have put a broken column over his grave, and under his name there was one short line— 
                     'Present with the Lord.'"
                  
               
               
               It was a bitter silence. The soul was in a region where words are not known. Prolonged and profound was the awful calm. It was broken by a stormy utterance—
               "My God!" said Emily, "I could pray thee to take vengeance on that woman, but I know dear Octy would think it wicked to do so. Lily! is there no way of bringing vengeance upon her?"
               Lily couldn't answer the question.
               "Are such people to have the best of life? Why does God permit them to torment good people? Would it be wrong to murder such a woman?—O yes, I know dear Octy would think it wrong."
               Lily shuddered at the thought of murder.
               "Many a time lately," Emily continued, "I have looked up to the sky at some beautiful cloud or luminous streak, because I thought that he would be looking at it, but never thought that he was there himself,—there, where I can never be."
               Lily bade her hope.
               "I did hope once," said Emily; "I thought God would help me to look up again, but I'm doomed now,—O, may I be saved from madness!"
               "I can hardly understand," said Lily, "what makes you so very much interested in Mr. Octavius."
               "Very likely not," Emily answered, "that is a secret which no one knows—but look at these." Emily drew from her breast the New Testament and the portrait, and told the story of her love.
               "I see now," said Lily, "what I didn't see before. When Mr. Octavius——"
               "Call him Octy, Lily," Emily said, "it is more tender."
               "When Octy said 'poor Emily,' he had a different meaning to what I expected. I thought he was partly upbraiding his father for his cruelty to you, but I see now what his meaning ing was—he was pitying you, he knew that you were expecting to see him, and that you would be disappointed, and he was wondering how you would bear the news of his death. I see. O, what do we live for? as you say, Emily."
               Emily didn't hear all this. She was once more borne away by the engulfing sorrow."
               Lily contrived to turn dexterously to Ben's case. Though Emily knew no facts, she was sure to have some opinion, and love is willing to pluck anything that may be in season. She appealed to Emily for an opinion—
               "I am withered up, Lily," was the answer, "quite shrivelled—what an end we have come to! I once thought that Ben and I would have lived a happy life, but where are we now? Here am I in a deep pit, disowned by my father, left alone, and verging towards insanity; and where's my only brother that I used to play with and sing to? From what I know of his disposition, Lily, I shouldn't be surprised if he has put an end to himself."
               "O Emily, Emily, you are too bad to think that of poor Ben;—no, no,—it may be vanity, but I do believe he has too much regard for Lily Hunter, to do anything of the sort."
               "God grant it, Lily."
               "He will grant it, Emily; it cannot be all clouds and storms, there must be a good deal of blue sky to come at; I always find that a great trouble is a preparation for a great joy. Perhaps you don't know, Emily, that Ben gave me his portrait a short time before things came out? He did, and I wouldn't part with it for the world."
               "I didn't know it," said Emily, "I should like to see it very much; but how is it possible you can love a man who has acted so badly as to be compelled to leave his country? It isn't possible to love him."
               "You amaze me and grieve me, Emily. Don't you know more of a woman's heart than to ask any such question? Not love him? Why, I don't know how it is, but his very misery makes me love him more than ever. I want to be where I can whisper to him that he is forgiven. He is wandering about somewhere without a friend to speak to, thinking ing that justice is pursuing him, dreading to look at every face, for fear it should be the face of an officer; and yet all the while there isn't a person who would hurt a hair of his head. But you don't know, Emily, how much I upbraid myself for the way in which I often treated him. I sometimes shammed dislike, and I told him never to speak to me again, and threatened to send all his letters back,—and all that kind of talk, when I was loving him most passionately all the time. I hate myself for it now, for I'm sure he'll be thinking about these things, and every unkind word will be like a dagger in his heart."
               Emily was too much engaged with her own grief either to heed or interrupt Lily's confessions and views. She came out of her fit of melancholy by saying with deepest sadness—
               "You may be happy, Lily,—I never can be happy more."
               "Why not? darling Emily; you are young."
               "But I have two graves," said Emily.
               "What do you intend to do?"
               "Cannot tell: it is very dark just now."
               "But be sure to stay here, till I come again to see you; I'll bring you all the news, and you shall see the portrait,—now promise,—say you will,—we shall help each other some day, Emily."
               "Is that cruel woman never to be punished?" Emily inquired. "Is there no law which will take hold of her? It I steal a penny, the law seizes me; but she can torment and kill people, and yet go about as a respectable woman. Lily, I cannot bear to think of it: she has been far more guilty than my poor brother, and yet he's wandering about without a place to sit down in; would it be wrong to kill her?"
               "Emily! what would Octavius say?"
               The appeal was effectual: it calmed her for a moment.
               "Lily," said she, "you spoke of coming again, and I shall always be glad to see you,—think of me as a poor lonely exile cast out upon a stormy night: but there's one thing you can do for me, will you do it?"
               "Command me to do it, Emily,—say on!"
               "It is hardly time for flowers yet, but there is grass: now I want you to go to the grave and bring me a few young green blades;—you will, won't you?"
               Lily's eyes glistened a truer assurance than she could have expressed in words.
               "Thank you—thank you," said Emily, "don't tell any one what you mean to do with them; I shall read this little book for his sake, and my lessons shall be marked by the blades which have grown on his own dear grave."
               "Yes, do that," said Lily, "nobody shall hear from me to-day's secrets: I shall often go to the grave for your sake, Emily, and if any flowers be planted I shall bring you a few—"
               "Nobody will plant flowers for him," said Emily, "and there's one thing more," she continued," I had this little lock of hair ready for him, do take it and scatter it secretly on the grave!"
               "Good bye, dearest Emily."
               "Good bye, and God bless you, kind Lily."
               Yes: "good bye;" none may tell what shall transpire before that "good bye" is changed into the loving salutation of re-union.———Re-union?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               FLIGHT.
               THE fate of Benjamin Dudgeon was unknown. There were, indeed, as there always will be, under similar circumstances, to the end of the world, persons who could tell all about him, and pepper their narrative with many exciting facts. According to village gossip, he had drowned himself in the Mere, and this view of the case was stoutly maintained by three carpenters, who, on returning from work, had noticed a good many scraps of writing paper just at that side of the Mere which was known to be the deepest: according to another version, he was still prowling about the immense forest, on the edge of which the aforementioned (haunted) hall stood,—a hall which was made awful by a most romantic and thrilling history. That history, which opened in darkness and closed in furious bloodshed, did more to guard the ruined premises than a body of armed constabulary could have done. The gossip-mongers were perfectly sure that the young robber had betaken himself to the hall for apartments, and engaged the boundless forest as a recreation-ground; and so deep a hold did this report take of several persons, that for more than a fortnight, a few of the most daring went out by two's and three's in the darkening, to capture the runaway, with the disinterested view of dividing the proceeds of the hunt. A meal of pence is not accounted a bad banquet even by the lower orders of heroism. In this case, however, the meal was so long delayed that the village adventurers were driven once more to their usual husks. While, therefore, we are still ignorant of the fate of Benjamin, we must keep an eye on the track of his unfortunate and despairing sister.
               Not very many mornings after Lily Hunter's visit, Emily was not to be found in her lodgings. She had, however, left a line or two in pencil which partly explained the course she had adopted. The lines were these—
               "My hope has vanished—I cannot remain longer in this neighborhood—I go to bury my sorrows in a great town—let my name be forgotten—I love my mother, and I forgive my enemies."
               On reading these words (words of death), Mrs. Dudgeon anxiously inquired if her friend knew anything more of Emily—whether Emily had not given some hint as to her intentions—also whether any one had called, and if Emily had gone alone or in company. Failing, as she did, to obtain any very definite information, the pitiable, heart-broken mother turned homeward saying, "I cannot stand this any longer—I am dying daily."—Immediately on reaching home, Mrs. Dudgeon determined, at all hazards, to break the subject to her stonyhearted husband—
               "My dear, are you ever going to mention your children any more? If they were dead and buried you couldn't take less notice of them than you have done."
               The question was put in this shape not without reason, for from the day on which Mrs. Hargreaves had announced the terrific tidings until the moment in which he was thus addressed, Mr. Dudgeon had not once referred to his family. His was a double-acting conscience, as he could maintain a conscientious silence quite as well as make a conscientious speech.
               "I have no children," said he, "I have forever disowned those who once, unworthily, bore my name, and any recurrence to their memory is extremely repugnant to my most sacred feelings."
               "Your heart is made of stone," the mother sobbingly said, "you'll be punished for this some day; Emily might have been saved, and might have been a comfort to us in our old age, but now she's lost forever, and I blame you entirely,—you are the occasion of my child's ruin."
               Dudgeon replied to this reproach in his usual chilling strain—
               
               "You are a weak woman, my dear,—you don't know your proper place—you know the education I have given to those whom we called our offspring, and you are perfectly well aware how you have opposed that education to the very utmost of your power; as for myself, I have uniformly walked in the light of conscience (which is the steadiest of all luminaries), and therefore I am entirely at ease, that is to say, I have no bitter reproaches, no twangs of the ethical nerve, no neuralgic pains in the sacred region of the conscience; but as for you, my dear, who ought never to have been allied with me in the pursuits of life, I must say, that I am not the least surprised, nor do I in the least regret, that your abused conscience should thus torment you."
               "Stony-hearted man!" Mrs. Dudgeon again sobbed, "there is neither sense nor reason in you; when are we to show our love for our children if not when they are in misery?"
               "Upon that subject—the subject of family-training and domestic government—your views and mine are so wide asunder as to preclude the possibility of their ever coming together: I admire, and I honor, all conscientious children, and everything in my power should have been done for them, had they remained in the paths of integrity, but having departed from those exalted ways, I must do everything to maintain my own character in the eyes of society, and therefore I have disowned the discreditable persons who once bore my name unimpeachably."
               Poor Dudgeon was scrupulously anxious to maintain his own reputation among men, though, had he but known it, all noble-hearted men would have awarded him a splendid fame had he melted at the sight of ruin and stooped to gather up the fragments of his own shattered children. Dudgeon knew nothing of him who "made himself of no reputation," that he might ransom a guilty race: Dudgeon could not invest his reputation in any such cause, he must maintain and conserve and crown it in the eyes of men.
               There the subject dropped,—dropped forever! To the day of his death, which happened not many months after, the unfeeling parent never mentioned the names of his wanderers. He was perfectly satisfied with Mr. Dudgeon, Mr. Dudgeon's views, Mr. Dudgeon's philosophy of life, and Mr. Dudgeon's scheme of family nurture. Not a single charge had he written against himself. The approach of death extorted no groan from his flinty lips; but in his last hour—let darkness cover it!—he was heard uttering sentences of which one word alone was distinctly intelligible: need we write it? There it is—a history in a word—"CONSCIENCE."
               We care not to follow such a man to the grave. He doesn't draw us by any memory of noble thought or loving deed. He was too good for such poor, weak, unrighteous creatures as tenant this sepulchre-world. He was an edition of the laws of goodness which cannot have a wide circulation on earth, and which wouldn't be admitted into heaven. Such a man does more to bring children into disgust with uprightness and purity, than can be done by all the wild maniac infidels in whose universe there is neither God nor Bible, nor Paradise, nor Hell. Every man is bound to speak well of the dead, as far as truth will carry him, but in dismissing this wretched man from this narrative, justice and charity combine in exclaiming—let his memory rot!
               With Mrs. Dudgeon the weeks wore wearily away. Disappointment had given creation a neutral tint in her eyes. To her it was nothing that the heavens were bright or sombre; her own heart was always clad with sackcloth, and through her tears all things looked alike. With Lily Hunter, too, the weeks did not speed joyously. In a farm-house there is never any scarcity of work. Her parents were entirely ignorant of the relations which subsisted between Lily and the Dudgeon family, and this circumstance, combined with the frequent recurrence of her mother's bilious days, had prevented her repeating her visit to Emily. For many days she had been planning her work, with a view to a holiday, and when she succeeded in snatching a few hours from the grasp of tyrannous labor she hastened to the exile's abode.
               "Miss Dudgeon within?" said she to the person who answered the door.
               
               "No, she is not; walk in," was the answer given, with much caution.
               As Lily stepped into the passage she asked half a dozen questions in a breath. "Not in? How long will she be? Where is she, may I ask? I thought she never went out?" and as she asked these questions, her eyes glared with a gleaming wonder which would have thrown Ben into transports,—they blazed and flashed as if they would penetrate the silent woman; but the woman, who had an excellent habit of never interrupting a speaker, calmly looked at the urgent girl, as though she defied or even courted penetration. The story was soon told. Great events may be recorded in a sentence. After listening to the simple statement of the woman—hearing it as though she heard it not—Lily asked to have a peep at the deserted room, into which she was willingly admitted.
               "Ah," said she, sitting on Emily's chair, "she sat just here when I visited her, and by the help of God she shall sit here again."
               The woman was visibly moved by Lily's heroism, but from her knowledge of the circumstances, she could not quite conceal the doubt with which she received the statement. Lily saw it, and continued:
               "You seem to doubt me, ma'am, but remember that I have used the highest of all names in my vow, and that name shall be my strength. Isn't she worth saving? Remember her beauty, her gentleness, her affection, and you will see what I mean. I'm only a poor girl, ma'am, but I feel a spirit in me that can go through anything for the sake of dear Emily. If she has killed herself, I cannot raise her from the dead, but if she is alive, my arms shall be thrown around her."
               "It is very kind of you, I'm sure," said the woman, "and I shall be very glad if you can bring the child back. I never knew anybody who gave so little trouble in a house, and when she spoke it was always so beautifully, that one was 'most frightened to speak to her again. I wish she could be brought back to my house."
               "She shall be saved, ma'am," Lily replied, and in announcing this resolution her glorious eyes shone with more than sisterly benevolence. Determined to redeem her vow without delay, she inquired a few particulars about Mrs. Dudgeon, upon whom she felt it to be necessary to call. To that lady, though she had lived in the prospect of becoming her daughter-in-law, she had never addressed a word, but heroism can always extemporize a better introduction than affectation can elaborate. The sublimity of her purpose raised her above all fear, as she tapped at the door and inquired for Mrs. Dudgeon.
               "You do not know me, ma'am, but you may have heard Emily speak of Lily Hunter?"
               "I have," said Mrs. Dudgeon, with as much liveliness as her yet bleeding wound would permit, "and do I now speak to Miss Hunter?"
               "Yes, ma'am, and as my time is very short, I may just say that I know the whole of Emily's story down to the very last circumstance (for I have just come from her lodgings), and I am resolved, with the help of God, to save our darling Emily!"
               "God bless you, my dear," said the mother, across whose saturated countenance, hope flashed a transitory ray. "Do you know where my child is? How can you save her? O Miss Hunter, let me go with you, and die with you in the attempt."
               "No, ma'am," said Lily; "I go alone, and struggle alone—no fear of dying; can you give me any clue?"
               "Only this," Mrs. Dudgeon answered, as she drew from her pocket the slip of paper which Emily had left on the table.
               Lily read the message, and begged the loan of it, as—so she said—it might somehow be of use in identifying Emily. Mrs. Dudgeon acceded to the request, on the special condition that it should be carefully preserved, and returned as a memento—melancholy enough—of her idolized though wandering Emily.
               "Mrs. Dudgeon," said Lily, as she rose to her feet, "you shall have the paper back, or something better. I don't know what it is—I cannot explain it at all—but I feel perfectly sure that many long happy days are in store for you and your children."
               "Dear Miss Hunter, do tell me how it is, that you are so much interested in my precious Emily."
               "I haven't time to explain now," said Lily, "but I am interested in her, and in Benjamin, too——"
               "Do you know anything of Benjamin?" Mrs. Dudgeon eagerly interposed, "anything at all?"
               "I know a good deal about him, ma'am, but I don't know where he is now,—still you may like to know from me (for I live at Skulford), that he is a forgiven man, and one day he will come back to bless his mother."
               Lily had Ben's portrait with her, but hesitated to produce it, lest it should tear open any healing wound in a much lacerated heart.
               "When people fall, ma'am, we should try to help them up again, and even if I had to die, as you say, in the attempt, I should still think it my duty to go out and seek the lost."
               This was the cheeriest voice Mrs. Dudgeon had heard for many a doleful month, and she encouraged her memory to linger on the welcome music. The visitor was "a strange bright bird on its starry wing" coming and trilling a sweet song in the ear of a solitary weeper. And whence did the feathered songster come? From what land of light and gladness? Who painted its glittering wing? Who taught it such music of quenchless hope? Aye! who? We talk of multiplied sorrows, of chilling disappointments, of weary hearts, but cannot the pitying One, who hears the fall of every human tear, open the jasper-door, and from the world of bliss send some bright minstrel to cheer us with the lays of heaven?
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               SEEKING THE LOST ONE.
               A NOBLE woman, with a noble purpose in her soul, was the young bright-eyed Lily. Those eyes which struck wonder into every beholder, and might have shone without a rival in many a splendid scene, were now eagerly looking for the foot-traces of the wanderer that she might place her own willing feet in them, and pursue the lost one. Many an exploit dates its inspiration from the familiar proverb about the will and the way. In this case, the will was a determined engineer that couldn't be deterred by mountains, or rivers, or chasms, and that is precisely the engineer that can make a highway for the traffic of labor, or the traffic of love. Conditions being within the region of possibility, will is the sure conqueror. The initial stages of her loving work seemed to shape themselves most charmingly. Necessity is the mother of more than one daughter; her eldest-born is invention; but she has a contemplative and hoarding child whose name is recollection. Lily's wits were roaming over her antecedents, and among them she found Polis, and in Polis, a faithful old school-fellow who had often invited her to spend a month in that great capital of industry. The recollection of this happy circumstance made Lily reason, that Providence interposed in the minutest affairs, and that its solemn name had not been invoked in vain. The practical testing of her idea confirmed her in the conviction, that in seeking the reclamation of a fellow-creature, she was nothing less than a co-worker with God. How otherwise, she argued, could mountainous difficulties so completely vanish? How otherwise could the obstructions so utterly pass away, if He did not touch them with his finger, and make them ascend as incense before his throne? Conspiring thus with God, she became as it were omnipotent. The great occasion awoke the heroism of her soul. The little fragile woman expanded into magnificence by the power of a sublime idea. The heartiest of invitations came from Polis. Lily was to strike the iron while it was hot, so the loving letter said, and hasten to the revival of a prized intimacy. Girls can soon put themselves into a state of health which renders a change of air and scene indispensable to recovery: how they manage it is as dark a secret as an Eleusinian mystery, but they do manage it, and our immediate business is with fact rather than speculation.
               Nearly a week elapsed before Lily could disclose to Harriet Pearce the deepest wish of her heart—the true secret of her visit to Polis. All the time, however, she had displayed extraordinary interest in walking up and down the streets, protesting that the longest journeys in the city didn't fatigue her in the least degree. She was apparently intent on circumventing the whole of Polis: no street was too narrow, no lane too long—all must be seen, that she might take back to her village, or rather solitary home, a correct idea of all the improvements. While at school, she hadn't much opportunity of studying the topography of Polis, teachers being naturally anxious that scholars should know more about the nameless islands of the great ocean waste than about places in their own country, so that really a walk about Polis was nearly as great a rarity as though she had never seen its gigantic warehouses, its tower-of-Babel chimneys, and its over-crowded streets. Lily didn't walk with closed eyes through the busy scene. All her peregrinations were made subservient to her redeeming mission. Every poor woman was thoroughly scanned. All the sad faces were translated. The wealthy and the gay swept on unheeded; the eye was looking for poverty and destitution and shame. But the week was fast hastening without any progress being made, and Lily was becoming impatient. She must speak shortly, or her hidden grief would overmatch her resolution to be calm. Lily had expressed her wish to see Polis by gas-light. There was no gas at Skulford, and she did so like to see the blazing shop-windows. Ah! cunning love!
               "What a many finely-dressed women do walk in this street of an evening," said she, "I should think we have passed twenty within the last half hour."
               "And don't you know what they are?" Harriet inquired.
               "How should I, Harriet?" You know we are very plain at Skulford."
               "Of course," said Harriet, "coming from a country-place like Skulford, you cannot know the goings-on of a great town: these finely-dressed women are all what is called 'unfortunate;' I have heard that there are at least two thousand of them in Polis; my father knows a great deal about them, as he is the treasurer of an institution established for their benefit."
               This was very good. "Providence again," Lily said to herself as Harriet was going on, and when she had finished, Lily exclaimed:
               "Two thousand! What a number. Now, if you wanted to find one in particular, it would be almost impossible."
               "O yes, that would be quite out of the question," and then suddenly recollecting herself, "but I don't know either, for you see they are divided into classes, and there are certain neighborhoods where they reside; now in this street you have nothing but the height of fashion—all silks and satins and feathers you see—and then in other parts of the town they get poorer and poorer."
               Lily thirstly drank in the information; it was precisely what she needed: every word was a light. The moment of disclosure had come. Lily clung to the arm of her companion, and whispered with thrilling earnestness—
               "Harriet, can you keep a secret?"
               Harriet returned the affectionate pressure, and said—"I should think you know enough of me not to need any answer. What secret are you up to? Wedding?"
               "Not exactly," said Lily, "but the fact is, I have a particular friend who has been unfortunate; I needn't trouble you with a long history, but I may just say that she is well-educated and highly accomplished—a most charming girl—you would love her; she has gone through a world of trouble, and at last she quite broke down: she ran away some weeks since, and I have reason to suspect that she is in Polis. I do love her, and would give anything to save her,—now what must we do?"
               Harriet's benevolence was always ready to take fire. The spark fell upon it, and was answered by a blaze.
               "Poor thing," said Harriet," "ah! it will be very difficult to manage, but I shall do everything in my power: is she likely to be among the rich or the poor?"
               "Has nothing," said Lily.
               "Has nothing," Harriet repeated musingly, O—then we must change our quarters: there is too much finery here. I have heard my father talk a good deal about these matters, so that I have some idea of the best plan of proceeding. But how would it be to put our Robert into the secret, and get him to keep us company? You know he would be a kind of protection to us in the low neighborhood, and if we saw any one like your friend, he could go up and ask her. What do you think of that?"
               "That will hardly do, I think," Lily said, with kindly deliberateness, lest Harriet should deem her ungenerous, and self-conceited, "but still I leave it to you; wouldn't it be putting your brother into harm's way? What age is he?"
               "O, he's twenty-two," said Harriet, "and he looks even more, doesn't he? I'm sure he might pass for five and twenty."
               "Well," said Lily, "I still think it would not be proper; I think we should only be putting him into the way of temptation: we had better go about this affair ourselves, quite secretly; and if you have no objection, I should like to begin to-morrow night."
               This arrangement was at once endorsed by Harriet, who secretly felt a tender attachment to Lily, from the manner in which she sought to preserve Robert from the possibility of contamination. The circumstance greatly heightened her estimate of Lily's judgment and honor, and led her into fuller sympathy with Lily's unselfish design. Like produces like. Love is love's progeny. That night, Lily's sleep was broken by dreams of Emily's misery, and the contingencies of the mission for her restoration; and Harriet's sleep, too was invaded vaded by new visions, for she dreamed of strolling on dreary paths frequented by the fiercest beasts, of approaching the brink of precipices, and stealthily skirting the base of burning mountains. Returning day dispelled the spectres, and brought them to the serious determination of their course. All day long there was but one theme. Conflicting plans were discussed with varying interest, and Harriet owned to a strange yearning for the time of adventure to arrive. She had many a question to ask about Emily. What was her appearance? What would she be likely to wear? What her age, stature, and bulk? What, above all, was the sad secret of her ruin? All was told with more than sisterly delicacy. Not a line of excellence that wasn't vividly displayed in the picture. Not one noble or endearing trait was omitted by the skilful artist. So impressive, so captivating, nay so entrancing was the delineation that Harriet's susceptible nature was completely carried away, and she declared herself an enthusiastic coadjutor in the errand of mercy. Robert, however, still haunted her idea of safety and success. It was a pardonable weakness. Robert was her only brother, and looked upon in the family as a most marvellous young man. There was no end to Robert's excellences. The gentle sisters deemed his robustness and courage and chivalry, as infinitely beyond all parallel, and knew no keener pleasure, than in rehearsing his words of wisdom and his deeds of prowess. One took special care of his hat, another kept vigil over his coat, and a third reigned in the dominion of his slippers and walking-stick: Robert was a parliamentary institution in himself,—his voice quashed every contention, and his vote decided the fate of every domestic bill. This will partly account for Harriet's introduction of his name. The sisterly imagination could make any thing of Robert: if they wanted him to figure as a man on any set occasion, they assured him that he looked at least ten years older than he really was,—if they wished him to join a juvenile party, the hat-keeper pledged her word that a younger-looking face wouldn't put up its appearance: if he wished he had been fair in complexion, they agreed that he wasn't so dark as many of the young men of their acquaintance, and if in a sudden freak he pronounced a dark complexion more manly than a fair one, they were unanimously of opinion that his claims to manhood would be ceded in any court. Such was "our Robert,"—a title which comprehended Pope, Emperor, and King. This time, however, Lily's will predominated, and Robert was left at home. Not a word had been mentioned to either father or mother. The girls were the faithful custodians of their own secret, and trusted that the strength which enabled them to be silent would also cause them to succeed. After a purposely early tea, (Harriet's headache requiring an alteration of tea-time), just as evening was gathering her faintest shadows, and calling into view her favorite star, the two good-hearted sisters of mercy went forth on their holy errand. Hardly had they crossed the threshold when Lily began her work. Every woman was an object of special attention, but in all the stream they failed to note any one, who apparently belonged to a class sufficiently low in circumstances to comprehend so poor an outcast as Emily Dudgeon. They wandered yet in a place where vice could afford to trick itself out in gaudy colors,—a place so gleamingly bright, that Lily could not imagine her timid Emily frequenting it, even in her most daring and desperate moods. She knew how truly modest was the wrecked heart, but knew not how modesty may be emboldened and brazened by body-and-soul devouring want.
               "I'm afraid," said she, "we're on the wrong track,—there's too much fashion here for my unfortunate friend; we must get away to a lower kind of street."
               "Then let us go down some of these narrow ones," Harriet suggested, "but I hardly like it, for there are so many curious characters about; now I thought Robert would have been useful in these dark streets——"
               "Robert is better at home," said Lily.
               "I only mean as a sort of protection," Harriet rejoined, "if there was a man with us, we shouldn't be so likely to be spoken to by any of the ruffians."
               "Let us trust," said the lion-hearted Lily. "We know we are right ourselves, and we know that we are on a good errand rand, and surely no one will harm us. O see!" she continued in a lower tone, "look into that door! what a number of women altogether! We must have a peep in here. I shall try to look at them one by one."
               The scene to which Harriet's attention was thus called, was horrifying enough. In a miserable little room, out of which the hot air was issuing as if it had been from an oven, there were at least seven women—mostly young—and three or four low, savage-looking men. Several of the party were smoking, some drinking, and others singing, as they were preparing themselves to go out. Lily was proceeding with her scrutiny, when one of the men came to the door and addressed them in language to which they never had listened before, yet evidently far from the foulest language, which the ruffian-speaker could have employed. He attempted, indeed, to charm them with a stroke of humor, but the humor of perdition is too fiery and debased to produce other than a horrifying effect upon such hearts as then heard it. The tones which struck terror into Harriet, only gave increased impulse and determination to Lily's courage, as she steadily and piercingly (to Harriet's great dismay) inquired whether any of the women answered to the name of Emily.
               "Aye, sure enough," said the man, "Emily's a favorite name in this cabin. We ha' all kinds o' names in here, and all countries, too; come in, and pick and choose"—with these words the villainous-looking man stretched out his hand, as if to pull them in, but Harriet sprang backwards through sheer terror, and Lily followed her, though determined to work her way round once more to that awful pit. Her plan was to accompany Harriet to one of the principal thoroughfares, and leave her there while she returned. Lily would have gone in, and was now resolved to go in, feeling that the rescue of her loved one was an object worthy of any sacrifice.
               "Somehow," said Lily, when the next street was safely reached, "I feel that Emily is in that house. There was one who had hair just the color of hers—a beautiful yellowish brown—but she never looked up, she kept her head close down, as if she was either sleeping or thinking."
               
               "But weren't you frightened? my heart is jumping still."
               "No, Harriet, I cannot say I was much frightened, except perhaps for a moment, when I thought he was going to pull me in; I'm sure if he had asked me to go, I should have gone at once. The fact is, I love the dear creature so much, that I could rush in anywhere to save her. I must have another look into that horrible den."
               "But don't go back at present," said Harriet, "by-and-bye the men may go out. Let us try two or three more streets, you know we may wander about for weeks without seeing her, or we might meet her in the face any moment."
               Lily assented to the proposal, but added, "don't forget where that house is—I know it was in Henry street, and about a dozen doors on the left hand side as you go down from that wide street—what is the name of it?—Grey street."
               For a considerable time, they wandered on, peering into the eyes of every poor woman they met, without seeing any one who corresponded with the description that Lily had given of her friend. "O dear," said she, "I cannot imagine how my darling Emily could exist, even for one day, in such places as we have seen,—what a change must have come over her! She was brought up in gentility, and all her life long she has had every comfort and almost every luxury, and she certainly is one of the most accomplished girls you can imagine. We had no one to compare with her, when I came here to school, and yet she is as simple and unassuming in her manners, as a child can be."
               "But are you sure," Harriet suggested, "that she has come to Polis? Perhaps she has gone to some other large town."
               "No," Lily persisted, "I'm confident that she hasn't gone to any other place. Do you see that group?" she continued, subduing her voice, as though the group could hear her, "let us go near and watch these women; we may, as you say, meet her any moment,—I hope she's there."
               In carrying out this proposal, they placed themselves so as to see every face as the gas-light fell upon it. The faces were young, yet vice had wrought a rind upon them which gave them an age other than time had bestowed. The eyes were eager and bright, but not with intelligence. Their tongues were fluent, but no word of virtue sparkled in the stream. Lily made a careful inspection of every one of them, lest iniquity should have veiled or disguised the beauty which she associated with the name of Emily. She mused for a moment or two on the mangled and bleeding histories which the little group might possibly represent. In distant villages, the murderers of character were disporting themselves in refined and affluent society, and broken-hearted parents dragging out lives of wretchedness. At Skulford, in particular, she saw a wealthy man, surrounded by all that money can procure, enjoying himself, as she thought, while his victim was crushed into a most galling and damning serfdom. The reflection set her soul a-fire, and stung her courage to desperation. She rehearsed her vow in the face of the watching stars, and urged her trembling companion to be strong.
               "Let us go back to Henry street—if you won't go with me, I shall go alone—I shall not sleep until I have seen the woman who was sitting in the corner,—it might be Emily."
               Lily's courage was contagious. Harriet became re-assured. They both said "God help us," and then turned towards their destination.
               "I think," said Lily, "there are more people walking on the other side than on this, let us go over."
               They had not gone far on the other side when Harriet again expressed a wish that Robert had been with them—"just for protection," she urged.
               "But perhaps he would have been more frightened than we are," Lily hinted.
               "O no, not he," Harriet replied, "he is the most courageous young man I ever heard of; not long since, he saved a young friend from drowning, and only the other day he snatched a little child from before a mad horse that had escaped from the driver; he wouldn't have been frightened."
               "That is true, no doubt," said Lily, "but fear isn't regulated by written rules, and courage cannot always be proved by examples: I have known men who were good at swimming and that kind of thing, who would quake if a woman spoke to them in a dark lane;—I don't mean to say that Robert is a coward—nothing of the kind—but I do mean to say I'm glad he's not with us now. I have put my hand into the hand of the Great God, and I feel perfectly safe."
               In this manner they chatted as they hastened back to Henry street, but suddenly Lily exclaimed in a loud whisper—
               "O God!"
               "What's the matter, Lily? Do you see her? Show me!"
               "I do believe that's Emily—that is just like her shawl—don't you see who I mean—she's talking to that young man near the lamp-post—I wish she'd turn to the light—O how I'm trembling—I'm frightened now!" Joy and doubt struggled in her soul, and when these wrestlers meet there must be great mental agitation.
               "Shall I go and see what she's like?" Harriet instantly inquired, "I can go very well in a wide street like this."
               "Yes, do go, Harriet: O, I'm sure it is Emily—I shall keep my eye upon you both—run."
               Harriet ran, and Lily quickly followed. The messenger soon returned with her report—
               "She has a nice face, I think, but I cannot quite see the features where she is standing,—her nose appears to be rather straight and pointed:" here Harriet paused and evinced great distress, for which she had not accounted.
               "Why do you shake so, Harriet?"
               "O Lily, I have got such a fright," said she, "I cannot quite see the young man, but from what I can see of him, he is so very like our Robert,—but it cannot be possible, can it?"
               "Not at all," said Lily, "all young men are much alike in such a light as this,—think no more about it,—now watch them,—watch the woman,—she has a nice face: but, O dear, they are going away, and we shall lose sight of them—O come, come,—yes, it is Emily, I know her walk—do give me your arm, Harriet, or I shall drop—"and so saying, she leaned heavily on Harriet's arm—and shortly after, said "we must follow."
               Poor Harriet kept her eye on the young man, who more and more shaped himself into the image of her idol Robert, but when she saw the cigar-smoke float over his shoulder, she became calmer, as she knew that she had never seen Robert smoking. Harriet and Lily were about to follow, when the young woman suddenly wheeled round, and left the man with whom she had been conversing. Now all doubt was dispelled! Right in front of the two weary wanderers stood the hopeless, abused, yet now defiant Emily. Lily could not be mistaken in such a case. Her eye carried too faithfully the image of her sister to allow the possibility of mistaken identity.
               "What shall we do?" said Harriet, "we mustn't lose time; she'll be getting into company again."
               There was no fear of Lily losing time. She was deeply considering the safest means of effecting a disclosure. It was difficult to graduate such a matter. At best it was but a choice of violences.
               "Do please go, and ask her to read this," said Lily, handing Harriet the brief note which she had received from Mrs. Dudgeon.
               With much trembling, Harriet proceeded to fulfill what to her was a most terrible task. How could she tell what effect the reading of that paper would produce on the unhappy woman? A sudden reaction of feeling might bring about serious consequences. Only love could have conquered prudence. Harriet did her part with admirable tact, as she said, with a pleasing tenderness of manner—
               "Will you be good enough to read this, for me?"
               Emily took the paper to a shop-window and having glanced at it, turned a piercing look on the unknown face, and with deep agitation demanded, "Who are you? How did you come by this? I never saw you before—how is it?"
               "I am your friend," said Harriet, "though you don't know me; and I feel very deeply for you in your misery."
               "Misery," said Emily, "what misery?" What do you know about me? I am not begging."
               "Perhaps I needn't say more at present," Harriet replied, "than that I know Lily Hunter."
               
               That name, never forgotten, often blessed, clave the wanderer's heart, and she involuntarily sought Harriet's arm for support. At this juncture, while Emily's head was yet bowed in sorrow and humiliation, Lily—who had been gradually drawing nearer and nearer—laid her hand on the stooping form, and with thrilling emphasis said, "My Emily!" The lamp-light now fell full on Lily's face, and revealed the well-known eyes as they gleamed with the gladness of triumphant benevolence. The ensuing scene would have dissolved the stoniest heart—the fondest embraces—the passionate kisses, on the part of Lily, as though she would kiss every stain away—the tears rolling down three faces—the sobs now suppressed, and anon overbusting control, and becoming a howl of agony—these things are seven-sealed mysteries to persons whose lives have never been ripped up by the swords of great griefs. Emily was now a prisoner of love, yet every moment, Lily was afraid that she might snap her gentle bonds and hasten back to the liberty of licentiousness. Harriet took one arm and Lily the other, and between them, Emily walked without knowing the purpose of the delivering angels. Emily's heart soon turned to her now favorite subject:
               "Has anything been heard of Ben?" she inquired.
               "No dear, not a word," Lily whispered; "but my present concern is with you; Ben will be all right by-and-bye; you know how bright my hope is, so I'm determined not to leave you until you are saved."
               "My chain, darling Lily, is indeed too heavy for me, but it can never be broken. I'm bound now for life."
               "'Bound for life'? What do you mean? I tell you, my precious Emily, your chain shall be broken, even if my life be sacrificed in the attempt. Had I known that you intended doing as you have done, I should not have left you that night, but now, whatever the consequence be, I shall not lose sight of you—you and I are one for life."
               "Just the same as ever, you are, Lily; but you don't know the thickness of my prison door; it is quite impossible for me ever to get through."
               "But you are through," said Lily; "you are now right under God's heaven; you are free from every tormentor, and your head shall never go under the prison door again."
               "Ah, Lily, you don't know my meaning; the door I'm speaking of isn't made of wood or iron, I am at this moment quite free in that sense, it is a door of burning shame, Lily, and through such a door I'm sure a poor creature can never get. I've tried and tried, again and again, and I've been forced back."
               "I know, I know," said Lily, "but at all events, you must never go back to the den you've been living in; we must manage somehow. I think I know a plan by which we can get round a little, and then we can commence some way of getting a livelihood; you know, poor Ben gave me a great deal of jewellery, and I have brought it all with me, so if we sold that, it would give us something to begin with, and if you were to keep a school, I could manage the housekeeping, and when Ben comes back, he will be a good man, and we shall all be happy together—don't you see?"
               "I see what you mean, Lily," said Emily; "but you don't know the difficulties, and no more did I when I lived at Skulford. I did really think that by coming here, I should have found Ben, and that is the reason why I came. The first few weeks after I arrived, I tried to get needlework, but couldn't get as much as would let me have a morsel of bread in the day, and after that I tried to get something by singing in the streets"—(the child broke down in her narrative, and they all shared her emotion)—"I have actually walked up and down these streets until my feet have bled, and then I have had to curl myself up under an arch, because I couldn't pay for a bed. Many a time I haven't tasted food for forty hours together, so at last I just gave myself up to ruin. O Lily! what a thing one wrong step may be. I never thought it would have come to this. Nobody knows what a hard life I have had."
               "You make me very sad, Emily," Lily said, with gushing tenderness, "but all you have told me only increases my determination to save you. I never thought either that it would have come to this, but there is hope even yet."
               
               While Lily was saying this, the party came up to an eating-house, and she persisted in taking Emily to have some refreshment. A poor street wanderer is always hungry, surely, yet Emily replied:
               "I cannot eat; my heart is too full."
               And her clothing, too, was such as she would have gladly kept out of view. She had on the old Skulford shawl—now not fit to be seen in daylight—but under it were garments which had passed through any but a prosperous course in life.
               "You must eat, child, you shall eat," Lily urged.
               Harriet had not spoken a word during the half-whispered intercourse, but, by an affectionate pressure of Emily's arm, had testified that her heart was in sympathy with the sad occasion. Her thoughts, too, couldn't but revert to the figure of the young man to whom Emily was speaking, though the cloud of smoke had done not a little to disarm her sisterly apprehensions. When they were seated in a private room, Emily ventured to ask who Harriet was, as she felt a constraint in talking before strangers.
               "This is Miss Pearce," said Lily, "Harriet Pearce, a very dear old school-fellow of mine. I am visiting her for a short time, and I love her so much that you needn't be afraid of saying anything before her,—she is much interested in you."
               "Oh! yes," Harriet immediately chimed in, "I am very much, and I shall be very glad to do anything for you;" Emily's hand was near, and Harriet pressed it with much warmth.
               "Thank you, thank you, you are too kind;" and then after a grateful and loving look at Lily, Emily said: "O Lily! who could have thought of this?"
               When Emily came where she could be thoroughly seen, it was easy to mark the havoc which multiplied sorrows had wrought in her entire aspect. How different from the Emily Dudgeon of other years—the young lady of many accomplishments, who had fascinated all by her simplicity, and soothed many by her gentleness! Her eyes told the history of her heart better than she could convey it in the most chosen words. Her sorrow-worn face witnessed to the hardships she had endured, and in its deep shadows gave evidence enough that it was many a day since the sunlight of joy played upon her attractive features. A premature old age shaded her brow, and a pitiful superannuation made her once soft and beautiful hand tremble as if with some dire disease. Poor child of sorrow! the fountain of her unexhausted grief was re-opened by the association so suddenly renewed, and throughout the interview, she was choking with an emotion too strong to be concealed. It was with difficulty that she could persuade herself that she was in the presence of Lily Hunter. Again and again she went to her, and with affectionate embraces exclaimed: "Is it you, dear Lily? This cannot be a dream!" and then patting Lily's head with childlike gentleness, she continued: "Yes, it is Lily! O my saviour!—no, no—I cannot be saved—I'm in the pit—there is no light for me—poor me!" She could hardly be said to eat. For a time she would stare as if her eye had alighted on an object invisible to all but herself—then she would literally tear the food, and in a moment more the pent stream overcame its boundaries. It was not a time for conversation. Emily's was too profound and stern a grief to be talked at, or to be talked away. It was one of the bursting sorrows which delight in silence, and her wise friends, knowing this, acted accordingly. Precious are those comforters who heal us with silence. Many words are but teeth of iron thrust into the quivering heart, but sympathetic silence is a most heavenly medicine. Gentle Harriet wanted to be doing something for Emily. One knows what it is for practical affection to be interrogating itself as to the best method of attaining a determined object, and to be quietly discussing and arranging the intervening difficulties. It was so with Harriet Pearce, as she sat, a stranger, yet a friend, in that city eating-house, on the most memorable night in her calm history. Her practical understanding and susceptible heart were too harmonious in their working, to permit her to indulge in any senseless demonstration of anxiety, yet every faculty was secretly engaged in planning the restoration of a fallen sister.
               
               "Nay, my dear," said Lily, after long waiting, "I must see you into decent lodgings to-night."
               "No decent person would take me in," Emily answered, and she shook her rags in proof of the opinion.
               "I can easily manage that," said Lily; "I have money enough with me to buy two or three articles, and I can spare some of the clothes I have on very well, for I feel that I am wearing too much to be comfortable,—so, you see, we'll arrange nicely."
               These words were said with that noble cheerfulness which multiplies the value of the simplest offering. Harriet, too, declared that she could part with two or three garments "without ever missing them," in fact, she had, she said, quite mistaken the temperature of the night, and put on unnecessary covering.
               "But I must go back to my 'den,' as you call it, first," said Emily; "and if you wouldn't mind going with me, you'll see what poor friendless women are sometimes driven to; but perhaps it will be too much for you."
               Lily Hunter was too much in earnest to permit her to think of quitting hold of Emily.
               "I'll go," said she; "we don't know what may happen if you go alone."
               "Will you venture, Miss Pearce?" Emily asked.
               "Oh! certainly; it will be your last visit, I'm sure," Harriet answered, with joyfulness of tone.
               Through many a dark, narrow street the party walked, until they came to a low, repulsive-looking archway, through which Emily familiarly glided, telling her followers not to heed anything they might see or hear. After climbing three flights of most ricketty stairs, without one ray of light, they passed into a room, or rather den, which was the picture of desolateness. Neither chair nor stool could be seen in the miserable apartment. On one side of the fireplace there was a large well-worn stone, and on the other a block of very hard wood. In the corner there was an article used as a bedstead, with the poorest and scantiest covering, while on various parts of the wall were marks which had been made by fastening ing candles upon a nail, instead of using a candlestick. The window, which was in a most dilapidated condition, didn't contain more than four panes, and the fireplace—if such it could be called—was completely filled with ashes. There was no sign of plate or dish—no trace of bread or water. At the time, a sharp shower rattled against the shattered window, and the two ladies shivered with a cold and stiffening terror.
               "Once I had a better place than this," said Emily, as she turned round and addressed Harriet, "I wasn't always here," and a withering smile wrinkled her haggard face. "You mustn't be afraid of me, Miss Pearce," she continued, "I am as gentle as you are, but my present circumstances have given me a wild look, I dare say. Lily knows my heart—don't you, Lily?"
               Neither of them had time to reply before heavy footsteps were heard on the creaking stairs.
               "Good God!" said Emily, "this is unfortunate—be firm, Lily—don't tremble—these men robbed a man last night!"
               The sentence was just finished as two most ruffian-looking men entered the apartment, and simultaneously held up their hands in token of amazement.
               "Holloo!" cried the elder of the debased creatures, "it's an ill wind that blows nobody good—these are two pritty'uns, where did you pick 'em up, Dudgeon?"
               "I guess," said the younger, "there's a few pots o' rum in that little un's mantle," and he looked straight at Lily.
               "Now, Jones," said Emily, coloring deeply, "let's have no nonsense here; these good ladies have business in this house, and business that you little think—so be quiet."
               "Aye, Dudgeon," he mockingly answered, "the business is right enough,—we'll hear about the business by-and-bye; off wi' the mantle, little 'un, and I'll soon be back wi' summat as'll do us good."
               Lily glared at the scoundrel as he had never seen human eyes glare before, and was as firm as a rock. Circumstances evoke heroism.
               "Fiercish about the eyes," he said to his companion, who was closing the door, "but that'll be all right by-and-by; now woman come, let's ha' the mantle, or I'll take the job into my own hands."
               "Jones!" Emily exclaimed.
               The elder man said, "In my 'pinion this is about the best day's work us ha' done for many a month; so Jones, if you'll fettle the one mantle, I'll fettle the other, and then the good women will find theirsel's cooler."
               They were about to carry this proposal into effect when Lily fixed her eyes upon them both, and said with a most cutting voice—
               "You didn't expect to find us here, did you?"
               "No littley," said the elder, "that's about true, and we shouldn't ha' come in, if it hadn't been for this sharp rain, and that makes me say it's an ill wind that don't blow no good,—but we're glad to see you, and we must ha' a drink togither: come, come, no more tongue, off with the mantle, and save us the bother of taking it."
               "Very well," said Lily, greatly to the wonder of her companions, one of whom (Harriet) was fast losing all color from her cheeks, "you shall have the mantle, but we must have a word about the business—"
               "Drink first," the elder interrupted.
               "No, business first," Lily continued, "you don't know who we are, or you wouldn't be in this house a minute longer—I have allowed you to talk only that I might have clear evidence as to your identity—let me tell you, in the presence of this poor woman, that we are quite aware of the business you had in hand last night, and"—drawing herself up into an erect and firm attitude—"we are only two disguised detectives, and you mustn't leave this room until our comrades arrive,"—Lily here took out a whistle, and blew it till the sound was heard through the entire building.
               Never was stratagem more successful. The words smote the villains like hot bullets, and they, made cowardly by their guilt—for guilt and cowardice are for ever associated—fell back from the presence of the noble woman, whose statement derived immense credibility from the accompaniment of the whistle, and making a combined rush at the door, were facing the "ill wind" in much less than a minute.
               "O Lily, Lily," exclaimed Emily, "God must have put that idea into your mind—feel how I am trembling, and I'm all in a perspiration—they would have cared no more to strip off everything you have on, than to look at you,—you have no idea what I've suffered from these fiends."
               "O, Miss Dudgeon," said Harriet, "however have you lived in such a place?"
               "Ah, Miss Pearce," said Emily, with bitter emphasis, "Miss Dudgeon hasn't lived here—only poor Emily has lived here, or Dudgeon, as these demons call me."
               "O," said Harriet, "the perspiration is raining off me,—have you any water, Emily?"
               "No, miss; there isn't a drop here,—I'm very sorry—we can get some down stairs—there's a pump in the passage."
               "Come," said Lily, who had earned a right to speak as a commander, "let us get out of this awful den,—I'm off!"
               The descent, though dangerous, was soon effected, and when they found themselves in the first broad street, the whole three drew a deep, long, grateful breath: they felt as captives may feel when first inhaling the air of liberty.
               "I feel it more, now," said Lily, "I felt quite calm and strong in the room, but now I'm all perspiring and shaking."
               Emily put her arm around Lily, spoke tenderly to her, and loaded her with thanks for the noble efforts, she was making to rescue a sunken sister. "This will make you ill, my love," she said, "you are not used to such work as this,—I am so sorry for you, but God helped you wonderfully."
               "Our time to-night is getting very short," Lily answered, when the shivering abated a little, "so we must use our quickest foot."
               "What must we do about lodgings?" Harriet inquired, "I doubt it would hardly do to go to our house to-night,—would it, Lily?"
               Lily saw many objections to introducing a stranger—such a stranger—to Mr. and Mrs. Pearce at that time, and therefore at once acquiesced in Harriet's views.
               
               "O no, that wouldn't do at all," she said, "we must go to an eating-house, but first of all, let us run into this draper's shop, and see what we can get."
               Three or four useful articles were soon purchased, and on obtaining permission to use a private room for a few minutes, Lily transferred to Emily some of her own garments. This service of love over, the three turned out once more into the storm in quest of a coffee-house which they soon found. Having made arrangements for Emily's accommodation for the night, and given their assurance that they would call for her by ten o'clock on the following morning, they left a sisterly benediction and pursued their journey home. She, who thus made a business of benefitting a fellow creature, had sweet experience of the visions which enchant and bless the slumber of philanthropy, and had, too, the imperishable blessing of a commending conscience. This divine charity is ever compensative. It rises from the heart as the dew rises in response to the sunbeam, and returns in vernal showers keeping the heart in perpetual freshness and encouraging the growth of still richer products. The painted or lacquered benevolence of a hollow age has no wings with which to cleave the heavens, and on which to bring back some memorial of a smiling God: It is born in the dust, and in the dust must writhe out its unhappy existence,—an existence of mimicry and simulation and fraud. Noble Lily, one among a thousand! Her love was the secret of her enthusiasm; it was at once an all-consuming fire, devouring all selfish considerations as stubble, and a shield from which every arrow fell pointless at her feet. Divinely charitable actions cannot be done to order. Streams are tongues which tell of fountains: the fountains themselves are in some far-off hills where foot of man is scarcely ever seen, but the streams purl their way into the valleys, and sing the purity and fullness of their unseen head. So is the invisible heart the spring of all noble service, and its measure ever determines the volume and velocity of the river of life. Benevolence is not a solitary act done in the spasms of momentary excitement,—it is the habit of the soul. It is as impossible for a benevolent heart to give birth to but one act of charity, as it is for the spring to come down from heaven with only one flower in its hand. Who ever caught May skipping joyously across the meads with a single buttercup or daisy? The artificial florist, indeed, may exhibit a single production, and the delicacy of taste and manipulation may excite our admiring wonder; but spring—nature's florist—opens her warm breast, and out of it a million beauties work their silent way,—she lifts up her head, and her chaplet is many-tinted as the rainbow. And so is it with all such acts as Lily Hunter performed. The hypocrite, always in pursuit of unavowed objects, may mimic the graces of benevolence, and live on an undeserved reputation, but only he, into whose heart the solar fire of heavenly charity has penetrated, will be covered with a seamless robe of perfect consistency, and crowned with a coronal luxuriant and odorous as the summer's diadem.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               THE UNFORGIVING WIFE.
               THE mention of spring recalls a fact necessary to the completeness of the narrative,—a circumstance which transpired in the yet dawning year. Skulford always presented features of commanding attraction, but specially in spring, did it revel in simple and alluring charms. Isn't it so, that certain localities seem to have appropriated certain seasons, as if for their own particular enjoyment? Certain it is, however, that Skulford made a favorite of spring, and always looked merriest when that angel-guest tarried on her hills and smiled on her gentle dales. On every hedge might have been seen countless young eyes just awakened by the sun, peeping very timidly, as if the light were too strong: there was a stir, too, in the flower-bed, for the crocuses—heralds of their noble queen—the summer—were presenting themselves as an offering of hope and promise, so eager that they put themselves in the very footprints of winter, and almost provoked that enemy of flowers to return and chastise their impatience. A very pleasant voice (heard only by the ears of the thoughtful) is the voice of early flowers. It tells of vanquished death,—it proclaims the time of liberty to forces which have been held in long bondage, and in its dying cadences, tells of the coming generation of abounding beauties. These early flowers look up at the naked trees and utter prophetic words; they glance, as it were, loyally at the sun, and tell him that their world is still swayed by his sceptre of light. The birds were rehearsing their music, as if preparing to greet the predicted queen with songs of special welcome. The sturdiest old tree felt a shaking at his heart, which plainly told him that he must weave his robe quickly, or be expelled from the forest for want of a wedding garment. Countless invisible agents were at work. No flying shuttle could be seen—no roar of machinery could be heard—yet everybody knew that the busy young spring was engaged in fabricating the many-colored robe, which was to be flung on the shoulders of the hills, and flow down to the depths of the valleys. Every moment was a birth-time. Every morning, men looked at the bushes and flower-trees, to mark what work had been done by yesterday,—a workman dismissed forever. It was a time when the guilty man was unable to give any account of himself: he felt worse, and looked worse than in the time of wintry darkness and wintry storm. Every tender leaf rebuked him with memories of wrecked youthhood: every thrilling note smote his dumb heart: every sunbeam was a rod of vengeance. The man of guilt felt himself out of place. No one seemed to know him. Creation was silently protesting against him. He alone was inactive. All nature was hastening to present an offering to a veiled, but living and present king, while he stood there unfruitful as stone, unresponsive as death. Beauty, beauty, beauty, was arriving from heaven on every sunbeam,—still it came profusely, as if from an inexhaustible source,—the earth was being arrayed by angels. And how could sorrow come across so flowery a path to assail the human heart? Has she a subterranean passage along which she comes without disturbing the witnesses of Eden? Surely grief would flee from the presence of beauty, and groaning would hold its breath to listen to the songs of gladness. Can they co-exist in the same earth? Can they roam the same orb without jostling? Skulford never looked more charming than in this spring-time. The scenery might be described as magnificent. Denton Forest stretched away into the far distance, like an immense assemblage of giants, and a broad river bathed its feet all the year round. Through the foliage of many an ancient tree the grey tower of the venerable church might be seen, investing the immediate locality with a sacredness which deepened, when thought of in connection with the many dead who awaited their spring-hour in the adjoining burial-yard. Not far from this spot was the house in which the Hargreaveses greaveses resided; and a most covetable house it was, with it spacious drawing, dining, and breakfast rooms—its beautiful lawn, its well-kept terraces, and commanding view of the majestic forest and curving river. Yet happiness had long been exiled from that mansion. It contained evidence more than sufficient, that joy doesn't grow on budding hedges, or drop from the wings of forest-choristers. It was a cavern, now, in which guilt hid its foul presence. Can the swollen eyes of guilt see beauty anywhere? Is its black heart in sympathy with the throbs of nature's progress? What is the glory spangled landscape, in the estimation of guilt, but mile of mile of death's bleak territory? And what is the sun, in his midday royalty, but a continual mocker of human woe, daring to look so joyously bright when poor human hearts are shrivelling away! All the charms of the opening year—peace, beauty, and music—were lost on the unhappy inmates of that elegant tomb. Their souls were winter-bound. The solar ray could not penetrate the ice of their hearts. There was, to change the illustration, a worm, an ever-gnawing worm, at the root of their being, and its deadly presence was attested by every withering fibre. The luxury of wealth was there, but in the lot of poverty there was more to envy. Foul spirits, who cannot exist but on moral carrion, were revelling in that mansion, and had so far transformed it into an embryotic perdition, that the very humblest cot in which love and gratitude presided was, in comparison, a palace where princes might tarry in their quest of peace.
               Since the time of Emily's discovery, Mr. and Mrs. Hargreaves had been mutual aliens. They had, indeed, lived under the same roof, but were separated by Mrs. Hargreaves's oath of enmity. Time, which heals many a wound and buries many a grief, had wrought no happy change in Mrs. Hargreaves. From month to month, she had diligently replenished the fires of her vengeance, and was, at the time of her death, as demon-bound as when her blasting look drove Emily from her presence. This was known by the awful language in which she indulged. The opening of her mouth was like the throwing back of the door of a furnace, in which the molting ing metal boils. She had no prize to win, and therefore dropped all simulation of refinement now. Every mask was laid aside; instead of asking for her "stimulant," she boldly called for her brandy, and the fullest scope was given to the rage of her disappointment and malice. Mr. Hargreaves, on the contrary, was far from being impenitent. The dying request of his son had steadily haunted him, and the memory of his sin pressed heavily on his conscience. In his loneliness, he sought companionship in the book which Octavius had pledged him to read, and even knelt in suppliant-attitude before the Throne of Mercy. He was in total ignorance of the kind of intercourse which had been maintained by Mrs. Hargreaves and Benjamin Dudgeon, and was consequently unable, even had he been disposed, to find any satisfaction in recrimination; his only idea was that he had himself incurred tremendous guilt, and this idea crushed and scorched his life of thought and his life of action. He was barely tolerated even in his own house. The servants knew that there was a stain upon his character, and though their position required a mechanical obedience to his orders, yet he was painfully conscious that his word had lost all moral authority. Along with this, he had become singularly sensitive to every observation which the meanest creature might make, and the simplest deeds were often interpreted into affronts. Not a clodhopper in the neighborhood that couldn't make him tremble by a significant cough or laugh; and if the poorest woman turned aside from the road on which he was walking, the circumstance went through his breast like a dart. There didn't seem to be room for him in the world. His company was shunned on every hand. The great hemispheres of life—solitude and society—alike cast him out, for loneliness was suicide, and intercourse was crucifixion. Lily Hunter, and probably Emily Dudgeon, imagined that the victim was the only sufferer; they forgot that Providence has two hands, and that the balances of heaven are just. Hargreaves did not suffer in external appearances, but his heart had long been abandoned by the faintest trace of joy. A corpse is not the less a corpse because adorned with the trappings of wealth.
               
               "Now do let me try to comfort you, Ada," said Mr. Hargreaves, when his wife was in her last illness; "you know I'm a different man to what I once was——"
               "You are not a man at all," said she; "you are a villainous creature I cannot have near me—I shall never be comforted by a traitor."
               "Do be quiet, Ada," he continued; "do be quiet. I know I have done awfully wrong, and no one but God can know how sorry I am for it, and I beg your pardon, Ada, I humbly beg it;—ever since ............. Octy died ..... I have tried ..... to lead a different life."
               "'A different life!' Pshaw! You lead a different life? Can a negro wash himself white? What do I know what I may see if I go up into the top bedroom? Go there yourself, if you dare, and tell me if ghosts don't frighten you out of your senses,—they are waiting of you,—take a pistol and a poker,—you know which room I mean,—now don't blubber there, but go, I tell you!"
               Such were the first words which passed between the wretched husband and wife, since the event which dissolved the household. Mrs. Hargreaves was, of course, up to this moment, entirely unacquainted with the changes which had transpired in her husband's mental history, and as hers was a malignity which becomes intense with age, she answered his approaches with hatred and scorn. Last illnesses are associated with reconciliations—with words of contrition and words of pardon—hence, Mr. Hargreaves wished to memorialize the final affliction of his wife, by seeking the forgiveness of his heinous insult to domestic sanctity. Men of the Hargreaves mould, though insensible to the highest spiritual appeals, are soon affected by sensuous considerations. The opinion that Mrs. Hargreaves could not possibly recover, having been emphatically pronounced by the doctor, led to a renewed determination to repeat his penitence, and solicit at least the look of forgiveness.
               "I have been thinking, Ada," said he, after a serious conversation with the doctor, "that perhaps you would like to see the clergyman,—will you give me leave to bring Mr. Somers?"
               The face, on which he expected to see the beam of satisfaction, curled and twisted into knots of scorn. Oh! how it wrinkled and writhed! How the eye glittered with unnatural light!
               "You say a 'clergyman,' don't you? Yes, it would be very comfortable to see a clergyman; of course he could enter into my heart, and strangle all the fiends that are fattening upon me; couldn't he? He could stick an orthodox plaster over the gashes you have so gently laid there; isn't that what clergymen do to such poor souls as I am? But I see, Rufus, I see, your idea isn't so far from the mark after all; perhaps the clergyman could bring whitewash enough to give us both a fly over, could he? Ah! Hargreaves, I can see devils in the very wrinkles of your face; your pious trickery is too late in the day!"
               "O, God, O Saviour, what shall I do? What shall I do?" he shrieked, and wringing his hands he wept bitterly.
               "You can easily go into the top bed-room," she replied, as if relishing the scene. "Nurse," she continued, "look at that man! fix your eyes upon him, and scorch him with indignant glance! He was first my husband, and then he was my tormentor, and now he is my murderer! But oh! he is such a saintly murderer! What do you think he wants to do now? He actually proposes to bring in a clergyman to cover up the work he has been systematically carrying on to my ruin! Now nurse, mind my words—the words of a dying woman may be worth remembering—the devil hasn't a cuter agent in his establishment; not one that can do a finer stroke of business than Rufus Hargreaves; mind you, it is I who say so, and I'm about to take the last plunge."
               "Well ma'am," said the nurse, who was a woman of settled notions upon every subject within the range of her thinking, and of unusual common sense; "it is not my place to speak. I know that very well; but still I must say, as you have spoken to me, we have all done wrong, and we should forgive one another."
               
               "Ho! what? Well!" exclaimed Mrs. Hargreaves in a tone of profound astonishment, at the same time unsuccessfully trying to raise her head from the pillow, "has the very nurse turned pious? Well, to be sure! Woman, come where I can see your sanctimonious face. Wonders on wonders! Ah, I see, I see, how it is now; then you are both pious! Well, that is nice; shouldn't wonder if Hargreaves made a match with you in a bit; you say," said she, addressing her husband, "that you want to go to the clergyman for me, but you'll want to go so soon for yourself, that it would be a pity to disturb Mr. Somers twice—"
               I'm very sorry," said the nurse, interrupting the speaker, "to hear you talk like this, Mrs. Hargreaves, it is quite unbecoming and cruel in you to talk so. I wonder you are not ashamed of yourself saying such things to me, when you know I'm a married woman, living happy with my husband; it's true enough as we are only poor folks, but God be thanked, we know what it is to be happy together; and I tell you, ma'am, it's a shame for you to talk as you have been a-doing."
               "More piety! How sweetly it flows from the dear creature's lips; it must be quite refreshing to brother Rufus! I ask your pardon, nurse, I humbly ask it, as Hargreaves says; yes, to be sure, whatever can I be thinking about, you are a married woman, but that would be no object in Hargreaves's way; you can give your old stonebreaker, or clodhopper—which is he, a pious shove over the edge of the plank. Rufus can manage a nice point of that kind with infinite skill."
               Mr. Hargreaves sat with his hands before his face, sobbing and wailing. His words were hurled back with indignation; his "piety" was turned into ridicule; his protestations pointed the sarcasms of his avenger. When guilt ascends the judgment seat, it heeds not any "recommendations to mercy." Guilt has no pity for guilt.
               "You are very cruel, ma'am," the nurse replied in a tone of honest anger; "if a man says he has done wrong, and tells you as he is sorry for it, and asks you to forgive him, what more can he do? We have all done wrong, ma'am, and we should be a bit patient with one another."
               "What makes you harp on that string, you old clothes-horse? If you've done wrong, that's no proof that I have done wrong. What are you scratching on about? What do your insinuations mean? If I could only raise myself from this bed, I would drive the whole kit of you out of this house—I would!"
               "The sooner the better, ma'am," said the nurse, "people are none the holier for praising themselves; 'it isn't all gold as glitters,' as Lily Hunter very truly says."
               At the mention of Lily Hunter's name, Mrs. Hargreaves literally foamed at the mouth, she made another attempt to rise, but her head was firmly fixed to the pillow, and with as much vehemence as her wasted strength would allow, exclaimed—"Let her be burned alive! O, how I wish to set fire to all the family! Will nobody fire them in their beds? A lot of grunting, discontented farmers, that are always trying to trip up other people's heels—oh, oh!"
               "She's a very great favorite o' mine, is Lily, ma'am," the nurse answered, with all possible coolness; "and a nicer girl doesn't go to Skulford church, I will say that."
               "Then leave me," said Mrs. Hargreaves.
               "No ma'am, you are not fit to be left, so you needn't order me off, but I'll not stop here, and let you run down respectable people, without trying to hinder you. I does hate backbiting, above a bit."
               "Do you call the old clodheaps respectable? What do you know about respectability? What education have you had? How dare you set up your impudence to me, you old self-opinionated rag?"
               "I calls people respectable, ma'am, when they knows how to behave themselves, and when they pay everybody what they owe and leave other people alone. The Hunters are better people nor you are, ma'am, now mind you that," said the nurse, "it takes a good deal to make me speak out, but I will not have poor honest people run down by such as you, ma'am, for I know all about you and Benjamin Dudgeon, and you know quite as well as myself what I mean by saying that we've all done wrong."
               
               When Benjamin Dudgeon's name was mentioned in this connection, Mr. Hargreaves looked up, and an expression of wonder was on his face. His eye wandered from the nurse to the patient.
               "Yes, sir," continued the now excited nurse, "you may well look up and wonder, but you may take my word for it, you have as much to forgive as that poor dying woman has—I could tell you plenty if I liked—there's always somebody to see us, even in the dark."
               The nurse was now in a state of the highest excitement, and not at all particular about going several steps farther, if dared to proceed—
               "You pious, hypocritical nurse!" Mrs. Hargreaves savagely replied, "come where I can get hold of you, and I'll claw your infamous tongue out,—how dare you stand there and tell lies by the score?"
               "Lies, ma'am? Don't say 'lies,' if you please, ma'am. You know well enough you lent Mr. Dudgeon money, and that you have cheated your own husband to do him a favor. I care nothing about the young man,—I wouldn't know a feater o' his face, were he standing afore me——"
               "O heavens! you are mad, woman—clean mad; there's a demon in you! You would swear anybody's life away—I wouldn't hang a dog on the word of such a creature!" Mrs. Hargreaves bellowed and foamed.
               "No, ma'am, it's you as is mad, and not me. I know nicely what I say, and I tell you we have all done wrong, and when we confess and say we are sorry, we should forgive one another."
               "Nurse! leave this house instantly," Mrs. Hargreaves replied.
               "No, ma'am, I shan't leave just yet. I know you cannot get another nurse in this countryside. I nursed Mr. Octavius to the last, and I only wish you could die as happy as he did."
               The nurse had a complete advantage over Mrs. Hargreaves, and, with the exception of one or two sentences, she used that advantage in a manner quite adapted to the health of her patient. Under other circumstances, Mrs. Hargreaves would have scathed her attendant, but the affliction was a chain which she could not break. In utter helplessness, she was obliged to listen to statements which she had ever regarded as unknown to all but herself and Ben, and to open her eyes to a light too strong for the vision of vice. The conversation, which he did not attempt to interrupt, for several obvious reasons, led Mr. Hargreaves to a new view of the whole case, and he resolved to meet the disclosure with a magnanimity which he had vainly solicited in reference to his own crime—
               "My dear Ada," said he, turning to the bedside, "I bear you no ill—whatever injury you have done to me, I freely forgive, and Octy told me to say that he forgave all your unkindness, and that he hoped——"
               "Good gracious! what a rate we're driving at!" exclaimed Mrs. Hargreaves, "the nurse forgiving, and Hargreaves forgiving, and Octy forgiving! Out upon you all, you canting hypocrites! I'll never forgive! I'll cry and cry for vengeance for ever and ever! Oh, I wish I had a loaded pistol!"
               As Mrs. Hargreaves was expressing this wish, the door opened.
               "Who's there?" she inquired.
               It was her eldest child, a fair-haired girl, with beaming eyes, who walked softly, lest her mamma should be disturbed. Quietly withdrawing a corner of the curtain, she looked upon her dying parent with all the eagerness of a child who wonders what is meant by dying.
               "Come close to me, Clemmy," the mother said, "I want to speak to you."
               Clementina laid her fresh young cheek against the inflamed face of her mother, and her tears fell on the burning flesh. The tender ivy clings to the lightning-scathed oak as well as to the unwithered giant.
               "Look at that man on the other side of the bed, and tell me who he is," Mrs. Hargreaves added.
               "That is papa," said Clemmy, "dear, kind papa."
               "Ah! so it is, child; but I want to tell you something about him,—he is neither dear nor kind—he is a devil in human shape, who can be kissing your lips and thrusting sharp steel into your heart. Now mind my words, Clemmy, for some day you will find how true they are."
               Clemmy put her arms around the dying woman, and reasoned with her—
               "Dear mamma," said see, "don't talk so of our dear papa; you know how kind he is to us all—see what toys and books he has brought for us! The nursery is quite full!"
               "He is a villain, Clemmy."
               "What is a 'villain,' dear mamma? Is it something kind and good?"
               "It is something unkind and bad, Clemmy,—if you could take his heart out, you would find it all black and rotten——"
               "Mrs. Hargreaves, don't talk such stuff to your own child," the nurse interposed; she had been trying to check her agitation by bustling about in her business, but the flood overcame her barricading.
               Clemmy ran round to her papa, and springing on his knee, said—"Is your heart like that, dear pap? Doesn't it feel sore? Let me lay my cheek against it."
               The old man was quite overcome by this touch of tenderness, and curled his arms around the pitying child.
               "Can't you put a plaster on, dear papa? Shan't the coachman run for the doctor? Do let him, papa."
               "Only your mamma can cure my heart," he said, "go and ask her to do it, Clemmy."
               "Mamma, you will cure it, won't you? It will be so kind of you to make papa's heart quite well again; can I fetch you anything to do it with? See how papa is crying! The pain is very, very sore!"
               The woman answered the appeal with wrinklings round the lips, which the child fondly regarded as smiles of pleasure. Clemmy was not allowed to remain long in the room, but before leaving it, she patted Mr. Hargreaves's breast fondly, and kissed it with the intent of extracting the sting.
               The disease had, we have intimated, a fatal hold. For more than a week the unhappy woman lay without uttering a coherent sentence. No tear ever jewelled her eye. No word of contrition melted on her iron lips. The nurse, who knew her patient too well to be deterred from expressing her conscience in the domestic difficulty, remained to the last, faithfully rebuking error, and earnestly admonishing her to meet confession and sorrow with full forgiveness. Mr. Hargreaves was deeply affected. If human language can be taken as a test of human feeling, he was a contrite man. No denunciations of his sin were more emphatic and exhaustive than his own, and many a vow of reparation he recorded in the memory of his household. "I am not only sorry for the consequence, but I am bitterly sorry for the sin itself," he would say, "and if ever I can do anything to repair the injury, I'll do it with all my heart." His familiar laugh was never heard now. His blustering and joking had come to an end. His rough and ready instructions to all and sundry, gave place to gentler commands, and his whole tone of life changed so thoroughly as to excite the pleasant wonder and commendatory remark of all who knew his antecedents.
               Rufus Hargreaves dreaded the curse of the dying. He believed—who doesn't?—in farewell benedictions—in forgiving glances—in loving smiles. One warm grasp of the hand he now longed for. He asked no larger dower than a woman's tear of pity.
               "Bring all my children here," Mrs. Hargreaves said to her nurse.
               It was an interesting group—a group that might have bridged the widest chasm of hearts. She kissed all, and bade them a cheerful good-bye, adding—"beware of your own father; he's the only enemy you have." Clemmy would have replied, but the nurse moved her on.
               The lapse of a few hours made a marvellous difference in the reddened face. The black veins were striking through the crimson, and the eye was wandering dimlessly.
               "Ada!" said Mr. Hargreaves, "you are fast sinking, and you must not die at enmity with me."
               Mrs. Hargreaves turned her eyes upon him, and looked steadfastly.
               "My dear, put your hand in mine," he added, "and if you forgive me, press it."
               
               She appeared anxious to speak, but as her voice was nearly gone, he was obliged to bend his head that he might hear the whisper: it was an awful whisper—
               "I—once happy Ada Tompkins—do, with all my heart, loathe Rufus Hargreaves."
               "Do you say 'love,' Ada?"
               She answered—"I say loathe—hate."
               She added no more. Heavy stupor supervened. The un-forgiven one lingered at the bedside, hoping for another gleam of consciousness. The sun set, in more than wonted pomp, and his final beam fell on the sealed eyelids of Ada Hargreaves.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               A WAY OF ESCAPE.
               "LILY is late this morning," said Mrs. Pearce, as Lily did not appear at the usual hour, "I'm sure she must be tired with her long walk last night; just run up and ask her, dear, if she will have her breakfast in bed."
               The storm had greatly increased during the night, and now the wind was hurrying through his circuits, howling out tremendous protests against innumerable evils. He was weeping for vexation, and his tears were wildly dashed against the winds of Lily's chamber in particular. The storm rode in from the west, and the meteorologists said, that from that quarter the most terrific visitations had befallen Polis.
               On entering the bedroom, in compliance with her mother's wish, Harriet found Lily complaining very much. Lily expressed her conviction that the walk had been too much for her, and that by parting with some of her clothes, she had perilously exposed herself to the storm. She gratefully adopted Mrs. Pearce's motherly suggestion, and consented to spend the morning quietly in-doors, it being understood that after breakfast a conference should be held as to the best manner of proceeding with Emily's case.
               No sooner was breakfast concluded, and a few household arrangements completed, than Harriet introduced the business in which she had now become as deeply interested as Lily.
               "What shall we do, then, about Emily?" she said. "I've been thinking," Lily replied, "that we had better take advice of your father and mother, and just explain everything to them frankly;—you see we are very young, and though we have managed very well so far, we might easily commit one blunder that would upset all our plans: what do you think, Harriet?"
               "Y-e-s,—per-haps," said Harriet, "my father is as kind-hearted as my mother, and he's the treasurer of the Penitentiary, which isn't so very far from our house,—if we could only get them thoroughly on our side, and I think we could, it would be just the thing, but you see you will be obliged to tell them the whole story."
               "Of course," said Lily, "we mustn't keep anything from them—I believe we have everything to gain by telling the simple tale and allowing it to make its own impression; I like what I have seen of your father and mother so much, that I feel quite sure we have nothing to fear,—quite sure."
               "I'm so glad now," Harriet said, "that we didn't ask Robert to go with us last night: I asked Janey what time he came in, and the time answered quite right, but then you know the young man I saw was smoking, and that is a thing which Robert never does,—so it couldn't be him, Lily, now could it?"
               "Of course not," said Lily, "if he never smokes, the thing answers itself; but the time is getting on now, and you know we're pledged for her."
               Harriet at once proceeded to invite father and mother to Lily's room, and so artlessly, sympathetically, and unselfishly, was the whole story developed, that at the conclusion neither Mr. nor Mrs. Pearce could make the slightest answer, because their parental feelings had carried them captive. Mr. Pearce owned a most susceptible heart, and as for his wife, she was so accustomed to look at all such questions through the medium of one of her own children, that facts were their own best eloquence, and her energies were at once placed at the disposal of the unfortunate. On drying their eyes, they pledged themselves to the good cause, and blessed Lily for her noble services.
               "Something must be done at once," said Mr. Pearce, "it's getting on for half past nine, and I've no doubt she is anxiously waiting for you."
               This opinion on the necessity for immediate action, was at once confirmed by Mrs. Pearce's fervent—
               "Certainly."
               "You cannot think of going out, Miss Hunter," Mr. Pearce said, "you mustn't stir to-day."
               "No, sir; I should extremely like to go, but I don't think I could rise."
               "No, indeed," Mrs. Pearce cheerfully chimed in, "Harriet must go—she knows the place—now, my dear, get your things on—it will be no use taking an umbrella as the wind is so boisterous—but has the young woman a bonnet that she can come out in? Wouldn't it be well for Harriet to take one of Janey's, it would be just about the size?"
               "And one of Janey's shawls," Mr. Pearce added.
               "O," said Lily, "I think it is unnecessary; what she has on is not so very bad, especially for such a morning."
               "No ma', and she hasn't far to come; she's only in that nice little coffee-house at the end of John street, don't you know it, Pa?"
               "I know it, child; here take this money, of course, she has nothing to pay her bill with."
               "Now, child, run away," the mother said," I wouldn't have you late for anything—you had better be a little too soon—she is ready, I'll warrant."
               "Don't tell her that I'm ill," said Lily, "she is such a sensitive creature she would think I'm worse than I am,—be sure not to come back without her."
               While Harriet was absent, Mr. and Mrs. Pearce asked many questions about Emily, and were so delighted with Lily's noble enthusiasm and sunny frankness, as to avow themselves, in another burst of passion, her most willing and sympathetic coadjutors.
               "You may not know, Miss Hunter," said Mrs. Pearce, "that we are connected with a most excellent Female Reformatory, in fact, Mr. Pearce is the treasurer."
               "Yes, ma'am, I knew that," Lily replied, "for Harriet told me, and I shall be only too glad if we can get Emily in,—poor child!"
               
               "Thank you," said Mr. Pearce, "I didn't like to mention it myself, but I'm glad I know your mind on that subject, for I was wondering what you would think of such an arrangement."
               "O yes, sir," Lily said, "in fact, I don't see what else could be done; you know she couldn't have any respectable situation without a character: but, O Mrs. Pearce, it breaks my heart to think of dear Emily Dudgeon going into such a place. When I think of her education and refinement and her noble disposition, I cannot endure the idea of her going where she may not be appreciated."
               "That's true, Miss Hunter," said the mother, "and it makes me very sad to think of it; but you see, it would give her a little time to turn round in, and afford her a little rest."
               "It would have many advantages," Mr. Pearce added, "very many."
               "When you say the Penitentiary," Lily inquired, "do you mean the work-house? You must excuse my ignorance, for I really don't understand the difference."
               "O no," said Mr. Pearce, who had a most pardonable partiality for his favorite institution, and delighted to explain all its working, and to prove by figures how much it had improved financially since he undertook the treasurership, "a Penitentiary is very different from a work-house: a Penitentiary is supported by voluntary contributions, entirely, and is not intended for the permanent maintenance of the inmates, they are kept there solely with a view to their reformation, and after that, they are recommended to suitable situations,—by the way, it just occurs to me that you would like to look over our last report——"
               Mr. Pearce was about to go to his own room for the official document, but Mrs. Pearce suggested that he had better explain verbally, as the time was short.
               "We keep them in for about two years, during which period they are most diligently watched: they have to do a regular amount of work every day, and are never allowed to go over the door-step for the first twelve months. A good deal, of course, depends upon their conduct, for the best behaved haved are the best treated, and if they keep their situation for one year after they leave the Penitentiary, we make them a present of ten pounds and a few books."
               "What do you think of that, now," said Mrs. Pearce, "don't you think it a most admirable arrangement for poor unfortunate young women?"
               "Just the thing that will suit my poor Emily," said Lily, "Oh, I shall be glad if there's an opening for her to-day; she will soon show how noble-hearted she is,—she will be the favorite inmate in three months: you don't know, Mrs. Pearce, how childlike and loving she is,—everybody is charmed with her simplicity."
               "You see, Miss," the treasurer suggested, "it gives them a new start in life; of course there are some people that always look down upon them, and think that no good can come of such poor women, but I find that there are others who take a deep interest in them, and rejoice to help the poor creatures on, and they are the sort we must look to——."
               "Yes, and let the over-righteous alone." Mrs. Pearce said, "why their own children may get wrong—their own bonny little girls may come to need a Penitentiary some day, who knows? and what would the consequence be, if there wasn't a Penitentiary to take them to? Fathers and mothers should think of these things, and not be so hard upon other people's children."
               The conversation had not proceeded much farther when a knock announced that Harriet and Emily were at the door. Lily had been counting the minutes, notwithstanding the talk.
               "I think it will be well for us not to be here just at the beginning," said Mrs. Pearce, "she wouldn't like to meet so many strangers all at once, we can go down stairs, and you may send Harriet for us by and by,—won't that be best?"
               Mr. Pearce at once consented to any proposition which involved delicacy of feeling, and in every instance he voted with tear against logic.
               "I tell you, my dear," said he, when they were seated, and the sound of the storm awoke the deepest notes of gratitude for family comforts, "I see more and more what a fine thing it is, that we take an interest in these poor castaway people,—just think, if this houseless girl had been our own Harriet, wouldn't we have been glad if anybody had taken notice of the bairn?"
               The bare supposition at once filled Mrs. Pearce's eyes with maternal tears: it was precisely the kind of argument with which she had herself vanquished every objection to Penitentiaries, and overcome many an ungenerous neighbor when she was out collecting for the institution.
               "God forbid that any of our girls should ever come to this," she said, "I believe it would break my heart,—I sometimes tremble for our Martha, she is such an unsuspecting, open-hearted child."
               "Just the sort that's most likely to get wrong," said Mr. Pearce, "we must do all we can to rear her safely, and if I were you, I should often take her to the Penitentiary when you visit; it may do her good to see all these poor girls with their hair clipped short and their blue gowns on; she has the most witching ways I ever saw in my life, has our Patty; the fact is, I can never find in my heart to refuse the bairn anything that she asks for."
               "It's the same with me; and Robert," said the mother, "he has the nicest coaxingest ways you ever saw in a child; I'll defy anybody to be cross with Robert; he does manage his points so nicely, and if you refuse him once, he comes round again so slyly and kindly, that I tell him if he wanted the cap off my head he would never rest till he got it."
               "Ah! you must be careful with Robert," said the father, "there's no telling what boys may be up to; and mothers ought to consider themselves responsible for their training in particular; you know there are no penitentiaries for boys:" this Mr. Pearce regarded as about the only moral waste unreclaimed by the industrious philanthrophy of the age.
               While the father and mother were musing thus on the family prospects, the young people were exchanging ideas in the bedroom.
               "Caught cold last night!" was Emily's first sentence as she stood transfixed at the door of the chamber, her bright eyes dilating with painful astonishment.
               "It will soon go off," said Lily, "but I dare not go out this morning, as it is so boisterous."
               "O Lily, but your hands," Emily went on, "your hands are as hot as fire—there isn't the least moisture in them—you must have a doctor at once—it makes me afraid to see you shiver like that."
               "Thank you, darling——."
               "Now do sit down, Miss Dudgeon," Harriet broke in.
               "I was going to say," Lily proceeded, "that there's hardly anything worth living for except it be trying to do good to somebody, and that's my object just now,—are you happy this morning, Emily?"
               "You know, Lily," she answered, "it is quite impossible for me ever to be happy in this world, and now that you are so poorly there is less prospect than ever,—...... O, Lily, I'm just thinking if you should die—."
               "What then?" Lily inquired.
               "You'll perhaps see Octy," said Emily, "he's in heaven; I shall never be good enough for that happy place, but you will, because you are kind to the poor and the miserable, and so was he. O Lily, if spirits do speak to each other, be sure not to tell him where you found Emily last night."
               "Child!" said Lily, "I'm not going to die; it's only a cold, and will soon go off; I've been worse than this before, and have got better. Now don't cry so, and distress me."
               "There! just see how you shivered," Emily exclaimed, "I don't like to see people shiver in that way, when they are hot."
               "I shall perhaps have a doctor in the afternoon," Lily said, for she didn't like the shivering any more than did Emily.
               After Emily had drawn a small parcel from her breast, she said—
               "I don't know when we may meet again, Lily, but take this good little book; it was to fetch this, that I ventured to take you to the den last night—now be sure to read it for my sake and Octy's—that is the part I like best," she said, pointing ing to that gem of all stories, the Prodigal Son—"but you cannot understand it so well as I can; I remember Octy once said we must experience certain things before we can understand them, and I have often felt since, how true his words are. O Lily, if I had had but a tenth part of the wisdom I have now, when I lived at Skulford, I should never have been sitting here in this abominable plight; but I hadn't, and God our Father knows how ignorant and innocent I was, but I don't see how he can forgive me."
               With these words, Emily parted with the only article, with the exception of the paper and the portrait, which she really prized. On the fly-leaf of the book were the well-known initials O. H., on which she stamped her last seal of unfathomable and immortal love.
               "Take it," said she to Lily, "you are the only person in the world who is worthy of such a treasure,—it may comfort you as it has comforted me—never let it pass out of your hands till you die."
               Lily gratefully accepted the gift, not only for its own sake, but on account of the many enshrining memories which hovered round it. It had given birth to a deep spiritual experience, and been a check in a career of moral insanity.
               "I think it is time now," said Lily, addressing Harriet, "to ask your father and mother to come up. Mr. and Mrs. Pearce," she said, turning to Emily, "are exceedingly kind and tender, and will be delighted to aid in saving you. They want to know you, and I'm sure you won't object, dear Emily?"
               This arrangement, though by no means in harmony with Emily's feelings, could not be gracefully set aside; it was, at least, the conception of love, and must be accepted, however reluctantly. Mr. and Mrs. Pearce were, of course, prepared with utterances of love; at once they turned to Emily, and clasping both her hands, assured her, most sympathetically, that they were delighted to see her, both for Lily's sake and her own. Emily was necessarily agitated, and unable to express herself as she could have wished.
               "Miss Hunter is dying, I doubt," she said, when she heard Lily's name, "she is my best, my only friend,—do take care of her, and let her go home quickly."
               "We'll take care of Miss Hunter," said Mr. Pearce, "we know something of her goodness, but our especial concern just now is to do something for your benefit. I understand you have a desire to reform."
               Speculation will have various answers to the inquiry, How is it that a stranger's presence, or a stranger's voice, often startles our grief out of its partial slumber? The question mooted by Mr. Pearce so thoroughly overcame Emily, that not for several seconds could she make a suitable reply.
               "I have, and yet I haven't such a desire," she answered at length, "I should like to be happy again, but, for many reasons, that is quite impossible; and while I'm going on in this way, I can sometimes cheat myself a little,—O how sad, how sad!"
               "But, dear child," Mrs. Pearce said, "just think how many people have been as low as you are, and have been quite reformed,—and why shouldn't you?"
               "Ask Miss Hunter, ma'am, and she'll tell you why. You don't know my history, ma'am, or you would see how impossible it is for me to return to respectable society,—once I had hope, but the light is quenched now. I am quite, quite sure that I can never be happy more."
               "Yes, yes, you think so, I have no doubt," said Mr. Pearce, "you think so now, I have no doubt, and so far that is right enough. I rather like people who feel their position very keenly——"
               "O dear! that's just what he used to say," Emily broke out, and in doing so, she directed a glance to Lily, which was full of pathos and meaning.
               "There's always more hope of them, I was going to say—"
               "Just the same as he said!" she exclaimed once more.
               "But if you will take my advice, and I have had much experience in such things, I'll guarantee that one day you'll be a downright happy woman,—there now!" He paused to mark the effect of his words, and then added—"You have the whole thing in your own hands this morning—we are your friends, but it is for you to decide. Come now! in the name of God, determine to be free, and no power on earth can hinder you!"
               Mr. Pearce uttered these words with a noble geniality and manly earnestness, which left no doubt as to their being the genuine expression of his heart. Emily could be touched by nobleness. She knew the difference between the natural and the artificial light, and gladly sunned her shrivelled heart in the former.
               "I shall be glad to hear your advice, Mr. Pearce," she replied, with evident thankfulness, "and if Miss Hunter approves of it, I shall certainly try to accept of it."
               "You couldn't say more, I am sure, dear child," said Mrs. Pearce, warmly grasping the cold bony hand of the prodigal.
               "Yes, dear Emily," Lily said, as she raised her head from the pillow by a considerable effort, "you may safely follow Mr. Pearce's advice—you couldn't have a better counsellor; we have talked your case over, and Mr. Pearce's views quite coincide with my own."
               Mrs. Pearce put her head through a nodding process, in token of her satisfaction with Lily's view.
               "Have you a home?" she inquired, when sufficient nodding had been done, slightly oblivious of one part of Lily's narrative, but benevolently anxious to show her interest in the narrative, by saying something. The manner, however, in which the inquiry took effect, combined with a picture drawn on Lily's face, soon refreshed her recollections, and she wiped away Emily's tears, with many apologies for her forgetfulness, her "cruel forgetfulness," as she reproachfully termed it. Mr. Pearce, too, hastened to the rescue, saying, in his most paternal manner:
               "Then I'll tell you what it is, Emily (I believe you like to be called by your plain name), "you must be immediately taken out of harm's way, and there's a capital institution, quite a home I call it, not very far from our house, into which I can introduce you—it is, indeed, quite a first-class establishment, and most charmingly situated, and if you conduct yourself properly there for a time, you will have every facility for beginning the world afresh, and that is precisely what you want; now what do you say? Miss Hunter, what do you think of that idea?"
               All eyes were fixed on Emily, and all hearts felt the fluttering which precedes the announcement of a great decision.
               "I think it very good, sir," Lily replied, "especially if you would allow Harriet to look in now and then, to see how Emily is getting on."
               Mrs. Pearce's "certainly" at once determined this point on her own side, and Harriet's most cheerful "Oh! yes," left no doubt as to the acceptableness of the arrangement. Lily could, therefore, turn with confidence to Emily, and appeal for a favorable decision.
               There was a pause. Counter-pleadings were proceeding in Emily's breast. Lily's voice was an argument she could not set aside, and that voice had been given on the side of acceptance. The trembling balance at last stood at this point:
               "But from what I have heard of these places, I don't think it would suit me to be in one of them; it would break my heart."
               "Indeed!" Mrs. Pearce exclaimed, "why wouldn't it suit you? You astonish me!"
               "You astonish me, too," Mr. Pearce instantly added.
               An explanation was eagerly awaited by all parties. The honor of penitentiaries was at stake, and the treasurer was armed in their defence.
               "Well," Emily replied, "I know a young woman who was in one for six months, a very nice young woman she is, who has seen better days as well as myself, only she had a kinder father, and she told me that the ladies who visited the house were always lecturing to the inmates, and telling them what sinners they had been; and when the young women cried, the ladies thought themselves so clever that they went farther and farther, until the women's hearts were smarting with agony,—I'm sure I don't need anybody to tell me what a sinner I am, and if they said very much about it, I'm certain I should fret myself to death."
               This statement called up the eloquence of the treasurer. "You may depend upon it, Emily," said he, "that there is a great mistake somewhere in this business; I have no doubt the ladies do refer to the past, but I'm perfectly confident they will do so with much tenderness——"
               "Oh! yes, sir," Emily broke in, "I haven't the least doubt of that, but, don't you see that, upon such a point, even tenderness itself becomes harsh? Why do they talk about the past at all? The women know that the past is bad enough, or they wouldn't be in such a place as you mean; I don't wish to have bygones referred to,—I want to hear something which I don't know."
               "And so you will," said Mrs. Pearce; "I never speak to the inmates myself, because I'm so nervous, but I'm sure you'll hear nothing that isn't good."
               "Besides," Harriet joined, "I shall look in as often as I possibly can, and if you would like anything altered, I can speak about it to Miss Banshaw, the matron, and it will soon be righted. Do go, dear Emily," Harriet continued, "for Lily's sake as well as your own; she has come to Polis on your account, and you see what a fever she is in——"
               "Yes," Emily answered, with emphasis; "one has died already in trying to save me; I hope another won't die,—I am not worth so much sacrifice."
               Lily heard this, and, with much sweetness, assured the three ladies that she could even welcome death, if she only knew that Emily had her feet on the right path, and was likely to be good and happy again. Mr. Pearce was absent when the assurance was given, but in a minute or two he returned, and, with increased earnestness, sought to demolish Emily's mistaken notions.
               "Now, Emily," he said, "I've just been seeking the last Report of our Institution, and if you will run your eye down this page, you'll see the kind of visitation and instruction that we approve——"
               "No need of that, sir," said Emily, "we have just settled this matter——"
               "Yes, my dear," Mrs. Pearce eagerly added, "it's all comfortably arranged."
               "If you, Lily, wish me to go, I'll go; and if I feel I cannot endure it, I suppose I can come out again,—I go for Lily's sake more than my own."
               Lily responded to this reference with the purest tenderness: her glorious eyes, kindled into a brighter blaze by the incipient fever, shone with a benignity which she could not verbally express, and the placid smile which played around her intelligent features told of her satisfaction that Emily was willing, on any conditions, to enter the Penitentiary. She had, however, with the keen ear of love, heard the "if" which Emily had employed, and, being anxious that the experiment should have a fair trial, she sought, in the most delicate manner to assure herself that it would not be defeated by impetuosity or selfishness on the part of Emily. It was this anxiety which made her desire the oath of love.
               "You think, Emily," said she, "that I am very ill, don't you?"
               "I am sure of that, dearest Lily, or I should make more objections about this than I do."
               "Well, Emily, I am very low indeed; I couldn't have thought that one night could have produced such an effect upon any one: you have an idea, I think, that we may not meet much more, haven't you, Emily?"
               Emily answered with tears, which indeed had never been altogether dry during the whole interview, and then throwing her arms around Lily, said—
               "I know you are very ill, and if you go away to heaven what shall I do? What will be the use of living any longer? O how I wish that something would happen to kill me, with out my doing anything wrong myself!"
               "But my object in asking these questions," Lily rejoined, "is to beg a favor of you: you say you love me——"
               "I do, I do," Emily interruptively sobbed, "I have no one else to love."
               "And you say you don't expect to see me much more,—so now let me beg a favor of you (you know it may be my last wish), that you will, under all circumstances, remain in the institution for full twelve months,—now kiss me, and say you will."
               "Let us go now, sir," was Emily's prompt reply after she had bent over the pleading invalid,—"if I die in the place I will keep my word."
               "But stop," Lily said, "if Mr. and Mrs. Pearce will excuse me, I should like to have a few moments alone with Emily."
               "There's one thing more, dear Emily," she said, when the room was cleared, "things are all uncertain and perhaps we may not meet again, Emily, though I cannot say my fears are as alarming as yours, but if we don't, will you tell Benjamin—for he is sure to come back—you know I have always said that—that my heart is faithful? Be sure whatever you do, not to forget that,—kiss me as a pledge."
               "And there's one thing I want to say, Lily;—how can I be sure that the men you saw last night won't come to the Penitentiary and take me away?—"
               "Are you married to one of them," Lily hastily inquired.
               "O no, no, but they provided me with a kind of home, when I hadn't a place to put my head into."
               "That's all right, then," said Lily, "so long as you are not married, you can give them in the charge of the police if they meddle with you, but my opinion is that you won't have any trouble from that quarter."
               "Then there's Ben, you know, Lily, suppose he should come back, how can he find me if I'm shut up in the place—the Penitentiary?"
               "You won't be long shut up there," said Lily, "there are peculiarities in your case which will be sure to win the confidence of the conductors, and, in fact, I shouldn't wonder if you are in a respectable position in less than twelve months."
               "Well, for your sake, Lily, I shall do everything in my power to retrieve my character——"
               "Yes, but let me give you a word of advice: I know your generosity and simplicity, and I think it will be well for you to be on your guard, so as not to put confidence in any of the ladies, until you've had time to know them thoroughly."
               "Trust me, there," said Emily, "I'm not so simple as I used to be."
               "Very good, then there's just one more matter to mention before Mr. and Mrs. Pearce and Harriet return: you remember that when we spent an afternoon together, you asked me to visit the grave,.....Well, of course I did so, and I have this little parcel to give you,—the blades are almost withered now, but still you know where they grew.....
               
               "There's nothing farther to do now," said Lily, when the family returned, "so you can do what you think right, Mr. Pearce."
               Mr. and Mrs. Pearce insisted that Emily should go down stairs and have refreshments before going to the Penitentiary When Lily requested privacy, Mr. Pearce went to the institution to make arrangements for Emily's reception, so that there might be no difficulty when she made her appearance.
               "Well, good bye, Emily," said Lily, "good bye, and God bless you, bless you—good bye—happy days yet."
               Such were the valedictory words of a noble friendship With a heavy heart, the lonely penitent departed, and with a heart equally heavy, her sorrowing deliverer remained. As Emily turned from the door, and gave a long wistful look at the invalid, Lily could not refrain from tears. She never thought to have looked on such a sight. That Miss Dudgeon, the merchant's daughter, or even Miss Dudgeon, the accomplished governess, should ever become such a wreck as had just left her presence was a possibility never born in her wildest dreams. She herself was, in some respects, more likely to have been in Emily's condition, for her parents had to struggle with many a difficulty, and could only rear their children by means of the most jealous economy, and a perseverance which begrudged the very necessity for sleep. Yet her feet were found in a sure place. Not a leprous taint stained her fair character. No hidden sin made her bend her forehead in shame. Her eyes gazed confidently where the light flashed most brightly. Though she had surrendered her heart to Emily's brother, no tongue could justly utter one condemnatory word respecting her minutest actions. It is easy for an indifferent spectator to say, she should have discarded a man who had absconded with his employer's displeasure resting upon him, but a woman's yearning, trusting, hopeful heart, has an answer to such morality, which men are too obtuse to comprehend or appreciate.
               With such musings Lily occupied herself until Mr. and Mrs. Pearce returned. They spoke tenderly of the unhappy child, and said that her last words were—"one more kiss for my Lily." Pledges of care and attention they abundantly renewed. Mrs. Pearce declared that not a girl in the Penitentiary was to be mentioned in the same day with "poor Emily," and Lily assured her that the delaration was strictly true.
               "When you go to the Penitentiary," Mrs. Pearce said to Harriet—
               "Which I hope will be very often," said Lily.
               "O yes, dear: I was going to tell Harriet that when she goes to the Penitentiary, she must inquire for Thirty-One; you may not know, Lily, that the inmates are never called by their names,—each has a number, so that the real names need never be known, except they choose to mention them to each other."
               "I hope Emily won't mention hers," Lily remarked, "because it might be injurious to her another day."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               ONE TAKEN AND THE OTHER LEFT.
               IN a few days Lily was considered so far out of danger as to warrant the fulfilment of her wish to return to Skulford. In accordance with a suggestion offered by Mr. Pearce, and confirmed by Mrs. Pearce's "certainly" Harriet was to accompany Lily, as the journey would be too fatiguing for one in her weak state. The only objection which Lily urged was, that if Harriet left Polis she couldn't fulfill their plans about visiting Emily, but Mrs. Pearce overcame the difficulty by entering into a distinct pledge to call once a week, and write a full and faithful report of Emily's state and prospects.
               "Are you allowed to carry them any nice little things to eat?" Lily inquired.
               "Why, very little is done in that way," said Mrs. Pearce. "but perhaps, in such a case, a little contrivance or two might be managed,—I'll see."
               "Thank you, dear Mrs, Pearce, O how kind you are," Lily added, "now take these, get for them as much as you can, and spend the money on Emily's account, in any way you think best."
               Lily handed a locket, a brooch, and a small gold chain, to Mrs. Pearce, but that benevolent lady shrank from them as if they had been serpents, and exclaimed—
               "Miss Hunter, how can you? how can you?"
               "What, ma'am?" said Lily.
               "How can you think we should do anything of the kind? Are we not able to provide two or three nice little things for a poor child like Emily without selling your jewellery? How do you think I could expect anybody to give a bairn of mine a mouthful of cake, if I took your things in that way? Go along with you, Lily, and keep them till I ask you for them."
               The words were uttered with that motherly anger which is so marvellously like a motherly blessing, as to set off a picture of dignity in a frame of golden love. Lily knew the meaning of the tender "go along," and blessed the lips which spake it.
               "She will require the very greatest gentleness," Lily said, "for she is most singularly sensitive; even a harsh look will bring tears."
               "It will bring tears, love, when she sees it on my face," said Mrs. Pearce, "won't it, Harriet?"
               "O yes, gentle mammy, you can be kind enough to everybody but—Robert."
               "Go along, you winning puss, you know that lad will be asking me for my eyes some day—."
               "He'll have to have them too," said Harriet.
               The good-tempered mother laughed and said she "never did see such children."
               Mrs. Pearce once more assured Lily that everything which a maternal interest in the young woman's welfare could conceive should be done to restore her character and peace. Confident of the sincerity of this assurance, the invalid and her gentle companion started for Skulford, which they reached with greater ease to Lily than she had ever ventured to hope. Mr. and Mrs. Hunter received their child and visitor with all the heartiness of abounding parental affection, and spared no exertion to re-establish Lily's health. Mr. Jy, of course, had no end of questions to ask concerning the renowned city, in which he had found an alma mater. The other sons sat and wondered, while Harriet and Jy discoursed on the charms of Polis, and discussed the comparative claims of urban and rural life. Mr. Jy, being of a known literary turn, voted for the city, as affording the highest facilities for intellectual advancement, while Harriet, who was of the gentlest disposition, without any marked literary aspirations, thought it was nice to be where they could hear the birds and watch all the variations of field and forest. Mr. Jy's answer was not visibly to the point, though no doubt he intended it to hit some hidden angle of the subject,—it was something about—"their various modifications and derivations."
               For a few days appearances were decidedly cheering in Lily's case; but in less than a week reaction supervened, and the gravest fears of her family were excited to the utmost. Her frame was but fragile, and the efforts which she had made on Emily's behalf—which were never known to her parents—had proved excessive for a constitution so finely strung. Harriet and she had many a secret whispering about the object of their united solicitude, and whenever a letter arrived from Polis, Lily insisted on having the part relating to Emily read at least three times,—first, very slowly—then at an ordinary rate—and finally each sentence taken separately, and each word weighed and measured and stowed away in the pigeon-holes of the memory. At other times, she often said she had no purer joy than to hear Harriet read the book which Emily had given her.
               "Read that again, dear," she would say, as some passage of peculiar beauty or tenderness fell upon her ear—
               "Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel.....I am the resurrection and the life, he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live; and whosoever liveth and believeth in me, shall never die.....Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord.....They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on them nor any heat. For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes."
               These are words which no heart can trifle with, especially no heart that is quaking with apprehensions of speedy dissolution. They need no book of "evidences" to prove that they are musical with the ring of heaven; let them fall upon sorrow, and their music will soon chime out and tell how high was its origin.
               "Beautiful, beautiful words," said Lily, "I wish I could take all the comfort they can give, but when I begin to look into my heart I find it is so pre-occupied as not to leave room to admit even an angel—"
               "But don't you feel happy, dearest Lily?" Harriet softly whispered.
               "I am not unhappy," the sufferer replied, "but I feel a strange aching in my heart many a time—there are so many things I am leaving which are only half done, and so many others that I should like to do,—there's Emily, you know, for her sake, I should wish to live, for she may need me yet before she is fully delivered,—and then there is poor Ben———."
               "But, Lily, from what you have told me, and from what I could gather from Emily, I doubt Ben has wandered a long way from the path that is right, and if he has done so, why should you wish so much to see him any more?"
               This excited Lily considerably, and caused her to speak with a fervor which exhausted her remaining strength—
               "Ah, Harriet," she said, "you don't know: I never can believe that Ben has gone so far wrong—you musn't believe all that you hear, particularly if it is anything bad,—there are plenty of people ready to injure others by false reports—nothing is so soon believed as a bad account of anybody; people say they are sorry for this and that, but all the time they may be secretly glad: if you could see him and hear him, Harriet, I believe you would like him very much. And then, besides, if I were to live, perhaps I could save him too; he always said I could influence him more than any one else could, and I'm sure I should never influence him in a wrong direction."
               "But it is so long since you saw him, Lily," Harriet suggested, "that perhaps he may have forgotten you; in fact, if he has gone abroad and dare not return to England, he may be married to a foreigner."
               "O Harriet," Lily replied, partly in a tone of reproach, but mainly in a tone of secret triumph, "that just shows how little you know of him; let me tell you that a more faithful heart does not throb in a human breast, and that while I am alive, he will never think of any one but myself."
               She was talking too much for her strength, and afterwards she fell into a quiet sleep. For many days she lingered as if with one foot in the grave, and while she remained in this condition the affliction of her parents was intolerable. Day by day her heart-riven father came noiselessly to her bedside, and looked on the patient sufferer through big tears of grief, while the anxious mother (herself often ill enough to be in bed) could never be persuaded to leave the room, except for the briefest periods. All the household, indeed, were filled with sorrow as they anticipated the plucking of the last-born rose from the family-tree. And what shall be said of ever-gentle Harriet? Prudent, tender, and watchful, she endeared herself to every member of the family. All her offices of charity were fulfilled with the sensitiveness of perfect delicacy, and the quenchless ardor of sisterly affection. So gracefully did she glide into everything, that she seemed to have a right to do just what she was doing, and no one ever thought of questioning the wisdom of any measure which she suggested. Lily was, therefore, well tended, and though unable to give audible expression to her gratitude, the glow of her eyes told that her heart was overflowing with gratitude.
               "Is there any hope at all, doctor?" the distracted father inquired.
               "Not much, I doubt, Mr. Hunter; a favorable turn may take place, there is just the least possibility if these east winds would cease, still it will be well for us to look at the dark side."
               "Has everything been done that can be done?" Mrs. Hunter asked.
               "Yes ma'am; I have given every possible attention to the case, but perhaps it would be a satisfaction to you to have additional advice; I'm quite willing."
               At this point Harriet ventured a suggestion. She was too timid to speak before, but now that the doctor had expressed himself in such gloomy terms she could refrain no longer.
               "There is," said she, "a very clever physician in Polis, named Dr. Hope, who has cured a great many persons; don't you think it would be well to try him?"
               
               She might have struck the poor surgeon a cleaving blow on the head, or drawn the edge of a razor across some vital part.
               "O," he exclaimed, with uplifted hands, "that will never do! I dare not meet him; he is a member of a new medical school, which is quite ignored by the regular faculty, and if I were to meet him I should be advertised as a renegade, and expelled from all the medical societies as an abettor of quackery. Quite true, I do assure you. A friend of mine was led into a consultation with an empiric, and though he met him with extreme reluctance, and actually protested against the newfangled system, yet he was expelled and advertised, and denounced, and cast out as an apostate!"
               This consideration did not appear to weigh so heavily with the parents as with the surgeon himself; for what did they care for the battles of the bigots, or for the technicalities of science, if their dying child could but be saved? It is too true that "brethren" have hated each other ever since the early battle of the brothers, no men have so little mercy upon each other as so-called "brethren;" but languishing and perishing multitudes implore them to hush their bitter clamor, and combine to assuage the agonies of a dying world.
               "I should like him to be sent for," said Mr. Hunter, "shouldn't you, my dear?"
               "Yes, very much," Mrs. Hunter said, "for I know that Harriet would not recommend a bad man."
               "Excuse me," the surgeon interposed with some excitement, "I don't say, Mrs. Hunter, that the gentleman in question is 'a bad man,' I mean nothing more than that the etiquette of the profession would not permit me to meet an irregular practitioner; still, as this is an out-of-the-way place, and the case is so serious, I shall not offer any determined resistance, provided you are prepared to assume the entire responsibility."
               This was considered a good compromise, and no time was lost in seeking the services of the heterodox physician. The messenger, one of Lily's brothers, was wisely sent, in the first instance, to Mr. Pearce's, with a note from Harriet stating the urgency of the circumstances, and begging her father to accompany him to Dr. Hope's, and use all his energy to persuade the doctor to start immediately for Skulford. Mr. Pearce, as ever, was ready to obey the voice of benevolence, and was so successful in his representations, that in a few hours the two medical practitioners were in earnest conference. The rustic Mr. Drug had resolved to treat the civic Esculapius with all the dignity which belongs to an ancient and learned profession. Treat him with openness and manly candor? Not he, indeed! If people will be erratic they must take the consequences of their own madness; a theory this, which will sound well anywhere.
               "What is the matter with your patient, sir?" said Dr. Hope, after he had carefully examined Lily.
               Mr. Drug regarded this question as kind of trap, and like a shrewd fellow he determined to take care of his foot.
               "You have been sent for to find that out," said he.
               "Exactly," said Dr. Hope, "but I wish to know what you have been treating the patient for."
               "I've been treating her for consumption, of course; there cannot be two opinions as to what the disease is."
               "I am happy to differ from you in this case," said the doctor, "for there are two opinions upon that matter. The young woman's lungs are as sound as your's or mine; the disease is in the throat, and I'm glad to say, I can cure it."
               "Just the boast of a conceited empiric," thought Mr. Drug, but as the assertion could be put to the test in a short time, he did not care to risk a battle with the hoary physician, who, indeed, was better versed even in the old school of physic than ever his small-headed antagonist could be. Mr. Drug put on his sourest physiognomy, and in gruffest tones, gave Dr. Hope to understand that he declined all responsibility in the case.
               "Leave all responsibity to me, sir; let us go, you shall be held quite clear of all blame. If we cannot agree as doctors, do let us agree as men."
               The whole family felt that the crisis had been reached. Harriet, in particular, felt herself trembling under a heavy anxiety, as she had been the means of introducing Dr. Hope,— a crime which the bitter Drug could never muster magnanimity enough to forgive. By extreme patience and gentleness, Lily was sufficiently raised in bed to enable the physician to take a second look into her throat,—a look which, he said, abundantly confirmed his impressions. Now came the moment of difficulty. The patient was so prostrate as to be unable to render herself any assistance; by a little arrangement, however, the physician contrived to insert an instrument of his own invention, and, after a tug or two, brought away the deposits which had been doing a deadly work in the sufferer's throat. The effect was such as to excite the most breathless astonishment, for hardly did Lily recover from the terror of of the moment, until she exclaimed in a vigorous whisper—"O God! what relief already!"
               A ray of the old fire darted from Lily's eye, and with it came hope and joy into the hearts of all who had watched her in the long weary hours of her sickness. It was the prophetic fire, announcing a renovated course. Poor Mrs. Hunter was never known to be so pleasantly excited; she hugged and kissed Harriet, and thanked God a thousand times. As for Zachariah, his joy was so bewildering that he utterly forgot the year he was born in, and never could guess what meal was due next. Mr. Jy, of course, took a philosophical view of the subject, and stamped furiously with the only foot he had to stamp with, while declaiming against the old medical school "with its various modifications and derivations."
               In little more than a month, Harriet and Lily were seen coming out of the gate on which the dying Octy had sometimes leaned. As the days lengthened and warmed, they often walked in the fields, and many a time, seated on camp stools, which had been forwarded from Polis by kind Mrs. Pearce, they spent hours under the flowering hedges, reading the book which Emily had given, together with the regular communications respecting Emily herself. Often, too, they walked into the churchyard, and for Emily's sake, leaned against the pedestal of the broken column, or tended the little flowers which were scattered at the head of the grave. Again and again, while standing on the sacred spot, they would rehearse the story of foiled love, or paint the possibilities of successful affection, and in either case, would, in imagination, summon Emily to their side, and cheer her with words of hopeful prophecy.
               Harriet became the greatest favorite whom the Hunters ever had. She admired their simple manner of life, and they honored her for a wisdom above her years, and prized her for a love which would have adorned and hallowed any age. Harriet's word was law in that house; not, indeed, that the gentle girl ever spoke like a lawgiver, but her very timidity gave her wishes greater dignity and impressiveness than had they been wreathed with lightning. Alas! there is in the earth a worm, invisible but undying, which extracts the strength and beauty from every tree and flower. The girls encouraged themselves with anticipations of a brightening future, but the vision was not more alluring than deceitful. All the light and beauty of the clouds did not come from the sun; in one cloud, so deeply and richly colored, there gleamed a fiery bolt, which suddenly and fatally fell on the head of gentle Harriet. It was not long after she had left Skulford, that she became sick unto death. Her sister Martha, who, it should be said here, happily disappointed her mother's anxieties, increasing in wisdom as she increased in years, sent Lily an account of the sad event, which we are permitted partly to transcribe:—
               "As you have so urgently requested me to give you, not only all the particulars of dear Harriet's death, but also some account of her early life—and knowing as I do that your wishes were sacred to her—I attempt to comply, though in doing so I must re-open many a bitter wound.
               "Harriet was just one year older than myself, and as Janey was so much younger, we were so unusually attached to each other as, for the greater part of our life, scarcely ever to be out of each other's sight. Our childhood and school-days and youth were spent together. Recently she has left home two or three times to pay brief visits, when it was not convenient for me to accompany her; but our longest period of separation tion was when she was nursing you, dear Lily,—you, whom she loved so well!
               "My earliest recollections are of going a-cowslipping with her—(we did not always live in Polis)—and our playing together under a tent which dear father used to put up for us in hot weather, and where, with dolls and picture-books and our old faithful dog, we spent many a long, bright summer day. I have a very vivid remembrance of her as a rosy-cheeked, bright-eyed child of, I suppose, five or six years. We used very often to wear blue merino frocks and white pinafores, and I fancy I can see her now in that dress, running along by the hedge-rows, and hear her call out in such a joyous voice, 'O Patty, Patty, come along, run! here's such a beautiful lot of violets.' Dear, dear sister! though only twelve months older, she would always volunteer to 'take care of Patty and find pretty flowers for her if she was good.' She would assure mother, in the most serious tones, that there was 'no fear of Patty being lost, if she keeps hold of my hand.' And she never changed. The same sweet affection which led her to 'find flowers' for me in childhood, developed itself in a thousand acts of love and tenderness—all of which come back now so vividly!—during the subsequent years of her too brief existence. O Harriet, Harriet, who will care for me and guide me now that you are gone!
               "I need not describe her personal appearance to you, dear Lily, for it is engraven on your heart. But, Lily, you did not know her in her brightest time; she was so busy and so lighthearted, until she met with a sore trouble. I don't know whether even she told you of it; if not, I will not divulge it—let her secret be buried with her; but it cast a shadow on her sunny face, and gave to her voice a strange tone of sadness.
               "There were no startling incidents in her life—nothing great or wonderful remains to be told; we lived happily together with our parents and brother, attending to the simple duties of our station, and trying to do something for the good of those who were less blessed than ourselves. We had few associates, and no bosom friend but each other, until you came to us, dear Lily, and that was indeed a bright day for us all. And then, poor Emily's case! I never knew her feel so intensely about anything before. She didn't forget her while lying on her death-bed, but made daily inquiry, and sent many messages of love and hope.
               "You know, Lily, that dearest Harriet left you on the Thursday,—we were all so glad to see her at home again, and not the less because she had left you well and happy When we sat round the fire that night, Robert said that home was like home again. Ah, how little did we imagine that during her stay with you, we had but known a foretaste of the long, long separation, so soon to take place,—a separation uncheered by the prospect of our meeting again, until we, too, pass beyond the boundaries of time.—Well, on the Saturday, she looked very poorly—we thought her looking remarkably well on the day she came home, and she said then that she was never better in her life,—she had, however, taken cold on Friday evening; she commenced to attend to her usual share of domestic duties, but about mid-day she went to bed, and never rose again. She soon became alarmingly ill. Our kind physician, Dr. Hope, used his best exertions, but skill and energy were utterly in vain. We soon saw that our grasp of the darling must be relaxed. From the first, she had herself an impression that she should not recover. Even before the doctor had pronounced her to be in danger, she had told us she knew she would die. But she was happy,—invariably happy. She urged us to rejoice with her because she was going home—once only did she utter a word that could be construed into regret. 'I only wish,' she said, 'that we could all go together,' but soon added, with most touching sweetness, 'Thy will be done on earth as it is done in heaven.'
               "Her sufferings were intense, but she was patient, gentle, and loving, as she had ever been. I scarcely left her bedside night or day, because she expressed a wish to have me always near her. On the evening of the seventh day of her illness, she seemed quietly dozing, and I was persuaded to go to bed in another room, mother promising to call me if the slightest change took place. In less than half an hour she came with the message that the darling was worse; instantly I was at her side, and oh! the altered face—such a shock—I could not forbear a cry of agony! I shall not harrow your feelings by a description of all that transpired on that awful night. Just at day-break she became calm, and seemed no longer to feel pain. The last, worst change of all, came swiftly over her lovely features, and we knew instinctively what was at hand. She signed to us all to kiss her, and after trying ineffectually to say something to Robert, she whispered, 'Farewell,' and when the last star faded away at the approach of the sun, our household light was quenched in the darkness of death."
               To this extract from a sister's pen, we dare not add. To see our own admiration of the gentle and benevolent Harriet expressed even in the choicest language, would chill and disappoint the gushing expectancy of love. No! We shall not attempt to put that admiration into words,—it is too deep and pure and reverential for any articulation at our command. It shall continue nestling and burning in the heart,—it shall be the inspiration of our service for the betterance of man, and the charm of our fondest anticipation of the solemn yet joyful future.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               NUMBER "THIRTY-ONE."
               MRS. PEARCE had, according to arrangement, and even with increased tenderness since Harriet's death, communicated with Miss Hunter respecting their common object. In every letter, too, there were statements which made Lily's heart leap for joy. Emily had found the Penitentiary by no means so dismal a place as a false report had led her to believe; and the ladies who visited the institution—Miss Belworth, Miss Kingrove, Mrs. Chaters and Mrs. Thomson—were particularly delicate in their mode of conveying instruction and inspiring good resolutions. Of all the lady-visitors there was only one who assumed any airs of superiority, but her influence was so completely overweighed by the others, that the inmates soon came to that state of heart which permitted them to let her talk on without paying the slightest heed to her prosy and supercilious dissertations. Emily was not long in the Penitentiary until the fact of her superiority was widely recognized. Her refinement of manner, sweetness of disposition, and elegance of expression, left no doubt as to her pre-eminence over all with whom she was associated. And this pre-eminence was most sincerely and gracefully accorded, though some of the inmates could, under certain circumstances, be most stubbornly and desperately self-asserting. Emily's heart must have an object around which the tendrils of her affection could encoil themselves, and she partly met this necessity of her generous nature by taking a sisterly interest in the conversation and resolutions of her unhappy associates. Many an insubordinate will she overcame by an example of cheerful obedience to all the regulations of the house. The matron could, with confidence, rely upon her sup port of discipline, as also she could intrust to her the manipulation of any delicate and important work. Many of the surrounding families sent their washing to the Penitentiary, and not a few ladies supplied the inmates with needle-work. Emily was ever ready to do her best in any department of labor, and never made the slightest scruples to fall into the humblest place of an inmate who had taken ill. In the heavier sections of work she was unable to do as much as many others, but in all the more tasteful engagements, there wasn't one who could approach her either in skill or perseverance. In all respects, she so deported herself as to win the highest commendation of the matron. Harriet had promised her that if there was anything which she would like altered, she would speak on her behalf to Miss Banshaw, but Emily never offered the slightest suggestion as to alteration or improvement, and when Mrs. Pearce made private inquiries on the same subject, she never heard a word that betokened anything but contentment and gratitude. The visitors, also, could not but notice the refined and lady-like behaviour of "thirty-one," and all of them, with the above exception, took a lively interest in her work and conversation. Some of the visitors were in the habit of talking to the inmates singly and privately, and in such interviews, "Thirty-one" never failed to make very deep impressions. Mrs. Thomson, already named, was an elderly and most benevolent widow, of ample income, who soon conceived a tender regard for Emily. She was no stranger at the Penitentiary. For a number of years, her habit was never to allow a Monday morning, wet or fair, to pass, without paying a visit to the inmates, saying a few kindly words, and examining some portion of the knitting and sewing. This had become quite a necessary part of her existence and her manners were so maternal and endearing that every inmate delighted in the approach of the venerable lady. She had been for years a liberal rewarder of unusual merit, believing that such merit should bear the seal of special commendation, but was never so thoroughly captivated as by the simplicity and gentleness of "Thirty-One." Whether it was that some image of a fled angel was brought to her memory by poor Emily was not known, yet she yearned over the child with a mother's fond affection, and could with difficulty refrain from an open avowal of attachment. She made particular and repeated inquiry of Miss Banshaw concerning the temper and behaviour of "Thirty-one," and in every instance received replies which deepened her own happy impression. Still, however, as a shrewd woman of much varied experience, she was anxious that Emily should be fully tried, and therefore reserved all intimation of the plans she was maturing, until the stated period of residence in the institution was within a few months of expiration. And to the termination of that period, it need hardly be said, Emily herself was looking with much anxiety. In what direction could she turn? She had never been accustomed to any menial service, and it was highly improbable that she could find admittance into any respectable family as governess, with such antecedents; what, then, would be the issue of the reformatory process through which she was passing? Would it be but a preparation for a deeper infamy than she had yet realized, or would light break upon her suddenly and reveal the path of honor and safety? She couldn't entertain the idea of business or school, which Lily in her enthusiasm had kindly suggested, for the proposal was surrounded with insuperable difficulties. While Emily was thinking on the one side, Mrs. Thomson was thinking and planning on the other. The good old lady fully comprehended the peculiarities of the case, and made a just distinction between a vicious disposition and a sudden or subtle temptation, and was prepared to give substantial proof of the depth of her convictions. Mrs. Thomson's motherly partiality for "Thirty-One," was fully and tenderly reciprocated,—Emily loved her soft blue eye and benignant countenance, and was always gladdened by the warm pressure of her liberal hand, so that the benevolent lady had but to state her proposition, in order to secure an immediate and most grateful acceptance. That proposition was that Emily should live with Mrs. Thomson, partly in the capacity of lady's companion, but mainly (as events proved), in the capacity of lady's child and idol.
               All Emily's acquisitions and tastes conspired to qualify her for such a position, hence it was with thrilling joy that she quitted the Penitentiary, and took up her abode in Auburn Lodge. As the light makes the shadow, so, often, our joys carry with them somewhat of sorrow, for all the olden inmates and all the visitors (with the exception aforesaid), while rejoicing in Emily's deserved promotion, felt the sadness of personal bereavement, when she bade them respectively a hopeful and grateful adieu. Time proved that both sides of the arrangement were sound. Mrs. Thomson thanked God for the daily expanding excellences of Emily, and Emily found a sweet peace in the maternal confidence and gentleness of good Mrs. Thomson. The days were only too short for the abundant joy which they afforded. Emily entered with filial interest into all the tastes and plans of her benefactor,—noting carefully what music she preferred, what books she liked, of what flowers she was fond, and in everything most eagerly accommodating herself to the preferences and sympathies of her new-found mother. She was quick, too, in the anticipation of Mrs. Thomson's wishes—a word was explanation enough—the half-expressed whim awakened every energy. So happy did the union prove that Emily resolved to bury the past and all its dreary memories: she would write a new volume of her life: the old should be interred, and no voice should wake it from its slumbers. The heavy clouds of remembrance and reproach rolled off, and the over-arching blue was to her as the open breast of an infinite protector. Her heart felt the reviving influences of a vernal season, and melodists of hope breathed their soft music through her soul. In this resolution she was warmly seconded by Mrs. Thomson, between whom and herself there were no secrets. The old lady insisted that the past should never be exhumed. Emily, she said, had found a place of repentance, and having, with all her heart, mourned her departures from the way of virtue, it was high time that the years of sin should pass away, leaving behind them only the solemn warning, and the powerful incentive to reparation.
               A little, selfish, heart would have given immortality to the past, so as evermore to have rebuked young aspiration with its grim memories, but Mrs. Thomson's was a large heart, that could never condescend to reprove by reproach.
               Life in Auburn Lodge was passing like an unruffled stream, when Roderic Purford, Esq., of Clumpton House, a few miles from Polis, renewed a life-long acquaintance with Mrs. Thomson. Mr. Purford's father had been well known to Mrs. Thomson, and so had Mr. Purford himself from his earliest days. The squire was a handsome man, with a large property, bordering upon or a little over forty years of age. In his youth he had cultivated that species of morality which is dubiously denominated "gay," but for several years he had now lived quite a reformed exemplary life in the paternal mansion. Every visit to Auburn Lodge, since Emily had been there, attached him more and more thoroughly to all that belonged to it. He so greatly admired Mrs. Thomson's collection of flowers, and so was anxious that the old lady should have every possible enjoyment in her declining years, and was so sorry that she hadn't a son to give a bolder outline to her simple pleasures, and was, furthermore, so dyingly fond of the music which Emily preferred, and in short, was so completely heart-bound, that he began to utter all the silly words, and do all the silly deeds, that men say and do when they are hopelessly in love. In his day providences operated upon a remarkably uniform scale, forasmuch as they occasioned a necessity for his appearance at Auburn Lodge regularly on alternate days, even if for a few minutes only; and as for Mrs. Thomson's books, he was borrowing them so rapidly that the old lady suggested to Emily the desirableness of making green curtains to put within the glass doors of the case, so as to conceal the poverty of the shelves. And then, too, what handsome presents he made Mrs. Thomson! And in what tender terms he conveyed the gifts! And what delicate appeals he made to her experience on various questions of conscience and casuistry, always receiving her answers with most filial deference! The old lady felt his kindness to be most overpowering; but though far advanced in age, she had not so completely foregone her feminine instinct as not to feel that possibly Mr. Purford was simply entering on a business ness-speculation, and that those numerous and handsome offerings were but skillfully-arranged devices for the accomplishment of a purpose not named.
               At this stage of the narrative, the cunning romancist would probably practise his craftiest tricks. Over the whole business he would cast dense clouds of mystery, and through a long and sinuous way, bring the perspiring reader to an unexpected goal. Instead of imitating so tedious and perplexing a conjurer, we shall adopt the prosaic and respectable creed that a straight line is the shortest distance between two points, and announce in every-day terms, that Roderic Purford, Esq., of Clumpton House, made proposals of marriage to Miss Dudgeon, of Auburn Lodge.
               "Mrs. Thomson, I must come to you for advice," said Emily, in an incredibly short period after the proposal fell upon her ear, "for I shall not take a single step without your heartiest concurrence,—now do tell me how to act,—I am your Emily."
               "Things do take odd turns, my dear, don't they? Mrs. Thomson kindly answered; "who could ever have thought of anything of this kind?"
               "Who, indeed?" Emily safely rejoined.
               "There are two things, love, which I should like you to look at; when Mr. Purford was a young man, I believe he was considered very gay, but, of course, he is entirely altered now—in fact, he is a thoroughly sober and prudent man; and then again, he is close upon forty, if not more—I really think he must be turned forty—and you are considerably on the bright side of thirty. I simply mention this, though I don't consider the age, in such a case, of much importance. I have no doubt he would make an excellent husband, and, of course, he has everything that this world can afford."
               "But, dear Mrs. Thomson,"...... Emily made a long pause......"you know what I mean."
               As Emily uttered these words, she was, despite of all resolutions, living the past over again, and the long-dismissed clouds rolled swiftly into view,—swiftly, swiftly, till the heavens were black with thunderous robes. Faithful memory! it grasps every moment of youthful history.
               "Yes, dear, I know what you mean," said Mrs. Thomson, with a look of most pitying love, "but you know that the matter you allude to was buried long ago by mutual consent: we have made up our minds upon that, and the decision must not be set aside. You know that you are good now, and have been good for a long time, and certainly there can be no occasion to tell Mr. Purford the particulars of a buried history; besides, I've just told you that Mr. Purford himself was once addicted to gayety, and yet has become a reformed and respectable man, and taking even that low ground of reasoning, why shouldn't you become a new woman? Is there anything impossible in that?"
               "Well, but, dear Mrs. Thomson," Emily replied, "I think society makes a very unjust distinction between man and woman in that particular; if a man gets wrong, many people seem to think nothing about it, or even to laugh at it, but if a poor woman goes astray, even under the most extraordinary circumstances, it seems as though she could never lift her head again in respectable society; isn't it so, Mrs. Thomson?"
               "Yes," said the lady, "that is a most wicked distinction, but I think the women have themselves most to blame for it."
               Emily was in no mood for investigating the causes of the iniquitous distinction, she was too much impressed with it as a fact in the social economy. After communing with herself for a moment, she broke out into a strain of remark which much affected Mrs. Thomson:
               "Oh! dear," said she, "this very joy makes me unhappy: I thought all the past was dead and gone, but this has made it come back, as though it had happened only an hour ago! You don't know, dear Mrs. Thomson, how it makes my head swim, until I feel quite sick, and it makes me wonder more than ever how you can love me ...... I thought it would have been all forgotten, yet it is standing there, and looking straight at me, like an avenging fiend, and defying me to attempt even to be happy again! I feel as if something in my breast was saying: "If you do, I'll tell, I'll tell"........ The missionary who used to preach in the Penitentiary, on Monday afternoons, used very often to say, 'The way of transgressors is hard,' and it is hard, Mrs. Thomson, so hard; if one does a bad action, it hunts one down to the grave—one can never escape it........Oh! dear, I wish Mr. Purford had never come,—we were so happy."
               Mrs. Thomson heard this burst of woe, with the emotion which becomes a mother's love, and at once proceeded in an expository and condolent strain:
               "You see, my dear," she said, "that there is one thing which you have forgotten, and that one thing is of the greatest possible importance; you forget that you are altogether changed, and it isn't merely a change of habit, that wouldn't be of much consequence, but it is a thorough change of heart. You know that circumstances may restrain us from evil for a time, and if we haven't the right disposition, it will certainly be only for a time; but when the heart is right, the case is altogether different,—don't you see?"
               "I know, ma'am, that I hate what I have done, and I hate myself for it, and though I might blame my circumstances for leading me into it, I am sure that I ought to condemn and loathe myself."
               "Very well, then, love, I take all this to be a sign of true contrition, and true renovation, and, therefore, I don't wish you to distress yourself so much——"
               "But don't you think, Mrs. Thomson," Emily inquired, "we should let Mr. Purford know everything about me, so that if we do marry, as he proposes, there may be no reflection afterwards?"
               "Certainly, my pet, we should have done so, if the alteration we speak of had been one of habit merely, but seeing that your heart is changed, I look upon you as quite a new being—you have passed through a second birth—and I don't see that you are called upon to go farther back than to that happy circumstance; I think we should do as the Most High does—he 'Remembers our iniquities no more forever.' Now I'll tell you under what circumstances I think you would have been, and, indeed, I should have been, in honor bound to explain everything to Mr. Purford. Suppose you had been here merely as a servant on trial, or suppose you had come direct from the streets to this place only a month or two ago, or suppose I still had suspicions as to your motives and wishes, in any of these circumstances we should have been called upon by heaven and earth, to inform Mr. Purford of everything; but just look how the case really stands: you have been on trial before the public for nearly two years—you have been in this house, under my own eye, for close upon two years more—everybody that has marked your course has been delighted with you—you yourself have spoken and acted as an honest penitent—I have the firmest confidence in your integrity—so that you are no longer on trial—you have been tried and accepted, and now, Emily, you are my own precious child."
               These words afforded consolation, though they did not quite remove the load from Emily's heart. They were, however, too full of love and sweetness to be permitted to pass without a recognition of their priceless value, hence Emily clung to the dear old lady, and blessed her in a stream of blessing for calling such a child her own.
               Emily reviewed, with all the speed of eager love, the various positions of the argument as she sat with one arm around Mrs. Thomson's neck, and couldn't but feel that there were certain difficulties to overcome, even if this central trouble could be entirely dissipated; and she felt how heniously and unpardonably ungrateful it would be not to recognize these difficulties in all their pungency and magnitude. Emily was not one of those self-sufficient creatures who can coldly receive a favor, as though she had a right to it, and confer one, as though she had laid the receiver under incalculable and everlasting obligation, but on the contrary, accepted every mark of esteem with the simple dignity of gratitude, and bestowed her gifts naturally and unostentatiously as the rose bestows its fragrance. The woman on whose shoulder her young hand lay was an honor to the race of womankind. She had been her saviour from present and eternal infamy, and by every law of heaven had won a right to superintend every change in her history. Never did purer love gaze on new-given life, or sweep over recovered character, or mourn by the bed of death, than possessed the royal heart of her venerable benefactor. Emily Dudgeon was never the girl to forget this. Her heart had a memory as well as her head, and every treasure which entered it never lost its brilliance through neglect. He who is forgetful of kindness in the hour of necessity, is as barren of virtue as the wilderness which heeds not beam or dew is destitute of winsome flowers. Emily's heart was a garden of flowers—the gleaming and the showering of love made that fertile heart blossom with untold beauties; and the stroke of a sunbeam evoked music from her willing lips. As she now sits there, she is intently musing on the difficulties of her position, and greatest of them all is that which will affect her relations to one who holds her in the blissful captivity of a loving gratitude.
               "Then there's another 'but,'" said she to Mrs. Thomson, "which must of course be taken into the account; you are my second mother and I am your second Emily; my heart is full of love for you, and we have been so long together and so happy, that separation is a calamity I cannot for a moment think of enduring; and I will not, whatever the consequence be, endure it. If everything else had been quite clear, this is more than sufficient to justify the refusal I have so steadily given. I cannot—cannot, will not, part with my best friend."
               "That is very good, darling Emily," replied the old lady, with all the tenderness of a mother contemplating bereavment, "but you see I am now an old woman, and musn't stand in the way of any arrangement which involves the happiness of your whole life-time—had I been forty years younger the case would have been different; and besides, I have been thinking that as Mr. Purford knows me so well, and has so large a house, he wouldn't mind letting me have rooms, and then we could still see each other every day; how would that do?"
               "Do?" cried Emily, "that will do! Now I can see light on that part of the subject! Yes, yes! O how I wish I had been the first to think of that!"
               Auburn Lodge heard much of this kind of talk since Mr. Purford declared his wishes, but specially much earnest talk upon the brights and darks of a revelation of antecedents. We have given but a single specimen of that talk, which drifted into all directions and assumed every possible complexion, because it would be tedious to pursue it through all its developments and ramifications. Six months had elapsed since Mr. Purford made his proposal, and many a little faint No had he encountered without surrendering his hope. On one occasion the eager appellant had a few words with Mrs. Thomson before his coveted one entered the room, and they are sufficiently indicative of character to warrant quotation:
               "But Mr. Purford," said Mrs. Thomson, "how can you think of marrying a young lady of whom you know little or nothing? Isn't it very rash on your part? Eh?"
               "Mrs. Thomson!" the astonished gentleman exclaimed, "you take my breath away! How can you say that I know little or nothing about her? Haven't I been most diligent in my attendance at this house during the last six months or more? Haven't I talked with her, tested her disposition, measured her information, and made a complete rule-of-three question of the whole subject? And then again, don't I know you? Haven't I known you from my boyhood? And I'm sure enough that you wouldn't have any one in your house as she is, that isn't A 1."
               "Thank you, Francis, all that may be as true as I could wish it; but just see how selfish you men are! Here am I, an old woman, happy with this precious child, and as I am tottering along to the grave, you come and try to steal the staff on which I'm leaning—."
               "Ho, ho!" Mr. Purford jokingly interrupted, "you 'tottering along to the grave!' O mother, how you do talk,—depend upon it, your totter will see many a castle fall yet—you'll bury a generation of young ones yet—."
               "Just so," the lady answered, "but that makes it all the worse for your purpose; how do you imagine I can live alone now that this darling child has been so long with me? I have no trouble of any kind now, for before I can get a word out she knows what I'm going to say, and if I want anything she's off for it before I can speak: you don't know what a patient, wise, gentle creature she is."
               "Then, don't you see, Mrs. Thomson, that I must be downright clever, in fact, quite a genius, to have fixed my affection on such an extraordinary mortal! What a glorious wife she will make for an old man! And as to your being left alone, that's easily settled: you know that there's range enough, for a flock of deer, in Clumpton House, and if your 'tottering along to the grave' has made you rather haughty, I don't see what's to prevent you from taking up your quarters there, and there you two could easily cheat a soft-headed husband like me, and make each other cozy enough. Eh, 'tottering' mother! How does that suit your notions of travelling?"
               "God bless you, boy," said Mrs. Thomson, "I cannot doubt but that it will be all right with me."
               "It shall be all right with you, mother, if you'll walk on my side of the road."
               By this time Emily was at the door, and the conversation turned off at a sharp angle when she entered the room. You know what it is to be suddenly interrupted by the absent person of whom you have been speaking, how at once you pronounce an opinion on the weather, or hum the tune you know best. Mr. Purford passed through this common experience as Emily made her sudden appearance, but a moment or two re-established his equanimity, and he was fully at work on the only subject which he deemed worthy of attention.
               "Now, Miss Dudgeon, I've come a begging once more, and I must have what I'm begging for;—I needn't say for the fiftieth time that I want you to be my wife,—now tell me what your answer is, but don't let us have any more Noes."
               "But suppose," said Emily, "that my answer is still No, how can I say anything else? I have heard that gentlemen's love is fickle, so perhaps you wouldn't always have the same regard for me."
               "What!" Mr. Purford exclaimed, "something more against the gentlemen! Where is the grim catalogue to end? Here's Mrs. Thomson been giving me more than a mile of indictment, and here you are with your calumnious reports! Upon my word, I don't know what kind of company you have been keeping, to hear such scandalous things: now who can have told you that? It must have been either a man or a woman, it cannot have been a man, for surely no man would so foully libel his own sex, so it must have been some poor heart-blighted woman who has met with an exception to the rule, and come to a wide conclusion from a very narrow range of premises; eh, Miss Dudgeon?"
               These words, though uttered with a laughing pleasantry, cut poor Emily as if they had been drawn swords; and gave her a confused and troubled appearance, which Mr. Purford couldn't interpret, but which was too well known by Mrs. Thomson. Emily felt, that to have a history so wounded and bruised that the falling of a harmless word may cause the acutest agony, is to be doomed to a misery which can terminate with life only. She must battle with appearances, and elude suspicion to the utmost. These inner commotions must be peremptorily hushed.
               "And then, sir," she continued, when self-possession partially returned, "you must remember that I am poor: I am quite dependent upon Mrs. Thomson, who has been more than a mother to me, for my daily maintenance,—I have nothing of my own."
               "But I am not poor," said Mr. Purford, "I'm not dependent on anybody on earth, and I shall see that my wife has everything that a wife can require."
               "And upbraid her, perhaps," Emily suggested, partly in an interrogative tone.
               "Not a bit of it, Miss Dudgeon, you don't know me, or you wouldn't say so; besides, don't I come to you with my eyes open? Haven't you plainly told me that you have nothing? And, which is more, I don't believe in fortune-hunting, for all my observation has gone to show that if you marry for the sake of money, without any regard to deeper questions, you always get something along with the cash that you would rather be without,—such money is often wrapped up in very prickly purses."
               So far, Mr. Purford made light of the difficulties, and Emily was half resolved to go through the whole list, in the hope that he would take a manly and forgiving view of her unhappy antecedents, but Mrs. Thomson's explanation of the difference between habit and disposition rose before her, and made her cautious. There was also another consideration: if she disclosed her whole history to Mr. Purford, and he should be so disgusted with her as to abandon his suit, he would have it in his power to bring endless trouble upon her by retailing the circumstances of her life in the various circles which he visited. The question, then, was not without its complications. The native simplicity of the child-like heart said, "tell everything, and trust for pardon," but her ill-gotten experience said, "be cautious, you are in a bad world, don't put weapons into other people's hands." In her dilemma, she determined at all events to creep to the edge of the precipice and hazard a peep—
               "But how can you know enough of me to warrant you in going the length you have gone? After all, we are comparative strangers."
               "I know quite enough of you," said he, "to warrant me in all that I have done. I have eyes, and ears, and understanding; and then I know Mrs. Thomson, and I am sure you wouldn't have been what she calls you, if you hadn't some special charms, for these are sharp grey eyes that are twinkling behind these spectacles; you must have had a ticket of some sort to admit you into this house, and if you hadn't been here, I should never have seen you,—so that you see how nicely things do hang together."
               "I am sorry," said Emily, with well-sustained gravity of countenance, "that you haven't so good an opinion of Mrs. Thompson as I thought you had——"
               The old lady looked up from her needles and said,—"Emily!"
               "Yes, you may well say 'Emily,'" said Mr. Purford, glad of the opportunity, the first he had taken, of uttering the name,—he felt he could utter it as an echo, better than as a voice, and in either way it made his lips tingle with secret pleasure.
               "Yes, ma'am," Emily continued, "I thought Mr. Purford had a better opinion of you;—and one thing, of all other things, is certain, that I never can have any regard for a man who takes a less loving view of Mrs. Thomson than I do myself."
               The accusation so perplexed Mr. Purford, that he began to recall his words, lest an unexplained expression should have escaped him thoughtlessly—
               "Miss Dudgeon," said he, after a fruitless search, "what do you mean? You must be dreaming! Or have you given way to a little extra wine at dinner? Haven't I just paid Mrs. Thomson a towering compliment?"
               "When gentlemen pay compliments," Emily retorted, "I like them to be honest. Words and deeds should go together like soul and body."
               Mrs. Thomson gazed, and Mr. Purford gazed, and in the gazing of both there was a most delicious bewilderment,—delicious, that is, to Emily.
               "And pray what have you seen in me that is dishonest?" inquired the accused, "if you'll scour this neighborhood round, where I've been all my life, I don't believe my worst enemy will call me dishonest, though plenty will tell you that I have not been so good as I might have been;—but honesty is an heir-loom in the Purford family."
               "It would appear from what you say," Emily replied, "that you have not always been good? Do I understand you to say so?"
               "You may safely understand that; even good Mrs. Thomson, who wouldn't speak a wrong word about Satan, without something like an apology, will tell you that."
               Mrs. Thomson looked at Mr. Purford one of those reproachful smiles which are intended to split the difference between conviction and acquittal.
               Emily proceeded: "Well now, suppose that we were to marry, and I should be continually upbraiding you about the past, what would you think?"
               "I should think you very unkind," was the prompt and frank reply. "I never like to be rutting among the graves— let the dead alone, say I,—if by-gones are not to be by-gones, people would be living in eternal misery. I think our business is not with what a person was, but with what a person is, at all events that is my creed."
               "And an excellent creed it is," said Emily to herself. It was so "excellent" as to shake her resolution to proceed farther with her own case. The weight still lay heavily on her heart, but she felt it sinking beyond her touch, whenever she made an attempt to cast it from her breast. The old definitions of habit and disposition came once more to her relief, and gave her courage.
               "What do you think of that, Mrs. Thomson," said Emily. "We must have all the conversation to ourselves."
               "I am sorry to interrupt you, dear," said Mrs. Thomson, "for you are proceeding with both sides of the question very nicely. I rather like Mr. Purford's creed, for without some such arrangement, I don't see how families could get along at all; the world, as he says, would be in continual discord, and everything turned upside down. As an aged person, I should say that wise people will learn lessons enough from the past to make them anxious to keep the future all right——"
               "Bravo, good mother," exclaimed Mr. Purford, "I knew we should have words of wisdom from hoary hairs! To be candid with you, Miss Dudgeon, I may say, that in early life I was not what I should have been, but now I've got hold of something better; can you forgive and forget? You know that young men will sow wild oats, but I'll sow no more,—my mind is clear upon that."
               Emily was eager to avow her views upon the subject, particularly as Mr. Purford appeared to be under the impression that she was hesitating in her answer, in consequence of his own confessions of gayety—
               "You know very well, Mr. Purford," she said, "that a woman always forgives a man, however bad he may have been, but as I was saying not long since to Mrs. Thomson, if a poor woman does anything wrong, she is condemned to continual reproach and contempt,—and I think that is too bad."
               "So do I, Miss Dudgeon,' said he, "women may get wrong as well as men; but for my part I believe that the worst of women are 'more sinned against than sinning,' in fact I have seen enough to make me quite sure of it, and he would be a miserable wretch who was always harping on an unpleasant past: but the fact is, Miss Dudgeon," he continued, changing the subject a little, "I'm a man of business, and therefore I'm anxious to get my business done, so now for about the hundredth time, will Miss Dudgeon—by the way that reminds me again that I had a letter from a person of that name in reply to an advertisement, a long time ago—will Miss Dudgeon, of Auburn Lodge, become Mrs. Purford, of Clumpton House? Will she? say the word!"
               This unexpected reference to such a letter naturally excited Emily's most anxious curiosity, and that feeling would have been at once detected on her expressive countenance (Emily's was a tell-tale face, remember) by one less absorbed in an engrossing pursuit than was Mr. Purford at that particular moment. Emily, however, could not rejoin the main line without venturing an inquiry—
               "Have you the letter with you?" said she, with that innocent confusion which is oblivious of all dates, "our name isn't a common one, and I should like to see who claims it."
               "It's a long time since the letter came," he answered, "and of course I don't carry such papers in my pocket; I did think, though, of looking for it, and showing it to you just on account of the name."
               "Do you remember the christian name?" Emily inquired.
               "No; I don't remember much about it now, and I should have forgotten it altogether if it hadn't been for the name: but you shall see for yourself some time, if you'll only give the right decision now."
               "But you've forgotten," said Emily, "what I said about honesty,—I said I should like you to put your compliments to Mrs. Thomson into action: do you forget?"
               "Aye, that was forgotten! It seems I wasn't very spiteful or it wouldn't have dropped so soon; by the way, what did you mean, Miss Dudgeon?"
               Mrs. Thomson once more interrupted her knitting.
               
               "If you can listen for two minutes," said Emily, I'll tell you frankly."
               "Mr. Purford gallantly declared that he could listen for a day, if Emily would engage to speak for that time: "go on, Miss Dudgeon," said he, I shall not tire of listening, provided that the last sentence—or the first if you like—contains the happy assurance that my plea is successful,—now do go on, for my ears are in a state of desperate anxiety."
               "You say, you have a great regard for Mrs. Thomson," Emily replied, "and you know very well that she has no companion but myself, yet you wish to take me away and leave her desolate; now what I wish to say is, that if you really wish to promote Mrs. Thomson's comfort, you must not think of separating us,—in fact, so great is my affection for her, and I must say it, though she is in the room, that no earthly consideration would tempt me to part from her,—now in this statement you have my decision."
               "Now, Miss Dudgeon," he replied, "will you look straight at me?"
               Emily at once complied, but not without apprehension.
               "Do you mean to say," he added, "that you didn't hear Mrs. Thomson and me when you came to the door of this room?"
               "Do you mean, Mr. Purford," said Emily, "to retort upon me the charge of dishonesty?"
               "Ha! I see! Just so!" Mr. Purford answered, "woman-like you meet one question by asking another: very well; it's pretty clear that a man has no chance in arguing with a woman, yet in this case I happen to have the advantage, for your suggestion comes too late: it is all arranged, that if your answer be right, Mrs. Thomson comes to Clumpton House, and takes up as much room as she pleases? What think you of that? Could the tenderest daughter require anything in addition? Now, once more, I call upon you for a decision that will pour gladness into the heart of your poor vassal!"
               Emily's difficulties were fairly vanquished. One by one her objections had been most satisfactorily shattered by the hand of love, and now not an excuse remained which she had courage to breathe. Still, indeed, the heavy thunder-cloud of the past was directly overhead, and still the horrible voice of defiance was sounding dismally in her ear—"I'll tell, I'll tell;" yet all circumstances demanded a final, and, if possible, an affirmative reply. Such a crisis doesn't occur more than once in a life-time. The heart quivers at its contemplation, and would gladly postpone the decisive word. Mr. Purford kept his eye steadily upon her, and Mrs. Thomson penetrated to the inner tumult without having power to hush the turbulence. Mr. Purford knew nothing of the spirit's wrestling. He could only wonder why it didn't spread its wings and fly at once to the ark of his love. Alas! we carry weights which restrain us in many a hopeful flight. Tears might be permitted in such circumstances without exciting unpleasant suspicions, and Emily availed herself of their sweet relief. Every drop was a voice to Mrs. Thomson,—every sigh, the breath of a sad history. The poor child lost the power of self-decision—purposely lost it, that it might devolve upon another: throwing her arms around Mrs. Thomson, she said "I shall do just what you bid me—I am in your hands—you know me altogether—take the responsibility of everything upon yourself—say the word which decides my life!"
               Mr. Purford sprang to his feet, and suddenly exclaimed, "Now's the time for singing! I know what a subtle old casuist our mother is! Come now, take yourself a son in your old age! Speak up! Your words are fate,—beware!"
               The old lady felt pardonably proud in listening to this double appeal. She sat in silence for a few moments, for the birth of fate should never be precipitated, and then, with the simple dignity which belongs to a multitude of years, rose and said, "what God hath joined together let not man put asunder."
               From that time things went on in their natural course; that is to say, wedding preparations were made on both sides, Mr. Purford being anxious to gratify Emily's taste in everything, and Mrs. Thomson entering into her share (which she made a very large one) of the business with characteristic benevolence and energy. Clumpton House underwent a thorough renovation. Upholsterers, painters, paper-hangers, carpenters, and others, swarmed the premises, and in little less than six weeks made the old mansion look quite new again. Mr. Purford intimated to the old coachman and butler that they would be required to get young again too, for he was not going to have his wife waited upon by antediluvians. This he said with benevolently pleasantry, for a kinder employer—indulgent in every sense—never had a servant to command. In less than three months after the day of decision, bride, bridegroom, and friend, started for Clumpton House, with joyous and most hopeful hearts. Emily stamped with unqualified approbation everything which had been done in anticipation of her settlement, and expressed her opinions with such grateful heartiness that no superficial observer could think otherwise than she was the happiest of brides.
               "There is one thing, my dear," said she, "which I should like to see; I mean the letter written by some one having my name—of course I mean my old name: have you got it in the house?"
               "No, darling," said Mr. Purford, "it is in the counting-house, but I looked at it again, and saw that it was signed 'B. Dudgeon:' it cannot be any one you know, for it was written from abroad, and I didn't reply to it, because the fellow didn't give any English references,—you see we must have men of character in our business."
               The wedding-trip was a continental one. Emily had never been out of England, and therefore anticipated the journey with all the excitement occasioned by the prospect of a new joy. They did not return for more than a month, having in that time had an exhilarating run through France and Germany. Previous to the wedding, it had been arranged that Mrs. Thomson should confide Ben's story to a most excellent clergyman, who supplemented his very modest powers of eloquence by spending the most of his time in what he called "pastoralising"—(without which "pastoralising," indeed, he couldn't have kept together the smallest congregation in the world; but with which,—never forgetting which of his parishioners had the tooth-ache, and which of them kept the best cup of tea,—he was able to keep together a number of persons, who enjoyed a sabbatic nap and undervalued the charms of oratory)—but who, at the same time, was a most conscientious and confidential man. Mrs. Thomson could trust him to any extent, and as she knew him to be "a great visitor," and to have an extensive circle of acquaintances, she concluded that he would be just the man to keep a look-out for Ben's return, and for that reason he was put in possession of every clue. Apart from this arrangement, Emily herself made good use of her eyes in all the continental cities which she visited, having a dreamy kind of notion that Ben would be sure to turn up at the corner of some street, or in the commercial room of some hotel; but among all the wonders and splendors which she beheld, the image of her exiled brother never fell upon her eye.
               So far, at least, Emily Dudgeon—Emily Purford—is safe. That fine-looking, handsomely-attired lady is mistress of the noble residence, the front of which you can hardly see through the dense foliage of those venerable oaks. To be with her and her husband as they meet after the business of the day, you would correctly conclude that many a joy-bird alights on their roof-tree, and that across their future some approving spirit has shed the brightest of light. Old Mrs. Thomson, too, looking as benignant as ever, adds a touching interest to the scene. On her motherly shoulders all responsibility of the union rests, and seems to rest quite easily. In all cases of difficulty her judgment is consulted, and when the balance trembles, it requires nothing more than the shadow of her finger to kick the beam. Mr. Purford became as much attached to Mrs. Thomson in her new relation, as Emily herself was, and long after the novelty of his circumstances had worn away, he spoke to her with a son's tenderness and ministered to her with a prince's liberality. Whence, then, can misery come? They are happy in each other, and happy in their surroundings. Wealth has done its utmost for the comfort and embellishment of the splendid home. All probabilities are voices singing of deepening bliss, and each hour reveals some new beauty in the character of husband and wife alike. Clumpton House, therefore, is too strongly barricaded to admit the demon of the veiled past,—it may lurk there at midnight, and tarry until wet with the morning dew, but can never find admission. Joy—young, sunny-faced, melodious joy,—is there, and at the flash of its eye the invading devil would wither away.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               RECONNOISANCE.
               YES, the reader is right in his conjecture that Ben Dudgeon was too clever a fellow to seek accommodation in Denton Forest, and is further right in supposing that he must have gone to a foreign asylum. He had, on the night of detection, hurried from Skulford, and next day was in full progress to the continent—too often the recreation-ground of accomplished villany. We have no means of tracing his detailed movements in the lap of Europe, but have every reason to know that he made it a point of conscience never to remain more than from six to nine months in any situation, and never, on his own side, to encourage more pay-days than he could possibly avoid. Having had a most liberal education, Ben felt the advantage of it, in being able to overcome with marvellous facility all the difficulties of language, especially those difficulties which related to a full communication on the subjects of buying and selling. For something like seven years, he wandered from place to place on the continent, and generally contrived, as he confessed to Tom, to lock every door behind him. He had not been altogether unsuccessful in money-making—principally because he had been marvellously successful in money-keeping—keeping it from the till of the tradesman. At length, weary of his dissolute habits, he resolved, at all hazards, and in utter ignorance of all that had transpired in his absence, to visit his native country; and having arrived in England, he took up his quarters at the Beech, near the village of Cumba, a few miles from Skulford, and there it will be remembered, he entertained the clergyman and received the note from Mr. Hargreaves. At Cumba, Ben had been well known to the young gentlemen who invited him to take the leadership in promoting Tom's education, and as they were familiar with the manner in which Mr. Hargreaves had forgiven Ben, together with most of the attendant circumstances, they resolved to treat the matter as a forbidden subject; never to allude to it in Ben's hearing, and to do all in their power to cultivate good fellowship. They believed that "spree" was the fore-ordained lot of human kind, and that the man who was independent of fun, or afraid of a lark, had better quit all the premises of mortality and make arrangements for finding a stool and pillow in some higher sphere. Ben was universally denominated "the jolliest of jolly fellows," and no young man in the neighborhood could compete with him, in all the elements which are supposed to constitute what is called "good company." For the concoction of a thrilling story, he was confessedly without a rival, and as he did not inherit his father's profound regard for conscience, he could, in the coolest manner, pile impossibilities into a mountain, and avail himself of any vehicle which had the knack of turning corners smoothly. Such were his original capabilities and disposition, and now that they had been enlarged, refined, and consolidated by foreign travel, there wasn't a man in the district courageous enough to dare him to controversial conversation. He would never own himself to be outmatched in anything; his mind was immovable on that. Had any man seen or heard aught marvellous, Ben was sure to have seen or heard something infinitely more surprising. Had any man performed some remarkable feat unheard of in the history of successes, Ben had often done precisely the same thing, with this difference, that he had always done it in half the time which the other man had mentioned. And his tongue; that fluent, rasping, dagger-pointed tongue! Hapless man, he who ventured to combat with Ben in talk! He made himself the more formidable, too, by the dangerous habit, before spoken of, of invoking his fists to aid his tongue, so that many a man who felt called upon by a prompting conscience, and a native independence of judgment, to take a position of his own, was occasionally banished from his logical premises by blows which were quite as hard in their way, as the words by which they were preceded. His bodily strength, as has also been mentioned, was prodigious, and his power of endurance all but inexhaustible. His temper, which was never lamb-like, except when talking to Emily or Lily, had not been improved by continental life; one wrong word was as fatal, in degree, as a spark falling on a magazine of powder, and in the moments of his frenzy, there was absolutely nothing too desperate, too tremendous, for him to attempt. In this matter he stood alone. He acknowledged no boundaries. He mocked the monitions of fear, and scorned the dangers of desperation. Provoke him, and he would die rather than surrender. Hazards which made other men quake, only gave nerve to his courage; limits which other men held sacred, he spurned with disdain. He was always more or less characterised by these features, but since he had lost nearly everything which saves man from diabolism, they were developed in most salient and frightful individuality. Such was the young man who received the note from Mr. Hargreaves, calling his attention to "urgent business."
               "You must go with me to Skulford, Tom," said he, having obtained Squire William's permission to keep Tom for a day or two under his own eye—the Squire having appeased 'Becca by telling her that young men should be sent to schools, for a time, where they would be cast on their own resources—"we must walk over this afternoon—you shall see a bit of Dudgeon fully a foot higher than you ever saw in your life—I am determined to go through with this business, and they that catch me may hang me. Ha! ha!"
               Tom couldn't see any particular pleasure in walking seven miles, yet, as he was born not to think but to obey, he meekly received the marching orders, and was ready to start with his master, for the time being, punctually at two o'clock. It was by no means a joyful journey for poor Ben, though he kept his courage on fire by brooding over the injuries which had been inflicted on Emily. Most of the road was travelled in melancholy silence. On they went together, until they came within sight of the churchyard, about two miles from Skulford, and half a mile from the house in which the Dudgeons used to live. Every step, then, became thrillingly interesting to Ben. The pain hardened, rather than softened his heart. The burning reproach was on his hot lip, and vengeance quivered in his clenched hand. The churchyard contains the briefest biographies that can be found in all literature, and, as he neared it, he wondered what histories might be traced on its pages of stone. "Born——died," between these poles what unmeasured oceans roll! The key-note and dying cadence are there, but what of the intervening notes? "Birth" is the gate in, and "Death" the gate out, but O the road, the road!
               "These beggars, Tom," said he, "haven't told me who's living or dead, so just let us pop into the churchyard and talk a little to the gravestones,—I like talking to them, they are so matter of fact."
               They wandered about the small inclosure until an inscription arrested Ben—
               "Aye, there it is!..... Well!..... True enough......'Robert Dudgeon died—aged—;' so he's dead, that's lucky—..... Old Conscience lies under there, Tom, he used to call himself my father, ha! ha!.....Who on earth are they going to lay in that grave so close at hand? Why there isn't more than six inches between the graves—I could knock my foot through the partition of sand...... I wonder where my mother is? Her name isn't on the stone, so she must be living,—I wish I knew where,—surely that grave cannot be meant for her? .... O Lord, this is a very queer world!.... Well, well, Tom, come along; I don't know how your throat is, but mine is getting awfully dusty, so look out for the next public house, and we'll lay the dust."
               Springing over the low wall of the grave-ground, they took the road once more, swiftly breaking off at an angle that Ben might take one more look at the old house,—the never-to-be-forgotten Thorns. He halted, in stunned amazement, before the well-known garden gate. What was attracting his attention? Was there a face on the other side, which Tom couldn't see? No. The matter was simple enough. Tom himself had scholarship sufficient to make his way through it. On the gate there was a neat plate of brass, and on it was written—"Marmaduke Chapter"—the very name of Mr. Jy's clerical rebuker!
               "However has he come here?" Ben soliloquized—"Old Chapter, the preacher! What freak of the wheel has pitched him into such comfortable quarters? It cannot be the same! But it is the same! There can be no mistake about such a long rambling name as that......Confound it, the world gets queerer and queerer.....We must take this on our way back."
               Tom was an admirable companion for a man who wished to indulge in soliloquy, for he never spoke, except when directly addressed, and there was no fear of his poor head carrying away any portion of the monologue. Tom, like multitudes of other negative humanities, was company without being society—who put Ben's body into the plural number, but left his soul singular enough. This assertion would have held good at any stage of the journey, but it is especially pertinent now that Tom is tired of walking, and as eager for "the next public house" as Ben is himself. Fifteen minutes brought the travellers to the Lamb and Woolsack,—a wayside inn less than a mile from Skulford. There, Dudgeon didn't fail to make the most of the best drink which the cellar would afford, saying to himself, with every quaff, "I must have a row with Hargreaves, even if he has forgiven me, which I don't believe;" and then, addressing the landlord, he would say, "''ticular business requires 'ticular preparation, and you must know, landlord, that I am in England on very ''ticular business.'"
               "Glad t' hear it, sur," said the landlord, who had never before been honored with a foreign guest, "for I've been here close on five 'ear, and ye are the best customer ever was i' the house—I 'ope, sir, your business will often bring you my way—we keep good drink, sur, we do."
               "Close upon five years," Ben slowly and thoughtfully repeated.
               "Yes, sur, or aboon that, maylike, for my head's bad at figures."
               "Like mine," said Ben, aside.
               
               "Howsever, we have been in the neighborhood all our life, nearly, whether we have been i' this one house five 'ear or six."
               "Perhaps you can help me with my business," said Ben, "as it relates to this neighborhood."
               "Yes, sur, I shood ken the most o' people hereabouts," said the landlord.
               "Of course you should," Ben answered musingly; "hum......ah,......just so......is there a family of the name of Hunter, anywhere here?"
               "Yes, sur, there's Mr. Hunter o' Skulford, sur,—he's a farmer,—he passed by here only t'other day."
               "Well, now, landlord, you have a knowing noddle, I can see;—are Mr. Hunter's children all at home? or have some of them popped off?"
               "Don't know, sur, what 'popped off' sin'ifies—d'ye mean 'married,' sur?"
               "Well, say married—that'll do as well as anything else—go on."
               "Yes, sur," said the landlord, "I believe a daughter o' his was married last Michaelmas twelve-month."
               "'Michaelmas?' And, pray, what part of the year is 'Michaelmas?' said Ben; "you see foreigners don't understand your English seasons."
               "Well, sur, Michaelmas happens in October, and it 'll be two year come next October, sur, Miss Hunter was married."
               "Well, what was her name?" said Ben; "now be sure about that, because I'm here on 'ticular business.'"
               "That I don't know, sur," the landlord said, with a half-frightened look. "I' fact, sur, I don't know one o' their names; we just call them Miss Hunters."
               "Would a glass o' rum help your recollecting faculties, landlord?" Ben inquired.
               "It 'ud do 'em no harm, sur—hegh, hegh."
               "Here, then........do you know anything of a man named Hargreaves?"
               "Yes, sur," the recruited host said, his big black eyes brightly testifying that the rum was operating; "him I do know."
               "Well, now, landlord," said Ben, "clap yourself down on that long-settle, and take another glass, but say brandy this time, for rum likes good company as well as you do: now tell me all you know, for you see how 'ticular my business is."
               The landlord obligingly complied with Ben's suggestion respecting the brandy, secretly glad that his wife wasn't there, for she always compared his stomach to a hogshead, and declared that he would ruin the house. Having wiped the eaves of his mouth, he became rather garrulous.
               "A very nice man, sur, is Mr. Hargreaves—uncommon nice gentleman, I call him—extraordinary pious—i' fact, sur, he tried to raise the tune at a field-preaching, down the road theer, but he stuck fast—true's as you are sitting there, he came to a dead stop, and some jackanapes began to sing, 'Hi come along, Josey,' right under his chin, and ga' the youngster a rattle on the back, that made stacker for a yard or two,—oh! he's unus'l pious, is Mr. Hargreaves,—my mistress is of 'pinion that he's a sight better sin' he lost his wife——"
               "Lost his wife?" Ben shouted, "what on earth do you mean? Has she run away?"
               "Yes, sur, she's run away, and she wonna run back, nouther," the landlord facetiously replied, trying to arouse Tom's appreciation of his pleasantry, by winking at him; "she's gone the wrong road for that, sur—some folks says, sur, that the devil has her, but, for my part, I never meddles wi' other people's private concerns."
               "But you don't mean to say she's dead, landlord?" said Ben.
               "Yes, sur, that's just what I did mean to say, sur, and if I said owt else, I tould a lie,—and the son's dead as well,—my missus nursed them i' their 'fliction."
               The "missus" had been bustling about in another part of the house, doing all the work with her own hands, as the scanty proceeds of The Lamb and Wooolsack frowned at the idea of having to maintain a servant. Ben called for more drink, and detained the "missus."
               "I'm asking about the Hargreaves's, landlady," said he; "your governor says you know something about them,—now tell me all you know."
               "It 'ud be more to the governor's wence, sur, if he 'ud go out and mind the cattle, nor sit there a-drinking and a-chatting wi' the customers——"
               "Hold!" said Ben, "he knows what he is about,—nobody talks to me without being well paid for it,—foreigners are not like Englishmen for that,—here, put this half-crown into your pocket, to pay for the time the governor has wasted with me: now, go on about the Hargreaveses."
               "But you mustn't make me no worse, sur, if I do," the cautious woman stipulated.
               "Worse? What are you dreaming about? It will be as good as a fortune to you," said Ben; "fire away, and I'll stand between you and 'worse.'"
               "Mrs. Hargreaves is dead, sur, and so is Mr. Octavius,—I nursed 'em both, sur," she proceeded, giving, first of all a front elevation of the subject, leaving questions of detail to come up as they might.
               "And isn't the old man dead, too?"
               "No, sur," said the landlady, "he's living, and a very good sort of man he is;—he wasn't allas though;—he's had a deal o' trouble, he has."
               "Aye," Ben said, "that's what I want to hear about, is the trouble; but, before you begin, let's have glasses all round."
               The landlord drunk his, as though he had been a teetotaller quenching his thirst in forbidden waters."
               "Why, sur," said the landlady, taking only half a glass, "he got wrong wi' a young woman, that was kind o' companion, or governess, or summat o' that sort, and that put Mrs. Hargreaves all wrong, and made her drink worse nor ever, d'ye see? And she got wrong wi' a young man of the name o' Dudgeon, and, to cut it short, I may just tell ye, she died mad; I were theer at the time."
               Here, the landlady fumbled in her pocket, and pressing her lips very tightly, gave Ben the impression that there were better fish in the sea than he had yet caught, so in went the net once more:
               "You say a young man named Dudgeon, now between you and me, he is the young man I want to get hold of,—I reckon that there's only one person who can straighten up his affairs, and that is the hangman."
               "Why, sir," said the landlady, as she cast a withering look on Tom and the landlord who were dosing, through the influence of the refreshment, "there's more opinions about that, nor one; in fact Mr. Hargreaves has quite forgiven the robbery, I know that myself, for certain, for ye see, sir, I didn't tell you afore, that the young woman as Mr. Hargreaves got wrong wi', was this here Dudgeon's sister, so I think Mr. Hargreaves wants to get right by forgiving Dudgeon: he wants to make a kind o' apology for what has happened, d'ye see? Now that's how I read it, sur."
               "Well, you may read it as you like," said Ben, "but if we can catch Dudgeon, he shall swing, missus, that's all; and if you'll help us to catch him, you'll have a reward that will go a long way towards making you independent for life;—I've heard that he made too free with Mrs. Hargreaves—now what is your opinion of that?"
               "I cannot believe a word on't, sir; she were a queer body, sir, were Mrs. Hargreaves, and awfully fond o' the drink—not beer or even gin and water—but neat brandy, sur, as a half-glass on't would knock me down; and my own 'pinion is that the thing were the t'other way about as respects young Dudgeon; but God forgi' me for speakin' such things o' them as I nursed and is gone,—but 'twere a young lady as towld me, I wouldn't know the man if he were a-standin' a-fore me."
               "A young lady?" said Ben, with a look of deepening interest, "and pray what was her name? Here's half-a-crown for you, and you shall have an apronful of them on the day that Dudgeon and the hangman have an interview—quick!—mine is 'ticular business!"
               The half-crown—the first money she had made in her life, for talking—was a better prompter, in her case, than a cask of brandy would have been, could she have drunk it—
               "Her name is no secret, sir; it was Miss Lily Hunter, of the Beech and Firs, as told me."
               
               "Miss Hunter," Ben repeated, "O, exactly, that would be the young woman who was married some short time back—your husband was telling me about it—you mustn't believe all she would say; I suppose she expected to get Hargreaves herself, and when she was disappointed, she began to spit fire at all the family."
               "Pardon, sir," the landlady replied, "but you are wrong theer—you see you are a foreign gentleman, and you don't know what English people do."
               "Trash!" said Ben, "what does it matter whether you are foreign or domestic? Hadn't we all one mother, that overturned the carriage and spilt all the family into the ditch?—Am I right in thinking that this Mademoiselle Hunter you have mentioned is the one who married lately?"
               "No, sir, you are wrong there again; there's only one man i' the world, and maybe not in the world now, for nobody as I knew ever hears of him or his sister either, ut she ud marry,—she's faithful enough, if everybody's like her such things udn't happen."
               The landlord was just recovering the effects of the drink and rubbing his eyes, as Ben said——
               "Well missus, now I wonder who that blessed one man is; of course, it cannot be that scoundrel Dudgeon, I should think she must be less of a fool than to think of marrying that graceless scamp,—don't you agree with me there, landlord?"
               "Hegh, hegh, I canna' say, I'm sure," said the landlord, "for lasses is odd sometimes; as old Bob, the stone-breaker, says, 'there's nothing so queer as folks.'"
               "Long life to his hammer!" Dudgeon shouted, "let us drink to that generous sentiment—here, missus, lead the way!—I think our 'ticular business will have a jolly ending—by my hat, I think I see Dudgeon taking his last swing—he'll go!—take my word for it, I have been up and down in the world—I've seen how scoundrels come in for it—this earth, though one of your domestic poets calls it a 'great globe,' is far too small a play-ground for a genuine rascal, so they are generally taken up into the air that they may have more scope."
               Ben laughed at his own skill, in putting solemn questions in an amusing light, and kept his glittering eyes in an upward direction, as though enjoying the superterranean antics of a knave.
               "He'll swing, sir," he continued, addressing an imaginary personage, "and a pretty swing he'll make, sir,—long legs, graceful attitude, he'll quite charm the old hangman, and make him long for a numerous race of such capering clients,—he will, sir!"
               The missus had her hand in her pocket, as she generally had when any striking question was before her mind, and looking demurely at the fender, she said, in a tone richly adapted to the subject,—
               "Do you really think, sir, that Dudgeon will be hanged! Do you?"
               Ben struck the crown of his hat smartly, and said in excited tones—
               "He's as sure to be hung, missus, as you are sure not to be hung, unless he can make up the sum he has stolen from a first-class and most generous firm on the continent: don't you run away with the idea that I am here on Hargreaves's business altogether—what you say about Hargreaves having forgiven him may be true or untrue, without having anything to do with the business I have in hand;—I want Hargreaves's evidence more in corroboration than anything else—I want to prove that he has been in the habit of robbing his employers, and if that could be proved, nothing on earth can save him from the gallows—nothing!"
               "Then I am sorry," said the landlady.
               "And so be I," her husband added pathetically, "for her weren't a bad chap after all, I've heerd em say,—more like a young horse, ye see, as'll kick and fling at a magistrate as soon as looking at him,—it's a sing'lar bad job."
               "But I think, sir," the missus resumed, "that if Miss Lily Hunter knew about it she ud try to borrow the money somewheer;—lors the poor silly thing is uncommon fond o' him, and if he was hanged it ud be the death on her,—I know it ud."
               
               "She must be a fool then," said Ben, "what! die for a devil like Dudgeon! What do the English women think about it? Have they no sense left? If she knew as much about Dudgeon as I do, she would be only too glad to put the rope around his neck with her own hands," Ben struck the table with both his hands, to show that his earnestness was not to be trifled with.
               "She ud be nothing o' the sort, sir, I can 'sure you," said the missus, "if he was twice as bad, she udn't hurt a hair of his head."
               "I told you lasses was odd, sir," said the landlord, pointing to his own wife as an ample illustration of his opinion.
               "Can she beg or borrow the money?" Dudgeon inquired. "Can you bring her here to-morrow, and let me know what she can do? If she can get this money, it may save Dudgeon from hanging, but for my part I'm not anxious about it, for I think it is a pity to keep such a knave above ground—far better clear off such vermin."
               The missus, though agreeing with this opinion in the main, saw cogent reasons why the case in hand should be regarded as an exception, and therefore she scarcely allowed Dudgeon to finish his sentence until she was ready with a promise—
               "Yes, sir, we can have her in this house to-morra, I should think, 'deed I have no doubt, if she's well, she had an illness some time back, but I know she'll come if possible, because if anybody says a wrong word about Dudgeon, she gets on 'splaining and 'splaining, to show that, after all, there was other people as was quite as bad or far worse than he was; I can walk to their place in little more nor a quarter of an hour, so if you'll tell me when you'll call, sir, I'll try to have her here, and I hope she'll ha' good luck wi' ye."
               "And so do I," the landlord added. "Lors, sir, ye'll be sure to like the little body when ye see her, and maybe she'll persuade you to forgi' poor Dudgeon for her sake,—she is a bonny talker, and has such nice ways."
               "Nice or not nice," said Dudgeon, "she can never persuade me that black's white, and I should be as bad as she is, if I forgave such a creature as Dudgeon,—mind you tell her so, before I come."
               "What time will you call, sir?"
               "Say twelve o'clock, exact: if she's later, it will be all up wi' Dudgeon,—you see when business is 'ticular, we're obliged to be punctual."
               Ben didn't care to go into Skulford until the shadows had gathered a little, and for that reason prolonged his interview with the principals of The Lamb and Woolsack.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               FACE TO FACE.
               "THIS is the old spot, Tom," said Dudgeon, when they had arrived at the front-door of Mr. Hargreaves's house, "we shall have a row before we come out of this, but mind you hold your tongue, and whatever you see me do, you must do the same." A pull at the bell immediately succeeded this instruction, and in less than a minute Ben and his innocent companion were standing on the old hearth-rug. Memory was instantly at work. Involuntarily Ben summoned the fled years—he recalled the images of the dead—listened to familiar voices, and gazed on objects which struck terror to his heart. It was but as yesterday since he last stood there, and yet the charming or repelling realities of that yesterday were forever gone. Seven years had not, in all their changes, erased the handwriting from the wall,—Ben read it, and his knees trembled. While the unwilling retrospect was producing a sobering effect upon Ben, Mr. Hargreaves entered the room, and looked upon Ben as if he had never seen him before.
               "Hollo!" was Ben's greeting cry.
               "Why, I shouldn't have known you, any more than if I had never seen you in my life! Let me shake hands with you," Mr. Hargreaves said.
               "Shake hands?" Ben answered, "no, never! Shake hands with a villain, who has ruined my sister, and killed his own wife? Never, I tell you! I have come for vengeance on you, Rufus Hargreaves, and vengeance I'll have."
               Mr. Hargreaves was sufficiently aware of Ben's disposition and strength, to feel called upon to make some arrangements, with a view to his own personal safety. Leaving the room for a few moments, he placed two of his men-servants in the hall, to be in readiness should their services be required, at the same time carefully instructing them not to resort to violence, except under extreme circumstances. They stood, accordingly, in the hall, the door of the dining room being purposely left open, to afford them instantaneous access in the case of alarm.
               "Now, Benjamin," said Mr. Hargreaves on his return——
               "Don't Benjamin me," Ben fiercely answered. "What a devil you are, Hargreaves! What a secret, designing villain you must be! I've heard a few particulars about you, but this is the night of your death! Mark that, Rufus! Ben Dudgeon has come for vengeance, and that is his only errand—he intends to pay an early visit to the gallows, but he cannot die happy until he has killed the destroyer of his beautiful and darling Emily."
               "Do sit down, Dudgeon, and have something to eat," said Mr. Hargreaves.
               "Eat! you villain! Haven't we had too much to eat in this house? Whose blood is it that is dripping through your ceiling, and making your bread like crimson? Whose voice do I hear calling from the upper room for vengeance? How dare you stand before me, and look at me, as if you never had a sin to be forgiven? How dare you!"
               With these words, which Mr. Hargreaves, by earnest gestures, had endeavored to interrupt, Ben made a rush at Hargreaves, apparently to fulfill his threatening, when the two men-servants sprang in at once, to save their master. No sooner, however, did the burly coachman advance, than by one stunning blow Ben sent him reeling into the hall again, and then swung his arms with tremendous violence, in beating Mr. Hargreaves and the butler. They were helpless before his frantic energy. Fire-irons, chimney-piece ornaments, and sundry articles, were thrown at them with desperate vengefulness, and even poor Tom, who looked on in dismay, without taking part on either side, was severely punished for his neutrality, by receiving a heavy blow from Ben, accompanied by a command to "kill Hargreaves." "He killed Emily, he killed his wife, he killed his son, and now we must kill him." Again and again did the parties close, and as often did the giant's arm fell the three antagonists to the ground. He raved till the whole house shook with the thunder of his madness: he screamed, "Emily! come down stairs and help me to kill him! Come Octy—come all of you—come men, and come devils, and slay the murderer!" With oaths which may not be written, and screamings which have no alphabet, did the madman continue his violence, until at length he dashed right through the window, and hurried across the lawn with tremendous rapidity.
               "Load the guns, men!' was Mr. Hargreaves's peremptory order; he may come back before morning, and nobody can tell where this may end. Oh! dear, oh! dear—for all this to come upon me so long after—O God!"
               "Who are you?" the excited coachman said to Tom.
               "Tom Mitchell,' was the luminous reply.
               "But who are you?" said Mr. Hargreaves.
               "Tom Mitchell," was the additional information.
               "Are you right in your head?" said the butler.
               "No, I'se not; I believe he has knocked my left eye out."
               "Then where do you live? Tell us something, man," Mr. Hargreaves urged.
               Tom was still holding his eye as he said: "I live with Squire William's father, not far from Cumba,—going to be a schoolmaster."
               "And what do you know about this base affair?" said the butler.
               "I only knows nothing but heterogeneous," Tom replied.
               It was regarded as evident from this answer, that nothing very lucid could be extracted from so dark an orb; so the men and women, in pursuance of their master's orders, began to gather up the broken glass, and replace the furniture, and, as it was a time when the distinction between employer and employed was overridden by circumstances, a vigorous conversation was prosecuted all round, in which Hargreaves was questioned and pitied and cheered by turns. It took the most of an hour to repair the damages done in the inside—that is, of course, the mere damage of order, to say nothing of material; but all their arrangements had not been completed, when Ben smashed once more through the window, and presented a spectacle sickening and awful beyond all delineation. He was completely bespattered with mud, and the perspiration literally rained off his immense moustache and beard, and every one was petrified with horror—absolutely motionless and helpless—as he placed on the table a skull, which had just been disinterred.
               "There, men! he screamed, "that gives you the cause of all our misery! That thing was the head of him whom I was obliged to call father—ha! ha! ha! father! and what a father! Never loved us, never caressed us, never won the confidence of our hearts; crammed us full of infernal catechisms; chilled our childish blood—look at that mouth, men. Out of that mouth we have got thousands of lectures, but when did we ever get a kindly word out of it? We never dare speak to him, never dare laugh, or play, or whistle, nor anything else like other children; and what has it all come to? What am I but a vagabond? Where's my trade? Where's my home? Don't you pity me? Where is my own mother? Where is my sister? Hargreaves! you wretch of wretches, where is Emily?" And so saying the frantic man dashed the skull at the now weak and trembling Hargreaves.
               Instantly both the men felled him with the butt end of their guns; and then, springing upon him, beat him most savagely, and at the termination of a most fearful struggle, accompanied by imprecations and yells which made the household shudder, poor Ben was securely pinioned on a bed.
               "Shan't we go for policemen, sir?" one of the men inquired, but the memory of the wrong which he had inflicted upon Emily restrained Mr. Hargreaves from seeking external assistance. It was a dismal night. After years of quietness no man likes to be awakened by the storm of vengeance. Long and fearfully did Ben rave, and most piteously did he entreat to be released from the pinions. "My head, my head!" the poor fellow cried, "O, this fire in the brain—it kills me—it kills me—throw water on my head—dash it on, quick, quick, bring it in pails, fling it all over my head. Oh! there's a serpent in my heart, it's piercing me—it's poisoning me. Oh! have pity, pity! See on that wall how the devils are grinning at me—they're coming—they have fire in their hands—they'll drag me away, away—save me. Stand around me! Fire the guns at them, see, see, they are just at my feet—fire. O, my Emily—dearest Emily! come and save Ben, drive the serpents off, Emily—there's green and red and blue. Oh! how horrible; bring the water, dash it on me. Oh, I see hell!" In such broken sentences did the delirious man express himself, while his eyes were rolling like balls of fire, and his breast heaving with convulsions. For a moment he lay quiet, but the evil spirit was in him, and the whiteness round the lips told how fierce was the raging passion. His teeth rattled violently for a time, and then were dashed into his protruding tongue. The men looked at each other in amazement and horror. Everything that could be conceived was done by Mr. Hargreaves and his servants to calm the tumult, but not until advanced morning did Ben fall into a heavy sleep. The skull, was, of course, promptly returned to the grave—(which presented a sight over which we gladly draw a veil)—and at an early hour confidential workmen were employed in repairing the ravages of the night. Mr. Hargreaves was looking at the future with acute anxiety, but his spiritless resolution could go no further, in the meantime, than to keep Ben a prisoner until he had vowed to leave the house in quietness. But why didn't the wealthy merchant at once appeal to the protecting law of his country and rid himself of the plague? Why should he tamely submit to a spoliation of his home, when he could speedily relieve himself of all embarrassment, and bring the offender to condign punishment? Aye, what was it that broke nature's famous first law of self-preservation? Only the memory of a great crime. In his heart there was a worm that cannot die; in his soul there was a harsh, piercing, ever-crashing voice that made him afraid of society—nay, that even made him a terror to himself. Only an inner calm can hush external storms. Tumultuous nature doesn't heed the voice of a tumultuous heart. Nothing but peace in the soul can breathe peace into the battling elements. Would Mr. Hargreaves greaves have submitted to these indignities had he been an innocent man? Never! But guilt dare not go out in the broad day-light to seek assistance, it slunk into the darkness and took the avenging blows with all the cringiness of the vilest cowardice.
               But the dreary night is gone. Ben is awake, the new day brings innumerable difficulties to the wretched master of the mansion. He knows that there is something worse than a wild beast in the house, and how to tame it, or destroy it, is a question beyond the capacity of his wit. The delirium has expended itself, and as Ben looks round in his sober moments he wonders how it is that he awakes a bondsman. He cannot, for a time, put the fragments of his history together. There is a hiatus for which he cannot acconnt. He can see a jut of his life yonder, and another here, but what of the interval? He is even yet, lost in dreams which cannot be interpreted—everything is unreal in his eyes; there are flittings of light and droppings of shadow; there are snatches of sound, and hints of images, with which he is more or less familiar, but as to time and place, and purpose, he is in blackest bewilderment. All this transpires, as it were, in the twinkling of an eye, so thoroughly can the soul in its agitations annihilate all consciousness of time. The spell was broken as Mr. Hargreaves cautiously approached the bed, but came upon him with something of its former fascination, as that gentleman took up the thread exactly where it had been dropped:
               "Now, Benjamin, do be reasonable this morning," said he.
               "'Reasonable,'" Ben repeated, with a look of perfect amazement, which gave a strange aspect to his now haggard features, "where am I?"
               "You are in Skulford, Benjamin, where you used to be years and years ago; and it's a friend that's talking to you, so do be quiet, and hear reason."
               "'Quiet,' man? What are you canting about? I am quiet,—and what reason do you want me to hear?—And where is my sister Em? Is she alive or dead? And how did you know that I had come back to England? I must know everything,—tell me!"
               
               "You shall know everything," Hargreaves answered, "I am a very different man to what you think I am—a good many changes have taken place, since you left—poor Octy is gone——"
               
               "And the way he spoke to me just before he died has made me quite a new man—I'm a widower now.....I did your sister the greatest injury, but God knows there isn't a thing on earth I wouldn't do to compensate her, if I only knew where she is,—if you'll tell me, Benjamin, what you would like me to do, it shall be done; she shall have every article of property I have in the world, and I'll spend my last days in the workhouse.....You can never know what I have suffered through the injury I did to Emily—I've had no peace, night or day, ever since it happened——"
               
               Ben could be most fiercely savage for a time, but he couldn't be sullen and morose. What Ben had to do, he did at once, and generally did it under the most terrific excitement. Like all other men of raging passion, he was easily subdued by tenderness. He had never seen Mr. Hargreaves in such a mood before,—the only Hargreaves that was in his mind was a selfish, rampacious, dare-devil, man of the world, who would crush down anything to attain a given end; but now that the former image was displaced by a man who was shedding bitter tears, and expressing himself in the most contrite and humiliating terms, Ben felt himself relenting a little, though he would not confess to any inward thawing—
               "Loose me!" said he.
               "But will you be quiet?" Mr. Hargreaves earnestly inquired, "we must not have any more disturbance, or there's no telling where it may end."
               "I'll be quiet," said Ben, who felt himself a good deal more exhausted than he could account for,—"but how did you know that I had come back to England?"
               "I got to know that," Mr. Hargreaves explained, "in a singular way. It appears that some clergyman had found out where you were, and he called here the day before yesterday —I think it was—but as I wasn't at home he left a note, stating that he had seen you, and that you were threatening vengeance on a person named Hargreaves, and as he thought that perhaps I was the man you meant, he wished to put me on my guard,—I didn't see him, and I know nothing about him but what I have just told you."
               "O indeed!" said Ben, "that's queer enough—uncommon queer—well, never mind;—are the Hunters still living at the Farm?"
               "O yes—they'll never leave here. They're all alive and well, I believe."
               "And don't you know anything about Emily?"
               "No, Benjamin, I don't; of course I've heard a good many reports of one kind and another, but nothing that I can place any dependence upon;—I believe that the Hunters know something about her, but I couldn't expect them to mention the subject to me. I wish I could find out where she is, and what she wants,—she may enter into the possession of my property to-morrow, if she likes."
               "Who lives at our old place—The Thorns—now?"
               "O, there's a great many changes taken place, since you left, Benjamin. Lord Clumpton has died, and when he was a-dying, he wouldn't talk to any body but Mr. Chapter, the parson, and he said that Chapter did him so much good that he must beg his acceptance of a check,—so he gave him a check for ten thousand pounds, and Chapter has dropped preaching, and gone to live at The Thorns."
               Ben had many more questions to ask, but there was one in particular that seemed to be adapted to Hargreaves's state of mind, and on which Ben was anxious to be set at rest.
               "And what have you to say about my old affair?" said he.
               "Nothing at all, Benjamin, nothing at all,—quite forgiven and forgotten. I have had sins enough of my own to think about, without thinking of yours,—say no more about that."
               Ben willingly accepted the advice, without a protest of any kind.
               "And so you are willing to help Em to any extent, do I understand you to say?"
               
               "I am, indeed, Benjamin, I am. I have nobody to live for now, that cares anything about me,—and I can assure you that though I have begged for mercy from God, I consider it to be my duty to do all I can to make up for the injury which I have done to her: she may make her own terms with me—I shan't oppose her in any one thing she would like, and I do hope you'll tell her this: even my own children have been taken away from me after I settled so much a year upon them, they are living in the west of England, where my wife came from.....O Benjamin, you have no idea what misery I have seen!"
               As it was now far past eleven o'clock, Ben ordered Tom to be ready in five minutes to return to the Lamb and Woolsack.
               Hargreaves having done all in his power to express penitence, and loaded Ben with promises, put a considerable sum of money into his hand, and breathed freely when he saw his two visitors hastening away down the main road.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               FAITH.
               "WHAT sort of man do you say he was? Was he old or young?"
               "Well, Miss Hunter, there cannot be a doubt but what he was a complete gentleman——"
               "Yes, and he had plenty o' money too," said the landlord, "he wasn't a native o' this country, that's sartin; i' fact I never see'd such a chap onnywheer i' this country side,—he was French I rather think: he act'ly didn't know when Michaelmas was! hegh, hegh."
               "Yes," the missus chimed in, "and he had sech a lot o' hair on his lips and chin; and there was a youngish man—i' fact I can hardly call him a man, but 'tween a man and a lad—wi' him, but we couldn't make much out o' him."
               "Softish, I tho't," was the inn-keeper's private opinion, "He was English, and I believe he came just to show the foreign gentleman the road," the landlady added.
               "Well, and what did he say about Mr. Dudgeon and the money?" Lily inquired.
               "About that, Miss Hunter, he spoke uncommon plain," said the landlady, "for I asked him over and over again, and he said Mr. Dudgeon was sure to be hung if the money couldn't he foond by somebody,—he did indeed," shaking her head.
               "But they cannot hang people for robbery," Lily replied, "that isn't the law, I know."
               "Jus' so," the landlord said, happily conscious that upon this point he could shed a ray, "but ye see, Miss Hunter, from what I can make out this genl'man hasn't come 'boot Mr. Hargreaves's money, but Mr. Dudgeon has been a-stealing in foreign parts, and I rayther guess from what he said that they can hing 'em theer for robbery,—that's wheer it is ye see."
               "God help them as isn't English," said the landlady, "for there's no saying what folks do as live abrode."
               The suggestion of the landlord took Lily unawares, for all her reasonings were founded upon the fact that Hargreaves had forgiven the robbery, but if Ben had been stealing in other places, she was too ignorant of foreign law to determine whether punishment could assume so decisive a form as hanging. You know what it is to be groping your way in a dangerous lane, and for a spiteful gust to blow out the light of your lantern? Do you! Then you can appreciate Lily Hunter's feelings when, picking her steps warily through this intricate subject, a sharp continental breeze puffed out the light of Hargreaves's forgiveness. This formidable aspect of the subject was undergoing earnest discussion when the landlord exclaimed—
               "Hush! they're a-coming."
               "Slip out, then, husband, and pop them into the front room, and I'll come in presently and prepare the way a bit."
               The landlord at once fulfilled the mission, and without at all entering at conversation with Ben, beyond exchanging an opinion about the weather, gave place to his wife who had undertaken the management of the business. The landlord slipped out and tried to compose the nerves of Miss Hunter, who was safely located in the back room.
               "Now landlady," said Ben, "it's life or death to-day: have you seen the young lady, and what does she say about the money? All depends on that—there's no time for words, we must come to deeds: it's money or death, anybody can comprehend that."
               "Yes, sir," said the landlady, "that's plainish; I be no scholard myself, more than a bit o' reading i' the Testament, but I can see jist what ye mean—and it's a great pity altogether, it is—I've seen the young 'ooman, and you mun speak ti' her as soft as ever ye can, for she's in a very poor way aboot it; you munna say more about hangin' nor ye can help, —but I'll bet a penny she'll do whatever she can for the young man,—she is a good un."
               "Will the young lady see me?" Ben asked; "it won't do for me to go across the sea, and tell my superiors that the landlady of the Lamb and Woolsack will bet a penny on the business,—we make tighter bargains nor that, if my head don't fail me."
               Ben gave Tom a wink, which might as well have been spared, as Tom's bruised eye didn't permit him to see what it had to do with the business in hand, and there was no time for explanation, as the landlady had gone to seek Lily.
               "He's more foreign nor ever, this morning," she said in a whisper when she saw Lily, "and I think they must have been in a public house or a row last night, for the lad's eye is all swelled, and his own arms look as if they was stiff and queer."
               "What does he say?" Lily whispered.
               "He says it's money or death, Miss Hunter,—he does so."
               It is needless to state that Benjamin Dudgeon's foreign life had completely altered his appearance. So thoroughly had he changed the style of his hair, and so luxuriant were his beard and mustache (on a face which had been innocent of hair in the days that Lily Hunter knew it), that those who were most familiar with his appearance when he lived at Skulford were altogether at a loss to identify him when he returned from abroad. His mouth was so hidden by the flowing hair that when he spoke nobody could see where the sound came from. Besides this he could mimic the foreign accent, either French or German, so perfectly, and intersperse his conversation so copiously with continental expressions, as to deceive the most of people as to the land of his nativity. In his approaching interview with Lily, he determined to muster all his resources, in order to baffle her penetration and test the true state of her feeling respecting her faithful but erratic lover. When Lily appeared, the sight well-nigh overmastered his resolution. The well-remembered eyes glowed as brightly as ever, though the paleness of the cheek was deeper than he had ever seen. There was a fierce struggle in his breast, but it ended in self-victory. With all the politeness and elaborate gesticulation of a foreigner, Ben bowed when the landlady and Lily entered, begging the former to retire, and imploring "Mademoiselle Hoontair" to be seated.
               "Onpleasant beesness this, Mademoiselle Hoontair," said Ben, hardly daring to look straight at Lily lest she should read the registration of his birth in his eyes, "and I should not have troubled you weeth it, but have been told that you know something of the pairson who has robbed the firm which it is my most distinguished privilege to represent."
               Lily was wonderfully calm, as, indeed, she always was on critical occasious,—"Do you know where Mr. Dudgeon is?" said she, darting rays of fire through poor Ben.
               "Yes, I do, Mademoiselle Hoontair,—he is where all such un, un,—dear, what is dat word—all unhonest people should be,—he is lying in de great gaol at Antwerp; and I do assure you, Mademoiselle Hoontair, that he is a, a, a thorough veelin—has com, com, committed all kinds of crime—and he is, I do once more assure you, Mademoiselle Hoontair, too, too bad for hanging up in de pure fresh air,—he has committed robbery,—robbery which is quite fearful!" Ben flourished his hands in the air to show how the sad information excited him.
               "Well, sir," said Lily, "what can I do; you talk in a most unmerciful way about hanging,—end my agony, I entreat you."
               "I hope Mademoiselle Hoontair will not entreat me: for de foreign heart is a, a, a cork heart, and it cannot be moved without a, a, a cork-screw; it would not do for men of beesness to have de common kind of heart, such as good woman has; and Doodgeeon is—really, Mademoiselle Hoontair, he is a debil, and must swing up in de air where they are no stairs to come down again upon."
               "Sir!" Lily cried, giving a smart little rap on the floor with one impetuous foot, "I want to know what your business is with me,—can anything be done to save my friend? Tell me, for I don't wish to prolong this interview."
               "You see, Mademoiselle Hoontair—don't fly in a burning passion—Doodgeeon brought all dis upon himself, and as we say in my country, 'Le vin est versé il faut le boire' 'he must drink the wine which he has drawn.'"
               "Are you going to tell me what I can do, or are you not?" Lily inquired, with decided impatience, Dudgeon all the while carefully shutting up his eyes, or in some way distorting his countenance, to preserve his incognito, "I don't wish to remain in the presence of a heartless man,—tell me what I can do to save my friend?"
               "'Friend?' Ho! C'est d'après cela un homme d'un vrai mérite; but you don't enough know of de man Doodgeeon or you would call him debil——."
               "If he has done wrong, he may have repented by this time," Lily interjected.
               "No, Mademoiselle Hoontair, you let your heart and not your head reason when you so say: bad character is like a bad title to property,—if it is once bad, time cannot patch it up, because dat is where the rule says: 'Quod initio vitiosum est, tractu temporis convalescere non potest,' so I should really advise you, Mademoiselle, to disown such a bad pairson,—shake him off your hands, Mademoiselle Hoontair, do!"
               "I don't want your advice, sir, upon such a point; and as you don't appear to have anything more to say, I must leave you."
               "Don't go in burning passion, Mademoiselle Hoontair," he entreated, "you must sign dis paper promising to pay Sevalko de Frinko & Co. the sum of one hundred pounds within two years of this date; if this paper be not signed by some respectable pairson, your angel will have to swing in a foreign atmosphere, and that is considared bad for the health of the human constitoosheeon."
               "If I sign this, will Mr. Dudgeon be safe?"
               "Upon my soul and conscience, Mademoiselle Hoontair, no finger can touch him if you sign dat,—he will be in England in one month after I get home."
               "Will you assure me of that, in writing?"
               "With the most distinguished pleasure, Mademoiselle Hoontair."
               "Then give me the pen and ink, and you'll write that first..... Now I shall sign it."
               
               While Lily took the document into her hand and was about to give another pledge of her loyalty to an unquenchable love for the far-away prodigal, Ben took Tom out, and said to the landlord—
               "Show me to a bedroom and lend me a razor."
               "Not going to do any mischief, sur, I hopes," said the host, in an urgent undertone.
               "Not a bit of it," Ben replied, "you may both come with me if you like,—come on."
               "Very well, sur, we'll go with you, for I'se all in a tremble; we mustn't have nothing up in this quiet place."
               No, no, Ben's idea was far enough from what the landlord contemplated, for his softened heart was bounding with joy as he dwelt on the heroism and the love of his Lily. Quickly did the razor mow down the hirsute crop, and speedily did the comb and brush recall the old form of the upper hair with the neat little twist on either temple; and so striking was the result, that the landlord said, without being asked for an opinion—
               "Now, sur, you are just as clean as an English genl'man, and uncommon like one in my 'pinion," and then he turned to Tom with a look which meant, don't you think so, too?"
               Ben returned to the room, and gently opening the door he found the lady looking thoughtfully out of the window upon the little field-garden. In his old tone, he said—
               "Lily!"
               The effect was electrical. The familiar voice was at once recognized, and the altered appearance left no doubt as to the identity of the speaker. At once Lily drew the portrait from her breast, and having handed it to Benjamin, the reunited lovers were locked in a fondest embrace and holding sweet communion in tears. Long-treasured, long-disappointed love could find no better language—rejected all other speech. When the emotion subsided, and the light scattered the clouds, the document was laughed at and thrown into the flames, and a resolution adopted to spend a happy afternoon at the Lamb and Woolsack. The landlord and his missus were given to understand who their guest was, and both expressed pressed the highest satisfaction that they hadn't said "one ill word o' Mr. Dudgeon."
               "No, indeed," said the landlady, "I wasn't a very likely body to say anything agin' Mr. Dudgeon, when I stuck up for him so well when Mrs. Hargreaves was a dying; aye, I did sur; I wouldn't let her say one wrong word about ye,—not one."
               The landlady would have been demonstrative of her satisfaction and delight, but Ben requested her and her husband to retire till they were sent for, and to have "a thundering cup of tea" ready for five, because he wanted them all to sit down at one table. There was, of course, a little fright on Lily's part, to get over; her nerves were slightly crumpled by the interview with the foreigner, but Ben declared he could "soon starch them and iron them out, and make them as good as new." He did, too. In less than a quarter of an hour the little lady confessed that she was "all but dying of joy," and all deeper communication was delayed for some minutes by the usual utterances of the spirit that lives at "The who'd have thought it?" The "Wells," and the "O dears," and the "well, wells," and the "O dear, dears," naturally enough came first, accompanying themselves with sundry natural twitchings of each other's hands, and pressures of each other's shoulders, and certain labial service in which men and women will persist in expressing their love: it was all unphilosophical and extremely nonsensical no doubt, but the historian must tell his tale correctly, whatever may be thought of the sanity of his heroes. When this preliminary business had been settled, the more earnest talking began—
               "Do tell me, Lily, what has kept you faithful so long?... So many years absent, and yet——"
               "An angel has kept me faithful," said Lily.
               "'An angel,' Miss Hunter?—not Mademoiselle Hoontair, no more Hoontairs for me—but didn't I manage that well?"
               "Capitally! I'm sure if I had tried, I should have broken down in the middle."
               "To be sure you would! You know that in cases of husband band and wife, the man should always be the cleverer chap, shouldn't he? Ha, ha! Well, but the angel, have you some acquaintance to whom I haven't been introduced?"
               "Yes," said Lily, so cheerily! "I mean just what I say; an angel snng to me and cheered me, and made pictures, and did no end of good things for me: such a beautiful angel, Benjamin, and I think you must have been introduced to——, shall I say him or her?"
               "Say her; I want no hims; that's what the ladies go to church to see, as the old riddle says. Go on about her, Lily."
               "Such a beautiful angel, I say,—brilliant eyes——"
               "Not so good as yours, I know," Ben interrupted.
               "And clear musical voice, and wings of light, and heart of love: can see through darkness, and walk calmly under the pealing thunder,—she's never afraid,—she can divide seas and crush mountains and melt rocks; beautiful angel, she is, Ben, cannot you tell me her name?"
               "You puzzle me, Lil; I never heard such a riddle in my life, and I've heard a good many, in various languages: I have no idea who this do-all angel can be;—name her Lily, and I'll love her for your sake."
               "Just one syllable," said Lily; "quite a plain name."
               "One syllable, eh? Why, there ain't much room in one syllable, as Squire Billy said the other night, for anything like poetry or fancy, or any twiddle-twaddle of that sort: I can't guess; name her Lil."
               "Her name is FAITH: now tell me what kept you faithful all this time."
               "That's soon told," said Ben, crossing his legs, and preparing to go into a condensed narrative of his foreign life. "I have seen a good deal since I ran away, Lil. I have been all up and down Europe, and the Lord knows where; sometimes I have been where I could have no more asked for a mutton-chop, than I could strike a light on my nose end. I have had situations in France, Germany, Italy, and Spain: I have gone into all sorts of company, and, between you and me, I have been obliged to leave a bill or two, here and there, without the landlord's acquitting signature, and many a time I've thought I should never see old England more. Such storms, jingo! You talk about pealing thunder and so forth, but you have no idea of a storm—you think if your umbrella is turned inside out by a gust of wind, that the very sky is going to crack, but what would you think of being on board ship when fifteen cows have been smashed to pieces, and thrown overboard just to lighten the vessel? And what would you think if you saw twenty horses walked into the sea, as coolly as you would walk twenty potatoes into the boiler? That's what I call storming! And yet all the time I've been tied to you, and many a time I've thought of what old Stephens the engineer used to say: he used to say to the young engineers: 'I'll tell ye, my lads, what the greatest power in the world is—why, it's a bonny woman! Ye may gan ti' the ends o' the orth, and she's sure to draw ye back again.' The old boy was right, too: you've brought me back—I felt you pulling and pulling at me wherever I went—there you were, tug, tug, tugging, and keeping me straight up, when I was likely to fall headlong into a boiling cauldron. I had faith, as well as you. I've been a rummish kettle o' fish, I know, but 'here we am,' as the old packman used to say."
               Lily listened with liveliest interest to Ben's story, carefully removing the hyperbole, by a silent internal process; and even Tom's eye (the right one) brightened with a momentary flare, as he heard about the shattered cows and the drowned horses. Tom allowed the "angel" to pass him, without a nod or a bow, but the sound of cows and horses awoke his slumbering attention. Tenderly, as only a true woman can speak, Lily said:
               "Thank God, you'll be better now. I am better than I used to be, and you may be better, too. You shall read the book that I've been reading."
               "Well, Lil," Ben broke in, "I must say, my stomach won't bear much preachment—I got such a sickening at home (home, indeed!), that it makes me feel all like as if I was going to turn over. You remember that old catechism fellow that used to bore us to death, in Skulford Church? Lawsey me! what ugly faces that old parson did make, to be sure! I thought 'Sattan' (as the dairymaid used to call the devil) had got down his throat, and was pulling his face-strings in a most wicked manner, for the amusement of the parishioners! And how the old style used to argue and argue, as though the gospel was the hardest thing in creation to explain; why, bless my life, do you think the great God would be so unkind, as to send down a gospel that needs all that twisting and arguing and defending? No, no, Lily, preachification isn't the medicine I want."
               "I know, I know," said Lily; "you didn't hear me. I'm not talking about a preacher, but about a book."
               "Oh! aye! that's capital;—this young sprout here is in want of a book: we're just teaching him two or three things, with a view of introducing him to one of the learned professions; aren't we, Tom?"
               "Schoolmaster," said Tom, looking at Lily, and given her the impression that Ben had forgotten the particular name. He then bobbed his head on one side, and was absorbed once more in his own thoughts.
               "Now, about Emily," said Ben; "let's leave books and preachments, and talk about Em: I know next to nothing; so you can begin anywhere."
               "Charming news about darling Em."
               "By the way," Ben added, "I've heard all about Hargreaves, so you needn't begin there: once over that road is quite enough for sore feet."
               "The fact is," Lily proceeded, "she went to Polis, and sunk as low as a human being can sink——"
               "Our Em?"
               "Yes; but some friends got hold of her there, and introduced her into a penitentiary; there she stopped a long time, and behaved so well, that an old widow lady fell quite in love with her, and took her home as a companion, and while she was living there, a gentleman, named Mr. Purford, also fell in love with her—as every body must do, that knows the dear creature—and in a short time she became Mrs. Purford, and now they're living happily at Clumpton House, a few miles out of Polis. Isn't that a romance? If we had read that in a novel, we shouldn't have believed it, but it is every word true."
               Ben's eyes flashed vengeance once more on Rufus Hargreaves: "You make me sweat now," said he, "I've heard part of this before, but I stopped the fellow when he came to the Penitentiary business, and wouldn't hear another word,—well, well! Is it possible! We must rub this stain out, some day. I must go and see her: what's the name d' ye say?"
               "Purford,—P, u, r, f, o, r, d."
               "Purford: I've seen that name, somewhere: I believe he does a great foreign commission trade, doesn't he?"
               "Don't know, but shouldn't wonder," said Lily.
               "Do you think she is happy now?" Ben asked.
               "O yes, she writes in a very cheering strain; I hear from her every week, and I needn't say that she never forgets to bring your name in and express some sisterly hope about you."
               "The little wench loved me, didn't she?" There was a tear in Ben's eye as he said this.
               "Yes, there's no doubt about that, and she would give up all her riches to-day if she could only save you and make you happy."
               "Bless her, I'll become a new man for her sake and your's, Lily,—we have had a world of trouble to go through, but perhaps it will make us stronger in the long-run."
               "Trouble has made me strong, I can tell you."
               "Well," said Ben, with resolution in his tone, "what is done cannot be undone, but I think it is worth a struggle to get out of this great gulf into which we have been flung,—I'll try—God help me, I'll be at the top some day."
               "Have faith in God, and faith in yourself, Ben, and one day, as you say, you will escape from the gulf;—you cannot fly out, but you may creep."
               "Do you think there is still hope, for a wretch like me, Lily?"
               "Yes,—I have strong hope."
               
               "Will you help me?"
               "Till I die," said the brave girl.
               After a celebration-tea which greatly delighted the host and hostess, the party broke up,—words of secrecy having passed between Ben and Lily.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               A FINISHED EDUCATION.
               THINGS had now taken ship-shape, and Ben found himself in a sunnier latitude than he had ventured to imagine possible for such a shattered vessel to reach. Everything seemed to assume quite a tropical aspect, and out of his long petrified heart the rills of better feeling began to trickle. The return-journey to Cumba was altogether a pleasant one,—the scales had now fallen from his eyes, and Ben saw in the landscape beauties which had never revealed themselves before: everywhere light was shining as it had never shone, and everywhere voices of prophecy were singing as they had never sung. Ben became quite playful with Tom, and promised him endless benefactions in the summer-time of life in whose first glow he was then rejoicing. Tom, on the other hand, became more communicative, and delighted Ben with many profound observations on men and things generally.
               Squire William, Hupper, and Jenkins, were of course, waiting anxiously to know how the "urgent business" had ended, and were not far to fetch, when Ben and Tom regained The Beech.
               "Where on earth has your beard gone?" one of them exclaimed, on seeing Ben's well-shaven chin.
               "Gone to pot," said Ben, "I found it was standing between me and an old joy, so I dismissed it as I intend to dismiss everything else that comes between me and what's good."
               "Hargreaves has made a methodist of him," Hupper said.
               "No, he hasn't: you are a lot o' secret fellows, ain't ye? You kept precious mum about everything that has happened it's true, I am forgiven, and the sun isn't done shining yet,— we must, my comrades, have a celebration of my second birthday."
               "But what cue was Hargreaves in?" Squire William inquired.
               "Singing?" Jenkins wickedly added.
               "Why to tell the truth," said Ben, "I never saw a man so changed in all my born days; I didn't tell him that, but certes he has shrunk away into a little old man: couldn't have thought it! He cried like a whipped baby, and promised to do anything I bid him do: jingo! I've seen the day when he would have wallopped me and flung me out at the door; but ye see the fellow knew he was wrong, and after all 'Sattan' needs only to be looked at and stuck to, in order to run away like a blubbering coward."
               "Don't you think we kept pretty quiet?" Squire William asked.
               "Couldn't have believed it; certainly you did behave like gentlemen."
               "Of course we did; if a fellow has once done wrong, is that any reason why he should be choked or hunted to death? Not a bit of it; let a fellow who is down have a chance to get up."
               This sentiment, uttered by Squire William, was loudly applauded as one that befitted the lips of any "Christian."
               "I say Ben," Hupper ejaculated, as if a new idea had just commenced tenancy, "what a novel your history would make! I wish you would put it on paper."
               "Aye," said Ben, "there's stuff enough in our history to make a library of novels, but where is the architectural and practical genius to come from? There's stone enough in Hag's quarry and wood enough in Denton Forest, to make a grander palace than any in England, but is that any reason why I could build it? It's one thing to have the stuff, Hupper, and another thing to put it together."
               "But I think," Jenkins meekly said, "that your stuff is good enough without requiring any very splendid way of putting it together. I should like to see it teemed down, though it mightn't be quite circular—if it's a little bit baggy on one side, who cares for that? I go in for kernels, not for shells."
               Squire William warmly supported Jenkins's view; "what does it matter," he said, "how it's put together, so long as the stuff itself is good?"
               "It matters everything, Billy," said Ben, "you are a very good chap, but who would think so if they altered your 'putting together?' Suppose they popped your nose under your chin, and stuck your teeth into your eyebrows, and planted your toe-nails where your teeth are now? It would be the same stuff, you know, but I reckon the putting together would make a sight o' difference."
               This anatomical illustration certainly gave Jenkins's theory a sharp rap on the head, but, as is usual in such cases, Jenkins declared that there was no analogy, and maintained that readers had the power of making an arrangement for themselves, and would certainly do it, if the stuff were of the proper quality.
               "Well, that's partly true," said Ben, "for the fact is, that in a successful novel you must have one of two things; you must have either beauty or mystery. A reader may be led on by witchery of expression, beautiful images, delicate painting, refined illustration, and all that sort of thing; or he may be made to quake by the presence of some undiscovered mystery. He may be all on the qui vive to know who or that is—he cannot lay the book down till he finds out about that man who made a noise in the dark, or the woman who always wrote in cipher, or the baby who was found in the ditch with a label round its neck; in the one case, all is clear and charming as a silvery stream running through acres of garden-land, and in the other, you have enigmas on every page, which keep your mouth watering until you know the answer; so I contend we must have either beauty or mystery in a great novel."
               "But isn't beauty itself a great mystery?" Jenkins inquired.
               "To be sure it is," said Ben. "There's no greater mystery on earth than beauty; that's just what makes Tom so great a problem to his admiring mother."
               
               Tom shook his head like an injured man.
               "My opinion is," said Squire William, "that as Ben knows so much about what is required in a great novel, he has been trying to fabricate one; eh, Ben?"
               "Well, gentlemen," said Ben in a confidential tone," as you have referred to this subject, I may as well confess that when I was abroad I did try to turn a penny by writing out my life, and what I said to you the other night about going to 'under the circum's,' was just a bit of the fiction I wrote, so I pray you to regard it as such. I tried to make part of my book true and part imaginative, but by jingo, no more writing for me, if you please! I'd rather curry a horse with a pitchfork than try to write a novel; that's the thing to do, gentlemen, if you want a sweating."
               Tom looked like an intelligent man when currying was referred to, and looked properly scornful at the idea of doing it with such an instrument as Ben had named.
               "Do tell us about your book," said Squire William, "for your life must be written by somebody."
               "Do, do!" every one cried.
               "Tell you!" Ben replied, "it would be a telling indeed! If you haven't tried to do anything of the kind yourselves, you can never understand me. I took a garret on the continent, about five feet by three feet nine, and when I tackled the ream of paper I thought I had a tarnation lot to say, but you could have knocked me down with a feather when I found that I had put every mortal thing into one chapter! Things all looked upside down like, just as if Tom were to put his hat on his leg like a stocking, or wice werse, as the dog-latiners say. I couldn't get any tit-bits to stick in between the raw facts—no nice little silver buckles with which the crafty penmen bind their paragraphs—nothing about shimmering lights, and towering hills, and beetling crags, and amber clouds, and bleating flocks, and all that sort of trinketry; I couldn't get a rag o'parsley to stick on the lump o' lean beef; when I began to describe a forest, O lor', I made it just like an immense stick-house, and when I came to tell the things I had seen, they looked so shabby on paper, that I heartily wished to goodness that I never had seen them; and as for turning the corners, I couldn't for the life of me sweep round one, so I just went plump up to it, at the risk of running my head against a pitch-fork, if anybody had been carrying one; no, no, gentlemen, my life must never be an autobiography. Some scamp that can swear black's white might make something of it, I don't doubt."
               "I can believe every word you say——"
               "I knew Hupper was good at swallowing," Ben whispered to Jenkins.
               "Because," Hupper went on to say, "I've tried myself to write sometimes, and I could never get beyond fifty pages, and then I used to count the lines and count the words, and reckon how much it would come to in print, if there were so many lines on one page; and you talk about me being good at swallowing, Ben,—I heard your whisper—but I'll be shot if there's a greater swallower on earth than a printing press! It nips up all your fat ideas, and then looks as hungry as if it hadn't seen one."
               "A capital remark!" said Ben, "it expresses my literary experience to a t. But where I was bothered most was in the dialogue parts, I couldn't get them into shape at all; my conversations were either like evidence taken down in a police-court, or else they were long, eternal speechifications which nobody but my own foolish dad would ever think of uttering. There was nothing round and easy and swinging and natural about them,—aye, my lads, the dialogue is the most touchy part; one word too much or too little, or one word out of twist, will upset the cream. It takes a rare long apprenticeship to teach a man how to snap a word in two in order to admit an interlocutor, and then to make the original speaker take up his tune at the half-note."
               "It does," said Jenkins, "and in the dialogues I always find that pathos depends, at least very often, on little things; now the other day I was reading about a poor fellow dying, and he says to his wife, 'who'll take care of you when I'm gone, Janey?' and you wouldn't believe how that little tender ending of the word 'Jane' affected me. If he had said only
                  Jane, I shouldn't have minded, but somehow 'Janey' made me cry like a baby."
               "I see," said Ben, "you are very wary how you expend your sympathy. If I showed you a dying monk, you wouldn't care a rap what became of him, but if I called him a monkey you would be lost in a flood of tears! But of course there's 'no analogy,' Jenkins, eh?"
               This brought a strong breeze of laughing around poor Jenkins.
               "Could Tom be brought up to authorship, I wonder?" said Squire William.
               "Never!" Hupper replied, with a guffaw which blew Tom into dark despair.
               "He's an ass," said Jenkins, whose theory about 'little things' had come to a dishonored end.
               "Don't say 'ass,' Jenkins," Ben begged, "we are prone to forget the importance, and in fact the dignity, of that unhappy word. Let me tell you that it is a vital part of our mother tongue; expel that word from our national vocabulary and mark the mournful consequences! Let it be announced to-morrow that a congress of linguists has determined that it shall nevermore be used, and what will follow? Why a lass would be an impossibility, every association would be uncrowned, the classics would be disembowelled, and every assembly in the world would be decapitated. The only benefit that would arise from its disuse would be the double retribution that would fall upon the heads of all ass-ass-inators; I appeal for an opinion to you, Thomas(s), for you see that such a decision would run away with your tail."
               Jenkins was particularly pleased to have a companion in the ditch into which Ben's monk had flung him, and he laughed heartily.
               "Tom might write a short history, some day, who knows?" the Squire said.
               "That's true, Billy, he may write something that will make the world quake; one line might set an empire a-blaze; your fifty pages, Hupper, might do ditto;—you know the Great Author of our Being has issued some little books that have made more noise than a library. Take an old maid, for example, which is a volume complete in itself, and see what has been the effect!"
               "If we wait till Tom lights a world, we'll have to wait a long time for a fire," Hupper replied.
               "Don't know that; things come suddenly sometimes. A chap like Tom may say a thing which many a hungry novelist would be be glad to hear. For instance, when we were coming from Skulford, says I to Tom, 'what quarter is the wind in?' and says Tom, 'it's i' the south,' then says I, 'how do you know it's in the south, Tom?' 'Why,' says he, 'because it's blowin' i' my face." According to that, of course Tom can change the wind just as he changes the position of his face, and I confess I wasn't scholar enough to help laughing at such a method of facing a subject."
               "Then the best thing to do," said Squire William, "is to get on as fast as possible with his education——"
               "But will you write your life, Ben," some one inquired.
               "O my lad, I have a splendid volume of my own in the portmanteau, but you couldn't make much of it at present, because as yet it is all blank paper; but when I do bring out a book it will be worth looking at—I shall spare neither pains nor expense—it shall have three coats of paint—every word of it shall be written at least three times over."
               "Remember, gentlemen," the interrupted squire continued, "no one here knows how the bill is running up, but I expect the fifty is on its last legs."
               "Then the best thing to do is not to go on with Tom's education, but to inquire about the health of the fifty, and to act accordingly—I must leave here the day after to-morrow," said Ben.
               Ben's suggestion was adopted, and, to the amazement of the whole company it was found that after paying for accommodation, board, and attendance—including the two bottles of champagne which Ben had, not stolen, but 'appropriated,' as a genteel prisoner at the bar once said, that the balance in favor of the party amounted to three pounds, ten shillings, and five pence.
               
               "Ho! ho!" said Squire William, with no feigned surprise, "Whatever shall we say to Tom's mother?"
               "Tell Tom's mother," Ben replied, "that Tom must whistle for the rest; that's the only plan that I can strike out."
               "You'n ha' to gi' her more money nor that," said Tom.
               "Thomas!" said Ben, laying his hand on Tom's shoulder, "you mustn't dictate to gentlemen."
               "Dictate!" Tom sneeringly answered, mistaking the word for the name of a fellow servant, "I can curry a horse afore Dick Tate can say his prayers."
               This declaration having been duly honored with the funeral rites of surprise and laughter, Squire William said—
               "You must go with us, Dudgeon, and explain the thing yourself; you know she's Irish, and will take fire in a moment,—my word! there will be a blaze: she wouldn't care a pinch of snuff to knock me down."
               "Very good! let's be off now, for I've got more 'ticular business on hand."
               "She's a volume complete in itself," said Squire William.
               In a short time the educational party confronted Becca, who had been frequently assured beforehand that Tom had been making amazing progress, and that there was no doubt he would turn out a thoroughly extraordinary fellow. Becca was consequently full of expectation that the tutorial party would now have a satisfactory account to render. She was bravely prepared to sacrifice the fifty pounds if Tom could acquire scholarship enough to fit him for a teacher.
               "You see, Becca," said Ben, "that unfortunately for the interests of society, Tom was born too great a genius to be within the sweep of our educational appliances."
               "Do you mean by all that, sir, that Tom will make a good master? Is that it now?"
               "Tom will be a splendid teacher," said Ben, "a downright splendid teacher of—horses, where they may find the pond, but I doubt his literary acquirements will end there,—he may be good for cows, too, but cannot say."
               All the tutors looked grave while their leader was giving in this report.
               "And where's my money?" said Becca to Squire William.
               "Of course," Ben said, "we've invested the money for Tom's exclusive benefit, and I can assure you we don't intend to charge one penny for the time we have spent."
               "Shew me the money, and then I can understand what you are saying," Becca sharply retorted.
               "Fact is, Becca," the junior squire was obliged tremblingly to say, "you know that the Scotch gardener always says that Tom has a slate off, but my private sentiment is, that the poor fellow hasn't a slate on,—so we've spent all the fifty except three pound, ten, and fi' pence."
               Becca looked wild, and as wildly demanded, "Is that all you have left out of my fifty pounds?"
               "It is, upon my 'bacco-pipe, Becca," said Ben, "I wouldn't deceive you for the world—that's every copper of the balance—you may grope my coat-pockets if you like."
               "Is it all? Is it all?" Becca inquired of every one separately, and when she found that the fifty had been reduced to three, she broke out into fiery denunciations: "ye're a lot o' murderin' villins and thiefs, and by the Holy Mother, drowning in boiling wather is too gude for the best of ye,—be aff, ye swindling scoundrels,—where am I to get the money back? Will you tell me that?"
               "Hush now, my good woman," said Ben, "and let me explain the difference between the tutorial and the professorial systems——."
               "Where's my money?" said Becca, "that's what I want to know."
               "Don't be a fool, then," Ben replied, amid murmured "hear, hear's," "and I'll shew you: my surname is not Dudgeon, but Cacus, born of Medusa, and when I'm at home in my cave, I always wear three heads, and of course I have three throats, and part of your fifty has run down those three lanes, and let me tell you that you are not Hercules enough to get it back again."
               "Troth, if I know one word ye spake, ye barefaced villin; will you tell me how I can get my fifty pounds back?"
               "Yes, I will," said Ben, "but, in the high name of an Englishman lishman (hear, hear), I must demand civility on your part (hear, hear). Civility is the birthright of a dog (great clapping of hands), how much more of a gentleman? It is true that my face is bare, but I would scorn to say—and so is your's (loud cheers). I've travelled much in the world (hear, hear, with great emphasis), and have seen many a face which was bare of everything but impudence (waving of hands), but I will not make any practical application of that circumstance to yourself. (Shouts of bravo!) I shall freely place at your service the benefit of my experience (cries of 'Go it, Ben'), and say, that when money has been lost in the way which you ignorantly deplore, I have heard the wisest economists recommend whistling, as the best means of recovery; and if Tom (loud cheering) will perseveringly whistle for the money, I have no doubt the Holy Mother (shouts of long live the Pope!) will give him both principal and interest; now do be quiet, Becca (hear, hear), and implore Tom to keep thumping away at the Holy Mother's organ of benevolence." (Deafening cheers.)
               By this time, Becca's clenched hands were planted firmly in her sides, and she was prepared to reply to Ben's insinuations—
               "You are robbers, big, hungry robbers (murmurs of marked disapprobation), and fire and brimstone is too good for such scoundrels (shame, shame), and the divvel will roast you all for robbing a poor woman (great sensation). You have drunk my money, and made a fool of my lad (no, no), and if you don't go away you'll be stealing the rest (sit down!) and I blame you, Squire William, because a gentleman like you ought to know better, and if you don't make the money good, I'll tell the master!"
               This latter threat excited a good deal of fear, though the youngsters made game of it. Ben was anxious to keep the junior squire right, and therefore promised that if nothing came of Tom's whistling, in three months, he would himself make up to him far more than had been spent in the educational enterprise,—a promise which Becca would not have so quietly accepted, if she had not still had in reserve an appeal to the venerable and sternly upright squire.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               RE-UNION.
               "NOW gentlemen, I must be off," said Ben, "I shall be back some time next week,—good health to you all till we meet again."
               Having recruited himself a little at The Beech, Ben set out for Polis, agitated by the most conflicting emotions, carrying on a most rapid process of self-assertion and self-contradiction, and reached the immediate vicinity of Clumpton House about six o'clock on a glorious evening in June. But the introduction? What was he to do? Serious consequences might arise if he presented himself suddenly before his sister. It was true that the clergyman had, according to arrangement, kept a look out for Ben, but he hadn't had time to communicate the result to Emily, and if he had it would make no matter to Ben because he was unaware of the whole plan. Mr. Purford, of course, was in happy ignorance of Ben's proximity to the premises, so that on every hand there were difficulties too steep to be surmounted at the first run. While reasoning on the subject, he came close to the monarch-oaks which flourished in front of Clumpton House. From this position he saw that the windows of the lower room were open, and could hear the hum of conversation without being able to recognise the identity of his sister's sweet voice. His heart fluttered more wildly than ever. The big drops stood on his brow, and his knees smote each other. Should he boldly advance? Why he couldn't if he were inclined! His coward legs wouldn't carry him! Should he retire for the evening and pay a morning visit to his sister, when her busband would be at business? Or should he drop a note to Emily? It wouldn't do, second thoughts reminded him, to retire for the night, for there were no lodging-houses within three or four miles, and besides he was thoroughly fatigued. Action, consequently, must be taken there and then. Resolutions were formed, improved, modified, broken, and re-arranged in quick succession. Could he have consulted the champagne he would have found a shorter route to his object, but in the absence of that inflammatory oracle he must pay his homage to a calmer genius, whose advice was to go directly to Mr. Purford, and found an offer of conversation upon the subject of the advertisement to which he had replied. It was accounted a lucky suggestion, and as he had spoiled many a bargain by listening to the dictation of after-wit, he determined to use the idea while it was fresh, and consequently, in less than five minutes, he was face to face with the master of Clumpton House.
               "I must beg your pardon, sir," said he, in his best manner, "for coming to your private residence, but the urgency of my business compels this unusual course."
               Ben slightly paused here, hoping to receive some encouragement to proceed, but Mr. Purford was one of those wise men who give ample opportunity to persons to exhaust themselves, before attempting to shape a reply. He, therefore, preserved perfect silence, simply looking at Ben, and saying by his sharp glance, "well, what next?"
               "I believe, sir," Ben continued, "that you are the gentleman who advertised for a clerk some time ago—or rather for a manager of one of your foreign departments——"
               "O," said Mr. Purford, "if that is your business, I needn't detain you for a moment—I don't answer business questions except at my place of business—but I may tell you that the situation was filled up long ago."
               "I am extremely sorry, sir," said Ben, "you may possibly remember—but perhaps you don't—that you had an application from abroad?—"
               "Why, really, the affair occurred at such a distance of time that it would be unsafe to say that I remember anything about it very clearly,—however the place is occupied, so I may wish you good evening."
               "Pardon me for a moment, sir, I have travelled a very great distance for the purpose of seeing you, and have had considerable difficulty in making my way, so I hope you will not consider me impertinent in asking to be allowed to take a little refreshment in the servant's hall? I shall be greatly obliged if you will permit me."
               Ben spoke so politely and deferentially that Mr. Purford could hardly see how to refuse the request—
               "I must say I don't like this sort of thing," he said, "I don't like it at all; privacy should be privacy——"
               "I shouldn't have ventured such an extraordinary request, sir, but for the peculiarity of the circumstances——"
               "Just so,—.... Well..... You must, however, leave the premises as soon as you have refreshed yourself."
               "So I shall," thought Ben, "but I shall want a nap or two after my refreshment, I reckon,—good-looking fellow—proudish, shouldn't wonder—he'll know his brother-in-law all in good time—it's well to begin at the first round of the ladder by going meekly into the kitchen."
               In this way Ben turned subjects over, as he was being conducted into the servants' department, in which place he used his eyes and ears with all the "discrimination" of a man who has warm business on hand.
               "Large place, here, butler," said Ben, after introducing himself to a plate of beef.
               "Yes, there's scope here," the old official replied.
               "Why, you must have been here for several generations; what age are you? Two hundred!"
               "Nay, nay, I'm only sixty-nine, but I dare say they'll be wanting a new one soon."
               "Good place to live at?"
               The coachman took the liberty of answering this question, while the butler pondered the humiliating fact that he had been mistaken for a tree of two centuries' growth.
               "Yis; o' late 'ears it's been a capital shop. We never were far off the mark in many ways, but our governor has been much changed for a good while back,—he used to be a swaggering chap, and pretty dashin' afore his father died—a downright smart 'un, I called him."
               "Aye! d'ye say so," said Ben, pricking his ears and weighing every word carefully, "what do you mean by 'smart?' I don't don't know all the words you use in this part of the country."
               "Oh, I mean swaggerish, ye know. Fondish o' company and such like,—often changing his sweethearts and so on, as any young man would do. But mind ye, he's all right noo,—yes, yes,—he's as right and tight as a push-pin," said the coachman, touching one of his white buttons whose complexion was slightly tarnished.
               "Married?" said Ben, in an off-hand manner, as he lifted the snowy porter.
               "Yes, and a nice lady, too," the recovered butler replied, for he was greatly attached to his young "missus," "no pride nor nonsense about her—it's as good as preaching, and a good deal better nor some preaching, to hear her talk to any of us when we are ill,—she is a good woman, is our missus."
               "Finest woman on earth, is that lady," the coachman added with equal fervor, "there's no bounce about her, as if she would drive you down,—she's as gentle as one of the doves."
               While this conversation was proceeding in the servants' department, considerable curiosity was being excited in the higher regions. Emily was not in the room when Mr. Purford returned, and didn't go in for a few minutes, but when they met, he said—
               "Singular thing happened since I went out, Emily."
               "Indeed! what is that? We are so uniform here that a singular thing is a singular thing."
               Mr. Purford had now to explain: "You remember my once telling you that a person of your maiden name had replied to an advertisement of mine?"
               "Yes—quite well," Emily answered, and the blood retreated from her cheeks, "yes—go on."
               "Well, that very man is here now——"
               "Here now?"
               "Yes; he didn't know the situation was filled up, and so he has come to make personal inquiry——"
               "Well!"
               "And I've done what I have a great objection to do, that is, I've given him permission to go into the servants' hall and have something to eat."
               "Well," said Emily, making a desperate attempt to bring her nerves into obedience to her will, "I must see him, if its only for the sake of the name—you do astonish me."
               Mr. Purford, though naturally anxious to keep the premises clear of strangers at night, saw the reasonableness of this wish, and at once sought to co-operate with his wife, in nicely arranging for a word or two with the stranger.
               "Perhaps I had better call him in, and ask him a few questions, and then you can take a good look of him?"
               This idea was not exactly to Emily's taste—
               "No," said she, "but if you will have him in, I can come into the room afterwards, and then it won't have such a formal appearance. How will that do, dear?"
               Ah! Emily, it was your gallopping heart that brought you so swiftly to that conclusion, and you know well that you have a secret object in making this circuitous arrangement.
               The pliant husband, though a wonderfully stern man on business subjects and in business hours, could never resist the suasive influence of his gentle wife, though he sought to maintain his nominal headship by proposing wild clauses in addition to his wife's suggestions, the omission or insertion of such clauses never, in the slightest degree, impairing the vitality, or diverting the current of the original proposition. A very fair example of this amiable habit occurred in the instance in hand. Mr. Purford at once agreed to the arrangement, stipulating only that "the young man should not remain for more than a few minutes, as it would be unsafe to encourage total strangers about the premises, at night."
               When sufficient time had been allowed for the young man's refreshment, Emily withdrew, that her husband might ring and order the servant to introduce him to the drawing-room. Poor Emily could not resist the desire just to have one private peep at the stranger, and consequently placed herself conveniently niently in a recess in the passage which led from the kitchen to the front of the house. She was going to manage the point with exquisite neatness. It was intended to be a kind of preparation for anything that might happen, though she was reasoning all the time that nothing could happen. Still, if it should be Ben, she would have time to run to Mrs. Thomson's room and take advice of her faithful counsellor. The arrangement would have been capital if her nerves had been equal to its execution, but, in spite of her heroic resolutions, her heart would flutter and bustle about as if it had extraordinary business in hand. She balanced herself on her feet, and felt sure that she could stand perfectly still, and draw a very long breath, so that she mightn't have occasion to breathe just when he was passing her. Such was her well-considered and unalterable (?) programme.
               But—oh! list!—tst! just as he was coming up to the spot she made an involuntary rustle which attracted his wakeful attention, it was all done in a moment, but as truly as this line is written, he ran up to his sister, flung his arms around her neck, and exclaimed—
               "My Emily!"
               The servant hereupon gave the alarm, and instantly Mr. Purford sprang to the scene, and roared out—"Villain!"
               "Don't! don't!" cried Emily, as Mr. Purford was about to strike Ben.
               Not a word of explanation would their excitement permit them to utter. Mr. Purford was left to form his conclusions. Were they husband and wife? Was this an old deceiver who had power over her yet? Was he himself the subject of a cruel conspiracy? Was this the explanation of all Emily had said prior to her marriage? The ground was hot and reeling under the poor man's feet.
               "Explain! explain! cried Mr. Purford, "or I'll fell you both to the ground."
               Still caress followed caress, and kiss came fast on kiss, and old Mrs. Thomson who had been attracted to the spot by the noise, could see nothing through her spectacles but mystery and ruin. The enthusiasm raged still longer, Mr. Purford being kept from doing anything violent by the protesting gesticulations of Emily's right hand; at length when the two encountering billows of love spent their force, she threw her arms around Mr. Purford and said:
               "Darling! darling! you are my husband, and that is my brother—am I not happy? He was dead and is alive—he was lost and is found!"
               Then came Mr. Purford's turn of bewildering gladness. He knew nothing of Ben or of Ben's story, but gathering that he was a returned prodigal, there came a long bout of hands-shaking and a heavy shower of "glad to see you's," and a sharp succession of "why didn't you come in straight at once's," together with manifold other exclamations of surprise and gladness, both general and particular. Mrs. Thomson took off her spectacles to attend to her grateful tears, and, in short, for a full hour there was a general rain. Emily gave her husband a rapid outline of Ben's career, carefully abstaining from any specific reference to Ben's sin or her own, and taking care by her tone to indicate to her brother, as nearly as possible, the boundaries within which he must confine his own disclosures. Ben was too acute to require any broadening of the hint, so he kept within the area which Emily had described. Mr. Purford's heart (though you wouldn't have thought so, to see him in business) was one which immediately responded to any appeal to his generosity and magnanimity. He had known something of several phases of life; and his experience, instead of involving him in petty selfishness, gave strength and nobility to his character. In addition there was the regal influence of Emily's love. He even bent under the delicious tyranny, as the flower bends to the zephyr which blesses it. And all that deep, holy, glowing love was on the side of the redeemed brother. Mr. Purford, therefore, was a hurried convert to the new cause. He would befriend Benjamin, he said, yes, that he would; he had it in his power to do so, and even yet, they should all be happy together. The circumstance had happened at a very good time, too, and he was glad for various unmentioned, but supposed to be profound, reasons, that things had happened just as they did. This brotherly declaration was succeeded by another bout of hearty hand-shaking, and then came that sweet mysterious feeling which creeps over the heart when it is suddenly surrounded with new and pleasant, yet hardly-comprehended, circumstances. Ben felt himself in an air of refinement and purity, which made him cower with shame as he recalled the scenes through which he had recently passed, nor did he know how rough and ungainly he was till he compared himself with his tender and lovely sister. How they longed to be alone! Each had a history thrillingly interesting to the other. Yet the seal of silence was absolutely necessary to their mutual happiness. Of course the first questions must be general, in such a company. Mr. Purford and Ben had as yet no under, standing as to each other's characteristics, and in the case of a returned wanderer, there was extreme danger of treading on delicate ground. Besides this, Mr. Purford did not know the reason of Ben's return; it might be penitence, it might be chagrin, it might be to replenish his resources, or it might be to inaugurate a better life; he knew not, but nobly hoped the best, and bravely resolved that the best it should be. Ben made no confessions then. All he could do was to cling to the dear companion of his childhood and youth, and pour upon her the long-pent stream of fraternal benediction. Most lovingly they caressed each other, and with infinite difficulty Ben restrained many a question. He naturally anticipated his sister's curiosity as to his means of knowing her present position, and took the first opportunity of whispering, "I have seen Lily, and she told me everything." Ben was glad enough to retire to rest, and on kissing good night, he said quite unthinkingly, "tah, tah." Poor Emily failed under these words; they were the words which he spoke to her in the garden at Skulford, the last for several long years that she had heard, and she couldn't but sink under the sad wondering and remembering of all that had transpired between the two "tah, tahs."
               Next morning, Mr. Purford made many inquiries respecting Ben's business-habits and business-views, and ended by stating that he could put something in his way that would repay looking at, and then with the thoughtfulness and kindness which must be born in a man, or it can never be displayed, he added, that Ben mustn't think of doing anything but talking to Emily that day, and that he knew they would like to be quite by themselves, so he would retire to business for the day, and hope to find them well and happy in the evening.
               The sun had not climbed far up the azure steep when Emily and Ben sallied forth to survey the gardens which more or less surrounded Clumpton House. Ben expressed the highest delight with everything that he saw, and clapping his hand on Emily's shoulder, said—"Em, isn't it all like a dream?" Em said it was just like that, and expressed a hope that there was no morning coming which would break the spell of the blissful fascination. Ben then related, without exaggeration, the history of his absence, and as he passed from scene to scene, he felt the waters of repentence rolling down his cheeks, and vows of better life burning on his tongue. Then Emily began to recite her buried history, and never till that moment did she fully realize how loathsome and horrible it was. For a long period, she had carefully kept her memory from walking across the burning marl on which lay her slaughtered virtue and her bruised heart and her blasted hopes, and now that she renewed its permission to traverse the dreary waste, the revived recollections sent through her frame a thrill of horror and disgust. Many events cannot be seen in their true magnitude at the time of their occurrence; the years must mark their outline and develope their issues. Emily felt that the past assumed a deeper and deadlier hue when brought into contrast with the present, and with self-hatred she called to memory her husband's ignorance of her debased antecedents. The fast-gushing tears bore witness to the contrition of her heart and the reality of her speech. For a time neither of them could speak. They wandered on in thoughtful silence until Ben mustered resolution to say—
               "And what of Octy?"
               Just then, the clouds presented a magnificent appearance. They were gleaming in all the pomp of nature's own gorgeous coloring. The light was edging the deeper toned clouds with ethereal beauty, while many of them were but radiant veils flung, as it were, over the more radiant faces of invisible spectators. In another direction many of the clouds seemed to be marshalled like white-robed angels,—back, back, back they stretched, till the delighted, but weary, vision was lost in the mingling glories; and underneath were a thousand islets, on which sentinel-spirits might have alighted, and cast supernal splendor. On every side were openings, as if they were sapphire-portals of an infinite and holy temple. It was a sky never to be forgotten, though too beautiful to be described. It stretched out into immeasurable tracts of light—fit environs of an Eternal city.
               Emily lifted her finger, without affectation, and pointing to the brilliant scene, said—
               "He's there, Ben; you never understood Octy, nor did I for a long time,—but he's yonder now, happy as the angels: he was unspeakably kind to me when I had no friend, no home, and his memory is like the odor of a crushed rose."
               A moment's silence, made reverent by many a sad remembrance, naturally ensued. Such reflections ought not to be dispatched in profane haste. You cannot recall the sainted dead, but surely their names should be pronounced with a lingering solemnity. Only a barbarian or a madman can gallop over graves. The light was softly penetrating Ben's mental atmosphere, as the angel of restoration hovered over him; that radiant visitor had come direct from the presence of the unseen, and celestial brightness was flashing from his mighty wings. And the evil tyrant was there, too, making a desperate effort to tighten his grasp on the quivering victim, and retain the throne which he had so long defiled.
               "I do believe," said Ben, "I shall be a better man some day: I am completely nauseated with all kinds of gaiety and dissipation: I have drunk at many a cistern, but the waters are very bitter. There must be better water somewhere. I have resolved again and again to drown life in brandy—to laugh life away—to charm it with music, and cheat it with false promises, but after all, there it is! It starts up in your face like a fiery creditor, and demands payment in full,—run where you like it dogs your beat everywhere, like a bloodhound that needs no sleep: you cannot run away from yourself,—you cannot—it's no use trying. But I shall be better—I cannot go on at loose ends this way—if Mr. Purford can make any arrangement for me in the business, I'll try to get out of this pit—but O, Em, its awfully deep and dark!"
               Emily was well aware of its depth and darkness, but to hear her own and only brother talking in this way about reformation! He might have come to her as a raging blasphemer, having cast off the sweet mastery of a sister's love, and determined to involve her in his own ruin, but lo! her love is as mighty as in the olden days when she bent him as a supple stem! she was silent—if we say silent with ecstasy, will the critic spear us?—while Ben uttered the noble pledge of better life: her joy was noiseless as a profound river, and not for some time did it meet with anything to break it into the spray of language.
               "You do so please me, Ben," she said, looking at him with the yearning and holy love of a gladdened sister, "I am so very, very pleased to hear you talk in this way: I could jump for joy—I feel as if every leaf in the garden was singing, and as if every flower had some good news to tell me—I wish Lily was here—she is such a darling—if it hadn't been for her, where should I have been?"
               "Aye," said Ben, "but that's just the way; if it hadn't been for this and for that where would anybody have been? It seems to me, you know, that there must be a God who drops down things here and there just as they are wanted. I have often tried to think there wasn't a God, just because I didn't want to have one, but all the time I felt how rotten and stupid the arguments were that I was putting together; and sometimes my hair has almost stood on end when I have seen how one thing happened after another. I have been a great deal up and down, and I'll be shot if there are not ropes tied round about a fellow which he can neither cut nor untie ..... I have made many a grand plan but before I could drive the screws in, an invisible foot has kicked them into the ditch .... depend upon it, we only see very little bits of things.. ... a fellow cannever be sure of seeing even to the length of his own arm ..... I've known the spectacles knocked off before your far-sighted philosopher has seen his way quite clear to do without bothering God to take care of him ..... poor Lily I wish she was here, too; she has a brave, kind heart, and would go through fire and water for either of us: you and she are worth living for, and only give a fellow something worth living and struggling for, and he'll quicken up wonderfully, just like a water dog which can be drowsy enough until there's somebody to save from drowning ..... O dear, I feel as any one might feel who comes into the sunshine for the first time after a long imprisonment ..... I'll just tell Mr. Purford everything."
               In this broken manner Ben kept talking as he walked round and round the garden, with Emily. It was urged, however, with great strenuousness, that he should be extremely careful in his communications to Mr. Purford, until, at least, he had seen his exact position a little more clearly. It was also urged upon him, with special particularity, that he should not make the most distant reference to any part of his sister's history, and to this he acceded at once. The brilliant day seemed to be but of a moment's duration, so completely were brother and sister absorbed in their anxious thoughts. Not even Mrs. Thomson was asked to share the first day's intercourse; it must all, by a pardonable selfishness, be considered sacredly and absolutely their own. In the softening light of the evening, Mr. Purford made his appearance as usual, full of all kinds of hints, plans, and suggestions respecting the future. He saw clearly, he said, how, if Ben went thoroughly into it, the business could be greatly extended in one direction, and had no doubt that in a few years, Ben might be able to sustain a partnership. In the meantime, he had resolved that Ben should be regarded as one of the household, and that they should promote each other's happiness all round to the fullest possible extent,—all form and ceremony had to be instantly banished, and the brothers must designate each other by their christian names. The welcome was made a perfectly hearty one,—no stiffness, no reserve, no side-looks, no finger-tips as an apology for the full manly grasp, but a downright genuine, all-forgiving, and all-comprehending brotherhood. This, of course, was exquisitely to Emily's mind, giving her hope that any discovery of her own antecedents would be treated with the same royal magnanimity, and bringing out charms in her husband's character which had not hitherto been warmed into life.
               The day following, Mr. Purford gave himself up entirely to Ben's concerns, having made his arrangements for a day's absence from the city. First thing in the morning, they looked over the live stock, and as Mr. Purford expressed his wish for a competent stable-lad, Ben took the opportunity of giving Tom a warm recommendation, as a slight recognition of the unexpected joy he had in dining and teaching at The Beech. And it may as well be related here, at the expense of a momentary interruption, that the recommendation was so strong, that Tom was soon introduced into the working staff at Clumpton House, having given no further intimation of the absence of the "slate" than saying to one of his fellow-drudges, that "it was bad enough, getting up at four o'clock in the morning, so he didn't know what it would be getting up at five." Tom proved himself, in point of docility and perseverance, worthy of the certificate which Ben had given, and was not long in establishing himself in the compassionate graces of the whole household. But to return: having made a minute inspection of everything at Clumpton, Ben accompanied Mr. Purford, on the next day, to the city, and had a little insight into the nature and extent of the business, carried on in a very town of a warehouse, which was completely packed with all sorts of goods, and swarming with porters, clerks, buyers, and sellers. Ben was too sharp a fellow not to see that there was scope enough for the highest type of mercantile genius, and as he looked on the possible sphere of his future operations, he felt all the quickenings and kindlings which flame up in the breast of conscious power. Then, too, he silently strengthened his resolutions, and as he placed the fiery cherub of a sacred vow to guard the way of his heart, long-absent joy sent intimations of her intended return.
               
               Ben spent a few weeks at Clumpton House, recruiting his health and maturing his designs, and then proceeded to Cumba and Skulford, to chat with his friends respecting the vision which scattered charms so bright and precious on a path, which for weary years had been lost in thick darkness.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE.
               "NOW, Becca, I expect your face will be one big smile, like a full moon, since I got Tom such a capital situation, eh? Yon's just the place for a chap of Tom's talent. His bread is now buttered on both sides, for three hundred and sixty-five days in the year."
               In this strain did Ben accost poor Becca Mitchell, whose complaining wounds had, indeed, been a good deal mollified by the interest which Mr. Dudgeon had taken in the fortunes of her son. For a long time Becca had been anxious to find an appointment for Tom, which would afford him something more than a morsel of bread, his engagement with Squire Williams' father never having been rewarded by more than food and lodging, as that gentleman was not in particular need of Tom's services, and by retaining them, was benevolently obliging Becca more than serving himself. This consideration, too, had immensely to do with Becca's unbroken silence about the fifty pounds, as she had shrewdly guessed that the Squire might avail himself of the occasion to send both mother and son adrift. Becca was by no means wanting in penetration and energy, and if she once resolutely undertook a course, she was not to be frightened out of it by any wandering shadow. Her hopes of promotion through Tom's scholarship having signally collapsed, it remained for her to stoop to labor with all possible patience and dignity, still trusting that a righteous Nemesis would not forget the injuries she had sustained. Ben spoke cheeringly to her, and bade her believe that even yet the sun would grow warmer and her staff bud with many a flower.
               "You are very kind, sir, to think o' my poor Tom, but for all that, I was very sorry to part with him, for he thinks there's nobody like his mother."
               "And upon my word, he's right there, Becca."
               "And what d'ye say the gentleman's name is?" Becca inquired, "I've been tryin' and tryin', till my throat's sore, to think of it, and I can't: I wish you would write it down for me, Mr. Dudgeon."
               "I'll write it for you, Becca, with pleasure: his name is Mr. Purford, and he's a gentleman, mind ye, and Tom will dote upon him, for all his servants are as devoted to him as can be,—just like the five dogs of Daphnis,—because ye see, he is an out-and-out gentleman, he hasn't only money, and horses, and cows, and coachmen, and butlers, but he has what we tried to give Tom, but Tom snuffed his nose at it, just as a cow snuffs at green water,—I mean he has education."
               Becca's organ of wonder was playing all its tunes at once, as Ben went through this unintelligible description of Tom's marvellous master.
               "And where does the gentleman live, Mr. Dudgeon? I have such a bottomless memory that everything drops straight through it on to the ground. I can never write to poor Tom, for I never had no schoolin' in my life; I've always been just a common dishcloth, that any one might throw into the corner."
               "The gentleman lives at Clumpton House, Becca, not a very long way from Polis, and a splendid place he has there, I can tell you,—Tom will be no dishcloth; if he's anything at all he'll be a downright handsome night-cap."
               Becca looked thoughtfully when she heard of Polis, and immediately inquired:
               "Is it any way near Wiggonton, Mr. Dudgeon?
               "Wiggonton?'" said Ben, with some surprise, "why it isn't more than two miles from Wiggonton—in fact, I don't think it is so much; you go straight through Wiggonton as you are going to it."
               "Then, sir," said Becca, "I believe I have heard of that very identical gentleman: I do believe I have: for I lived at Wiggonton when I first came over from the old country, and faith, I think I've heard of that gentleman, and he is a gentleman, as you say, Mr. Dudgeon;—well, I'm very glad that Tom has to look after his horses, for they'll be worth looking after."
               While Becca was proceeding, Ben was writing the name and full particulars for her guidance, and briefly replied:
               "Splendid horses, Becca; there, keep that—you'll be coming to see Tom some day, and perhaps you'll see me at the same time."
               Ben hadn't inclination to do more than spend a very short time with his friends at Cumba, so impetuous was his desire to return to the Lamb and Woolsack, that he might confer with his favorite flower. He could no longer place unquestioning confidence in his own judgment, so he kept every verdict in abeyance, until Lily had overhauled the evidence, and pronounced an opinion upon its merits. Though Ben had been trained in a school whose basis-law was, "Adam was first formed, then Eve," he was too royal-hearted to regard his chosen one in any other light than that of an equal: in fact, so great was his horror of the paternal notions, that he was inclined to dart to the other extreme, and pay more heed to Lily's intuitions, than to his own cumbrous and clogging logic. And not a few of the trowser-tribe would do well to imitate his example, and would do so, but for the regard they pay to the supposed necessity for those long and bamboozling processes, through which they wriggle in coming to their lame and blind conclusions. Their reasonings must be conducted at the old stage-coach rate, and the reasoners must call at every "pig and whistle" on their road, in order to refresh themselves. This tardiness they regard as the exhibition of a calm judgment: the less they do in an hour, the more credit they take for mental dignity; and they unite in hearty condemnation of those who can see their point at a glance, and do their work with the swiftness and silence of flying. Better trust a noble woman's winged instinct, than be philosophically syllogizing one's self into some abyss of absurdity. Yet some spectacled noodles have a marvellous partiality for any conclusions which have been come to through formal syllogisms, and think that by calling their reasonings logical, they establish their claim to validity. Consult your sensible wife, reader, if you wish to keep on the clear broad highway of common sense: don't call her unworthy of consultation, for that would be a roundabout way of calling yourself a fool, for making such a selection. He is a lean, stumpy, set-on soul, who affects to despise a woman's intellect; just a shabby, puffed-up, worthless wretch, whose head need not be smitten with anything harder than drumsticks. Do you, enraged bachelor, or chagrined husband, affect a sneer at this moment, and call the woman the lesser light? Be it so; she is then made to rule the night, and it is in the darkness and perplexity of intellectual night that erratic man needs most to be ruled. And, pray, who enkindled even the lesser light? Was it some incipient demi-god, who tried his 'prentice hand in imitating the sun? Or say, did not that very lesser light—queen of the nocturnal glories—flame forth from the very hand that launched the most dazzling orbs into the voids of space? Ah, if ye examine them well, you will find that sun and moon alike bear "the image and superscription" of God. Avaunt, then, ye miserable ones who are your own deities,—away! away! into the dark woods, where no footprint of woman can be found, and avoid the pestilence which it is your employment to denounce. He would have been fool-hardy who ventured to advocate any other doctrine to Benjamin Dudgeon, as he was taking his second tramp to the Lamb and Woolsack. Of course he was singing, "Britons never will be slaves," though, if the truth must all be told, he was at that very moment a greater bondsman than any of the sable progeny of Ham. But Ben deemed it a sweet bondage, and could well sympathize with the precocious urchin who exclaimed, "Capital punishment!" when the pedagogue condemned him to sit among the girls! Aye, poor slave! he trudged along right hopefully and joyously, notwithstanding his invisible fetters, and his having a deep cleaving curse ready to hurl at the heads of all kinds of slavery. And this is just the way the world swings round, isn't it? Men see the outside, and stone it right lustily, altogether forgetting that there is a region which never yet condescended to be put upside down in the human retina. Ah, these invisibles! After all, we were right in saying that they are our masters.
               Ben reached the Lamb and Woolsack, in high spirits, and hilariously reminded the landlord and his wife of his original visit. Of course Lily must be sent for at once, and of course Lily must reply, not only with her tongue but with her feet. Hasn't Love a nimble little foot? Does any "pig and whistle" tempt that earnest, hurrying traveller into the tap-room? Pshaw! Love looks a-head, and always wreathes a blessing round the head of the final milestone. We shall let the landlady have her chat with Ben, without molestation, and give our quill a rest until the Lily comes.
               —Here she is! You may see her planet-like eyes from afar. See how Ben bounds towards his choice! Chatter, chatter, chatter,—yes, get it over and come to business,—there! Ben means it now—
               "The day has broken, Lily! I tell you, Lil, that I feel as I never felt before,—in my breast it is just like the sun shining after a week's rain; and it all came by kindness. When I went to see Em and her husband, I partly expected to get an endless lecture about bad behavior and unbrotherly conduct, and all that sort of thing—in fact, I didn't know whether I should be honored to get even that—all the devil's perhapses went through and through my head like shuttles—perhaps she'll be ashamed of her prodigal brother, perhaps she'll set the dogs on me, perhaps she'll disclaim me altogether and give me into custody as an impostor,—it was very cruel of me to think all this about darling Em, but somehow all manner of poisonous suspicions came on in a tremendous shower, and my umbrella of hope was hardly big enough to keep me dry, but I thought if they do toss up their heads at me, and try to carry themselves very highty-tighty, I'll smash all the windows and have revenge somehow, and so I should, Lil, for you'll never tame a fellow that's worth taming by throwing half-bricks and paving-stones at him. However, things couldn't have been better. Em set off shouting and crying, and kissing and cuddling, and when Purford began to see through the mist, he nearly tore my hand with shaking, and an old wench yonder was as happy as if all her prayers had been answered in a batch."
               "And what did you do?" said Lily.
               "Do? What could I do? I just cried like a whipped five-year-old, and thought what a fool I had been to let the devil knock me about like a shuttle-cock. That's what I did, Lily, and I reckon I had no choice either. I can stand out against anything but kindness. What does the ice do, when the sun kisses it? Why it just runs away and tells the secret to every root that stands in the way,—doesn't it?"
               "And I suppose that's what you are doing to me now," said Lily.
               "Exactly! I'm a thawed icicle, telling my best secret to the fairest of fair flowers."
               Lily was-not cast in what would be strictly called a poetical mould, yet she imagined that Ben was rather inclined to a flowery method of narrating his visit to Clumpton House. But Lily was willing that the case should be made out either in prose or poetry, so long as Ben was happy and hopeful,—so long as a new, clear light fell full on his open, manly countenance, and was thence reflected to her own.
               Ben broke the conversation here for a moment that he might make an inquiry or two, in which the reader may have occasion to be interested by and by.
               "By the way, Lily, I have been shamefully unbrotherly in not asking about Jy. How is the philosopher arranging his ideas now?"
               "About the same, I think, with the exception that he has been getting off such a number of the hardest words in the language; and I have only two objections to his using them,—the first is his barbarous pronunciation, and the second, the total misapplication he makes of them."
               "Ah, he'll be Jy to the end of the chapter; we'll have some fun with him yet,—I have a plan in my head for bringing out his genius."
               "When I have more time, I shall make you laugh by telling you how he blunders——"
               "Just so; then, as your time is limited, we had better look at our own concerns. My idea is to get into business of some sort with Purford. Let me try that for a bit, and then, if the sailing's pretty smooth, you must come into the boat and take an oar. But tell me now, Lily, dare you marry such a scapegrace? Dare you take a husband that hasn't a rag of character? Now is the time to make up your mind! Are you not afraid that some vexed demon will capsize the boat? It's no use going to the altar and talking about for better or for worse, when it may be all worse and no better."
               "I thought I had answered all such questions long ago. What was the meaning of seven years of hoping? What was the meaning of seven years of suffering? Don't trifle with these things, my Ben."
               "That'll do! that'll do! You've answered me now; 'my Ben!' bravo! my Lily."
               "Did Emily mention my name?" Lily inquired, "but I suppose you would be so busy as not to have time."
               "Of course we didn't think of mentioning you,—O no, we dwelt on higher themes—we took stellar flights, and supersolar ranges: you are a pretty sly character, too; you want to know what our joint opinion of you was, eh? Wasn't there time in a whole month to think of you? Not mention your name, indeed! Could we dine without salt? Could we see without light? Why, I mentioned you the very first night, and the next day we had you married and settled, and happy forever and ever—Amen: I can tell you Em went into that part of the business with proper enthusiasm."
               "Yes, I have no doubt about our being happy; but of course we shall be in a very different position from Emily: you know we have our way to make in the world, and though I have no money of my own, I shall try to save yours for you, and that is the next best thing."
               "Capital! that's an idea that never struck my pate! O what glorious ideas pass over my cranium without ever coming in! Don't you see, Lil, that I have hardly a penny in the world to fee a barber with? But haven't I this head, and all these fingers, and a constitution which never complains of being tired? I call these things a fortune. I have no faith in your jim-crankies that cannot sup their boiley without a silver spoon and bib, and tucker,—not a bit!"
               "No more have I," said Lily, "and I feel glad that I have had the kind of training which my mother has given me; she would insist that we should know how to work, and how to keep a house, and how to manage things economically, and I feel the benefit of it now,—I'm not afraid to undertake housekeeping, and be my own servant till we can afford to keep one."
               "That's glorious, Lil, glorious; and I'll tell you what I have made my mind up to—I shall not let Purford show me the slightest partiality on account of being my brother-in-law. I shall take any place in his warehouse, however low, and shall not have one penny more for doing the work than he would give to the greatest stranger,—I'm determined upon that, so that if we do rise, it shall be by industry and not by patronage; I like to eat the bread I've worked for,—homemade butter is the sweetest."
               "I honor you for that spirit, Ben; it must conquer, however long the battle may be: of course we must expect to have our troubles, but I suppose there is a way of managing even trouble, isn't there?"
               "I should think so, indeed! as for all this whining about care and care, and anxiety and anxiety, why the fact is, you can no more get away from care than you can get away from your own shadow: I have made that pretty clear in all my ramblings, if a fellow has only a threepenny-bit he'll have care, and if he's a duke with thousands per annum, he'll have care—you have care in getting it and then you have care in keeping it, so there's no getting clear of care; but the way to do with trouble is to wait until it really comes, and when it does come, bid it sit down on the softest seat in the house, right in front of a roasting fire, and I'll bet a penny, as the landlady says, that the old chap will be fast asleep in ten minutes."
               Lily was amused at this manner of treating an unwelcome guest, but confessed that there might be "some other virtue in it."
               "I tell you, Lily," Ben continued, "that it's all virtue together: if you succumb, and go about blubbering and fainting, Care will only punish you all the more; but if you say to him, 'come along, old boy, and take a night's lodging here, and have a drink of hot brandy and water, and I'll put something in it that will make an insurrection in your stomach,' I'll be bound for it the poor devil will look at his Bradshaw in a moment, and make anxious inquiries about the next train."
               In the treatment of all domestic difficulties, Ben appeared to be so thoroughly up to the mark, that Lily gladly resigned the subject into his management, and turned the conversation on a point which had much to do with their future, as well as the future of the parties more intimately concerned.
               "Do you think," said she, "that Emily has told Mr. Purford about being in the Penitentiary? What a thing it would be if he was to find it out!"
               "But do you think that that infernal imp of a secret can creep out of the dungeon? Can we not lay our heads together and clap a sheet of iron over the dungeon door, and pop a new set of bolts and bars on? I know that secrets do crop out at very inconvenient times, but is there no way of laying a trap that will snap their legs in two, the moment they attempt to walk? It would be an awkward business if Purford took fright and turned the whole batch of us adrift!"
               "It would, indeed," said Lily, who at this moment had a strengthening consciousness that Mr. Purford was the principal foundation-stone on which their future rested, and if there should be any cracking there, the roof would go in with a rush. She wisely felt that there must be some subtler method of meeting this difficulty, than by the clenched fist of frenzied defiance, and it was not indiscreet just to take a telescopic view of the case, with a strong hope that they would never be under the necessity of bidding the possible sorrow sit down in the rocking-chair and quench its thirst in medicated brandy. "To be forewarned is to be fore-armed," was a proverb which Lily Hunter hung up where her eye could never fail to fall upon it.
               "Now rub up your genius," said Ben, "for it's quite a woman's question, and I know I should make a bungle of it,—what's to be done, Lil? Where does a woman's great strength lie? For my part, I cannot forget my favorite story of Samson and Delilah."
               Lily had hardly time to give her genius a switch until she replied—
               "The fact is, Ben, and I'm not glad to confess it, that a great deal of woman's strength lies in recrimination; when she's charged with anything if she can only say, 'so did you,' she can keep her ground pretty stiffly, but if she cannot say that the day is sure to go against her."
               "I see," said Ben, "yes; there's a point there: very good,—that's a crafty dodge, Lil. You mean, don't you, that if Purford was to say, 'Emily you have been a very bad woman,' if Em could say, 'and you've been a ten thousand times worse man,' that she would be likely to pitch him head foremost into a ditch? Is that your programme, Lil?"
               "Something like it, Ben, but the question is, has Mr. Purford been a bad man? Has Emily any grounds for recrimination?"
               "O! I didn't know that it was necessary for the charge to be literally true," said Ben, "I thought that ladies were understood to be permitted to call in the service of imagination, and to lay on the gamboge and vermilion a foot thick if necessary: but in fact it might be literally true after all, for what did the parson use to tell us? Didn't he say that man is 'wounds and bruises and putrefying sores?' What on earth can be worse than that? And besides I should think—but perhaps you'll call me a greenhorn—that if a husband ventured to bring any accusation against his wife, that that very act would be more than sufficient to warrant his being designated a villain, or being prosecuted as a murderer: I thought that if up to that time he had been a Moses and a Job rolled into one, if he said one single word against his wife, he would shrivel into a devil. I did, on my honor. I didn't dream that there were any subtleties or refinements to be taken before a judge and jury as to whether the word 'devil' would be too big a word to fit a man."
               Lily didn't catch exactly the same view of the subject, and therefore without directly slapping Ben's ethics in the face, she deemed it prudent to revert to general principles—
               "O Ben! why, of course, we must always keep to the truth."
               Ben looked at this proposition as though anxious to find a tender spot in it, into which he might thrust his needle. At length he said—
               "'Keep to the truth?' Exactly: I've heard of that as a nice little theory exposed in the church windows for sale, but I never heard of any person who was prepared to go to the length of the price at which it has always been ticketted,—at all events, I imagine that no lady will lay down so much for an article that may not admit of being turned into a poker with which to break her husband's head; no, no, ladies are sharper at speculation than that comes to."
               All the while, Ben was evidently indulging in banter, that he might lead Lily into a vigorous defence of principles, which he believed as firmly as herself: there was a joviality in his manner, which showed that the subject was not taking a very deep hold of him, and that his words were not to be regarded as specimens of his best morality. His object, natural enough, was to provoke Lily into a thorough talk, as one would provoke a musician into playing on an instrument, and for the time being he was utterly indifferent as to what particular topic should be honored by her eloquence. Lily, however, did feel really anxious about the matter, for she clearly saw that, as things were shaping themselves, a discovery of Emily's long abandoned and now hated career might involve consequences whose fires would scathe the far-off and the innocent. A man must have strong reasons for his course who knowingly builds his house over a powder-magazine. It requires no ordinary courage to lie down beside a slumbering tiger. Lily was, therefore, in a prudential mood. All her wits were on the alert. Let no one deem her selfish. Her brave heart has a history beside which such deeming couldn't hold good for a moment. Her love for Emily was as deep and victorious while asking such questions, as when she quitted Skulford to scour the lowest regions of Polis. Don't ask, would she marry Ben if she was sure that a discovery would be made: marry him? aye! did you ever know a woman who wouldn't marry the man she loved best, even if the devil alone was left to conduct the wedding-service? We may put your answer in black and white, that you may feast your eyes upon it—NEVER! Lily was not a whit less heroic than any of her sex. Her energies always awoke at the first sound of the horn, and as dangers thickened, her courage expanded into sublimity. At this moment she was rejoicing over a reclaimed man, and her love was prepared to make any sacrifice which his comfort might require.
               "Well then," said she, making a desperate effort to give a serious turn to Ben's bantering spirit, "as you never will acknowledge yourself to be beaten, let us come back to Mr. Purford's particular case: I am anxious to know whether if Emily's history should come out, there is any plan by which we can save an open rupture?"
               Ben was fortunately prepared on this point:
               "We could take Purford on his own ground, if that will do: I have heard that his morals were not always quite perpendicular, and to have heard that—whatever matter whether true or false—is quite enough, I should say, to give his arm the palsy if ever it should be raised against Em: I can sleep soundly enough on that pillow."
               "You have heard that, have you?" said Lily, musingly, "I never could hear much about him except that he was very rich."
               "Aye!" said Ben, bitterly," and that is just the reason why you havn't heard much about him: you see his vice wears a lace-coat and a frilled shirt, so there's nothing said about his moral aberrations; but if one of his clerks had done one-fiftieth part of what he has done himself, the poor fellow would have been kicked into the gutter, or driven to Botany Bay: I can see that public justice in such a matter has a long leg and a short one, and makes a very limping job of it altogether.
               "I must say I have felt a good deal about Emily's marriage," said Lily, "but the point was so delicate that I never could muster courage enough to speak about it as I should have done. I thought that if Mr. Purford was really—or rather had always been—a pure-minded and noble man it would be a most awful shock to him if ever he found out about poor Emily;—and in fact, I thought it would have been right to have told Mr. Purford the whole thing before marriage, and then there could not have been any reproaches afterwards."
               "To be sure it would! What a fool she was not to let him know everything that could be known! she was living with the old woman and was as happy as the day was long, so if Purford had turned her off she might have had a comfortable home and defied him; but the old lady put it to Em in this way—'you are a thoroughly changed women and no one has any right to know what you have been before, and especially as you were led into the wickedness, it wasn't as though you had been brought up in it, but it was just a slip for a moment like and then you were pulled up again:' that's the way they settled it, and it is such a lame way that I don't think I should feel any pity for Em, even if the whole thing were found out to-morrow."
               "Come, come now," said Lily, "you would go through fire and water for her 'to-morrow,' that's all the harm you would do her 'to-morrow.'"
               "To be sure I would, only it does a fellow good just to talk revengefully for a bit, now and then: but for my part, I don't see how this thing can come out—who is there that would dare to say anything wrong to a husband about his own wife?"
               True. He is a mean-hearted man who would, for an instant, listen to a word against his wife. Society has a right to warn any man of danger when he is unconsciously advancing into the den of a wild beast, but after marriage, let society mind its own business until matters involving its own immediate safety and virtue call for its interposition.
               The arrangement must be left as Ben has stated it. It will be impossible for any one to pass through the sacred though invisible veil which separates husband and wife from the rough outer-world. At all events one would think so.
               "You spoke about a boat a little while ago," said Lily, "didn't you?"
               "Aye; my notion is that I should go to Purford for a time, and see how things fit; and if everything goes tidy I can pull the boat ashore, and take in a wife—that is, of course, if she will let me."
               "But what if there should be opposition at Skulford?"
               "You must answer that: will there be opposition? and if so, can you defy it?"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               THE FATAL NUMBER.
               AT Clumpton House there was much to cheer. Every day's experience was its own witness, that in selecting Emily Dudgeon for a wife, Mr. Purford had made a happy choice. Not a single storm had ever swept across their domestic firmament; they understood, and appreciated and loved each other with perfect love. But those who knew Emily's inner life were not unaware that the fires of self-reproach were far from being extinguished. She never escaped very remotely from the immortal past. Memory was never incapacitated. No intimation had been given to the unsuspecting husband, who was consequently unaware that an undying worm was incessantly gnawing the heart of his wife. His every act of love brought pain as well as joy to the self-reproachful breast. Had he been negligent, or selfish, or exacting, she could have borne it, but his melting tenderness was a sting to the spirit which it sought to bless. With more than sisterly frankness did she and Lily interchange ideas on subjects which they alone fully understood. When all other themes failed, they turned naturally to this theme of fire and poison and death, and if for a moment Emily ventured to absolve herself, she was doomed to endure a most bitter and tormenting reaction. River on river of tears had flowed over the gone life, yet when those waters of contrition had emptied themselves into the infinite deep of the Divine heart, the cruel stains appeared as vividly as though no streams of sorrow had rolled over them. The memory of her many sins she found it impossible to obliterate. Those tyrant remembrances linked her to a living death, and pressed pitilessly upon her, demanding to be recognized by the heart which had given them birth. "We are your's," was their faithful but cruel and persistent whisper. "Could I but tell my husband," she would say, "I should know the worst; this fire in my bosom might then be extinguished; this awful secret is causing me to pine away." Again and again she resolved to disclose her whole history to her husband, and risk the consequences, but Mrs. Thomson firmly resisted the resolution. Lily was vehement in protestation, and even courageous. Ben earnestly counselled silence. Emily had seen enough of Mr. Purford's disposition to encourage the hope that he would meet her statement with all the magnanimity of love, and while pitying her weakness in the past, would clasp her to his heart as one who had been forgiven, and whose subsequent conduct had proved that there were yet remaining in her life the elements of a better existence. "They don't know Mr. Purford so well as I do," she reasoned, "or they wouldn't oppose my resolution so strongly; I shall certainly tell him, and not let any of them know until all is over—I cannot endure this living death.
               Here we must go back a little. Tom had been winning great favors among all the servants, on account of his unvarying readiness to do anything which they requested him to do. Poor Tom was at everybody's beck, and by a cordial compliance with every possible demand, ingratiated himself into every one's good opinion. He lightened their work during the day, and kept them in good humor by his jokes during their leisure. He was an especial favorite with the new butler, (the bicentenarian whom Ben had known, having after thirty years' service in one or other branch of the Purford family, become incapacitated for official life), who boasted that his name began with the same letters as his master's—that name being Robert Peelis. His advent had created a good deal of interest and amusement, as his ways of managing things were not a little unique, and he took all the servants in general, and Tom in particular, under his high patronage. So passionate, indeed, was his attachment to Tom that he took upon himself the liberty of bestowing benefactions which violated the simplest principles of justice. Tom, poor fellow, was not overdone with sensitiveness as to the finer points of morality, and therefore received all favors without making inconvenient inquiries as to their genealogy. For many a week did the butler practice this unaccountable generosity, until the outrage became so flagrant, that all the servants felt that the butler's conduct should be reported to the principals. The servants had long exercised a patient forbearance, but honor was wounded and patience exhausted, so that the matter must be brought speedily to a crisis. The senior housemaid, to whom Mrs. Purford often spoke with much kindness on account of her long residence and established character in the family, undertook—with the distinct understanding that she was not to be made worse for the disclosure—to introduce the subject to her mistress on an early day. With all faithfulness, she stated the principal facts which had transpired during the butlership of Peelis, and so outraged and annoyed was Mrs. Purford, that she felt no hesitation in broaching the complaint to Peelis himself.
               "When you give anything away, butler," said she, with sharpness and decision, "I hope it will be your own to give—at all events, I forbid you to give away our property, without first obtaining our permission."
               The butler looked at her in a coolly defiant manner, and said?
               "I wish, ma'am, you would keep your lectures to yourself, for I shall give away just what I like——"
               "Fellow!" cried Mrs. Purford, "what is your meaning? Are you a madman? Do you know that your impertinence has cost you your situation? You shall not be here in four and twenty hours—Mr. Purford will instantly dismiss you!"
               "Nay, nay, Mrs. Purford," the wretch provokingly answered, "you are never the lady, surely, to reprove anybody for doing wrong,—I can trust you, my charming lady."
               "Well, well! are you mad, Peelis? You must be shut up at once." Mrs. Purford was about to ring the bell, but the butler arrested her.
               "No, ma'am, don't ring: I am not mad—my head is quite bright—but, between you and me, I was slightly cracked when I was about thirty-one: I have a great liking for thirty-one:
                   in fact, I think it's far away the prettiest number.—You may ring now, ma'am."
               Yes; she might ring then, but she couldn't. Nor could she return an answer. The mention of the hated number went to her heart like a poisoned arrow, and she sank on the sofa in a fainting condition. A blinding haze settled on her eyes. The energy of her whole system collapsed. She was here, there, yonder, everywhere, and everywhere in agony! So sensitive is life, that similarity of handwriting, likeness of feature, the echo of a human voice, the sound of a footfall, the touch of an infant, may awaken the forgotten associations of a life-time, may make a giant reel in weakness, or transport the frailest heart into gladdest rapture. The butler had said "thirty-one," and the simple utterance cleft Mrs. Purford's heart, and made her helpless in his cruel grasp. She had enough to think of now. The shadows thickened around her shrieking soul—avenging ghosts were circling round her brain—and yet her will was too weak to break the snare, and to address her husband in words of penitence, and seek his sympathy. It was not a little singular that, on the day in question, Mr. Purford was not expected home in the evening, and whether the butler had made more free on that account, was a question which Mrs. Purford couldn't answer. The next day, the emboldened butler intimated that he wished to ask a favor of his mistress, who, indeed, would have gladly refused to see her tormentor, but how dare she deny the request? Didn't the heartless fellow evidently know something of her history? And if so, wasn't he in a position to make revelations which involved the happiness of every hour of her future life? Besides, wouldn't it be well to ascertain the precise extent of his information, and regulate all action accordingly? Perhaps, too, he might be wanting to apologize, and beg for pardon. While these questions thronged upon poor Emily's bewildered mind, she reluctantly gave permission to the butler to make his appearance.
               "And what is your business with me?" she inquired, with an immense effort at independence and haughtiness.
               "I want you to lend me a sovereign, ma'am," the fellow answered, with a coolness which exasperated and baffled Mrs. Purford, but she soon replied:
               "Then I shan't do anything of the sort, so your business is at an end."
               The butler, however, didn't take the same view of the subject, and he had no idea of coming to an end so rapidly.
               "But you must," said he; "you must do what I bid you in this case, even though you are thirty-one times better than I am."
               Poor Emily sobbed most bitterly in her humiliation, saying, in broken accents:
               "You cruel wretch! Mr. Purford will be at home to-night, and he will drive you off the premises."
               "Very well, ma'am, we shall see. Mr. Purford will have to give me notice thirty-one times before I'll quit,—I stick like a leech, ma'am."
               The pitiless scoundrel saw that the poor lady felt herself to be in his cruel power. She simulated fortitude most successfully, until the hated number came again, and then fell helplessly under the stroke of her tormentor. The mystery was utterly impenetrable, and she dare neither exercise the authority of her position, nor ask the questions of her passionate wonder. Again her head reeled, and again she sank faintingly on the sofa. The incorrigible wretch impertinently said, "You'll soon be better, ma'am," and left the room. When she re covered a little, she hastened to Mrs. Thomson, who was en gaged in her own apartment.
               "O Mrs. Thomson!" she shrieked, "my peace is broken forever—I am ruined in my own house—I wish you had never known Mr. Purford!"
               "Dearest Emily, whatever can have happened?" the venerable lady inquired, in her gentlest manner, though shaken by an excitement she never before experienced,—"what is the matter?"
               Emily's emotion was too powerful to allow her at once to explain. She sobbed and wailed and made great lamentation, intermingled with snatches of prayer, which sorely affected Mrs. Thomson, who, in the absence of all information, was left to speculate as to the cause of this sudden and overwhelming outbreak of most awful grief. Mrs. Thomson, like many ladies of her age and position, are easily disconcerted, taking, as they do, a gloomy view of circumstances which robuster people would deem trivial, but in this case, she had every reason to manifest the most acute anxiety. Taking Emily's hand into her own, she spoke soothingly to her, and begged to be put into possession of the facts which accounted for the appalling demonstration of grief. The first intensity having slightly abated, Emily gave Mrs. Thomson an outline of what had passed between the butler and herself, giving that as her real reason for not seeing Mrs. Thomson on the previous evening, as usual, and dwelling emphatically on the singular pertinacity with which the words "thirty-one" had been repeated.
               "Isn't it clear, then, that this fellow must know something of my history? And yet how can he know anything about it? I never saw the man in my life.—O Mrs. Thomson, is there no way of rubbing out the past? Are we always to suffer for the sins of our youth? O Lord God, what shall we do? Tell me, tell me."
               "What, indeed, Emily, what indeed!" said Mrs. Thomson, as she felt the ground crumbling beneath her feet, "shall we ask him plainly? Shall I go to him myself and ask him what he does really know?"
               "But, Mrs. Thompson, you see it is true. What should I have cared for the horrid number, if it hadn't once been a substitute for my own name? And only to think that after this long, long time, the thing should come up again! O dear, O dear, I cannot uncoil this deadly serpent!"
               Mrs. Thomson begged that Emily wouldn't say a word to Mr. Purford on the subject, but leave the matter in her hands, and she would bring to bear upon it the full weight of her long experience. Emily was under such deep obligations to the dear loving lady, that she could not oppose her will in anything, though, in this instance, she was afraid that the wildness of her grief would prove too much for her shattered nerves, and that she would tell in delirium what she had withheld in repose. Mrs. Thomson was urgent upon Emily to be careful, and even suggested that her headache was enough to justify her being in bed when Mr. Purford returned. Poor Emily was too devoted to her husband to entertain this suggestion, though her fear of herself increased with the expiration of every hour.
               At the usual time, Mr. Purford returned, accompanied by Ben, and at once noticed an unusual appearance on Emily's countenance. It was evident to him that she had been in some extraordinary trouble, and as he was unaware of any cause which could account for the painful effects which were too palpable to elude an observation much less penetrating than his own, he could not conceal the quivering anxiety with which he inquired—
               "Emily, what has happened? You are in grief of some kind, and we must drive it away."
               Ben, too, looked as though his solicitude was quite as great as Mr. Purford's, but dare not trust himself to give any expression to his fears.
               "What makes you think so?" Emily answered, enwreathing her withered countenance with that melancholy smile which Joy will sometimes permit the wildest grief to steal, and trying to throw a tone of wonder into her words, "my head is wretchedly bad, and has been all day, and I suppose I don't look quite as usual."
               Mr. Purford made no other answer than that of a look, which implied that his doubts had not been vanquished by the commonplace explanation. Emily knew the meaning, and felt the power of that look too well, but dare not be more instructive as to the reason of her haggard and miserable appearance. The unconcerned on-looker might say, "why doesn't she tell at once?" but reasons of sufficient importance will at once suggest themselves to a sensitive mind. Why should she tell at that particular time? Why should she tell through fear what she had not ventured to tell through love? Why should she, until the very last extremity, jeopardize the peace and the interests of those who were dear to her, dearer than even her own life. These inquiries, and other such, contain the explanation of her reticence. She was on the brink of a gulf whose bottom she could not see, and whose dangers she was not yet prepared to encounter. The darkness deepened with appalling rapidity as Mr. Purford casually laid his hand on several scraps of paper which were on the mantelpiece, and lightly said—
               "More of the children's work, I see,—31, 31, 31, all written over with the same figures,—and not so badly, either, Ben, for little fingers, look."
               Ben looked, but his stiffened tongue couldn't pronounce any opinion.
               At that moment, the most ambitious artist might have found in Emily Purford a graphic subject for his pencil. Her eye burned with mad intensity. The figures had a meaning to her, and how did she know but that they would dart their meaning into her husband's mind? She could see history in those two characters,—her own ruin and tears and rags and misery, were all plain to her as she looked upon them, and she felt as though they would presently speak to her husband and tell him the story of his own overthrow, for the very horror which girt her soul made her believe it impossible that any man could look at the slips of paper without suspecting that they were the revelations of buried and unmentionable crimes. He said "thirty-one" without a blush, or sign of perplexity—to him the number was harmless—it had no counterpart in his heart—it addressed no witness within; but when she said "thirty-one," every nerve quivered, every drop of blood was chilled, every bone trembled, it was as though fire broke from beneath her feet and a thousand hissing voices scornfully defied her to escape the flame.
               "Why doesn't he see the meaning?" she said to herself, "O, these little slips will become serpents if he holds them much longer: or they will burn his hands: or they will break into a hollow laugh: he thinks the figures were written by the dear children, but the hand that wrote them would strangle us all—it was a demon's hand;—O do put them down—don't dote upon them—don't mistake them for the work of our loved ones," and her soul became one great and urgent prayer.
               The night was passed in all the wonder of an unutterable sorrow. The sad story was many a time on her very lip—just ready to fall into the ear of her protector and lover; but it was kept there,—kept as though an invisible power had marked the boundary which couldn't be overpassed. No slumber sealed the inflamed eyelids. Emily could see the stars from her sleepless pillow, and as she gazed, she wondered if they, too, were mocking her misery, and again wondered that they could twinkle on such a wreck without darting upon her rays of avenging fire. She closed her eyes, but the darkness was peopled by the most hideous forms—she opened them, and the cloudless heavens rebuked her life of sin: she listened, and every sound became a footfall of the tormentor, who was actually living on her own bread: she touched her husband's hand, and it became sharper than a whetted sword. Poor, poor Emily Purford, how she longed for the days of Ellerby Mill and Lizzie Johnson, and even coveted to be lectured by her unmanageable father. Anything and anywhere would she be or go, could she throw off the damning curse which was burning into her soul.
               For some time after this, the butler was remarkably quiet, and even deferential; still, Mrs. Thomson and Emily made a daily business of discussing the question, "what shall we do with the butler?" The generous old lady, indeed, was most expert at suggestions. Whatever difficulty arose, her "perhaps," or "I dare say," or "I think," or "I believe," or "I shouldn't wonder," was immediately at hand. She had an explanation of everything. She caught an aspect of the subject which had eluded every other eye. Has the reader had any experience of such counsellors? If so he will not require to be told how tormentingly trying it is to have every difficulty met by a "perhaps," so wide of the mark, that a coach and six could be driven through it,—a "perhaps" which is benevolent enough, but wofully destitute of pertinence, or any other virtue except that shallow amiability which can never believe that it is doing anything except it be persistently gabbling. This was our good lady's weakness: a weakness which, in her case, might well be overlooked in the presence of qualities which conspired to make Mrs. Thomson a noble-hearted and most trustable woman. Still she had a mother's partiality for her own "perhapses," and it was not without a becoming pang that she noticed their slight effect on her unhappy client. She was earnest, though, as well as benevolent, and had faith enough in her persuasive powers to lead her to determine on a personal interview with the butler. This she would have, without seeking Emily's consent. It should be done quietly; and if effectual, what joy she would have in telling Emily! Her plans were laid with all the tact she could command. Round and round the plans she ambulated, testing their soundness and feasibility, until she gained the conviction that every fortress of the enemy must yield to her attacks. The most patient calculations, however, may not be quite free from error. The butler was clearly an intractable fellow, whose obstinacy was well matched by his craftiness, and must, therefore, be assailed with a promptitude thoroughly velveted with kindness. Such at least was Mrs. Thomson's idea, and she was faithful to it. Results confirmed the impression that she had begun at the right end of the work. So thoroughly did her firmness and kindness succeed, that she concluded that she had disenchanted the tormentor, and that he had resigned the keys of the mystery. Wouldn't you have thought so, reader, had you heard the butler say—
               "If Mrs. Purford will go or write to the Rev. Thomas Woodgreen, 19 Harvet Road, Mollington, she will know all about it."
               Mrs. Thomson had caught the butler in the right mood. He was even frank in his communication, and having made it, his mind was evidently cleared of a great weight.
               "Very good," Mrs. Thomson mused, feeling a kindling gratitude as she soliloquised, "yes, that will do; a clergyman, too, no doubt an excellent man, who will do all he can to help an unfortunate sister;—yes, the darkness isn't quite so black now."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               DOMESTIC HAPPINESS.
               WITH the reader's permission we shall so cheat time as to permit ourselves the pleasure of at once looking at yonder flower-girt cottage, not more than a mile on the city side of Clumpton House, for there Ben and Lily are comfortably located as husband and wife. Fathers and mothers have, of course, to give in to the children in the item of marriage, and though for a time they may fret and bluster, and make much ado about ingratitude and disobedience, and take the usual oaths about cutting them off with a shilling, yet in the long-run they are sure to come round, and see a "providence" in what they at first opposed, the parental eye being wonderfully constructed for seeing "providences" under such circumstances. Not that Mr. or Mrs. Hunter made any particular opposition to Lily when she intimated her wish to join Benjamin Dudgeon, for both had strong faith in Ben's affection and capability. And an unmistakably good wife Lily turned out to be. The influence which she exerted upon her husband was most pure and elevating. She knew the transforming and overmastering power of sympathy, and with all the skill of a consummate tactician brought the resources of her love to meet every domestic emergency. Hers was the potent sway of gentleness. She demanded rulership in no other way than by deserving it. She had with so much intelligence and patience studied her husband's character as to know exactly the treatment adapted to every phase of his experience, and she turned her knowledge to splendid account. She aimed at no higher sphere than her own loved home. To be queen there was to honor her highest ambition. When Ben came within sight of that home, weary or embarrassed or dispirited, the first thing that met his grateful eye was the wave of his wife's welcoming hand. Lily was never too busy to enter into her husband's plans, but, on the contrary, was ever eager to listen to his tale, and disentangle the web of his perplexities. And Ben had the fullest satisfaction in appealing to his wife's ready and sober understanding, and was never ashamed to pluck fruit off her tree of knowledge. Whatever might be the disagreeables which he had encountered in the city, he was sure to find the comfort of intelligent fellowship and the repose of perfect trust at home. Lily's house was a little temple of taste, for though her means were limited at the outset, she found ample scope for the exercise of her fertile ingenuity, and in her busy fingers there throbbed no ordinary craft. She had the quickest possible perception of the use of little things—things which a vulgar eye would never have noticed—and was most expert in arranging them into forms of beauty. Every corner of the house bore witness to her presence; and many a sprig of ivy and wreath of flowers distributed through the quiet abode testified to the simplicity and purity of her taste.
               And Ben's was a most susceptible nature. He noted with pride every device of his wife's ever-gushing love. Nothing escaped his wakeful eye. Every touch of affection awoke music from some chord in his nature. This was Lily's highest compensation,—every other she despised,—give her the encomium of her husband's smile, and her labor brightened into joy. Ben's manhood was rapidly developing, under such influences. Faculties imprisoned in long slumber were now awakening, and their voice heightened his purest aspirations. He read the universe as he had never thought of reading it before. He was now able to put interpretations on things which he had never cared to translate, and those best acquainted with the subtle workings of the human heart said that he was yearning after a still higher and nobler type of life. Day by day, as in spring-time, some new feature of manliness developed, either in his manner of encountering difficulties or replying to the humanizing appeals of helplessness and honest poverty. Yes, he was surely advancing in an upward direction. The heavens were receiving him. He was actually in the habit of reading the book of which Lily once spoke to him, and took delight in rehearsing to his two bright-eyed boys its sweetest and loveliest stories. Every thing in that home had its time or place. The whole household economy revolved on well-oiled wheels. No convulsion or eruption marked its simple history. No harsh winds ruffled its peace. There was no controversy as to the centre of government. The unhappy elder Dudgeon, as we have seen, spent his life in lecturing on the true position of woman, but his wiser son had the happy proof that under the gentle sovereignty of light and love, intelligence and sympathy, he had joys and hopes unknown to those who authoritatively claim the sceptre and demand the prostration of every power but their own. There were no conventional boundaries marking the respective realms of husband and wife,—they both ruled because they both loved, and their separate influences were as indivisible as the current which is composed of many blended streams. And Joy lives with her sister Sympathy. You may build a palace, and enrich it with costliest treasures, and surround it with the rarest productions of nature or the most fascinating charms of art, yet if sympathy be not the golden nexus binding husband and wife, that palace can never be a home,—it is but an enclosed desert, a gorgeous abyss, a palatial tomb!
               Remember, too, that this state of happy existence was not only not the result, but not even the accompaniment of great wealth. They had, indeed, every necessary to simple comfort, for Ben had entered into his department with all his characteristic enthusiasm, and established his claim to be considered one of the most capable men in the whole establishment. At the same time he most rigidly adhered to the resolution which he had expressed to Lily before marriage; he would take as much as possible from the hand of justice, but not a penny from the hand of patronage. And in this resolution he was warmly supported by Mr. Purford, who acted on the generous principle, that every man's compensation should be the result of his own labors,—thus cheating a self-indulgent indolence, and offering a premium to industry and skill. And if we might drop the pen of the historian, or dip it into the ink of the economist, we should argue that this is an arrangement which must be brought into great prominence in all departments of business life, if we are to preserve something more and something better than an energetic and remunerative commerce. Give your man to feel that much depends on his own exertions—let him know that all the energy which he puts forth will be beneficial to the employed as well as the employer—give genius root-room—let your smile fall broadly upon the brow of conscientious industry—let the sluggard feel that he places himself at the greatest possible disadvantage in the great market of labor—take a pleasure in rewarding perseverance and integrity, and the balance of master and man will rarely be disturbed. The workman will then cease to be a mere hireling, and will be as anxious to begin his work as he is now to end it. A man rejoices in every recognition of his manhood. You have seen the laborer drop his hammer at the very first chime of the dinner-hour; aye, even if the hammer was swinging in the air at the very moment, instead of bringing it down upon the tool, he has pitched it into the basket, and taken to his heels as if fleeing from an enemy. And you have seen, too, how unwillingly he has resumed—how he has given the clock plenty of time to chime and strike, and for the last quivering cadence to die away, and then taken a leisurely look round before stooping for his hammer. And why? Why, because he is a mere hireling. He has his five shillings a day, and if he keeps moderately up to the mark, he may go on for a life-time, and leave barely enough to defray the expenses of his funeral. Ask your journeyman painter if he cannot do the work of a paper-hanger as well as his own, and he will tell you yes, but, he adds, that he isn't going to trouble himself with carrying a stretcher and a can of paste all over town; no, when he was in Tennessee, he did take both departments, because the said board and can were found by the persons who wanted the work done. Here's a little streak of pride, or independence, or dignity; but give that man a commission upon his work—let him know that his P's depend upon his Q's, and for the sake of the pay he will mind the quality and quantity. And this is right. A day's work shouldn't be marked in plain figures. Every man is fully entitled to every penny he can make. Some chip of the old Dudgeon-block may say, 'educate the conscience,' 'operate on the moral faculty,' and no doubt there is something in the cry; at the same time we have to do with human nature as it is, and to treat it on any transcendental hypothesis is to treat it with the inexperience of a novice, or the hypocrisy of a quack. It would be well if all arrangements, indeed, could be settled on a purely moral basis;—well, for example, if all thieves could be made honest by some ingenious philosophical argument, at the same time, it is wise to keep the door well locked and bolted, until that argument is ready. No man would, in the present state of society, bolt his door with a pious tract, or make window-shutters out of a religious newspaper: it may be allowable to do this, when the elder Dudgeons have completed their rectifications of the human conscience; but until then, a blacksmith will give us more protection than a philosopher. An employer's business is to respect the capability, perseverance, and sobriety of his workmen, and to give them the fullest scope for expansion and consolidation. This, at least, was the plan indicated by Benjamin Dudgeon, and warmly adopted by Mr. Purford, and they could point to results as the best justification of its wisdom. Not, indeed, as we have just said, that Ben came at once into the possession of many luxuries, and we make special mention of this, in order to protest against the silly sophism, that great wealth is indispensable to domestic happiness. No truth is more vividly inscribed on the world's experiences than that "a man's life"—a man's joy, usefulness, honor, progress—"consisteth not in the abundance of things which he possesseth." Happiness is independent of technical proprietorship. He owns, who loves. Appreciation is the true possession. Even a boor may hold the parchments of a vast estate, but the landscape, covered with the richest viands of summer, may not afford him a morsel to appease his vulgar hunger. True ownership is not the gift of laws and statutes. Parchment often blinds and deafens its holder. He might have seen or heard something before, but the responsibility, care, anxiety, fear, and doubt, have proved too great for his mental energy. The refined spirit finds materials for thoughtful gladness everywhere. Such a spirit sees in every bush the flaming of an invisible presence. No man who supplies the right mental conditions will find the temple doors of the universe closed against him. The avaricious, demonized tyrant, who slakes his thirst in the life-blood of the toiling multitude, cannot—thank heaven!—go beyond a prescribed boundary. A watch is set upon him. The links of his chain are numbered. Fain would he lay his grasp on the sun, and let out his splendors at so much per beam, but he has no ladder whose top can reach the blazing prize; so the glories of the royal orb fall as revivingly and gladly on the cots of poverty as on the retreats of wealth, and the poorest of human wanderers may say, "my sun! my sun." Fain, too, would such a tyrant ticket the fragrances of summer,—he builds his great guardian walls to keep the beauties for his own cold eye, but the spirit-flowers send their winged odors beyond their prison boundaries to tell the high-souled child of penury that God is still swinging the earth around the sun and re-writing his vow that summer shall take its place in the sisterhood of the seasons. Then learn, earnest man, that the universe is thine, if thou art in sympathy with the animating spirit; and learn, too, that poverty is an impossibility to the wise. He is a fool, almost unpardonable, who undertakes long pilgrimages in search of joy,—joy is near us—just there!—near as the light—close as the atmosphere—nearer still, if we are right. Fool, too, is he who thinks that when he gains the companionship of burly, fat, dropsical PLENTY, he can make sure of detaining joy in his dwelling-place—bubble! dream! mockery! Be right, if thou wouldst be happy; the voice of the past blends with the voice of the present in declaring that "there is no want to them who are the follerers of" rectitude. This was the secret of Ben Dudgeon's bliss. He had the bliss-securing spirit, and having that, there was neither hill, nor dale, nor stream, nor star, which did not minister to the gladness of his heart.
               Mark that. He found enjoyment in little, as well as in great things; and a most covetable power is that of turning apparently insignificant things to gainful account. He who will not stoop to drink of the running crystal streams, cannot be pitied if he suffer from thirst. Is there aught more disgusting than to hear an overgrown lad, whose father, in early years, was glad to wear a pair of clogs, talking disdainfully of everything that is immediately around him, simply because he is actually sated with luxury? His father would many a time, in the struggles of his youth, have been glad of a drink of sour milk; but the silly, soft-headed son—whose memory cannot go beyond the reign of Purse—would turn up his nose at anybody who couldn't afford champagne, hock, and claret for dinner. His father would have been thankful for a lift in a cart, on many a weary tramp, but he looks daggers of scorn at a third-class carriage. His father was content to have a peep of a newspaper in a barber's shop on a Saturday evening, but he couldn't live if he didn't take in the dearest daily. Ah me! how these simpering poodle-men do get among the chariot wheels, and stop for a moment the cause of progress. Their fathers, perhaps, when living on a pound a-week, were glad to pop down on a back seat in some obscure church or conventicle, but they themselves are almost too important to enter a cathedral, and this, of course, they couldn't think of doing more than once a week. Such creatures have lost the happy power of finding joy in little things; talk about admiring a daisy, for example! O horrors! How shockingly vulgar to see, much less to admire, anything with so common a name—had it been Amethystea, Agnus Castus Vitex, Cyclamen, or Cinquefoil, they might condescend to pucker their soulless faces into a sickly smile, though ignorant as a butterfly of the meaning of the words, and obligingly denominate them "ra-a-ther pri-itty." Dread the day, reader, when simple things cease to be winsome. Put a deep black mark against the day when your cheek kindled with shame, as you looked at the penny whistle which your antiquated grandmother was vulgar enough to offer to your baby as its first birth-day present,—yes, do,—and let it be the blackest of black marks, for you are becoming so tall that you must necessarily knock your head against some beam in the upper regions of the universe, and a head so empty cannot bear more than one blow,—one blow will bring you to the dust you have despised, and as you lie in helpless writhing, wise men will say, "See how the old word is still alive, 'a haughty spirit before a fall.'"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               ENTRAPPED.
               PEOPLE will, somehow, expect great things from clergymen, whether wisely or unwisely is no business of ours at this moment: yet, there is the fact. To many persons the clergyman is the embodiment of an ideal benevolence, and misery can pillow her aching head nowhere so softly and safely as on the lap of goodness. Mrs. Thomson had a peculiar veneration for clergymen. She adored their presence—she never questioned their motives—never disputed their tenets. She remembered a considerable succession of clergymen, all of whom had been accustomed to regard her house, their home. With all the zeal of a practical philanthropist, she made daily inquiries as to their sick-list and their poor's-purse, and never let a deserving case go by without some acknowledgment of its merits. To be directed to a clergyman, then, was nothing less than a real joy to the benevolent lady. She would have dreaded a lawyer, or been slightly timorous about a doctor, but the "Rev. Thomas Woodgreen!" why the very word revived her best recollections: besides which, there was the pleasant possibility that the reverend gentleman might know her name, as there was hardly a clergymen for miles and miles round who hadn't heard of the generous Thomsons of Polis. Mrs. Thomson, then, had evidently opened the right gate, and the way up to the very goal appeared to be perfectly straight, and free enough from lions and other formidable interruptions. And now her joy would burst her heart if she didn't at once lay her trophy at her client's feet.
               "Now don't despise the services of an old woman," said she, after telling how neatly she had abstracted the skirt of the sleeping foe.
               
               "No indeed," Emily gratefully replied; "we must now write to Mr. Woodgreen—but there is a difficulty about doing so,—you see, I don't want to put my name to a letter, because I don't know how much he knows about me, and, besides, no one can tell where a letter may go to."
               Emily was right in this reasoning. Wisdom, we believe, doesn't write many letters on delicate subjects. Zachariah Hunter's mother gave a direction which it is well not to forget,—it is like doing something twice over, to put it all down in black and white: you cannot send with your letter the smile which explains the clumsily-worded hint, or the accent which interprets the sharper passages, or the gusto which gives a meaning to every allusion: emphasis may make all the difference between an insult and a joke, and things not essentially awful in themselves, sometimes look awfully uncomfortable when they are run into ink. Emily, therefore, paused at the right place, and shook her head at the right object, when she planted herself on the near side of the ink-horn, and looked forbiddingly at her quill.
               "Well, dear, there is something in that," said Mrs. Thomson, "but we must make the most of the opportunity. I've made up my mind to go and see the clergyman for myself—you know I haven't made any journeys since we came here, and perhaps the run-out will waken me up a little,—it will be a pleasure, I do believe."
               "But, dear Mrs. Thomson, it's thirty miles, you know, and through a cross-country, and look at your time of life."
               "Just so, but people are often kind to old travellers, and when I have got a good errand to go upon, I shall have very little difficulty."
               Emily was, in reality, glad of the old lady's bravery, though extremely anxious about her health and spirits while undertaking such an extraordinary business. It was arranged that Mr. Purford should know no more about her absence than that she had been unexpectedly called to Mollington on private affairs. The double journey could be completed in one day, so that the extent of uncertainty was not formidable. Early in the morning, sounds of preparation were heard in the old lady's room. To one, young in life, the thirty miles would have been no object, but to a lady far advanced in years, who was accustomed, on the eve of any special event, to re-examine her will, the prospect was not without its fair proportion of anxiety. Nothing but unwavering faith in the cause which engaged her affections and her energies, could have sustained her. She was full of hope, too. Her willing ear heard the footfalls of fast-approaching triumph, and their sound stirred her, as battle-music stirs an expectant army. The old lady actually expanded into dignity, under the arousing power of her benevolent enthusiasm. Nothing like a great idea for transfiguring the human form. Dignity cannot come from the outside, like a hat or coat—it cannot be put on—it is the holy birth of great ideas, noble purposes, sublime sacrifices, and as it grows it will write its history even on the outer man. These inner births are at once the glory and the shame of our common nature,—they are either the angels which beckon us to glittering heights, the flashing pinnacles of better life, or the devils that allure us to gloomy gulfs, and slimy caverns of death. Yes, Mrs. Thomson did look royal that morning—that September morning, which hid its intended smiles under a grave frown—as she started from Clumpton House in search of the Rev. Thomas Wood-green.
               She left, however, a sad heart behind her. The day went wearily with Emily. Many a hearty prayer for Mrs. Thomson escaped her lips, and as the evening approached, her eager wonder was deepening into agony. Emily had made a mental pursuit of the old lady through every part of her journey. She had travelled the road herself, and was somewhat familiar with the principal objects which were to be found upon it. She marked off the journey into portions of five miles each—saw all the stopping-places, (for Mollington, in those days, was a town which civilization had never entered in a better car than a stage-coach)—saw her alight, and watched her as she made inquiries for 19 Harvet Road—hour by hour she kept the eye of her fancy steadily upon Mrs. Thomson, and, according to the supposed situation of the venerable traveller, Emily addressed her petitions to kind heaven. The day was one long wonder, streaked, so to speak, with hope and fear, yet all the while pressing the heart with the pressure of a dread uncertainty. At half-past seven o'clock in the evening, Mr. Purford did not feel at all uncomfortable, as he knew that Mrs. Thomson could not possibly be at home before nine. Half-past nine chimed, and there was no Mrs. Thomson: ten struck, but all was silent.
               "There's no way of getting to Mollington to-night, my dear," said Mr. Purford, "or I should certainly start; something must have happened to disarrange Mrs. Thomson's plans.
               Mr. Purford said these words with anxiety enough, but his anxiety was bliss compared with the agony with which Emily heard them. "Plans," that was the sting, sharp and full of deadly poison. Innocent man! in that one syllable he had comprehended secrets which might destroy his own happiness for ever, so very closely may unsuspecting man venture to the gulf's slippery edge! Had Mr. Purford known the exact meaning of the word he had employed, its use would not have cleft his wife so painfully; it was his very ignorance which invested the word with its worst horrors—his innocence which threw into relief, so palpable, her guilt.
               "I really don't know what to make of it," said Emily, "you really must go in the morning—she must have taken ill"—then with soul-laden emphasis—"there never is to be an end of it."
               "Of what?" said Mr. Purford, "is there something up that I don't know about? Is the old lady sweet-hearting? But it's no joking business after all."
               So saying, Mr. Purford rang, and who should appear but the butler, who, to Emily's eye at least, looked full of savage and ill-repressed delight. Mr. Purford gave him orders to see that Jip—the favorite horse—was in the trap and at the door not later than six in the morning. Emily had left the room while the order was being given, and did not return for several minutes, when she had prepared herself with a subject which diverted attention from the immediate object.
               The stable clock had not struck six when Mr. Purford mounted and gave the starting word to his willing horse, and just as Mollington old church clock chimed a quarter to nine, he was in the market-place inquiring, ignorantly enough, for Harvet Road. He at once turned his horse's head in the direction which was indicated, and was soon in the middle of the street; but talk of a clergyman living there. Why, Harvet Road was the lowest street in the town, and over No. 19 there was a most miserable looking sign-board with an amateur painting at the top, and under it the words—"Solomon's Temple." Mr. Purford felt himself trembling as he looked at the place. All manner of dark suspicions crowded on his mind. The recollections of his own youth were sufficiently revived to assure him that characters of the lowest order congregated there, and that long-ago holy virtue must have been driven from the horrible den. But he must go in. Shuddering with disgust, as he was, he must penetrate the monster's lair, and demand some account of the hapless victim. This, however, he could not prudently do until he had put his horse into safe keeping, and this again suggested the idea that it would be discreet to secure the services of a policeman, while exploring that ark of devils. Both arrangements being quickly completed, the two inquirers presented themselves at the door of No. 19. First of all, there was a long and somewhat winding passage with low doors on one side, and at the end a lofty flight of stone stairs, exceedingly dark. About the whole place, too, there was a chilling dampness, yet despite of the many horrors of the situation, Mr. Purford valiantly made his way, as if he knew every step of the dreary road. At several doors the policeman loudly knocked without eliciting any reply. Still they passed on, knocking and shouting without awakening any response. At length, on reaching the highest landing, they heard the low murmuring wail, as of a woman in distress. They tapped softly at the door, and the person who answered requested them to state their errand on the outside, as there was an invalid in the room.
               "We must see the invalid instantly," Mr. Purford replied.
               "Yes, let's have no words about it," the policeman added.
               
               The woman to whom they spoke made way for them to enter, and as they passed in, she took care to pass out. True enough, there was an invalid—a wasted, old man who hadn't breath to answer a single question, yet having on his countenance traces of gentle manliness, which led them to suspect that he was in the wrong place. The policeman, a quiet shrewd man who had more wit than love, opened an inner door—but no, the room was empty—at the other side there was another door which he also opened, and in one corner of the miserable apartment was poor Mrs. Thomson, sitting in a most pitiable plight. As soon as she saw Mr. Purford, she screamed:
               "Thank God! O take me home! Thieves and villains!" and then laid back her head, as though fainting.
               Mr. Purford sprang forward, and in utter bewilderment said—
               "Good God! What has brought you to this place? My dear, dear Mrs. Thomson, however could this happen? Emily said you had come to see a clergyman! Whatever can be the explanation?"
               Mrs. Thomson could give no explanation at that moment. Her feelings overwhelmed her, and for a few seconds she was as one dying. In these seconds, Mr. Purford had time to look round, and to notice that the good old lady had lost her usual decorations of brooch and ring and watchguard.
               "This is the worst place in Mollington, sir," said the policeman, "it's a complete nest of thieves."
               "Why don't the magistrates burn it down?" Mr. Purford answered, in pitiful forgetfulness of the moral suasion doctrine.
               "It should be burned down," said the policeman.
               As soon as Mrs. Thomson opened her eyes, Mr. Purford said—
               "Come, dear Mrs. Thomson, get up, and I'll take you home."
               "But I cannot rise," she answered, "I'm tied—cut this rope," and as she realized her helplessness, the dear old lady broke out into bitter sobs.
               "Aye, just as I expected," said the policeman, "see here, sir."
               Mr. Purford looked, and found that the thick rope was attached to an iron ring which was fastened in the wall.
               "I've seen curious sights with these rings, sir; I've known young women, and even children, tied up in this way, and beaten with sticks and rope-ends till they promised to do everything the thieves bid them; ay, sir, you must take a policeman's place, if you want really to know what goings-on there are in the world."
               "They must be devils," said Mr. Purford, who never in his life was so much at a loss for a scathing word.
               "Worse nor any devil, sir, in my opinion; there's no devil half so bad as a bad man."
               This colloquy passed while the policeman was making his way through the thick hard rope, with a blunt knife. He had evidently a long story to tell about the ropes and rings, but Mr. Purford was too intent on a practical object to go very far into the history of scoundrelism. The mystery of the immediate transaction was greatly deepened by the fact that neither man, woman, nor child appeared; throughout the whole process the silence was unbroken. Mr. Purford thought that the woman who admitted them must have gone to warn the criminals of what had happened, but the policeman was not shut up to this view:
               "Sir, you don't know how these people manage their business. They have peep-holes where you don't expect them, and I shouldn't make no wonder if there was one or two of 'em looking at us at this present moment."
               This suggestion brought a cold sweat all over poor Mr. Purford.
               Not a moment was lost in preparing for the return journey. Mr. Purford promised to return or write, in order that vengeance might overtake the perpetrators of the dire outrage. Before half-past ten chimed, Jip was climbing the hill on the western side of Mollington.
               "We must rest the horse farther on," said Mr. Purford, "I am only too glad to be out in the fresh air again."
               Not a word of explanation, however, could he elicit from Mrs. Thomson. The old lady was suffering from violent reaction, and her request not to be farther interrogated was rendered so natural by the circumstances, that Mr. Purford could not do otherwise than faithfully fulfill it.
               To the everlasting honor of the philanthropic lady, let it be recorded, that she had made a covenant with herself not to utter one word which would involve her who stood to her in the relation of a deeply-endeared child. She was prepared to become the centre of mystery, or the butt of ridicule, to lose her reputation for sagacity and good judgment, rather than mar the happiness of the woman whom she cherished with daily deepening affection. Of course she was aware that hosts of questions would be put to her, and that her position would be one of unparalleled delicacy; yet her tenacious, unmingled, God-like love was prepared to encounter the thickening hazards, and die at the feet of its grateful object. Her love had long been the master-passion of her life, and when love sways the sceptre the energies become wonderfully obedient.
               But Clumpton House is now in sight. The first moments with Emily will be the severest test of Mrs. Thomson's fortitude, as also of Emily's own bravery. Of course, Emily must appear amazed and grieved—as indeed she was in reality—and must ask a hundred questions about the mysterious event; and all this must be done in the presence of her husband, for anything like secrecy or unnaturalness in her behavior would suggest the idea of collusion, and collusion would bring with it the blackest suspicions. Altogether, therefore, it was felt to be an awful undertaking, to manipulate events so skilfully as not to awaken the misgivings of the baffled and wondering husband. And what is this but an old principle working itself out in a new combination of circumstances?
               All along we have seen that it is the most difficult of difficulties to carry a lie perpendicularly; yes, as we have said, it has to be doubled, and colored, and twisted and veiled so often and so thoroughly, that it makes its guardian a most miserable life—ever and anon he is in danger of coming plump before the face of some agile detective, and then, with all the indecent hurry and fuss of benighted consternation, he must throw the fogs around the monster, and simulate the smile which dimples the fair cheek of honesty. Truth can go out in all weathers, and if, for a moment, she should lose herself in the many intersections of the public way, any man would be proud to go up to her, and in the full noonblaze direct her to the lost path. Truth can always look directly into the eyes of the world, not with the defiant stare of a thrice-hardened villany, but with the calm bright aspect of unchallenged purity. For a specimen of the manner in which error has to make its way in the world, look at the unhappy mistress of Clumpton House. Poor error! It has to make the most of the glinting stars, for it dare not, bravely and lovingly, walk in the sun-light: it gets on by night-marches: it wriggles and shuffles along the highway like a wounded devil; and many a blow it is obliged to take without retaliation. So it was with Emily Purford,—dear, loving, trusting child—and so must it ever be in all ages. Truth, indeed, is smitten, but the scars break into glory, while the wounds dealt into the heart of error bleed in secret, and fester, and mortify, and necessitate an appalling death. He who carries a lie in his heart is possessed with a devil—it will cast him into fire and water—it will tear and rend him—it will often burn his cheek and choke his utterance—it will dim the light of his eye, and take the music out of his voice—it will make his knees tremble, and render his way uncertain—it will laugh at his resolutions, and beat time to an infernal tune by rivetting the bonds which make him the abjectest of slaves. Aye! FALSEHOOD has always to walk in a ghost-haunted path.
               Mr. Purford could not repress his inquisitiveness:
               "However did you happen," said he, "to go to Mollington? You know I could have done any business for you there."
               Emily quaked as the words lingered for an answer. Everything depended upon the sagacity and firmness of a woman whose nerves had been recently shaken. She was, however, not without hope: the voice of a hidden one was whispering, "trust her," and though Mrs. Thomson's bewilderment occasioned casioned a look of foolishness on her countenance, she managed to return a pretty decisive answer—
               "You must allow me, in this one case," said she, with a nervous earnestness, which often invests weakness with conquering strength, "to keep my own counsel; I shall very likely tell you all about it some day, but you have known me long enough to be assured that I wouldn't go anywhere without having good reason for doing so."
               This reply at once put Mr. Purford on his honor,—an honor which was never so far down as to require the discharging of a cannon-ball to reach it.
               "Certainly, certainly, Mrs. Thomson, O most certainly, pray don't misunderstand me—don't consider me impertinent—you know how natural it is to wish to know every particular about a case so very singular."
               "Quite natural, my dear boy," said she, "you have only to exercise a little patience."
               "Well then, dear Mrs. Thomson," Emily gladly interposed, anxious to show her interest in so curious an event, "just tell us as much as you please; begin and end where you like."
               Mr. Purford, as a business man, felt that the proposition benevolently suggested by his wife, was like a shoe which wouldn't pinch any toe in particular, but he didn't attempt to improve the fit, as he was anxious to know anything which the venerable lady was disposed to communicate.
               "You know," said Mrs. Thomson, "that I went to see a clergyman on business which related to a friend, and when I got to Harvet Road, I never was so much at a loss in my life, for it didn't look like a place for a clergyman to live in—."
               "I should think not, indeed," said Mr. Purford.
               "But, of course, I followed my directions, because the thought crossed my mind that it might be an institution of some sort that he visited, and when I knocked at the door, a singular-looking middle-aged man came, and when I asked if the Rev. Mr. Woodgreen lived there, he smiled very strangely, I thought, and said, "yes, come in, and you'll see him presently,"—so I followed him, and went into a back-room at the very top of the house, and sat there for some time quite alone. I needn't say how uneasy I was, but I seemed to lose all power, as if there was something in the air which took my strength completely away: what it was I cannot tell, perhaps it was only nervousness, but I'm sure I never felt anything like it before. Well, I sat and sat, and wondered wherever I could be, then I got up and looked out of the window, but I could'nt see a creature or hear any sound close at hand. At last I heard several voices talking and laughing, but I couldn't make out a word that was said: in a few minutes, though, a shabbily-dressed, queer-looking young man came, and said, 'now, missus, my name is Woodgreen, and what may your business be.' I thought that was a strange way for any clergyman to speak, so I said, 'are you a clergyman, sir?' And he sat up a laugh, that has made me chilly ever since, and said, 'of course I am:' just then I heard feet at the outside of the door, and said, 'I must be mistaken—you are not the gentleman I'm inquiring for,' but he laid his hand upon my shoulder, and said, 'come, come, old woman, there's no mistake at all about it, I am a clergyman, and if you have no business with me, I must have a little business with you: what's that pretty thing in your dress,' he said, 'ho! ho! it's a brooch—just the thing I was a-wanting, so I'll relieve you o' that, missus, and by that time you'll perhaps remember what you want to see the clergyman about.' O Roderic, how I did wish you would come in!"
               
               "And then an older man came in and said, 'was it a clergyman you were asking for, my lady?' and when I told him it was, he laughed just as the young man had done and said, 'wrongish place this, for such cattle I reckon;' and then the young man asked me if I had any money, so I told them they should have every farthing I had in my pocket if they would only let me go out, but after I emptied my purse and got up, they pushed me down, and said 'it's dampish for an old woman to be wandering about, you must stop here for the day, and let's have a good crack about clergymen; you can have a comfortable night's lodging here, and perhaps in the morning, you will recollect what you want with the reverend gentleman,' and then they both laughed till the room rang again. 'It must be a bishop you want,' the young one said, "we don't keep none of your second-hand clergy folks in this temple,—we keep the downright uppy sort of nobs here,' and then he put one of his fingers under my chin and gave me a little tap with it. I begged them, for God's sake, to let me go out, and if they would, I promised to send them ten pounds a-piece; but as I was talking, a great big man came in without a coat, and they told him all that had happened, and he came up to me and said, 'glad to see you, old duchess, you are latish in life to be a-wandering up and down the earth in search of clergymen.' 'Well, then,' I says, 'I hope you will have pity on an old woman, and for mercy's sake, let me go away,' but he said, 'O no; we don't know a vast about mercy up here, you must go to clergymen if you want anything with mercy; you see, old traveller, that one-half of the world must someways live upon the other half, and we're glad when a good bone is thrown into our kennel,—isn't it so, Jack?' 'Aye,' says the other, "now hadn't we better lock up this parcel of goods, and cut over to the Peacock?' And when they began to talk about locking me up, I screamed such a scream, and fainted away, and when I awoke I was just where Mr. Purford found me."
               
               Emily had tears in her eyes. She could enter into the meaning of the scene, for it called up reminiscences which she would have gladly forgotten. Mr. Purford, too, had seen a good many phases of life in his younger days, and could follow the trembling narrator with a pretty correct apprehension of the facts. Emily's appalling fear was that the men at Mollington might have some connection with the gang at Polis which she had formerly known, and that probably the butler himself was one of a number who had gotten upon her track and were determined to persecute her. At the end of Mrs. Thomson's narration she was unable to express an opinion or even utter a surprise, but was glad that her husband could pronounce vehemently upon the monstrous outrage.
               "Such demons must be punished—shall be punished—hanging is infinitely too good for them."
               After a moment Emily faintly said—"It may be dangerous to intermeddle with such desperate characters."
               "Yes, indeed;" Mrs. Thomson added, "and I don't want anything more to do with the matter—they didn't do me any real harm, except robbing me,—and besides if we were to bring them to punishment, I should never be easy in my bed more, for I should be sure they would come and set fire to this house—they wouldn't care a pin to do it, I'm positive."
               "We must bring them to the gallows, Mrs. Thomson, and then they cannot set fire to anything."
               "Bless you, child, these men have their confederates in all parts of the country, and if you followed up these men others would come and take vengeance; no, no, thank God, we're out of their hands now, and we had better drop the subject."
               This policy didn't suit Mr. Purford. From his view of the subject he saw nothing but injury done to a respectable woman, and that injury he was resolved to avenge. He would, he truly said, consider no trouble too great provided he could bring down sufficient retribution on the heads of such diabolical offenders, and more than hinted that he would take measures for their punishment without consulting Mrs. Thomson. This aroused both the ladies. With all earnest entreaty they besought him to pause, and Mrs. Thomson became so utterly distressed, that he was glad to promise not to say a word or take a step without securing her consent.
               Afterwards came Mr. Purford's turn to speak to Emily privately on the matter. He tried by all forms of inquiry to elicit the extent of her information, and it was with extreme difficulty, that Emily could make her way through his questions without entangling herself in prevarication. Mr. Purford seemed to feel this, and by sundry hints gave Emily to understand that he was far from satisfied with her way of meeting the difficulty.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               RESTITUTION.
               BEN and Lily made a kind of science of house-keeping. With every advantage for keeping poultry, it was arranged that Lily should appropriate to her own purposes every penny that she could earn from that department, in addition to a stated sum which Ben allowed her every week. Lily's early habits of economy had so rooted themselves, that she felt it no hardship to put the whole of her own fund into a small box, specially set apart for that purpose. She counted the sum regularly on the first day of every month, and always appeared to have a marked interest in the calculation of her probable receipts. Ben was utterly in the dark as to the manner in which Lily disposed of her pin-money, as was also Lily of the way in which Ben's own share was invested. We know certainly, however, that both parties were diligently hoarding every shilling, as if preparing a golden umbrella for "the rainy day."
               Of all Ben's enjoyments there was not a keener than that supplied by intercourse with his two boys. He well remembered how his mother was in the habit of referring to Mr. Hosking, who was noted for buying little presents for his children, and believing it to be true in principle, he made a point of imitating the example, so far as his economic resolutions would permit him. There wasn't a heartier laugh in the neighborhood than Ben's, when he was rehearsing the funny little speeches made by those boys. He had the amiable weakness which distinguishes all good fathers, more or less, of relating to all persons who came to his house the questions and answers which his Benny and Octy proposed and returned. Of course, every father thinks that all visitors will be interested in what his children have said or done, and with minutest accuracy, delights to narrate the feats of juvenile intellect and eloquence. For example, when Benny was accompanying him in a stroll, the young observer noticed every dog that they passed, and the easily-pleased father used to tell with great glee, that the incipient philosopher said, "the pusses never go a-tah-tah, only the bow-wows." Octy, too, made his profound remarks on subjects which transcended his little head; for instance, on hearing of the death of a kind old man, and being told that he had gone to heaven, the inquisitive thinker said, "how did he get to heaven? Did Jesus toss him up?" And on another occasion, being caught in a violent thunderstorm while playing on an adjacent green, he exclaimed, "naughty God! wheeling dat big barrow up in the sky!" And Benny, some considerable time later, would have a tiny rod and stand by his father while fishing. Again and again he flung his line into the water, and again and again brought it up empty, while his father was pretty successful in his throwing. The little fellow completely upset the paternal gravity by saying, "Pa you will excuse me saying so, but you are a lucky old chap." All these things Ben treasured, and retailed with unabating relish to everybody who ventured to make any reference to the children. It was thoroughly pleasant, too, to hear Ben talking to his lads. His manner was precisely the opposite to that in which he himself had been paternally accosted in juvenile years. He exhausted all the expressions of endearment in talking to them, and varied those expressions by changing their names into every possible form—"Octavius, Oc, Occy, Octy, my little otti-ti-totty-tot," twirling and twisting the name just as a happy dog plays with a bone. The little ones had no fear of him, but ran to meet him every evening, and dinned him with such impetuous histories of the day, that he could'nt make out one word in a score. Then they had to sit on his knee during the whole of tea-time, and share what he was eating, feeling that Pa's bread and tea were much better than they could get at any other part of the table. Then came the favorite occupation of pulling the paternal hair—the one having a comb and the other a brush, the whole process ending in a fantastic arrangement, which might have tempted the better sort of old bachelor into a decent fit of mirth.
               Now all this was extremely foolish, wasn't it, childless reader? No doubt you look upon the whole thing with the sneer of a sage, the reason being that you are a childless reader. No doubt your brain teems with brilliant conceptions as to the true and proper method of educating children; you would rear them unblamably, wisely—in fact, philosophically. Aye, that you would! You would set an example to a whole neighborhood as to how a family ought to be trained; you would have your children thoroughly at command—a word, a glance, a hint would instantly reduce chaos to order. You wouldn't, for example, tolerate anything like rudeness in your children; you would't allow them to sully the hearth-rug, or overturn the lamp, or spill the gravy, or pop down their wheelbarrow right in the centre of the drawing-room, and against one nuisance in particular, you would lift up the paternal protest, i. e., the nuisance of exhibiting children at a dinner-party; glorious resolutions! You will inaugurate the millennium of the nursery! You will put an end to juvenile delinquencies—you will bring up children according to order, and under your government the children's room, which, from age to age, has been the noisiest corner in the house, will become quiet enough for the lucubrations of a philosopher. Clever fellow! We give you the fullest credit for conscientiousness, merely reminding you that a voyage round the hymeneal cape has been known to have a most deteriorating influence on the ethics of a bachelor on the two-sided question of domestic government. Meanwhile your theory is bran-new and certainly looks charmingly, exact and beautiful, and far be it from us to let slip the dogs of logic upon it; we can only say, from a pretty wide observation, that the theory is so brittle that your very first baby may smash it to atoms.
               Parents generally try, we believe, to lay up a little for their children, to qualify them to meet the initial difficulties of real life. There's a tin box, or a bank book, in multitudes of houses, in which children are supposed to have a special interest est. Even the poor man's child turns its penny-piece into two half-pennies, in order to make a rattle in the thrift-box. The boxes which Ben and Lily had set up, were growing stouter every week, Ben's in particular, for his box was the bank, while Lily's was fed in secret. But to be honest, these boxes were not for Benny and Octy; there was a vow written round both of them, and that vow must be honored before even the children were permitted to "save up" for themselves. An honest soul cannot rest until its vows stand out in the clear sunshine, complete in strength and beauty of fulfilment.
               "Now, Lil, come close to me, and let me tell you a secret,' said Ben, one day, after reading a lesson in his bank book, "the fact is, I made up my mind long ago to do a certain thing,—can you guess what it is?"
               "I give it up," said Lily, after a moment's consideration.
               "But try, you winning witch."
               "It's no use trying; if I cannot answer at once, I know I can never answer."
               "Well, I made up my mind to repay Hargreaves all that I took from him, and five per cent interest upon it for the whole period——"
               Lily kissed him, and said—
               "Noble Ben!"
               "I wanted to keep the thing from you altogether, until I had saved enough to meet the whole claim, but I've felt something tugging and tugging at me, and bothering me to tell you what I was doing,—I have every penny of it within thirty-two pounds, seven and ten-pence, and that I shall have in about three months!"
               "It is a right resolution, Ben, and I only wish I had some rich uncle or aunt that would leave me something, and then I should help you to carry it out, and give him even compound interest."
               "Yes, but we have no uncles or aunts, so we must fight our own battles, and sail in a ship of our own manufacture."
               "So we will, Ben; then, from this day, how would it be for me to take no more egg-money and no more pin-money, until we save the balance? I'm prepared to carry out this arrangement ment, and then, you know, we'll soon be free,—I do so like to be free!"
               "We can be free without that, Lil; so you shall have your pin-money as usual, and Rufus Hargreaves shall have every penny before he's much older."
               Lily said, "Excuse me a minute," and presently brought her box, and continued:
               "Here's my pin-money, and egg-money, too; I determined, without saying anything to anybody, that I would try to save up for the same object,—now count it, Ben, and see how much more is wanted."
               Ben hugged the thrifty little wench to his heart, and said, with a quivering voice, "O Lil."
               The money was counted, and to the joy of both parties, it was found to amount to more than forty-three pounds!
               "Glorious Lil," said Ben, with grateful enthusiasm, "now I shall write to Hargreaves this very moment, and before this week closes, we shall be free."
               He did write, and the note is before us:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "SIR: It is utterly useless to dwell reproachfully on the past; I shall not, therefore, disinter recollections which would be equally painful to you and myself. I cannot forget that in days when I was improvident and impetuous, I was betrayed into the sin of taking money which did not belong to me. I shall not try to palliate the enormity by a recital of the circumstances under which it took place, but rather own its turpitude, and bitterly lament its occurrence. I know what the original sum was, and I know the time which has elapsed since I abstracted it, and have, therefore, sent you herewith both principal and interest. It will not be necessary for you to send more than a single line in acknowledgment of receipt. I am, sir, your's obediently,
                           
                              "B. DUDGEON.
                              
                                 "RUFUS HARGREAVES, Esq., Skulford."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Now, Lily, I feel sure that from this day we shall get on gloriously. A weight has fallen from my mind, and I can now work heart and soul for you and the bairns. The first thing to be done, is to give them each five pounds as a nest-egg, and to keep adding little and little."
               Poor Lily, born in humble circumstances, reared in industry and economy, unaccustomed to the presence of gold, was so overcome with the idea that her children should have five pounds a-piece, that she was foolish enough to shed grateful tears!
               In due course, Mr. Hargreaves acknowledged the receipt of the unexpected remittance, in terms which are worth quoting:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAR SIR:
                           
                           "Your's to hand. You don't know how much it has cut me up to get such a surprising letter from you. I can hardly believe my own eyes, though I have looked ever so many times at it. I only wish I was a better man, or ever so little worthy of such an honorable action. O how wretched I am when I think of all that has happened in this house. Every chair and every table, and everything else remind me of what has taken place. You must excuse me writing very correctly, for you are well aware I am not used to writing letters. I am getting an old man now, and I feel very sorry for everything I have done wrong. I would suffer anything if I could begin life anew. I am very anxious you should do me a favor, that is, I want you to give your children what I send along with this letter. Now do let me beg you, for mercy's sake, to do me this favor. You know I have gone out of the business now, and I feel very lonely. God forgive me all my sins.
                           
                              "Your well wisher,
                              "R. HARGREAVES."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The letter occasioned no little surprise in the flower-girt cottage, particularly as it enclosed two Bank of England notes, for five hundred pounds each.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               CLOUDS THICKEN.
               THE next day, the ladies of Clumpton House were by themselves, and every incident of the adventure was gone over again with greater particularity, and with a profuseness occasioned by the freedom with which they could ask questions or make comments on the several points. Eager attention was paid to the weight and shade of every word which Mrs. Thomson had heard at Mollington, while every countenance which appeared in "Solomon's Temple" had to be delineated with the minutest care.
               "You see now," was Mrs. Thomson's conclusion to a long process of reasoning, "how little reliance can be placed on the butler's word; I really thought I had discovered the secret, and that, by a prudent use of the information which he gave me, I could have disabled him from doing any further mischief, but I confess that things are getting darker; and now it is really a serious question with me whether Mr. Purford should not be put in possession of all the facts,—you know I shall, of course, take the whole responsibility upon myself of your not having told Mr. Purford anything before your wedding, and I'm quite sure he's noble enough to forgive you, and then he will drive the tormenting wretch off the premises."
               Yes,—every speculation, every plan, was sure to wheel down to the same point. For a time, a deep-laid scheme would do well, but some turn was certain to come by which the plotters were instantly precipitated into despair. Every door but one was found to be locked and bolted, and that one exception was a full and frank disclosure to the only man who could extinguish the flame which tormented his wife.
               "I shall, however," continued Mrs. Thomson, "send for the butler, and reprove him for his falsehood and cruelty."
               "And I," said Emily, "will send for Lily, while you are doing so."
               Tom was accordingly dispatched with a hurried note, requesting Lily to come to Clumpton House without delay, and Mrs. Thomson sent for the butler to her own apartment, that she might chastise him for his heartlessness and villany. In a few minutes, the sharp interview was brought to an end; and shortly after, Mrs. Thomson and Emily resumed conversation.
               "What does he say, Mrs. Thomson? O what does the cruel wretch say?"
               "He is a cruel wretch, Emily,—he is: I really don't see what we can make of him. After I had told him how basely he had acted, he asked me what number in Harvet Road I had gone to, and when I said "nineteen," he set up such a sarcastic laugh as you never heard in your life, and said I should have gone to "thirty-one."
               "Cruel, cruel wretch! This will kill me."
               "And when I said that I would tell Mr. Purford and have him driven away, he looked at me with all the impudence in the world, and said, 'I'll tell Mr. Purford something that will make him as meek as his wife."
               "Mrs. Thomson, he must be a devil! He seems to have us both completely in his cruel power: O what will the end be?"
               Emily trembled and cried a good deal, but by the time Lily arrived, she had relapsed into her usual quiet sadness: no sooner, however, had they grasped hands than Emily broke into paroxysms of grief. Can the reader name the law, or the power, by which we carry our sorrows pretty evenly so long as we are alone, but instantly let them overflow when the eyes of a loved one beam pityingly upon us? Or by which the electric tone of sympathy startles our slumbering heart into cries of woe? It was so, you remember, when you were standing in the silent chamber looking at the marble countenance of your lifeless babe,—no living tear was on your cheek, only the stain of the spent grief, when you were in holy fellowship with the dead alone, but the moment that the living approached, the seal was broken and the floods came. Perhaps the reader, like ourselves, cares not to philosophize on his grief, by turning over the terminology of the schools to ascertain the precise name of the law which governs its demonstration;—there is the fact, and the mystery which surrounds it will one day be transfigured into an "excellent glory."
               When Lily came, the whole story of Mrs. Thomson's adventure had to be repeated—not a tittle being omitted from the original rehearsal. When the old lady had completed her narrative, Emily broke out in a storm of wrath and grief:
               "Did you ever hear anything like that, Lily? Can you wonder that my poor heart is broken? You have known me in my deepest degradation, but I do assure you both I was much happier then than I am now—then, I had nobody to love me, and nothing to lose, but now ..... O dear ..... O, O my head,—O my head, it will split with agony ..... I'm sorry you didn't leave me to die in the pit ..... nobody would have cared for me then ..... I have had years of comfort here, and might have had many years more, but what a horrible resurrection has taken place! ..... Is the past never to be buried? I am sure if ever a poor creature was sorry for doing wrong, I am: I have repented over and over again, day and night, and yet I'm hunted by demons ..... but I was number Thirty-One, and that wretched butler has got to know it, and he has me in his power so much that I cannot get away from him ..... I feel as if the teeth of a tiger were crushing through me ..... he scorns me, and laughs at me ..... he has destroyed my peace with my husband, and has corrupted every servant in the house, and the worst of it is, I have no appeal: if my husband knew it, he might disown me—I might be driven back just where I was, and then my darling children———O I wish—I wish—I had never been born!"
               Very inadequately does this cold type represent the violent passion of Emily's grief. The piercing tone, the piteous look, the hurrying surge, the long-drawn wail, can never be printed.
               After a pause, which even Lily was too stunned to break, Emily expressed herself in prayer—
               "O blessed Lord Jesus, is thy pity quite dried up? Wilt thou never come to me, and protect me from this great cruelty? When on earth thou didst take pity on every poor sinner that sought thy mercy—Lord, I seek that mercy now—I do seek it, dear Saviour, don't turn thy face away from me! O do look at me, and say that I am forgiven. My poor heart is bursting. I'm sorry, sorry for what I've done, O do pardon and love a poor vile sinner. Lord, I see the deep, black stain, and nothing can take it away but thy precious blood,—Lord Saviour, do take it away! And tell me what I should do! Save me from the cruel man—save my children—keep them from ruin—O Lord, O Lord!"
               
               "I think the time has now come for telling Mr. Purford," said Mrs. Thomson, "now what is your opinion, Mrs. Dudgeon?"
               "I cannot see that, even yet," Lily answered, "I dare not tell Ben even, much less Mr. Purford, for I'm quite sure if he saw his sister in this state he would go mad, and nobody can tell what the consequences may be. Is there no way of getting the butler to leave the place quietly?"
               "No, indeed," said Emily, with a slight subsidence of passion, he'll never leave here of his own accord: whenever he sees me alone, he demands money or something else, and if I hesitate or refuse, he says he'll tell Mr. Purford, and then he puts out his tongue at me, and hisses like a serpent before he says Thirty-One ..... O what a hell my home is now .... my once happy home!"
               
               "What I'm so much afraid of is that he will tell Mr. Purford first, and if one could be sure of that it would be so much better for Emily to have the first word."
               "No fear of that, though, Mrs. Thomson," Lily replied, "he's too acute for that; he knows that if he was to tell, he would lose his power, and lose his situation too: you may depend upon it, he won't tell."
               "Ah, but do you know, Mrs. Dudgeon, what he told me before you came? He actually boasted that he could tell Mr. Purford something which would make him as meek as the mistress! Now whatever can the lying wretch mean?
               "He means to have his own way, that's pretty clear," said Lily, "but still he knows that if he was to speak upon any such subject to Mr. Purford he would be instantly dismissed: it doesn't make the slightest matter what he knows about Mr. Purford, if it isn't a legal offence, Mr. Purford can defy, and what is more, he will defy him and drive him out of the establishment."
               Mrs. Thomson saw the reasonableness of this view, and then turning from the manipulation of details—a work in which the cleverest may err—she took refuge in an undeniably safe position:
               "O had it been a lie, how easily we could have risen above it."
               "Yes, Mrs. Thomson," Emily responded with firm emphasis, "the gall and the wormwood are in the truth. O, if I could be a little girl again—If I could only begin my life from home half as wise as I am now—but there's only one beginning, and I've had mine and spoiled it; so I must rot away in secret misery. I wish I could warn other girls.'
               Only one beginning! Aye, the life-road can be walked only once! And the traveller cannot obliterate a single step! He may stand still just where he is at this moment, and pointing to certain courses may bewail them and curse them, but there they are! He can no more erase the impression of his own feet than he can blot out the tiniest star in the heavens,—he has lived, and the memorials of moral life are immortal and unchangeable. Foot-prints are parts of journeys: journeys are deeds: and "deeds" is but the plural form of LIFE.
               Long did the three friends talk, but the wished-for light tarried as if battling with the armies of darkness. They reverted to old arguments, and repeated old resolutions, just as though they had not again and again proved them to be empty wells. People will repeat themselves under such confused and tantalizing circumstances, often mistaking emphasis for originality and fervor for inspiration. For the hundredth time they declared that if they could but fore-cast the impression which a full disclosure would produce upon Mr. Purford they would have a sure base of operation; this was as far as their heroism would carry them, blind as they were to the obvious fact, that such a fore-casting involved the whole question at issue. The reader need not be told how sad, sad, was the mournful conference. A long-held joy might at any moment vanish, and a far-recovered life be suddenly flung again into the den of the spoiler. Nor was one life alone involved; the result comprehended many fates,—peace would fly from the husband's heart,—the joy-lit eyes of unoffending children would look out for ever on a sterile waste,—a brother and his happy wife, with their idol-boys, would be stunned by the terrific blow,—the sun would be quenched at mid-day, and impenetrable darkness settle on the histories of a household. Mr. Purford, of course, could never show his face in society again, so he would mourn in solitude and finally rot into insanity. And wherefore? How did the household come to the brink of a chasm, out of which expectant devils glared at them as future prey? True, in the long-gone years a great sin had been committed, but how could a demonspirit take down the trump of God and successfully mimic the divine blast that shall wake the dead?
               Yet there was a resurrection: there did stand the revived corpse of the past to forbid the trembling woman to take one step farther on the sunny road to joy. Ah! deep, profound, is the secret which nestles here; yet a fact so vividly written at the head of every page of human experience, can hardly be called a secret. The commonest deed is part of the great universe of action,—a universe whose foundations are infinitely deeper than the beds of seas, and whose pinnacles penetrate the far-off domes of light. Men are certainly building, and in the houses which they build they must inevitably reside. These re-appearances are the necessities of our nature. The past dies not: it but sleeps, softly or deeply, and an infant's touch may wake it from long slumber. Deeds gather themselves around their doors, and settle into companionships. How can a man flee from his own life? Whither, indeed, can his actions go? He may attempt to send them from the ark of his memory; but they, unable to find a resting-place for the sole of their feet, will certainly return and demand admission into the heart which gave them birth. Deeds cannot become so intermingled as to lose their pedigree: every oath goes infallibly to the lip off which it originally fell, and every act finds its way unerringly to the hand which launched it into life. Let every man take his own, is a law which cannot be repealed by human courts: it is in this inexorable law that we find the sting which was every hour thrust into the swelling and quivering heart of Emily Purford. She knew that she was not asked to accept more than her own. The butler was pursuing her with a garment foul with moral leprosy, and she knew too well that that very garment had been woven by her own guilty hands;—an accusation was brought against her, and she dare not repel the charge, lest the indignant earth should rend and announce to the universe that another lie had gone straight up to God.
               Will the reader turn over the pages of his own life, and familiarize himself with the conflicting emotions which agitated his heart when he was called upon to decide questions which involved the retention or surrender of his peace? When he has done so, he will know how to understand Emily's agony, as she pondered the arguments for and against revealing her story to a faithful and unsuspecting husband. Experience alone can understand experience. Life is delicately balanced. A word may create a revolution—a flash of the eye may blind the sun—a frown may enshroud the whole firmament—a disclosed secret may go on lighting flames until the social sphere is an intolerable furnace. There is nothing so awful as life: if you keep it, you accumulate possessions which you must expend through unending time, and if you fling it back to the Giver, it will leap upon you with a scorching revenge on the other side of the invisible boundary, and turn the insult into an eternal reproach. Look well, then, O reader, mirthful with the joy of morning-life, at the reality and significance of your position. Be careful how you turn a thought into a deed. Sit in long inquest upon an appealing passion, before you grant it incarnation. Know that deeds are destiny—character is fate.
               Hence, every smile which lighted Mr. Purford's countenance, struck pain into Emily's heart. No longer could the self-accusing woman fully appropriate to herself the fond caresses of an unsuspecting husband. She couldn't but feel that those caresses were intended for an Emily with a purer history than her own. "Did he but know," thought she, "his arms might fall forever at his side, and open no more to receive me to his heart." His smiles, therefore, she held in most uncertain tenure; to-day, they were hers, but to-morrow——! Her mental condition, too, prepared her to misinterpret everything. She looked narrowly into every expression of countenance, lest sarcasm should be lurking in the folds of the smiles, or a half-suppressed scorn be hidden in the mocking light of the eye. Every word, also, must be examined through the microscope of a growing jealousy; and every accent, even, was to ring again and again in her ear, that she might determine whether the music of first love had been exchanged for the dissonance of revolted affection. Jokes and pleasantries, which once would have been answered with a gay laugh, had now to make their uneven way through fears and doubtings which would file the beauty off any sparkling wit, for it might be, she joylessly reasoned, that the poisoned barb was hidden in sallies of soulless humor. Then, too, how keenly she felt anything bearing the most distant similitude to reproach! How ready she was to regard a complaining word as the first spark of a near bell, and shudderingly to gather her children around her, and press them with a daily farewell caress! And yet, at other times, she found a melancholy pleasure in listening to such unintended reproaches as fell from her husband's lips, regarding them as so many tests of his real feeling, and concluding that if he knew more, he would surely say so in the hours of his fretfulness. Never was man more narrowly watched than was Mr. Purford. Emily's interpretations were always ready,—every frown, she said, meant hatred, and every sigh was the voice of a stifled woe, or muffled sob. Looked at through such a murky atmosphere, Mr. Purford was quickly losing the beauty and fascination with which he once shone in the eyes of Emily, and which won the homage of her clinging heart. Yet all the while he was as unsuspecting as one of his own children, and loved her with an ardor which could not be cooled. Day by day his love had grown strong, and deep, and holy,—it had become brilliant as light, and sacred as veneration; and every passing shade on her lovely face, became thick darkness on his yearning and aching heart. He looked upon her, when her eyes knew not of the penetrating gaze, and listened to her every accent, as one might listen for the whispers of expiring love, and planned many a plan to bring back the light and the joy which used to sparkle on her fair countenance. He knew not what it was that made his Emily look sad looks, and utter sad tones, for to his many questions he could elicit nothing but the evasive answers of a morbid anxiety. He knew not that a serpent was encoiled around his best-loved heart, and that the life-blood was being drained off with the unhalting constancy of time.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               POLYSYLLABLE.
               "WE live in a changing world," as a man might say when asked to change a five pound note. Fat Mr. Tweddle, with his five bright keys, was not the sort of man to remain long out of a situation. His virtues were of commanding value, particularly in a mercenary and dishonest age. Thrown out at Dudgeon Brothers, he was soon settled with another respectable firm in the same city, and prosecuting his course as cashier with all the decent quietness of a phlegmatic constitution. Under him, as a letter copier, was a somewhat singular young man, who passed under the soubriquet of Polysyllable, from an inveterate habit of expressing himself in the largest words which that talkative old parent called Mother-Tongue could supply. He was fond of his alias, and often regretted that it had escaped the attention of his godfathers and godmothers. The reader may, if he pleases, make the acquaintance of Poly at the dinner table of Mr. Tweddle, who makes a point of taking somebody home every Saturday afternoon, to help him to break the long monotony of a half holiday, as well as to cheer his easy going wife. Fat Mr. Tweddle and luxurious Mrs. Tweddle, both like a good dinner, and never begrudge a knife and fork to a pleasant neighbor, so we may join them, in imagination at least.
               "Now, Mr. Poly, will you have the goodness to inform me which part of the fish you prefer?" said Mr. Tweddle.
               "Thank you, sir; if it will not incommode the choices which have been made subjectively by those by whom I have the honor to be surrounded, I should indicate that my taste leads me to select the dorsal fin."
               
               This was a poser. Poor Tweddle was not at all versed in piscine anatomy, but he dare not confess his ignorance.
               "Come here, ma," said he to his wife.
               "No, love, come here," she answered, "I'm worn out today.
               Tweddle whipped round to his lady, and whispered—
               "Which is the dozzle-pin?"
               "There isn't one in this trout," she whispered in return.
               "Unluckily," said Tweddle, "this is a somewhat extrahordinary fish, because it hasn't got the particular part on which your elegant taste has fallen, Mr. Poly."
               "I see, sir, I see. It is a trivial mistake as to the genus which I have inadvertently made. I looked upon it as an acanthopterygious fish, but I suppose it is one of the chondropterygii, and therefore my taste must fall upon the ventral fin."
               "Very good, Mr. Poly, I don't like to do anything at a venture myself, but the beast will be getting as cold as flint if we don't make a cut into it somewhere, so if I must go on at a venture, I'll give you a bit o' the back."
               Poly had no reason to be dissatisfied with the choice.
               "I'm a great admirer of the piscatory tribe," said he, "and have turned extraordinary (I think there's no h in that word, Mr. Tweddle?) attention to the natural history of the sea, and for my part, I generally prefer the Trigla genus, on account of the peculiar lorification of the head."
               "Indeed, sir," said Mrs. Tweddle, very languidly, just as half a potatoe was travelling towards her dentistry.
               "Yes, madam; science is food for the mind."
               "So it is, Mr. Poly; but it would make an uncommon poor dinner for a cashier who has been reduced into a complete waste-book."
               "True, Mr. Tweddle, true; that is, if you take an objective——"
               "No, I don't make any objection to it," said Tweddle, with tremulous veneration.
               "No, no; but I say your observation is perfectly true, if you take an objective and materialistic view of the case. Such a cashier had better dine upon the Vorticellidæ, and by swallowing millions of infusorial existences, he will repair the havoc which hunger makes upon the mortal tenement."
               "Indeed, sir," Mrs. Tweddle remarked, as she quietly speculated on the cubic dimensions of Poly's tongue.
               As Mr. Tweddle couldn't reply to Poly's suggestion, he engaged himself very busily in picking a bone and holding his head in the attitude of a man who hadn't heard all that had been said, but who, if he had heard, could have returned a scientific and most luminous answer.
               "I'm fond of fish, I am," said he, as he laid down the polished spine.
               "That is, you mean to affirm, that you are partial to a good fish. You don't, of course, include the Cyprinus brama?"
               "Certainly not, Mr. Poly,—when I'm let alone, I stick to the trouts and salmon; now let me have the joy of cutting you a bit of this pigeon pie."
               "No, thank you, for my part—having due regard to the relations which have been established in natural history—I prefer not to make the acquaintance of the gallinaceous fowls; anything of the bovid genus is more in keeping with my patriotic inclinations."
               Enough to show that Mr. Polysyllable couldn't be other than Mr. Jy, who had made considerable attainments in the art of mystifying the public by dwelling on the "various modifications and derivations" of the Mother-Tongue.
               The reader is, no doubt, charging us with a grave error in describing Mrs. Tweddle as easy-going: we hasten, therefore, to vindicate our historical accuracy by repeating that this is a changing world, and that the Mrs. Tweddle in question was once the mistress of The Thorns—that renowned Academy of Conscience.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               WHICH THE STORY-LOVER WILL DO WELL TO SKIP.
               SOCIETY is not to be judged solely by its great crimes. They are but the accidental expression of a settled state of heart. Asylums, workhouses, calendars, jails, and parliamentary documents, set forth the outside only; and cannot, by any possibility do more. In most of such sources you find only the scum,—the underlying and all-explaining laws and facts are secrets of which they cannot give more than hints. But a knowledge of these laws and facts is absolutely essential to a wise estimate of social morality. In valuing an estate, you not onl price the standing-timber, you reckon the seed which is sown, and your sum-total represents not merely the value of the full-grown trees, but also the probabilities which attach to the fructification of the unseen seed. And why shouldn't some such method or reckoning be adopted by our moral actuaries and statisticians? We shall never know the exact state of society by marshalling all the criminals into black regiments—cataloguing all the diseases upon miles of sackcloth—piling all the refuges of guilt and misery into bleak mountains—and collecting into one stupendous mass all the visible horrors which excoriate society: we must go deeper and see farther than all this,—we must wend our way along the sinuous banks of the malarial stream until we find the spring-head of the mischief. These cutaneous diseases must be traced to their origin, if we would be wise moral physicians: the empiric assails the surface—the philosopher penetrates the heart.
               Such exhibitions as we have attempted to delineate are the mountains thrown up by subterranean fires. They are, we repeat, but accidental or occasional manifestations of a hidden force: that force operates far below the surface,—a fire that is only a fathom down could never heave the overlying stratum into a darkening hill: no, the fires are miles deep,—are right away down at the core—are blazing at the heart—and they come billowing and boiling up, and tell the story of their wrath in the rugged sentences of quaking mountains. The non-recognition of these fires, in estimating social conditions and prospects account for the shallow and worthless deductions of the merely mechanical statistician. We are pointed to poverty and ignorance as the fruitful parents of crime; but every day this, as an exhaustive theory, is being shattered, and every day is proving that the men who seek in accidents the secret of social wrong are either the abettors or the dupes of the hollowest quackery. Poverty and ignorance, indeed! True enough they have a countless and most damnable progeny to answer for; but they are not the only progenitors of social devils. Are we not reading, again and again, that the prisoner at the bar was a person of "gentlemanly bearing?" that the prisoner at the bar had evidently "moved in good society?" that the prisoner at the bar had been luxuriating in the first hotels on the continent when the detective, steady in his pursuit as an eager bloodhound, impertinently tapped him on the shoulder? And can such facts be ignored in studying the causes of social diabolism? Are they not, on the contrary, to be regarded as proofs that crime does not spring necessarily from any accidental circumstances of life? When we point to poverty and ignorance as the sole sources of crime, the voice of history thunders forth the fact that education itself has been taken prisoner—that wealth has placed its golden feet in the footsteps of the ragged criminal—that refinement has been loaded with the culprit's iron—that aristocratic titles have been exchanged for prison-numerals—and that scions of royalty have slept in a felon's grave. It is, indeed, no business of ours to distinguish the characteristics of crime; the horny hand of poverty may commit the most vulgar atrocities, while the velvet or silken hand of wealth may bedizen villany with the charms of genteel breeding,—yet there is the crime! Take off the garniture of so-called refinement, and the deed of the rich man becomes as ghastly and hideous as the action of the penniless criminal. Remove the ermine or the rags, and throbbing in the breast you find the same fiery, untamed and desperate heart. It is upon the heart, then, that transformative influences must be brought to bear,—omit that, and your philanthropic schemes are glittering but worthless bubbles. Man cannot be permanently veneered: for a time, indeed, he may be so treated as to present an appearance of marvellous metamorphosis, but the slumbering forces will one day awake, and reduce to ashes the triumphs of a superficial morality.
               Does the ardent reformer say, "roll the ocean of wealth, education and refinement over the land and all will be right?" Let him be reminded that the subterranean fires to which reference has been made take the very seas by storm, and through the waste of waters upheave a land barren and melancholy as those waters themselves. How, then, shall such fires be extinguished? Is there no hope for humanity? Must we evermore build on volcanic soil? Is there no flooding stream which can quench the devouring flame? The enthusiastic reformer must look this inquiry courageously and intelligently in the face; it is the covering of the one secret of upward and unpausing progress. Let him listen with reverent ear, lest a voice hath fallen from the answering heavens to tell man where to look for the stream which can extinguish forever the fires which rage in the universal heart.
               Outside workers should never be discouraged. They do a good work in calling for deeper drains, purer ventilation, more oxygen, and an improved style of architecture,—they are right, too, indisputably and gloriously right, in seeking to close the drunkeries of the land: we would not, for a moment, arrest the spade of the excavator, or the brush of the painter, or the hammer of the builder, or the sepometer of the mineralogist; but to one and all of their owners we would say, "gentlemen, yours is an outside work, and apart from the moral concurrence of the community, it will leave morality very much where it found it." Circumstances—i. e. mere accidental surroundings—cannot permanently arrest the development of crime: they may change the channel, but cannot drain the stream: they may cover the outside with scarlet, but the pestiferous heart is busy still. Yes, a lie may go hissingly up to God through the most virtuous external conditions, as the volcano may discharge its lava through the purest and serenest air.
               It was a hearty belief in this doctrine which induced Mrs. Thomson to protest against any disclosure of Emily's earlier life. The butler, on the contrary, vulgar and obtuse, could not appreciate the subtle distinctions which the benevolent lady insisted upon drawing; all that he knew was that Emily Purford had been a fallen woman, and any subsequent reformation could not, in his eyes, assume any other phase than that of a proud and selfish hypocrisy. To him, the past was the everlasting. To his eye, the stream was always tinged with the one determining event which degraded his mistress' character; and from this conviction, he worked as persistently as Mrs. Thomson worked from the basis of her favorite theory. Nor is there anything mysterious in this diversity of operation. The stand-point explains the whole. The butler knew nothing of heart-history. The moral value of a regenerated will was a figment to him. His personal medicament for the past was forgetfulness,—a dreamy stupefaction which might, any day, be aroused into implacable vengeance. But he was determined that his mistress should not enjoy this treacherous slumber of memory and conscience. Her misfortunes had become his opportunities. Her sins he turned into profitable resources; and every day compelled her to pay for her weakness, either in gold or in bitter humiliation. This tormentor was, so to speak, the undying worm generated by Emily's moral corruption, and the gnawing was intolerable;—"gnawing," isn't the very word a poison-laden worm? doesn't it seem to be coiling and piercing and writhing and rending as you look at it and think of it? It is always there—just there, where you can see its every motion—and always getting farther and coming nearer; stimulated, as it were, in its infernal progress, by the very shrieks and moanings of human agony. "Kill it!" you scream—"stamp your foot upon it— throw it into the fire!" But what if you do? You forget that it is the undying worm. The fire has no power over it. It sports with flames. It strengthens with the wasting years, and in the very hour of the victim's death, it threatens to follow him into the dark unseen. Theologians differ about the doctrine of eternal torments; but do not they who insist that punishment cannot be everlasting often overlook the analogue of common life? A man forged your name twenty years ago, have you forgiven him? have you liberated him from the hell of your indignation? have you restored him to the glow of your friendship—the sunshine of your confidence? You know that you have not, and you know that you never will until you feel, beyond all misgiving, that his nature has undergone a radical and perfect transformation. Punishment is not regeneration. Jails are not necessarily schools in which moral transitions take place. The culprit may be quite as truly a criminal on the day he leaves prison as on the day he enters it. The devil cannot be expelled by rods. If there is any virtue in such poor analogies as may be drawn between human intercourse and divine government we may import into the discussion this striking fact, that men do, to the utmost of their ability, practically punish offenders, in a greater or less degree, throughout the brief eternity of human probation. But Mrs. Thomson knew that Emily's heart had been completely changed, and therefore hailed her return to the highway of virtue; but the butler did not know this, nor care for it, but judged everything by his own depraved spirit, and therefore was an undying worm in the bosom of his helpless mistress.
               What should she have done? is a question which will divide readers into two clases, and if we might trespass on their discussion, our voice would be heard contending that all persons who have done wrong, should bring that wrong into the light, and in the audience of those who may be concerned, renounce it, and mourn it, and curse it, and flee from it for ever. This should be done before relationships become complicated: when the ground is clear, when the hand is disengaged, when others have the opportunity of advancement or retreat, then let it be known who you are and what you are, and ever after you will be able to shake the viper of reproach into the fire out of which it sprang. Candor is self-remunerative. There is a moment when penitence has nothing to fear from confession, but that moment once past, and darkness descends at lightning-pace. Woe to the breast laden with immoral secrets: at an unthought-of hour the spark may fall, and the ruinous explosion ensue. Then, the tyranny of daily dread! The horror of feeling that the foundations of your life are laid in a heart which may at any moment collapse! The slavery of striking your life-course according to the caprice of a tantalizing and contemptible tormentor! These considerations should create an invincible determination to break the rod of the oppressor by living a life, if not too exemplary to escape impeachment, yet too true to dread exposure.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               THE FINAL CHAPTER IN WHICH THINGS TAKE AN UNEXPECTED TURN.
               PEOPLE of a certain social status feel themselves bound to spend at least a month at the sea-side every year. This sea-visiting has, indeed, become quite the rage in every large town; so much so, that not to have been at the coast, and not to have spent from fifty to a hundred pounds in the enjoyment of holiday-life, is regarded as proof enough either of unconfessed poverty, or latent selfishness. Hardly is flowery May permitted to furnish her many-colored carpet, before boxes, trunks, portmanteaus and hat-cases, quail under the glance of an eye that is bent on sight-seeing; and merry voices ask again and again, "where shall we go?" The dust of business is to be rubbed off—the horrible sadness of the trade-face is to be exchanged for the smile of hope—the chimney-pot gives place to the wide-awake, and conventionality is spurned from the foot of freedom. Merry! merry! merry! are all young hearts—old grudges are forgiven, loving protestations are multiplied by the million, and schemes and plots and dodges positively surcharge the juvenile breast. This sea-visiting forms at once the joy of anticipation and the joy of reflection; either way it will do for the young folks, only let them get to the sea, and they'll not repine much as to the advantages or disadvantages of breathing a marine atmosphere—the tediousness of detail and discussion is lost in the one submerging hope. This passion for sea-visiting annually flamed, as a matter of course, in the hearts of the inmates of Clumpton House; all the little people there danced with joy when the summer sun came round and bade them prepare for the water; Papa, too, had to bring them spades and barrows, and pails and balls, and to tell them again and again, at least six times every day, how they would ride on donkeys, and gallop on the sands, by the hour together.
               The next incident in our narrative requires us to make some such reference as this, for it was after an unusually prolonged visit to the sea-side; that the Purford family were surprised to find the butler disqualified for his work by an accident which occurred during one of his many excessive bouts of brandy-drinking. For many, many months the butler had been known to indulge freely in the bottle, yet he managed his potations so skillfully, as to time and quantity, as to elude the notice of his master. The time of detection had, however, suddenly and unexpectedly arrived. The disguise had been growing thinner, until at length it vanished entirely, and the butler was found in his bed-room, by Mr. Purford himself, a clearly convicted and terrifically-punished drunkard. We allude to the extent of his punishment, because, after examination by competent surgical skill, the injury which he had received in his head, through a fall, was pronounced incurable.
               Mr. Purford, who was ever alive to the proper treatment of his servants in cases of illness, took a serious view of the circumstance, and felt his obligation to direct the guilty and ignorant butler to the consideration of subjects which involve the present and final condition of the human mind. Mrs. Purford, too, was deeply alarmed, though her alarm, as the reader may suppose, arose from very different causes to those which threw her benevolent husband into agitation. She firmly refused to go near the butler's bed-room, though Mr. Purford not unfrequently urged her to accompany him in an evening visit to the suffering man, thinking that by some gentle and persuasive word, such as woman only can effectually breathe, she might lead the gross-hearted sufferer to the consideration of those exalting themes. But no. Had the butler's room been a tiger's den, Mrs. Purford could not have avoided it more anxiously. Yet she was far from being uninterested in the scenes which transpired there. As soon as Mr. Purford returned from his visits, her eager penetrating eye was upon him, that she might know if the dread secret had entered his heart. Her suspicions, however, were never fully verified, though there was an occasional sigh on Mr. Purford's lips, which her goaded imagination deepened into the moan of anguish or the thunder of execration.
               To the credit of the butler, it must be said, that he never sought to exaggerate his calamity, nor claimed more attention than his fellow-servants were willing to render. In short, he bore his sufferings manfully, and whenever he spoke of the future, he expressed himself in the strongest language of hope. His partiality for Tom never changed; in fact, during the whole period of his sickness, he would not allow any one but Tom to remain in the room over night. Nor was Tom averse to this arrangement, for though his intellect might have been brighter, yet it was hardly possible for his heart to be more susceptible to the appeals of human suffering and helplessness. With uncomplaining patience did the poor slateless lad tend the invalid—never, apparently, satisfied with his own services, until he won the smile of the sufferer. Tom's behavior was an affecting proof, that for the performance of acts of kindness, great mental gifts are by no means indispensable. The kindling of an eye, the warm pressure of a hand, the dropping of a gentle word, these are the signs held out by a true affection, and they strike light and comfort into the hearts of those who are ready to perish. Few men, indeed, have the royal power of changing the thinking of an age—few can arrest a generation, and turn the current of its tendencies; but every man may drop from his fingers some golden deed of kindness, richer than treasured pearls and stores of rubies. Tom is an example in point. As he moved stealthily across the floor, interpreted the very glances of the patient, and now and then patted the aching brow softly, as if touching an infant of days, he showed that under the most unpromising exterior there might throb the pulses of a profound affection. But the services of the truest friendship are powerless in attempting to beat back the advance of death. Despite of every exertion, the unhappy man gradually sunk, until Mr. Purford made it almost the one business of his life to warn the butler of his danger, and point him to the only path which issues in perfect rest,—a duty whose performance was rendered difficult in consequence of the butler himself being unwilling to admit that his life was really in peril.
               "The fact is, butler," said Mr. Purford, "I feel sure you will never leave that bed again—I've told you we shall not send you away in your present condition—and now, my poor fellow, I am anxious that you should get ready to exchange worlds."
               This was a view of the case against which the butler was determined to shut his eyes. His love of life was unconquerable. Though he had nothing to live for but to labor—though no joy-sun shed light on his difficult way—yet he clung to the present, having that awful dread of the unseen and unknown which is fostered by ignorance and superstition.
               "What do you mean," said he, "by getting ready? I don't feel that I'm anything like dying; if my head was only a little steadier, I should soon be down stairs again."
               "Aye," said the master, with a gravity which made the butler fix his eyes wonderingly upon him, "that may be true, but that 'if' of yours is the thing: that 'if' baffles the doctor—and I tell you plainly, that your coffin and your grave are in that 'if,' so I must again warn you to prepare for the solemn change."
               The butler was too weak to reply for a moment or two. He was evidently thinking, however, and in the course of a few seconds indicated the current of his thoughts, by slowly repeating the word:
               "Prepare."
               "Yes," Mr. Purford continued, "prepare;" you may not have many days or even hours to prepare in, so begin at once; death sometimes comes suddenly."
               Again there was a moment's thoughtful silence, which was broken by the butler saying, with great eagerness:
               "You tell me to 'prepare,' and 'get ready,' but you don't tell me what to do, and that is what I want to know."
               The door having been, happily, opened thus far, Mr. Purford sought to effect an entrance into the butler's heart, and in order to make his work sure as he went, he sought to extract tract certain confessions which he might employ as a basis of argument and appeal.
               "Well, then," said he, "I suppose you'll grant at once that you haven't been a good man."
               This evangelical supposition, however, met an instantaneous and flat denial.
               "No, master; cannot say that; I have been as good as a good many, and better than some; I haven't gone to the church except when I couldn't help it; I don't like the church; I could make neither head nor tail of the parson; it was all for fine gentleman and none for butlers,—I don't see that I have been so bad after all."
               This statement, of course, threw Mr. Purford into despair: he expected that the butler would at once, with a penetrating sigh, have acknowledged himself a most miserable sinner; every other person to whom Mr. Purford had spoken had been only too ready to call himself by all hard names, and had the butler followed the example, Mr. Purford would have proceeded to fabricate a convincing argument; but when the butler intrenched himself in the castle of his own smiling virtue, the teacher felt that he must break up his general proposition into particular terms, and thus secure, by piecemeal, what he couldn't obtain as a total.
               "Do you mean to say, then, that you were acting properly when you intoxicated yourself? Isn't drunkenness a sin?"
               "I couldn't help it, master; no, I couldn't."
               Another form of question must be tried, or the master's good purpose would come to grief.
               "Do you mean to say that you never committed sin?"
               "Often enough, sir; but then haven't we all committed sin? And shouldn't we all be dropped into hell in a bunch?"
               "Well, well," Mr. Purford replied, shuddering at the butler's profanity, "just let everybody alone, and speak about yourself, or we shall never see our way clear: the question I ask you is, have you committed sin, or have you not?"
               "Well, I call that plain, sir; I can understand you now, but will you tell me what business you have with that?"
               Mr. Purford was not at all offended by this apparently rude appeal, but, on the contrary, felt that under such a question there might be a delicacy which should be respected. In accordance with this view, he frankly replied—
               "I'm glad you have asked that question, butler, for it gives me an opportunity of explaining that, strictly speaking, I have really no business with it at all, and I only asked you so that I might be able to show you what I meant by 'getting ready' for another world."
               "Thank you, sir. Then you are sure you don't intend to tell the other servants about it?"
               "Not at all—not at all—whatever could put that into your head? This business is too solemn for tattling."
               The butler paused, that he might review the course which had been taken, and having ascertained that the positions were so far sound, he suddenly turned upon his master with a most unlooked for inquiry—
               "Thank you, sir; that is very good. Now will you tell me whether you have ever committed any sin?"
               The question was sharply worded, and the butler fixed his eye upon his master as if determined not to be put off with an evasive answer. It was plain to Mr. Purford that one-sided confession, in such a case, was quite impracticable, and that whatever course he might adopt, the butler was resolved not to take more than one step in advance. It became, therefore, a serious question, whether he should proceed, for mutual confession might be attended with consequences which it would be as impossible to control as to foresee. The master's object, however, was good, and though considerable doubt rested on the most fitting method of its accomplishment, he was determined to risk himself a few steps farther, and therefore replied—
               "Certainly I have—certainly—thousands upon thousands—but I'm bitterly sorry for every one of them."
               "Do you say 'certainly,' sir?"
               "Yes, certainly," said Mr. Purford, with about as much fervor as Mrs. Pearce used to utter that word.
               "Very well, then, so have I—so have I—now tell me how I'm to get ready—my head is queer; just put your hand on the temples, and feel how they jump."
               "Aye, they are throbbing very much."
               "Now tell me how to get ready—of course, you are ready yourself, or you couldn't tell me how to get ready."
               "I don't wish to say too much about being ready myself, though I hope I'm not altogether unprepared. The Word of God says, 'if we confess our sins he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins'—now I should say your first business is confession."
               "Confession!" The word visibly thrilled and startled the butler, so much so, that he repeated it several times before saying—
               "But I want to know who we are to confess to? Have we to confess to man or to God? The parson is always telling us that the Catholics are fools for confessing to the priest,—now tell me, sir, whether we are to confess to the priest or to Jesus Christ?"
               This time Mr. Purford was prepared for his turn, for he had settled opinions about confession.
               "I can, perhaps, ease your mind upon that point. We have always to confess to God, and sometimes we have to confess to man as well: that depends entirely upon circumstances; just let me suppose that you have stolen fifty pounds from a person, in such a case as that, it would be right to confess to the man whom you have robbed, as well as to God, who is over all and knows all. But if you have not committed any particular sin against man, which lies heavily on your conscience, then you are not required to make any confession, except to God alone."
               This explanation fell like a sunbeam on the mind of the butler, and he instantly expressed his obligation—
               "I see that, master, clearer than if your parson had said it; I can understand your preaching because you preach to me. Now, I want to tell you something, but I don't know how to begin."
               "Take your time, butler, and I shall be glad to help you to the utmost of my power."
               This welcome interruption gave the butler time to collect himself, and, with marvellous composure, he proceeded to propound his difficulty—
               "Suppose," said he, "that I had injured some poor woman that nobody cared for, should I send for that poor woman and beg her pardon? Do tell me, master, for there may be some truth in what you say about the 'if;'—now, what is your opinion upon that point, sir?"
               Mr. Purford was taken aback. Surmises succeed with the usual rapidity. Had some deed of iniquity been perpetrated in his own house? Were his ears to tingle with the sound of some horrible revelation? Was the accident from which the butler was suffering the memorial of another and deeper crime than intoxication? These inquiries secretly tended to modify Mr. Purford's theory of confession, yet he couldn't gracefully escape the conclusions of his own logic, so he adopted a course which apparently threw the difficulty upon the shoulders of the butler.
               "I don't know," said he, "whether you allude to any unhappy circumstance in your own history,—that is best known to yourself. I have stated what I conceive to be the general principle of right, and I must leave you to make any application of it, just as you think the peculiarities of the case may require."
               While this answer was being returned, the interlocutors exchanged glances, and neither, apparently, had power to take his eyes from the other, a mysterious fascination all but entrancing both parties. A difficulty was felt on both sides, which was eventually, though most unsatisfactorily, met by Mr. Purford suggesting that probably the conversation had proceeded far enough at one sitting, and that, under the circumstances, he thought it best to retire.
               
               "There's something very singular in the butler's case, I'm sure, Emily," said Mr. Purford, when he retired to the diningroom, "I've had a very free conversation with him, and I'm only afraid, from one question he asked, that there may be a screw loose in this house somewhere."
               
               "You don't believe it, I should think," Emily hurriedly replied, with much surprise and confusion, "he must be a bad man to talk in any such way—no doubt his head is cracked, and that makes him rave—I wouldn't believe a word he says, myself—not a word, Roderic, and I hope you wont."
               Mr. Purford's thoughtfulness aroused poor Emily's solicitude to the highest intensity. There was a terribleness in his silence more appalling, for the moment, than she could conceive any torrent of maledictions to be, for she knew not what life-involving thoughts were absorbing her husband's attention. She knew, too, that she had expressed herself with great excitement—that she had repeated words, again and again, which had little or no direct bearing on the subject, yet she could not restrain her speech; she was as one bounding down a hill, who cannot stop himself at a moment's notice: all this she well knew, yet her power of control was quite suspended, and her remarks, if pondered by a hearer who was at all suspicious, would certainly have afforded internal evidence of the speaker's self-crimination. She felt, however, that if she didn't talk, she would have to endure a silence which was absolutely crucifying, and against such a silence she was determined to battle—
               "Now, dearest, do tell me you don't believe a word he says,—something wrong in this house? No, indeed! The man must be quite insane; why, he might take anybody's character away—depend upon it his brain is touched. . . . ."
               "Don't, Emily, don't talk in that way: the man is quite as conscious and sensible as either of us;—to hear you talk as you are doing now, one might really think you knew something about the secret——"
               "My dear!" Emily shrieked, "don't be cruel."
               "I am not cruel," the husband answered with firmness, "the butler has told me that he has injured some poor woman, and I only hope that she is not in this house; what is there cruel in that?"
               Emily had not recovered from her fright in time to make any reply to this statement before Mrs. Thomson entered the room. Mr. Purford communicated all the particulars to the venerable lady, Emily supplying interjectory comments, and took counsel with her as to the best manner of dealing with a bad case.
               "I think as Emily does," said she, "that the accident has very probably affected his brain, and that we mustn't believe all he says; for myself, at all events," she said, in a tone which intimated that her mind was made up, "I should be extremely careful not to suspect anybody merely on his word: I should indeed," and then the old lady rubbed her fingers as she was wont to do after having delivered an opinion that was only electro-plated instead of being silver right through.
               Mr. Purford was proverbially good-tempered at home, but at this moment, he gave signs of slight irritation at the policy which the ladies adopted in seeking to cast suspicion on the sanity of the butler.
               "I tell you," said he, "that the man is quite as sane as we are, but I do hope that no disgrace will be brought on Clumpton House through any misconduct on his part—that is to say, I hope the poor woman he refers to is not one of our servants."
               "If not one of the servants," thought Emily, "what must his feelings be when he is aware that his wife is implicated! If he can become so excited under the bare suspicion that one of his domestics may have done wrong, to what frantic passion will he rise when the dread reality is disclosed! Emily was, however, determined to fight every inch of her way, and this she resolved to do by claiming every consideration for the weakness and unselfishness of her sex; this led her to say with much pathos—
               "But let me tell you, Roderic, that if the poor woman he spoke of should be in this house, that such a circumstance cannot be any blame of ours, and we ought to treat her with all delicacy, for no doubt her own reflections have been sufficiently tormenting: we must show mercy, if we hope to obtain it for ourselves, Roderic, so I do hope you will not adopt any extreme measures until you know exactly what you are about."
               "I quite agree with that," said Mrs. Thomson.
               
               "Good advice, no doubt," Mr. Purford replied, "still I do hope that no stain is on Clumpton House."
               "So do I," said Emily, "but we had better drop the subject till we know more of the facts,—it seems to me that we are talking in the dark."
               So they were, and in more senses than one, for dark lines were on the horizon, and shadows were filling the spacious dining-room, a circumstance for which Emily was not unthankful as her cheeks were red with the blushes of remembered guilt, and her eyes wet with the tears of unavailing penitence.
               
               The night after, Mr. Purford was impressed with the conviction that the butler had not many hours to live, and consequently he betook himself with still warmer earnestness to the work of enlightening the mind of the dying man. From the doctor he learned that for a good many days Tom had been engaged in writing from the butler's dictation, though as to the particulars of the writing the doctor knew absolutely nothing, as the sheet was instantly folded whenever he made his appearance. The patient was now too weak to enter into conversation, and from the manner in which the unhappy sufferer pressed his hands to his head, it was evident that his last agony had set in.
               "Are you happy?" Mr. Purford whispered, but no answer came.
               "Can I do anything more for you?" he continued, and for a moment more there was silence. But, hush! the dying man tries to speak—how hard the task!—how his lips quiver;—his eyes are half-open—he whispers—still!—"didn't you ..... tell me ..... word of God ..... confessing sins?"
               "Yes, I did," Mr. Purford gently said.
               "Can you find the words?" the butler continued.
               "O yes ..... there they are."
               "Cannot read ..... cannot see ..... head bad ..... going away ..... very dark, dark, dark ..... put my hand on the words ..... good bye to Tom ..... very kind ..... thank you all."
               Mr. Purford put the butler's fingers on the passage, and as the hour was advanced he left the room, much doubting whether the poor man could survive the night.
               Very early in the morning Mr. Purford returned, and found the room in perfect quietness. Tom, exhausted with much watching, was fast asleep. Mr. Purford went softly towards the bed, and found the fingers of the butler just where he had placed them—the page was slightly torn, as if by eager pressure; he touched the fingers, but——they were cold with death! Yes, he had gone: we cannot interpret the meaning of those pressed fingers: in them may have been the mystery of a better life.
               As soon as Mr. Purford realized the true condition of affairs, he hastened to bring Emily to the room that she might know exactly the state in which he found it. His motions, however, had awakened Tom, so that when the master and mistress returned they found him, with his arms around the corpse, kissing the pallid face with passionate affection. It was an awful sight. In the wildness of his grief Tom had been transformed into a new creature, and through his unfeigned tears, his vacant eyes actually seemed to shine with the light of a fully recovered reason. Emily was horror-struck. Before her was the corpse of her tyrannical tormentor, and (as she imagined) the corpse of her worst foreboding.
               On altering the position of the bed-covering, Mr. Purford noticed a folded paper with his name pretty plainly written in large round hand, which, as soon as Emily observed, she made an effort to snatch out of her husband's hand, but was foiled in her purpose.
               "Come," said he, "let us read it together—you shall look over me—come away."
               They went. We quote the document in its entirety, premising only that we have corrected the spelling, and filled in the punctuation:
               "Sir and Mistress—You will be surprised to read what I'm going to get Tom to put down on this paper, but every word of it is as true as I am living. You will find, after I have died, that I am not a man but a woman, and I have been keeping you in the dark all this time, because I didn't know what else to do. My real name is Rebecca Mitchell; I lived in Polis many years since, and Mr. Purford was a very young man then, and he used to come to the house where I was a servant, and he used me very shameful; and the young man who is writing this for me is Mr. Purford's son, and poor Tom never knew that, and I am his mother; and when I have seen the poor lad knocking about the stables, when master and mistress have been a fine lady and gentleman, I have felt my heart very sore, but I never would say nothing, for fear my poor lad should be turned away where I could not be along with him, so that's the reason I'm here. I got a young gentleman to write out a good character that would do for a butler, and that was it that I gave Mr. Purford. Poor Tom isn't sharp, so he didn't know me after I put man's things on; but you must explain everything to him, and be sure to let him come to his poor mother's funeral, and be sure to be kind to him, for nobody will look after him now. And I know Ben Dudgeon, and if you ask him if he knows Tom's mother, Becca, and what he did with the fifty pounds master once sent to me, and said he would send no more, he'll tell you all about it. And I knew the mistress, and I knew her a long time before she was my mistress, and I never thought when I saw her first that she would be my mistress. After master used me so badly, I never got the better on't, but just went on caring for nothing and nobody; 'afore that I was poor but respectable, and nobody could say nothing against me, but master was the man that ruined me, and he knows that well enough; so after that, I just did everything that was bad, and I was put into a penitentiary in Polis, and about a fortnight after I went in, the woman who is my mistress now came out, and I knew her number was "thirty-one," but she couldn't know me, and so that is the way I came to know her, and when I was working away as the poor butler and she was a fine lady, and my poor Tom was laughed at, I felt very wicked, and insulted my mistress many a time, because I was as good as she was, but all the time I was looked upon like dirt, and I didn't know what she should be a lady for, when I was only a butler. But I beg her pardon now. Take care of my poor dear Tom. When you read this, your poor butler will be in heaven. Good bye—don't slight Tom. If we confess our sins he is fai———."
               Such was the paper which Mr. and Mrs. Purford had before them in the grey light of that ever-memorable morning; and if ever paper was read, that sheet was most thoroughly scanned. They might, in fact, have read it over and over again many times, so long were they in raising their eyes. In truth, they dare not raise their eyes—nor did they venture to disentangle themselves—they were cleft by the same weapon—they trembled until they shook each other, and thickly did the commingling tears fall upon the rude characters by which their histories were traced. Neither could justly apply a word of condemnation to the other. Emily, who had been daily dreading a disclosure of her own career, could not but feel a melancholy comfort in the guilty companionship of her husband, while Mr. Purford was secure from reproach by taking refuge in Emily's discovered degradation. Long, long, long did they gaze on the terrible document—they gazed till the syllables flashed fire—they gazed till the very paper became as a fierce furnace.
               Strange is the power of woman in the day of sorrow. Emily broke silence. With a voice, musical with the tremulousness of battling emotions, she said—
               "We were dead, and are alive again—we were lost, and are found."
               "Thank God!" was Mr. Purford's instantaneous and most sincere reply.
               Laying her hand upon the paper, Emily continued—
               "What shall we do?"
               Throwing his arms most tenderly around her, the dejected man replied—
               "We must love and help."
               "Again thank God!" was all that Emily's tears would permit her to say.
               Involuntarily, as it were, the weeping ones fell upon their knees, and Mr. Purford, grasping his wife's hand, with heartrending pathos quietly ejaculated—"God be merciful to us sinners"—to which Emily responded "Amen."
               It was a short prayer, but out-speeding the lightning in its flight, it struck on the ear of the throned mercy, and was answered in the gift of a deep mysterious peace.
               "Can you, indeed, still love me, dearest Roderic? Can you? Will you always love me? Has the casting-off time come?
               "Can you still love me, blessed one? Is there still room in your heart for me?"
               "Aye! my heart expands with love: we have both sinned, but we may both be forgiven."
               "We are forgiven, darling,—forgiven by God, and we must forgive one another."
               No sooner were the words uttered than they clung to each other with passionate love: tears, indeed, fell in showers, but mercy so struck them with her solar glory, as to fashion the glorious bow which engirdles alike a covenant-needing world and a covenant-keeping God.
               A long delicious silence ensued. Precious SILENCE! old as the beginning of God, solemn as the depths of eternity, sweeter than the harmony of unnumbered voices. Sorrow worships in that still temple; and even joy's deep cup may be so full that happiness dare not draw its breath lest the delight should escape by overflowing.
               Silence may be the ultimate expression of the highest utterance, as rest is the ultimate condition of the swiftest motion.
            
            
               EPILOGUE.
               PRECIOUS is the fruit which is plucked in the gardens of virtue. It is pleasant to the vision,—bearing the rich bloom which cannot be painted but by the summer sun,—and grateful to the taste, having in it juices which are untainted by poison. Virtue always bring peace, and not unfrequently it brings prosperity. To Benjamin Dudgeon it brought both. The last time we passed his place of business we could not but notice that the designation "PURFORD" was amplified into "PURFORD & DUDGEON."
            
         
      
      
         
            
            NEW BOOKS THIS FALL
            
               PETER CARRADINE, OR THE MARTINDALE PASTORAL. BY CAROLINE CHESEBRO'. One vol. 12mo. $1.50.
               BROKEN COLUMNS. A Novel of great power and interest. One vol. 12mo. $1.50. (From PETER BAYNE, Author of "Christian Life," "Essays," etc. etc.) "I have complied with your request, and read "Broken Columns" carefully. I do not hesitate to pronounce it, in my judgment, superior to "Adam Bede." The plot is admirable, and the execution is a singular nearness to perfection. You must not hesitate to publish it. I am confident when it is read and known it will have an extensive sale."
               HUSKS. BY MARION HARLAND. Author of "Alone," "Hidden Path," "Moss Side," "Nemesis," and "Miriam." One vol 12mo. $1.50.
               CHRISTMAS STORIES. BY CHARLES DICKENS. An elegant edition on tinted paper, small quarto size, illustrated from designs by F. O. C. Darley. One vol. 4to.
            
            SHELDON & COMPANY, PUBLISHERS, 335 Broadway, New York.
         
         
            
            MARION HARLAND'S WORKS.
            Uniform editions of the works of this favorite authoress are now ready.
            
               
                  ALONE. 1 volume. 12mo. Price $1.25
               
                  HIDDEN PATH. 1 volume. 12mo. Price $1.25.
               
                  MOSS SIDE. 1 volume. 12mo. Price $1.25.
               
                  NEMESIS. 1 volume. 12mo. Price $1.25.
               
                  MIRIAM. 1 volume. 12mo. Price $1.25.
               
                  HUSKS. 1 volume. 12mo. Price $1 50.
            
            
               NOTICES OF "NEMESIS."
               "It is a story of surpassing excellence—its scene laid in the sunny South, about half a century ago; its characters limned with a master's hand; its sketches graphic and thrilling, and its conclusion very effective. Such a work is beyond criticism, and needs no praise."—Troy American.
               
               "In all the characteristics of a powerful novel it will compare favorably with the best productions of a season that has produced some of the most successful books that have appeared for a long time."—Courier and Enquirer.
               
               " 'Nemesis' is, by far, the best American novel published for very many years.—Philadelphia Press.
               
               "It is worthy of note that the former works of this authoress have been republished in England, France, and Germany—indeed, no other American female writer has the honor of a republication in the Leipzig issues of Alphonse Durr, which embraces Bryant, Longfellow, Hawthorne, and Prescott."—N. Y. Home Journal.
               
               "Marion Harland, by intrinsic power of character, drawing and descriptive facility, holds the public with increasing fascination."—Washington Statesman.
               
            
         
         
            LORD MACAULAY'S ESSAYS.
            The publishers have now ready an entirely new and elegant edition of the Critical, Historical, and Miscellaneous Essays of the Right Hon. THOMAS BABINGTON MACAULAY. With an Introduction and Biographical Sketch of the author. By E. P. WHIPPLE, Esq., of Boston. And containing a New Steel Plate Likeness of MACAULAY, from a Photograph by Claudet.
            Six volumes Crown Octavo.
            
               PRICE PER SET:
               On tinted paper, cloth binding $9 00
               Fine white paper, cloth binding 7 50
               Sheep binding, white paper $12 00
               In hf. calf, or hf. Turkey, tint'd paper 15 00
            
            The want of a complete, elegant, and accurate edition of Lord Macaulay's miscellaneous writings, containing all the author's later corrections, is universally acknowledged. All the American editions heretofore published have been printed from the earlier English editions, which were materially changed by Macaulay before his death. He expressed himself as not satisfied with any American edition of his works.
            
               THE ADVANTAGES OF THIS EDITION.
               1st. The Essays have been arranged in exact chronological order, so that their perusal affords, so to speak, a complete biographical portraiture of the brilliant author's mind. No other edition possesses the same advantage.
               2d. A very full Index has been especially prepared,—without which the vast stores of his historical learning and pertinent anecdote contained in the Essays, can be referred to only by the fortunate man who possesses a memory as great as that of Macaulay himself. In this respect it is superior to the English editions, and wholly unlike any other American edition.
               3d. This edition contains also the pure text of Macaulay's Essays. The exact punctuation, orthography, etc., of the English editions have been followed.
               4th. The Portrait is from a photograph by Claudet, and represents the great historian as he appeared in the latter years of his life.
               5th. The biographical and critical Introduction is from the well known pen of Mr. E. P. Whipple, who is fully entitled to speak with authority, in regard to the most brilliant Essayist of the age.
               6th. The typographical excellence of the publication places it among the best that have issued from the "Riverside" Press.
               7th. An Appendix contains several Essays attributed to Lord Macaulay—and unquestionably his—not found in any other edition of his miscellaneous writings.
            
         
         
            
            LIFE OF GEORGE WASHINGTON.
            By EDWARD EVERETT, LL.D.
            1 vol., 12mo. 348 pages.
            With a steel-plate likeness of Mr. Everett, from the celebrated bust by Hiram Powers.
            Price, in cloth, $1; in sheep binding, $1.50; in half-calf, $2.
            "The last link of that golden chain which shall hereafter, for many generations, bind together the names of George Washington and Edward Everett, has just been fitted into its place. The unselfish labors of the scholar and statesman, of whom we are all proud, and whose successful devotion to the purchase of Mount Vernon has challenged the admiration of the world, are brought to a fitting conclusion in the compend of Washington's Life. The biography is a model of condensation, and, by its rapid narrative and attractive style, must commend itself to the mass of readers, as the standard popular Life of Washington."—Correspondence of the Boston Post.
            
            "It is a nobler office to inspire one's countrymen with patriotic sentiments, with warm love and reverence for their institutions, than it is to take a conspicuous part in the movements of the governmental machine. Mr. Everett is rendering a signal and needed service in recalling attention to Washington, and teaching us to appreciate the reasons why he has been adjudged the greatest public character that has appeared in human history. Mr. Everett is unrivaled by any man of his time in the ability to give eloquent expression to the sentiment of patriotism."—From an able editorial in the World.
            
            "Mr. Everett's name is destined to be indissolubly connected with that of Washington—not only by his exertions in behalf of the tomb of the pater patriæ—not only, even, by the just and eloquent tributes he has paid, in words, to the name and fame of the sage of Mount Vernon. Even in England, and among the scholars and historians and statesmen of the mother country, Edward Everett has come to be considered the fittest chronicler of Washington's history, and the fittest annalist of his character."—N. Y. Express.
            
            "That it will be one of the most elegant, faithful, and charming productions of the day may readily be conceived. Probably no person in the country has studied the 'Father of his Country' more closely than the distinguished orator of Massachusetts. It will unquestionably be in great demand."—Boston Atlas.
            
            "It will, doubtless, as it should, find its way into every household, as the popular embodiment of Washington, and be seen alike in the costly library, surrounded by thousands of other volumes, and on the humble mantel, where, in connection with the Bible and Pilgrim's Progress, it will form the entire stock of family reading."—New York Examiner.
            
            "It is a duodecimo elegantly printed. It tells the whole story without circum locution—clearly, fully, faithfully, and with the simple force and fluency the theme requires. It has evidently been a labor of love. Familiar as are the incidents, they read delightfully in Mr. Everett's diction, and are illustrated anew by many a fresh hint and idea gathered by his long study and great love of the subject. The work comes with singular propriety from his felicitous pen, as the orator whose eloquence has done so much to rescue Washington's domain, home, and sepulchre from desecration, and consecrate them to the nation. An excellent engraved portrait of the author, from Power's bust, and fresh material in the appendix, enhance the interest and value of this charming national souvenir."—Henry T. Tuckerman, the distinguished Essayist.
            
         
      
   
