
    ----CITATION----
        Ward, Artemus, (1834-1867). Sandwiches .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5923 wright2-0396
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               Sandwiches
            
            By Artemus Ward.
            
            
               CARLETOM PUBLISHER.
               NEW YORK.
            
            25 Cts.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by G. W. CARLETON,
                  in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New
                  York.
            
         
      
      
         
            Sandwiches
            SANDWICHES.
            
               ONE OF MR. WARD'S BUSINESS LETTERS.
               
                  To the Editor of the —
               
               
                  
                     "As genial a feller as we ever met."
                  
               
               
                  SIR—I'm movin along—slowly along—down tords your place. I want you should rite
                     me a letter, sayin how is the show bizniss in your place. My show at present
                     consists of three moral Bares, a Kangaroo (a amoozin little Raskal—t'would make
                     you larf yerself to deth to see the little cuss jump up and squeal) wax figgers
                     of G. Washington Gen. Tayler John Bunyan Capt. Kidd and Dr. Webster in the act
                     of killin Dr. Parkman, besides several miscellanyus moral wax statoots of
                     celebrated piruts & murderers, &c., ekalled by few & exceld by
                     none. Now Mr. Editor, scratch orf a few lines saying how is the show bizniss
                     down to your place. I shall hav my hanbills dun at your offiss. Depend upon it.
                     I want you should git my hanbills up in flamin stile. Also git up a tremenjus
                     excitemunt in yr. paper 'bowt my onparaleld Show. We must fetch the public
                     sumhow. We must wurk on their feelins. Cum the moral on 'em strong. If it's a
                     temprance community tell 'em I sined the pledge fifteen minits arter Ise born,
                     but on the contery of your peple take their tods, say Mister Ward is as Jenial
                     a feller as we ever met, full of conwiviality, & the life an sole of the
                     Soshul Bored. Take, don't you? If you say anythin abowt my show say my snaiks
                     is at harmliss as the new born Babe. What a interestin study it is to see a
                     zewological animil like a snaik under perfeck subjecshun! My Kangaroo is the
                     most larfable little cuss I ever saw. All for 15 cents. I am anxyus to skewer
                     your infloounce. I repeet in regard to them hanbills that I shall git 'em
                     struck arf up to your printing office. My perlitercal sentiments agree with
                     yourn exackly. I know thay do, becawz I never saw a man whoos didn't.
                  
                     Respectively yures
                     A. WARD.
                  
               
               
                  P. S.—You scratch my back & He scratch your back.
               
            
            
               AMONG THE SHAKERS.
               The Shakers is the strangest religious sex I ever met. I'd hearn tell of 'em and
                  I'd seen 'em, with their broad brim'd hats and long wastid coats; but I'd never
                  cum into immejit contack with 'em, and I'd sot 'em down as lackin intelleck, as
                  I'd never seen 'em to my Show—leastways, if they cum they was disgised in white
                  peple's close, so I didn't know 'em.
               But in the Spring of 18—, I got swampt in the exterior of New York State, one dark
                  and stormy night, when the winds Blue pityusly, and I was forced to tie up with
                  the Shakers.
               I was toilin threw the mud, when in the dim vister of the futer I obsarved the
                  gleams of a taller candle. Tiein a hornet's nest to my off hoss's tail to kinder
                  encourage him, I soon reached the place, I knockt at the door, which it was opened
                  unto me by a tall, slick-faced, solum lookin individooal, who turn'd out to be a
                  Elder.
               "Mr. Shaker," sed I, "you see before you a Babe in the Woods, so to speak, and he
                  axes shelter of you."
               "Yay," sed the Shaker, and he led the way into the house, another Shaker bein sent
                  to put my hosses and waggin under kiver.
               A solum female, lookin sumwhat like a last year's bean-pole stuck into a long-meal
                  bag, cum in and axed me was I athurst and did I hunger? to which I urbanely anserd
                  "a few." She went orf and I endeverd to open a conversashun with the old man.
               "Elder, I spect?" sed I.
               "Yay," he sed.
               "Helth's good, I reckon?"
               "Yay."
               "What's the wages of a Elder, when he understans his bizness—or do you devote your
                  sarvices gratooitus?"
               "Yay."
               "Stormy night, sir,"
               "Yay."
               "If the storm continners there'll be a mess underfoot, hay?"
               "Yay."
               "It's onpleasant where there's a mess underfoot?"
               "Yay."
               "If I may be so bold, kind sir, what's the price of that pecooler kind of weskit
                  you wear, incloodin trimmins?"
               "Yay!"
               I pawsd a minit, and then, thinkin I'd be faseshus with him and see how that would
                  go, I slapt him on the shoulder, bust into a harty larf, and told him that as a
                     yayer he had no livin ekal.
               He jumpt up as if Bilin water had bin squirted into his ears, groaned, rolled his
                  eyes up tords the sealin and sed, "You're a man of sin!" He then walkt out of the
                  room.
               Jest then the female in the meal bag stuck her hed into the room and statid that
                  refreshments awaited the weary travler, and I sed if it was vittles she ment the
                  weary travler was agreeable, and I follered her into the next room.
               I sot down to the table and the female in the meal bag pored out sum tea. She sed
                  nothin, and for five minutes the only live thing in that room was a old wooden
                  clock, which tickt in a subdood and bashful manner in the corner. This dethly
                  stillness made me oneasy, and I determined to talk to the female or bust. So sez
                  I, "Marrige is agin your rules, I bleeve, marm?"
               "Yay."
               "The sexes liv strickly apart, I spect?"
               "Yay."
               "It's kinder singler," sez I, putting on my most sweetest look and speakin in a
                  winnin voice, "that so fair a made as thou never got hitched to some likely
                  feller." [N. B.—She was upaids of 40 and homely as a stump fence, but I thawt I'd
                  tickil her.]
               "I don't like men!" she sed, very short.
               "Wall, I dunno," sez I, "they're a rayther important part of the populashun. I
                  don't scacely see how we could git along without 'em."
               "Us poor wimin folks would git along a grate deal better if there was no men!"
               "You'll excoos me, marm, but I don't think that air would work. It wouldn't be
                  regler."
               "I'm fraid of men!" she sed.
               "That's onnecessary, marm. You ain't in no danger. Don't fret
                  yourself on that pint."
               "Here we're shot out from the sinful world. Here all is peas. Here we air brothers
                  and sisters. We don't marry and consekently we hav no domestic difficulties.
                  Husbans don't abooze their wives—wives don't worrit their husbans. There's no
                  children here to worrit us. Nothin to worrit us here. No wicked matrimony here.
                  Would thow like to be a Shaker?"
               "No," sez I, "it ain't my stile."
               I had now histed in as big a load of pervishuns as I could carry comfortable, and,
                  leanin back in my cheer, commenst pickin my teeth with a fork. The female went
                  out, leavin me all alone with the clock. I hadn't sot that long before the Elder
                  poked his hed in at the door. "You're a man of sin!" he sed, and groaned and went
                  away.
               
                  
                     Artemus among the Shakers. "Yay," they sed, and I yay'd.
                  
               
               Direckly thar cum in two young Shakeresses, as putty and slick lookin gals as I
                  ever met. It is troo they was drest in meal bags like the old one I'd met
                  previsly, and their shiny, silky har was hid from sight by long white caps, sich
                  as I spose female Josts wear; but their eyes sparkled like diminds, their checks
                  was like roses, and they was charmin enuf to make a man throw stuns at his
                  granmother, if they axed him. They commenst clearin away the dishes, castin shy
                  glances at me all the time. I got excited. I forgot Betsy Jane in my rapter, and
                  sez I, —
               "My pretty dears, how air you?"
               "We air well," they solumly said.
               "What's the old man?" sed I, in a soft voice.
               "Of whom dost thou speak—Brother Uriah?"
               "I mean the gay and festive cuss who calls me a man of sin. Shouldn't wonder if
                  his name was Uriah."
               "He has retired."
               "Wall, my pretty dears," sez I, "let's have some fun. Let's play pass in the
                  corner. What say?"
               "Air you a Shaker, sir?" they axed.
               "Wall, my pretty dears, I haven't arrayed my proud form in a long weskit yit, but
                  if they was all like you perhaps I'd jine 'em. As it is, I'm a Shaker
                  pro-temporary."
               They was full of fun. I seed that at fust, only they was a little skeery. I tawt
                  'em Puss in the corner and sich like plase, and we had a nice time, keepin quiet
                  of course so the old man shouldn't hear. When we broke up, sez I, "My pretty
                  dears, ear I go you hav no objections, hav you, to a innersent kiss at
                  partin?"
               "Yay," they sed, and I yay'd.
               I went up stairs to bed. I spose I'd bin snoozin half a hour when I was woke up by
                  a noise at the door. I sot up in bed, leanin on my elbers and rubbin my eyes, and
                  I saw the following picter: The Elder stood in the doorway, with a taller candle
                  in his hand. He hadn't no wearin appeerel on except his night close, which
                  fluttered in the breeze like a Seseshun flag. He sed, "You're a man of sin!" then
                  groaned and went away.
               I went to sleep agin, and drempt of runnin orf with the pretty little Shakeresses,
                  mounted on my Californy Bar. I thawt the Bar insisted on steerin strate for my
                  dooryard in Baldinsville, and that Betsy Jane cum out and giv us a warm recepshun
                  with a panful of Bilin water. I was woke up arly by the Elder. He sed refreshments
                  was reddy for me down stairs. Then sayin I was a man of sin, he went groanin
                  away.
               As I was goin threw the entry to the room where the vittles was, I cum across the
                  Elder and the old female I'd met the night before, and what d'ye spose they was up
                  to? Huggin and kissin like young lovers in their gushingist state. Sez I, "My
                  Shaker frends, I reckon you'd better suspend the rules, and git marrid!"
               "You must excoos Brother Uriah," sed the female; "he's subjeck to fits and hain't
                  got no command over hisself when he's into 'em."
               "Sartinly sez," I, "I've bin took that way myself frequent."
               "You're a man of sin!" sed the Elder.
               After breakfust my little Shaker frends cum in agin to clear away the dishes.
               "My pretty dears," sez I, "shall we yay agin?
               "Nay," they sed, and I nay'd.
               The Shakers axed me to go to their meetin, as they was to hav sarvices that
                  morning, so I put on a clean biled rag and went. The meetin house was as neat as a
                  pin. The floor was white as chalk and smooth as glass. The Shakers was all on
                  hand, in clean weskits and meal bags, ranged on the floor like milingtery
                  companies, the mails on one side of the room and the females on tother. They
                  commenst clappin their hands and singing and dancin. They danced kinder slow at
                  fust, but as they got warmed up they shaved it down very brisk, I tell you. Elder
                  Uriah, in particler, exhiberted a right smart chance of spryness in his legs,
                  considerin his time of life, and as he cum a dubble shuffle near where I sot, I
                  rewarded him with a approvin smile and sed: "Hunky boy! Go it, my gay and festiv
                  cuss!"
               The Shakers then danced and sung agin, and arter they was threw, one of 'em axed
                  me what I thawt of it.
               Sez I, "What duz it siggerfy?"
               "What?" sez he.
               "Why this jumpin up and singin! This long weskit bizniss, and this anty-matrimony
                  idee? My frends, you air neat and tidy. Your lands is flowin with milk and honey.
                  Your brooms is fine, and your apple sass is honest. When a man buys a kag of apple
                  sass of you he don't find a grate many shavins under a few layers of sass—a little
                  Game I'm sorry to say sum of my New Englan ancesters used to practiss. Your gardng
                  seeds is fine, and if I should sow 'em on the rock of Gibralter probly I should
                  raise a good mess of garding sass. You air honest in your dealins. You air quiet
                  and dont distarb nobody. For all this I givs you credit. But your religion is
                  small pertaters, I must say. You mope away your lives here in single retchidness,
                  and as you air all by yourselves nothing ever conflicks with your pecooler idees,
                  except when Human Nater busts out among you, as I understan she sumtimes do. [I
                  giv Uriah a sly wink here, which made the old feller squirm like a speared Eel.]
                  You wear long weskits and long faces, and lead a gloomy life indeed. No children's
                  prattle is ever hearn around your harthstuns — you air in a dreary fog all the
                  time, and you treat the jolly-sunshine of life as tho' it was a thief, driven it
                  from your doors by them weskits, and meal bags, and pecooler noshuns of yourn. The
                  gals among you, sum of which air as slick pieces of caliker as I ever sot eyes on,
                  air syin to place their heds agin weskits which kiver honest, manly harts, while
                  you old heds fool yerselves with the idee that they air fulfillin their mishun
                  here, and air contented. Here you air, all pend up by yerselves, talkin about the
                  sins of a world you don't know nothin of, Meanwhile said world continners to
                  resolve round on her own axeltree once in every 24 hours, subjeck to the
                  Constitution of the United States, and is a very plesant place of residence. It's
                  a unnatral, on-reasonable and dismal life you're leadin here. So it strikes me. My
                  Shaker frends, I now bid you a welcome adoo."
               "A base exhibiter of depraved monkeys and onprincipled wax works!" sed Uriah.
               "Hello, Uriah," sez I, "I'd most forgot you. Wall, look out for them fits of
                  yourn, and don't catch cold and die in the flour of your youth and beauty." And I
                  resoomed my jerney.
            
            
               
               THE CRISIS.*

               
                  *[This Oration was delivered before the
                  commencement of the war.]
               On returnin to my humsted in Baldinsville, Injianny, resuntly, my feller
                  sitterzens extended a invite for me to norate to 'em on the Krysis. I excepted
                  & on larst Toosday nite I peared be4 a C of upturned faces in the Red Skool
                  House. I spoke nearly as follers:
               
                  
                     "Shall the Star Spangled Banner be cut up into dish-cloths?"
                  
               
               Baldinsvillins: Hearto4, as I hav numerously obsarved, I have
                  abstrained from having any sentimunts or principles, my pollertics, like my
                  religion, bein of a exceedin accommodatin character. But the fack can't be no
                  longer disgised that a Krysis is onto us, & I feel it's my dooty to accept
                  your invite for one consecutive nite only. I spose the inflammertory individooals
                  who assisted in projucing this Krysis know what good she will do, but I ain't
                  'shamed to state that I don't, scacely. But the Krysis is hear. She's bin hear for
                  sevral weeks, & Goodness nose how long she'll stay. But I venter to assert
                  that she's rippin things. She's knockt trade into a cockt up hat and chaned
                  Bizness of all kinds tighter nor I ever chaned any of my livin wild Beests. Alow
                  me to hear dygress & stait that my Beests at presnt is as harmless as the
                  new-born Babe. Ladys & gentlemen needn't hav no fears on that pint. To resoom—
                  Altho I can't exactly see what good this Krysis can do, I can very quick say what
                  the origernal cawz of her is. The origernal cawz is Our Afrikan Brother. I was
                  into BARNIM'S Moozeum down to New York the other day & saw that exsentric
                  Etheopian, the What Is It. Sez I, "Mister What Is It, you folks air raisin thunder
                  with this grate country. You're gettin to be ruther more numeris than interestin.
                  It is a pity you coodent go orf sumwhares by yourselves, & be a nation of What
                  Is Its, tho' if you'll excoose me, I shoulden't care about marryin among you. No
                  dowt you're exceedin charmin to , but your stile of luvliness
                  isn't adupted to this cold climit.' He larfed into my face which rather Riled me,
                  as I had been perfeckly virtoous and respectable in my observashuns. So sez I,
                  turnin a leetle red in the face I spect, "Do you hav the unblushin impoodents to
                  say you folks haven't raised a big mess of thunder in this brite land, Mister What
                  Is It?" He larfed agin, wusser nor be4, whareupon I up and sez, "Go home, Sir, to
                  Afriky's burnin shores & talk all the other What Is Its along with you. Don't
                  think we can't spair your interestin picters. You What Is Its air on the pint of
                  smashin up the gratest Guv'ment ever erected by man, & you actooally hav the
                  owdassity to larf about it. Go home, you low cuss!"
               I was workt up to a high pitch, & I proceeded to a Restorator & cooled orf
                  with some little fishes biled in ile—I b'leeve thay call 'em sardeens.
               Feller Sitterzums, the Afrikan may be Our Brother. Sevral hily respectyble
                  gentlemen, and sum talentid females tell us so, & fur argyment's sake I might
                  be injooced to grant it, tho' I don't beleeve it myself. But the Afrikan isn't our
                  sister & our wife & our uncle. He isn't sevral of our brothers & all
                  our fust wife's relashuns. He isn't our grandfather, and our grate-grandfather,
                  and our Aunt in the country. Scacely. & yit numeris persons would have us
                  think so. It's troo he runs Congress & sevral other public grosserys, but then
                  he ain't everybody & everybody else likewise. [Notiss to bizness man of
                  "Vanity Fair:" Extry charg fur this larst remark. It's a goak.—A. W.]
               But we've got the Afrikan, or ruther he's got us, & now what air we going to
                  do about it? He's a orful noosanse. Praps he isn't to blame fur it. Praps he was
                  creatid fur sum wise purpuss, like the measles and New Englan Rum, but it's mity
                  hard to see it. At any rate he's no good here, & as I statid to Mister What Is
                  It, it's a pity he cooden't go orf sumwhares quietly by hisself, whare he cood
                  wear red weskits & speckled, neckties, and gratterfy his ambishun in varis
                  interestin wase, without havin a eternal fuss kickt up about him.
               Praps I'm bearin down too hard upon Cuffy Cum to think on it, I am. He wooden't be
                  sich a infernal noosanse if white peple would let him alone. He mite indeed be
                  interestin. And now I think of it, why can't the white peple let him alone. What's
                  the good of continnerly stirrin him up with a ten-foot pole? He isn't the sweetest
                  kind of Perfoomery when in a natral stait.
               Feller Sitterzens, the Union's in danger. The black devil Disunion is trooly here,
                  starein us all squarely in the face! We must drive him back. Shall we make a 2nd
                  Mexico of ourselves? Shall we sell our birthrite for a mess of potash? Shall one
                  brother put the knife to the throat of anuther brother? Shall we mix our whisky
                  with each others' blud? Shall the star spangled Banner be cut up into dishcloths?
                  Standin here in this here Skoolhouse upon my nativ shore, so to speak, I
                  anser—Nary!
               Oh you fellers who air raisin this row, and who in the fust place started it, I'm
                  shamed of you. The showman blushes for you, from his boots to the topmost hair
                  upon his wenerable hed.
               Feller Sitterzens, I am in the Sheer & Yeller leaf. I shall peg out I of these
                  dase. But while I do stop here I shall stay in the Union. I know not what the
                  supervizers of Baldinsville may conclude to do, but for one, I shall stand by the
                  Stars & Stripes. Under no circumstances whatsomever will I sesesh. Let every
                  Stait in the Union sesesh & let Palmetter flags flote thicker nor shirts on
                  Square Baxter's close line, still will I stick to the good old flag. The country
                  may go to the devil, but I won't! And next Summer wheh I start out on my campane
                  with my Show, wharever I pitch my little tent, you shall see floatin prowdly from
                  the centre pole thereof the Amerikan Flag, with nary a star wiped out, nary a
                  stripe less, but the same old flag that has allers flotid thare ! & the price
                  of admishun will be the same it allers was—15 cents, children half price.
               Feller Sitterzens, I am dun. Accordinly, havin wiped my massiv brough with Betsy
                  Jane's bandaner, I squatted.
            
            
               In the Ortum of 18— my frend, the editor of the Baldinsville Bugle
                  was obleged to leave perfeshernal dooties & dig his taters, & he axed me
                  to edit for him doorin his absence. It didn't take me a grate while to slash out
                  copy enuff from the xchanges for one issoo, and I thawt I'd ride up to the next
                  town on a little Jaunt, to rest my Branes which had bin severely rackt by my
                  mental efforts. (This is sorter Ironical.) So I went over to the Rale Rood and
                  axed the Sooprintendent for a pars.
               "You a editer?" he axed, evijently on the pint of snickerin.
               "Yes Sir," sez I, "don't I look poor enuff?"
               "Just about," sed he, "but our Road can't pars you."
               "Can't, hay?"
               "No Sir—it can't."
               "Becauz," sez I, lookin him full in the face with a Eagle eye "it goes so
                     darned slow it can't pars anybody!" Methinks I had him thar. It's the
                  slowest Rale Road in the West. With a mortified air, he told me to git out of his
                  offiss. I pittid him and went.
            
            
               THE WAR FEVER IN BALDINSVILLE.
               As soon as I'd recooperated my physikil system, I went over into the village. The
                  peasantry was glad to see me. The skoolmaster sed it was cheerin to see that
                  gigantic intelleck among 'em onct more. That's what he called me. I like the
                  skoolmaster, and allers send him tobacker when I'm off on a travelin campane.
                  Besides, he is a very sensible man. Such men must be encouraged.
               They don't git news very fast in Baldinsville, as nothing but a plank road runs in
                  there twice a week, and that's very much out of repair. So my nabers wasn't much
                  posted up in regard to the wars. 'Squire Baxter sed he'd voted the dimicratic
                  ticket for going on forty year, and the war was a dam black republican lie. Jo.
                  Stackpole, who kills hogs for the 'Squire, and has got a powerful muscle into his
                  arms, sed he'd bet $5 he could lick the Crisis in a fair stand-up fight, if he
                  wouldn't draw a knife on him. So it went—sum was for war, and sum was for peace.
                  The skoolmaster, however, sed the Slave Oligarky must cower at the feet of the
                  North ere a year had flowed by, or pass over his dead corpse. "Esto perpetua!" he
                  added. "And sine qua non also!" sed I, sternly, wishing to make a impression onto
                  the villagers. "Requiescat in pace!" sed the skoolmaster. "Too troo, too troo!" I
                  anserd, "it's a scauderlus fact!"
               
                  
                     Joc Stackpole says he can lick the Seceshers in a fair stand-up
                        fight.
                  
               
               The newspapers got along at last, chock full of war, and the patriotic fever
                  fairly bust out in Baldinsville. 'Squire Baxter sed he didn't b'lieve in Coercion,
                  not one of 'em, and could prove by a file of Eagles of Liberty in
                  his garrit, that it was all a Whig he, got up to raise the price of whisky, and
                  destroy our other liberties. But the old 'Squire got putty riley, when he heard
                  how the rebels was cuttin up, and he sed he reckoned he should skour up his old
                  muskit, and do a little square fitin for the old Flag, which had allers bin on the
                  ticket he'd voted, and he  old to Bolt now. The 'Squire is
                  all right at heart, but it takes longer for him to fill his venerable Biler with
                  steam than it used to when he was young and frisky. As I previously informed you,
                  I am Captin of the Baldinsville Company. I riz gradooally but majestically from
                  drummer's Secretary to my present position. But I found the ranks wasn't full by
                  no means, and commenced for to recroot. Havin notist a gineral desire on the part
                  of young men who are into the Crisis to wear eppylits, I detarmined to have my
                  company composed excloosively of officers, everybody to rank as Brigadeer-Gineral.
                  The follerin was among the varis questions which I put to recroots:
               "Do you know a masked battery from a hunk of gingerbread?"
               "Do you know a eppylit from a piece of chalk?"
               "If I trust you with a real gun, how many men of your own company do you speck you
                  can manage to kill during the war?"
               "Hav you ever heard of Gineral Price of Missouri, and can you avoid simler
                  accidents in case of a battle?"
               "Hav you ever had the measles, and, if so, how many?"
               "How air you now?"
               "Show me your tongue," &c., &c. Sum of the questions was sarcusstical.
               The company filled up rapid, and last Sunday we went to the meetin house in full
                  uniform. I had a seris time gittin into my military harness, as it was bilt for me
                  many years ago; but I finally got inside of it, tho' it fitted me putty clost.
                  Howsever, onct into it, I lookt fine—in fact, aw-inspirin. "Do you know me, Mrs.
                  Ward?" sed I, walkin into the kitchen.
               "Know you, you old fool? Of course I do."
               I saw at once she did.
               I started for the meetin house, and I'm afraid I tried to walk too strate, for I
                  cum very near fallin over backards; and in attemptin to recover myself my sword
                  got mixed up with my legs, and I fell in among a choice collection of young
                  ladies, who was standin near the church door a-seein the sojer boys come up. My
                  cockt hat fell off, and sumhow my coat tales got twisted round my neck. The young
                  ladies put their handkerchers to their mouths and remarked, "To he," while my
                  ancient female single friend, Sary Peasley, bust out into a loud larf. She
                  excersised her mouth so vilently that her new false teeth fell out onto the
                  ground.
               "Miss Peaseley," sed I, gittin up and dustin myself, "you must be more careful
                  with them store teeth of yourn, or you'll have to gum it agin!"
               Methinks I had her.
               I'd bin to work hard all the week, and I felt rather snoozy. I'm 'fraid I did git
                  half asleep, for on hearin the minister ask, "Why was man made to mourn?" I sed,
                  "I giv it up," havin a vague idee that it was a condrum. It was a onfortnit
                  remark, for the whole meetin house lookt at me with mingled surprise and
                  indignation. I was about risin to a pint of order, when it suddenly occurd to me
                  whare I was, and I kept my seat, blushing like the red, red-rose—so to speak.
               The next mornin I rose with the lark (N. B.—I don't sleep with the lark, tho'. A
                  goak.)
               My little dawter was execootin ballids, accompanyin herself with the Akordeon, and
                  she wished me to linger and hear her sing. "Hark I hear a angel singin, an angel
                  now is onto the wing."
               "Let him fly, my child!" said I, abucklin on my armer, "I must forth to my
                  Biz."
               We air progressin pretty well with our drill. As all air commandin offissers,
                  there aint no jealusy; and as we air all exceeding smart, 'taint worth while to
                  try to outstrip each other. The idee of a company composed excloosively of
                  Commanders-in-Chiefs, orrigernated, I spose I skurcely need say, in these Brane.
                  Considered as a idee, I flatter myself it is putty hefty. We've got
                  all the tackticks at our tongs' ends, but what we particly excel in is restin
                  muskits.
               We can rest muskits with anybody.
               Our corpse will do its dooty. We go to the aid of Columby—we fight for the
                  stars!
               We'll be chopt into sassige meat before we'll exhibit our coat-tales to the
                  foe.
               We'll fight till there's nothin left of us but our little toes, and even they
                  shall defiantly wiggle!
            
            
               The propriety of introducing a sad story like the following, in a book intended to
                  be rather cheerful in its character, may be questioned; but is so beautifully
                  illustrates the firmness of woman when grief and despair have
                  taken possession of "the chambers of her heart," that we cannot
                     refrain from relating it: Lucy M— loved with all the ardor
                  of a fond and faithful wife, and when he upon whom she had so confidingly
                     leaned was stolen from her by death, her friends and
                  companions said Lucy could go mad. Ah, how little they knew her!
               Gazing for the last time upon the clay-cold features of her departed husband, this
                  young widow—beautiful even in her grief: so ethereal to look upon, and yet so
                  firm!—looking for the last time upon the dear, familiar face, now cold and still
                  in death—Oh, looking for the last, last time—she rapidly put on her bonnet, and
                  thus addressed the sobbing gentlemen who were to act as pall-bearers: "You
                  pall-bearers just go into the buttery and get some rum, and we'll start this man
                  right along!"
            
            
               
               A VISIT TO BRIGHAM YOUNG.
               It is now goin on 2 (too) yeres, as I very well remember, since I crossed the
                  Planes for Kaliforny, the Brite land of Jold. While crossin the Planes all so bold
                  I fell in with sum noble red men of the forest (N. B. This is rote Sarcasticul.
                  Injins is Pizin, whar ever found,) which thay Sed I was their Brother, &
                  wantid for to smoke the Calomel of Peace with me. Thay then stole my jerkt beef,
                  blankits, etsettery, skalpt my orgin grinder & scooted with a Wild Hoop. Durin
                  the Cheaf's techin speech he sed he shood meet me in the Happy Huntin Grounds. If
                  he duz thar will be a fite. But enuff of this ere. Reven Noose
                  Muttons, as our skoolmaster, who has got Talent into him, cussycally obsarve.
               I arrove at Salt Lake in doo time. At Camp Scott there was a lot of U. S. sojers,
                  hosstensibly sent out thare to smash the mormons but really to eat Salt vittles
                  & play poker & other beautiful but sumwhat onsartin games. I got
                  acquainted with sum of the officers. Thay lookt putty scrumpshus in their Bloo
                  coats with brass buttings onto um & ware very talented drinkers, but so fur as
                  fitin is consarned I'd willingly put my wax figgers agin the hull party.
               
                  
                     "Oh stay, Sir, stay!" said a tawl gawnt femasle.
                  
               
               My desire was to exhibit my grate show in Salt Lake City, so I called on Brigham
                  Yung, the grate mogull amung the mormins, and axed his permishun to pitch my tent
                  and onfull my banner to the jentle breezis. He lookt at me in a austeer manner for
                  a few minits, and sed:
               "Do you bleeve in Solomon, Saint Paul, the immaculateness of the Mormin Church and
                  the Latter-day Revelashuns?"
               Sez I, "I'm on it!" I make it a pint to git along plesunt, tho I didn't know what
                  under the Son the old feller was drivin at. He sed I mite show.
               "You air a marrid man, Mister Yung, I bleeve?" sez I, preparin to rite him sum
                  free parsis.
               "I hev eighty wives, Mister Ward. I sertinly am married."
               "How do you like it as far as you hev got?" sed I.
               He sed "middlin," and axed me wouldn't I like to see his famerly, to which I
                  replide that I wouldn't mind minglin with the fair Seek & Barskin in the
                  winnin smiles of his interestin wives. He accordinly tuk me to his Scareum. The
                  house is powerful big & in a exceedin large room was his wives & children,
                  which larst was squakin and hollerin enuff to take the roof rite orf the house.
                  The wimin was of all sizes and ages. Sum was pretty & sum was plane—sum was
                  helthy and sum was on the Wayne—which is verses, tho sich was not my intentions,
                  as I don't 'prove of puttin verses in Prose rittins, tho ef occashun requires I
                  can Jerk a Poim ekal to any of them Atlantic Munthly fellers.
               "My wives, Mister Ward," sed Yung.
               "Your sarvant, marms," sed I as I sot down in a cheer which a redheded female
                  brawt me.
               "Besides these wives you see here, Mister Ward,' sed Yung, "I hav eighty more in
                  varis parts of this consecrated land which air Sealed to me."
               "Which?" sez I, gittin up & starin at him.
               "Sealed, Sir? sealed."
               "Whare bowts?" sez I.
               "I sed, Sir, that they was sealed!" He spoke in a tragedy voice.
               "Will they probly continner on in that stile to any grate extent, Sir?" I
                  axed.
               "Sir," sed he turnin as red as a biled beet, "don't you know that the rules of our
                  Church is that I, the Profit, may hev as meny wives as I wants?"
               "Jes so," I sed. "You are old pie, ain't you?"
               "Them as is Sealed to me—that is to say, to be mine when I wants um—air at present
                  my sperretooul wives," said Mister Yung.
               "Long may thay wave!" sez I, seein I shood git into a scrape ef I didn't look
                  out.
               In a privit conversashun with Brigham I learnt the follerin fax: It takes him six
                  weeks to kiss his wives. He don't do it only onct a yere & sez it is wuss nor
                  cleanin house. He don't pretend to know his children thare is so many of um, tho
                  they all know him. He sez about every child he meats calls him Par, & he takes
                  it for grantid it is so. His wives air very expensiv. Thay allers want suthin
                  & ef he don't buy it for um thay set the house in a uproar. He sez he don't
                  have a minit's peace. His wives fite amung theirselves so much that he has bilt a
                  fitin room for thare speshul benefit, & when too of 'em get into a row he has
                  em turnd loose into that place, whare the dispoot is settled accordin to the rules
                  of the London prize ring. Sumtimes thay abooz hisself individooaly. Thay hev
                  pulled the most of his hair out at the roots & he wares meny a horrible scar
                  upon his body, inflicted with mop-handles, broom sticks and sich. Occashunly they
                  git mad & scald him with bilin hot water. When he got eny waze cranky thay'd
                  shut him up in a dark closit, previsly whippin him arter the stile of muthers when
                  thare orfsprings git onruly. Sumtimes when he went in swimmin thay'd go to the
                  banks of the Lake & steal all his close, thereby compellin him to sneek home
                  by a sircootius rowt, drest in the Skanderlus stile of the Greek Slaiv. "I find
                  that the keers of a married life way hevy onto me," sed the Profit, "& summes
                  I wish I'd remaned singel." I left the Profit and startid for the tavern whare I
                  put up to. On my way I was overtuk by a lurge krowd of Mormons, which they
                  surroundid me & statid that they were goin into the Show free.
               "Wall," sez I, "ef I find a individooal who is goin round lettin folks into his
                  show free, I'll let you know."
               "We've had a Revelashun biddin us go into A. Ward's Show without payin nothin!"
                  thay showtid.
               "Yes," hollered a lot of femaile Mormonesses, ceasin me by the cote tales &
                  swingin me round very rapid, "we're all goin in free! So sez the Revelashun!"
               "What's Old Revelashun got to do with my Show?" sez I, gittin putty rily. "Tell
                  Mister Revelashun," sed I, "to mind his own bizness, subject only to the
                  Konstitution of the Unitid States!"
               "Oh now let us in," sed several femails, puttin thare arms rownd me in luvin
                  stile. "Becum a Preest & hav wives sealed to you."
               "Not a Seal!" sez I, startin back in horror at the idee.
               "Oh stay, Sir, stay," sed a tall gawnt femaile ore whoos hed 37 summirs must hev
                  parsd, "stay & I'll be your Jentle Gazelle."
               "Not ef I know it you won't," sez I. "Awa you skanderlus femaile, awa! Go & be
                  a Nunnery!" That's what I sed, jes so.
               "& I," sed a fat chunky femaile, who must hev wade more than too hundred lbs.,
                  "I will be your sweet gidin Star!"
               Sez I, "I'le bet two dollers and a half you won't!" Whare ear I may Rome He still
                  be true 2 thee, Oh Betsy Jane! [N. B. Betsy Jane is my wife's Sir naime.)
               "Wiltist thou not tarry hear in the Promist Land?"
               "He see you all essenshally cussed be4 I wiltist!" roared I as mad as I cood be at
                  thare infernul noncents. I girdid up my Lions and fled the Seen. I packt up my
                  duds & left Salt Lake, which is a 2nd Soddum & Germorrer, inhabited by as
                  theavin & onprincipled a set of retchis as ever drew Breth in eny spot on the
                  Globe.
            
            
               PICCOLOMINI.
               
                  
                     Piccolomini in the Child of the Regiment.
                  
               
               GENTS—I arroved in Cleveland on Saturday P. M. from Baldinsville jest in time to
                  fix myself up and put on a clean biled rag to attend Miss Picklehomony's grate
                  musical sorry at the Melodeon. The krowds which pored into the hall augured well
                  for the show bisnis, & with cheerful sperrets I jined the euthoosiastic
                  throng. I asked Mr. Strakhosh at the door if he parst the perfession, and he said
                  not much he didn't, whereupon I bawt a preserved seat in the pit, & obsarving
                  to Mr. Strakhosh that he needn't put on so many French airs becawz he run with a
                  big show, and that he'd better let his weskut out a few inches or perhaps he'd
                  bust hisself some fine day, I went in and squatted down. It was a sad thawt to
                  think that in all that vast aujience Scacely a Sole had the honor of my
                  acquaintance. "& this ere," sed I Bitturly, "is Fame! What sigerfy my wax
                  figgers and livin wild beasts (which have no ekals) to these peple? What do thay
                  care becawz a site of my Kangaroo is worth dubble the price of admission, and that
                  my Snakes is as harmlis as the new born babe—all of which is strictly troo—?" I
                  should have gone on ralein at Fortin and things sum more but jest then Signer
                  Maccarony cum out and sung a hairey from sum opry or other. He had on his store
                  close & looked putty slick, I must say. Nobody didn't understand nothin abowt
                  what he sed, and so they applaw-did him versiferusly. Then Signer Brignoly cum out
                  and sung another hairey. He appeared to be in a pensiv Mood & sung a Luv song
                  I suppose, tho he may have been cussin the aujince all into a heep for aut I
                  knewd. Then cum Mr. Maccarony agin & Miss Picklehomony herself. Thay sang a
                  Doit together.
               Now you know, gents, that I don't admire opry music. But I like Miss
                  Picklehomony's stile. I like her gate. She suits me. Thare has bin grater singers
                  and there has bin more bootiful wimin, but no more fassinatin young female ever
                  longed for a new gown or side to place her hed agin a vest pattern than Maria
                  Picklehomony. Fassinatin peple is her best holt. She was born to make hash of
                  men's buzzums & other wimin mad becawz thay ain't Picklchomonies. Her face
                  sparkles with amuzin cussedness & about 200 (two hundred) little bit of funny
                  devils air continually dancin champion jigs in her eyes, said eyes bem brite enuff
                  to lite a pipe by. How I shood like to have little Maria out on my farm in
                  Baldinsville, Injianny, whare she cood run in the tall grass, wrastle with the
                  boys, cut up strong at parin bees, make up faces behind the minister's back, tie
                  auction bills to the skoolmaster's coat-tales, set all the fellers crazy after
                  her, & holler & kick up, & go it just as much as she wanted to! But I
                  diegress. Every time she cum canterin out I grew more and more delighted with her.
                  When she bowed her hed I bowed mine. When she powtid her lips I powtid mine. When
                  she larfed I larfed When she jerked her hed back and took a larfin survey of the
                  aujience, sendin a broadside of sassy smiles in among em, I tried to unjint myself
                  & kollapse. When, in tellin how she drempt she lived in Marble Halls, she sed
                  it tickled her more than all the rest to dream she loved her feller still the
                  same, I made a effort to swaller myself; but when, in the next song, she looked
                  strate at me & called me her Dear, I wildly told the man next to me he mite
                  hav my close as I shood never want 'em again no more in this world. [The
                     Plain Dealer containin this communicashun is not to be sent to
                  my famerly in Baldinsville under no circumstances whatsomever.]
               In conclushun, Maria, I want you to do well. I know you air a nice gal at hart
                  & you must get a good husband. He must be a man of branes & gumpshun &
                  a good pro-vider—a man who will luv you strong and long—a man who will luv you
                  jest as much in your old age, when your voice is cracked like an old tea kittle
                  & you can't get 1 of your notes discounted at 50 per sent a month, as he will
                  now, when you are young & charmin & full of music, sunshine & fun.
                  Don't many a snob, Maria. You ain't a Angel, Maria, & I am glad of it, When I
                  see angels in pettycoats I'm always sorry thay hain't got wings so they kin
                  quietly fly off where thay will be appreshiated. You air a woman, & a mity
                  good one too. As for Maccarony, Brignolo, Mullenholler and them other fellers,
                  they can take care of theirselves. Old Mac. kin make a comfortable livin choppin
                  cord wood if his voice ever givs out, and Amodio looks as tho he mite succeed in
                  conductin sum quiet toll gate, whare the vittles would be plenty & the labor
                  lite.
               I am preparin for the Summer Campane. I shall stay in Cleveland a few days and
                  probly you will hear from me again car I leave to once more becum a tosser on
                  life's tempestuous billers, meanin the Show Bisnis.
               
                  Very Respectively Yours,
                  ARTEMUS WARD.
               
            
            
               When I was in Nevada, I was called upon, shortly after my arrival, by an athletic
                  scarlet-faced man, who politely said his name was Blare.
               "I have a little bill against you, sir," he observed.
               "A bill—what for?"
               "For drinks."
               "Drinks?"
               "Yes, sir—at my bar; I keep the well-known and highly-respected coffee-house down
                  street."
               "But, my dear sir, there is a mistake—I never drank at your bar."
               "I know it, sir. That isn't the point. The point is this: I pay out my money for
                  good liquors, and it is people's own fault if they don't drink them. There are
                  liquors—do as you please about drinking them, but you must pay for
                     them! Isn't that fair?"
               His enormous body (which Puck wouldn't put a girdle round for forty dollars) shook
                  gleefully while I read this eminently original bill.
               Years ago Mr. Blaze was an agent of the California Stage Company. There was a
                  formidable and well-organized opposition to the California Stage Company at that
                  time, and Mr. Blaze rendered them such signal service in his capacity of agent
                  that they were very sorry when he tendered his resignation.
               "You are some sixteen hundred dollars behind in your accounts, Mr. Blaze," said
                  the President, "but in view of your faithful and efficient services, we shall
                  throw off eight hundred dollars of that amount."
               Mr. Blaze seemed touched by this generosity. A tear stood in his eye, and his
                  bosom throbbed audibly.
               "You will throw off eight hundred dollars—you will?" he
                  at last cried, seizing the President's hand and pressing it passionately to his
                  lips.
               "I will," returned the President.
               "Well, sir," said Mr. Blaze, "I'm a gentleman; I am, you bet. And I
                  won't allow no Stage Company to surpass me in politeness. I'll throw off the
                     other eight hundred dollars, and we'll call it square! No gratitude,
                  sir—no thanks: it is my duty."
            
            
               
               THE SHOW IS CONFISCATED.
               You have perhaps wondered wharebouts I was for these many dase gone and past.
                  Perchans you sposed I'd gone to the Tomb of the Cappylets, tho I don't know what
                  those is. It's a popler noospaper frase.
               Listen to my tail, and be silent that ye may here. I've been among the Seceshers,
                  a earnin my daily peck by my legitimit perfeshun, and havn't had no time to weeld
                  my facile quill for "the Grate Komick paper," if you'll allow me to kote from your
                  truthful advertisement.
               My success was skaly, and I likewise had a narrer scape of my life. If what I've
                  bin threw is "Suthern hosspitality," 'bout which we've hearn so much, then I feel
                  bound to obsarve that they made two much of me. They was altogether too lavish
                  with their attenshuns.
               I went amung the Seceshers with no feelins of annermosity. I went in my
                  perfeshernal capacity. I was actooated by one of the most Loftiest desires which
                  can swell the human Buzzum, viz:—to giv the peeple their money's worth, by showin
                  them Sagashus Beests, and Wax Statoots, which I venter to say air onsurpast by any
                  other statoots anywheres. I will not call that man who sez my statoots is humbugs
                  a lier and a hoss thief, but bring him be4 me, and I'll wither him with one of my
                  scornful frowns.
               
                  
                     "I was ceased and tied to a stump."
                  
               
               But to proceed with my tail. In my travels threw the Sonny South I heared a heap
                  of talk about Seceshon and bustin up the Union, but I didn't think it mounted to
                  nothin. The politicians in all the villages was swearin that old Abe (sometimes
                  called the Prahayrie flower) should'nt never be noggerated. They also made fools
                  of theirselves in varis ways, but as they was used to that I didn't let it worry
                  me much, and the Stars and Stripes continued to wave over my little tent.
                  Moorover, I was a Son of Malty and a member of several other Temperance Societies,
                  and my wife she was a Dawter of Malty, an I sposed these fax would secoor me the
                  infloonz and pertectiun of all the fust families. Alas! I was dispinted. State
                  arter State seceshed, and it growed hotter and hotter for the undersined. Things
                  came to a climbmacks in a small town in Alabamy, where I was premtorally ordered
                  to haul down the Stars & Stripes. A deppytashun of red-faced men cum up to the
                  door of my tent ware I was standin takin money (the arternoon exhibishun had
                  commenst, an' my Italyun organist was jerkin his sole-stirrin chimes). "We air
                  cum, Sir," said a milingtary man in a cockt hat, "upon a hi and holy mishun. The
                  Southern Eagle is screamin threwout this sunny land — proudly and defiantly
                  screamin, Sir!"
               "What's the matter with him?" sez I, "don't his vittles sit well on his
                  stummick?"
               "That Eagle, Sir, will contioner to scream all over this Brite and tremenjus
                  land!"
               "Wall, let him scream. If your Eagle can amuse hisself by screamin,
                  let him went!" The men anoyed me, for I was Bizzy makin change.
               "We are cum, Sir, upon a matter of dooty —"
               "You're right, Capting. It's every man's dooty to visit my show," sed I.
               "We are cum —"
               "And that's the reason you are here!" sez I, larfin one of my silvery larfs. I
                  thawt if he wanted to goak I'd giv him sum of my sparkling eppygrams.
               "Sir, you're inserlent. The plain question is, will you haul down the
                  Star-Spangled Banner, and hist the Southern flag?"
               "Nary hist!" Those was my reply.
               "Your wax works and beests is then confiscated, & you air arrested as a
                  Spy!"
               Sez I, "My fragrant roses of the Southern clime and Bloomin daffodils, what's the
                  price of whisky in this town, and how many cubic feet of that seductive flooid can
                  you individooally hold?"
               They made no reply to that, but said my wax figgers was confiscated. I axed them
                  if that was ginerally the stile among thieves in that country, to which they also
                  made no reply, but sed I was arrested as a Spy, and must go to Montgomry in iuns.
                  They was by this time jined by a large crowd of other Southern patrits, who
                  commenst hollerin, "Hang the bald-headed aberlitionist, and bust up his immoral
                  exhibition!" I was ceased and tied to a stump, and the crowd went for my tent—that
                  water-proof pavilion, wherein instruction and amoosment had been so muchly
                  combined, at 15 cents per head—and tore it all to pieces. Meanwhile dirty-faced
                  boys was throwin stuns and empty beer bottles at my massiv brow, and takin other
                  improper liberties with my person. Resistance was useless, for a variety of
                  reasons, as I readily obsarved.
               The Seseshers confisticated my statoots by smashin them to attums. They then went
                  to my money box, and confisticated all the loose change therein contaned. They
                  then went and bust in my cages, lettin all the animils loose, a small but helthy
                  tiger among the rest. This tiger has an excentric way of tearin dogs to peaces,
                  and I allers sposed from his gineral conduck that he'd hav no hesitashun in servin
                  human beins in the same way if he could git at them. Excuse me if I was crooil,
                  but I larfed boysterrusly when I see that tiger spring in among the people. "Go
                  it, my sweet cuss!" I inardly exclaimed, "I forgive you for bitin off my left thum
                  with all my heart! Rip 'em up like a bully tiger whose Lare has bin inwaded by
                  Seceshers!"
               I can't say for certain that the tiger serisly injured any of them, but as he was
                  seen a few days after, sum miles distant, with a large and well-selected
                  assortment of seats of trowsis in his mouth, and as he lookt as tho he'd bin havin
                  sum vilent excercise, I rayther guess he did. You will therefore perceive that
                  they didn't confisticate him much.
               I was carrid to Montgomry in iuns and placed in durans vial. The jail was an
                  ornery edifiss, but the table was librally supplied with Bakin and Cabbidge. This
                  was a good variety, for when I didn't hanker after Bakin I could help myself to
                  the cabbige.
               I had nobody to talk to nor nothin to talk about, howsever, and I was very lonely,
                  specially on the first day; so when the jailer parst my lonely sell I put the few
                  stray hairs on the back part of my hed (I'm bald now, but thare was a time when I
                  wore sweet auburn ringlets) into as dish-hevild as state a possible, & rollin
                  my eyes like a manyyuck, I cride, "Stay, jaler, stay! I am not mad but soon shall
                  be if you don't bring me suthin to Talk!" He brung me sum noospapers, for which I
                  thanked him kindly.
               At larst I got a interview with Jefferson Davis, the President of the Southern
                  Conthieveracy. He was quite perlite, and axed me to sit down and state my case. I
                  did it, when he larfed and said his gallunt men had been a little 2 enthoosiastic
                  in confisticatin my show.
               "Yes," sez I, "they confisticated me too muchly. I had sum hosses confisticated in
                  the same way onct, but the confisticaters air now poundin stun in the States
                  Prison in Injinnapylus."
               "Wall, wall, Mister Ward, you air at liberty to depart; you air friendly to the
                  South, I know. Even now we have many frens in the North, who sympathise with us,
                  and won't mingle with this fight."
               "J. Davis, there's your grate mistaik. Many of us was your sincere frends, and
                  thought certin parties amung us was fussin about you and meddlin with your
                  consarns intirely too much. But, J. Davis, the minit you fire a gun at the piece
                  of dry-goods called the Star-Spangled Banner, the North gits up and rises en
                  massy, in defence of that banner. Not agin you as individooals,—not agin the South
                  even—but to save the flag. We should indeed be weak in the knees, unsound in the
                  heart, milk-white in the liver, and soft in the hed, if we stood quietly by and
                  saw this glorus Govyment smashed to pieces, either by a furrm or a intestine foe.
                  The gentle-harted mother hates to take her naughty child across her knee, but she
                  knows it is her dooty to do it. So we shall hate to whip the naughty South, but we
                  must do it if you don't make back tracks at onct, and we shall wallup you out of
                  your boots! J. Davis, it is my decided opinion that the Sonny South is makin a
                  egrejus mutton-hed of herself!"
               "Go on, sir, you're safe enuff. You're too small powder for me!" sed the President
                  of the Southern Conthieveracy.
               "Wait till I go home and start out the Baldinsvill Mounted Hoss Cavalry! I'm
                  Capting of that Corpse, I am, and, J. Davis, beware! Jefferson D., I now leave
                  you! Farewell, my gay Saler Boy! Good by, my bold buccaneer! Pirut of the deep
                  blue sea, adoo! adoo!"
               My tower threw the Southern Conthieveracy on my way home was thrillin ennff for
                  yeller covers. It will form the subjeck of my next. Betsy Jane and the progeny air
                  well.
            
            
               ON THE WING.
               
                  Gents of the Editoral Corpse:—
               
               
                  
                     "Don't Spear me agin, if you please."
                  
               
               Since I last rit you I've met with immense success a showin my show in varis
                  places, particly at Detroit. I put up at Mr. Russel's tavern, a very good tavern
                  too, but I am sorry to inform you that the clerks tried to cum a Gouge Game on me.
                  I brandished my new sixteen dollar huntin-cased watch round considerable, & as
                  I was drest in my store clothes & had a lot of sweet-scented wagon-grease on
                  my hair, I am free to confess that I thought I lookt putty gay. It never once
                  struck me that I lookt green. But up steps a clerk & axes me hadn't I better
                  put my watch in the Safe. "Sir," sez I, "that watch cost sixteen dollars! Yes Sir,
                  every dollar of it! You can't cum it over me my boy! Not at all, Sir." I know'd
                  what the clerk wanted. He wanted that watch himself. He wanted to make behave as
                  tho he lockt it up in the safe, then he would set the house a fire and pretend as
                  tho the watch was destroyed with the other property! But he caught a Tomarter when
                  he got hold of me. From Detroit I go West'ard hoc. On the cars was a he-lookin
                  female, with a green-cotton umbreller in one hand and a handful of Reform tracks
                  the other. She sed every woman should have a Spear. Them as didn't demand their
                  Spears, didn't know what was good for them. "What is my Spear?" she axed,
                  addressin the people in the cars. "Is it to stay at home & darn stockins &
                  be the ser-lave of a domineerin man? Or is it my Spear to vote &
                  speak & show myself the ckal of man? Is there a sister in these keers that has
                  her proper Spear?" Sayin which the eccentric female whirled her umbreller round
                  several times, & finally jabbed me in the weskit with at
               "I hav no objecshuns to your goin into the Spear bizness," sez I, "but you'll
                  please remember I ain't a pickeril. Don't Spear me agin, if you please." She sot
                  down.
               At Ann Arbor, bein seized with a sudden faintness, I called for a drop of suthin
                  to 'drink. As I was stirrin the beverage up, a pale-faced man in gold spectacles
                  laid his hand upon my shoulder, & sed, "Look not upon the wine when it is
                  red!"
               Sez I, "this ain't wine. This is Old Rye."
               "It stingeth like a Adder and biteth like a Sarpent!" sed the
                  man.
               "I guess not," sed I, "when you put sugar into it. That's the way I allers take
                  mine."
               "Have you sons grown up, Sir?" the man axed.
               "Wall," I replide, as I put myself outside my beverage, "my son Artemus junior is
                  goin on 18."
               "Am't you afraid if you set him thus example he'll cum to a bad end?"
               "He's cum to a waxed end already. He's learnin the shoe makin bizness," I replide.
                  "I guess we can both on us git along without your assistance, Sir," I obsarved, as
                  he was about to open his mouth agin.
               "This is a cold world!" sed the man.
               "That's so. But you'll get into a warmer one by and by if you don't mind your own
                  bizness better." I was a little riled at the feller, because I never take anythin
                  only when I'm onwell, I arter wards learned he was a temperance lecturer, and if
                  he can injuce men to stop settin their inards on fire with the frightful licker
                  which is retailed round the country, I shall hartly rejoice. Better give men.
                  Prussick Assid to onct, than to pizen 'em to deth by degrees.
               At Albion I met with overwhelmin success. The celebrated Albion Female Semenary is
                  located here, & there air over 300 young ladies in the Institushun, pretty
                  enough to cat without seasonin or sass. The young ladies was very kind to me,
                  volunteerin to pin my handbills onto the backs of their dresses. It was a surblime
                  site to see over 300 young ladies goin round with a advertisement of A. Ward's
                  onparaleld show, conspickusly posted onto their dresses.
               They've got a Panick up this way and refooze to take Western money. It never was
                  worth much, and when western men who know what it is, refooze to take their own
                  money it is about time other folks stopt handlin it. Banks are bustin every day,
                  goin up higher nor any balloon of which we hav any record. These western bankers
                  air a sweet & luvly set of men. I wish I owned as good a house as some of 'em
                  would break into!
               Virtoo is its own reward.
               
                  A. WARD.
               
            
            
               The students of the Conneaut Academy gave a theatrical entertainment a few winters
                  ago. They "executed" Julius Cæsar. Everything went off satisfactorily until Cæsar
                  was killed in the market-place. The stage accomodations were limited, and Cæsar
                  fell nearly under the stove, in which there was a roaring fire. And when Brutus
                  said — 
                     "People and Senators!—be not affrighted,"
                   he was amazed to see Cæsar rise upon his feet and nervously examine his
                  scorched garments. "Lay down, you fool," shouted Brutus, wildly, "do you want to
                  break up the whole thing!"—"No," returned Cæsar, in an excited manner, "I don't; I
                  want to act out Gineral Cæsar in good style, but I ain't goin' to bile under that
                  cussed old stove for nobody!" This stopped the play, and the students abandoned
                  theatricals forthwith.
            
            
               
               EDWIN FORREST AS OTHELLO.
               
                  
                     "Fair Youth, do you know whot I'd do with you if you was my sun?"
                  
               
               Durin a recent visit to New York the undersined went to see Edwin Forrest. As I'm
                  into the moral show bizness myself, I ginrally go to Barnum's moral Museum, where
                  only moral peple air admitted, partickly on Wednesday arternoons. But this time I
                  thot I'd go & see Ed. Ed has been actin out on the stage for many years. There
                  is varis 'pinions about his actin, Englishmen ginrally bleevin that he is far
                  superior to Mister Macready; but on one pint all agree, and that is that Ed draws
                  like a six ox team. Ed was actin at Niblo's Garding, which looks considerable more
                  like a parster than a garding, but let that pars. I sot down in the pit, took out
                  my spectacles & commenced peroosin the evenin's bill. The awjince was
                  all-fired large & the boxes was full of the elitty of New York. Sevral opery
                  glasses was leveld at me by Gothum's fairest darters, but I didn't let on as tho I
                  noticed it, tho mebby I did take out my sixteen-dollar silver watch & brandish
                  it round more than was necessary. But the best of us has our weaknesses & if a
                  man has gewelry let him show it. As I was peroosin the bill a grave young man who
                  sot near me, axed me if I'd ever seen Forrest dance the Essence of Old Virginny?
                  "He's immense in that," sed the young man. "He also does a fair champion jig," the
                  young man continnerd, "but his Big Thing is the Essence of Old Virginny." Sez I,
                  "Fair youth, do you know what I'd do with you if you was my sun?"
               "No," sez he.
               "Wall," sez I, "I'd appint your funeral to-morrow arternoon & the korps
                     should be ready! Your too smart to live on this yearth." He didn't try
                  any more of his capers on me. But another pussylanermuss individooul, in a red
                  vest and patent lether boots, told me his name was Bill Astor & axed me to
                  lend him 50 cents till early in the mornin. I told him I'd probly send it round to
                  him before he retired to his virtoous couch, but if I didn't he might look for it
                  next fall, as soon as I cut my corn. The Orchestry was now fiddling with all their
                  might, & as the peple didn't understand anything about it they applaudid
                  versifrussly. Presently, Old Ed Cum out. The play was Otheller or More of Veniss.
                  Otheller was writ by Wm. Shakspeer. The scene is laid in Veniss. Otheller was a
                  likely man & was a ginral in the Veniss army. He cloped with Desdemony, a
                  darter of the Hon. Mister Brabantio, who represented one of the back districks in
                  the Veneshun legislater. Old Brabantio was as mad as thunder at this & tore
                  round considerable, but finally cooled down, tellin Otheller, howsever, that
                  Desdemony had come it over her Par, and that he had better look out or she'd come
                  it over him likewise. Mr. & Mrs. Otheller git along very comfortable like for
                  a spell. She is sweet-tempered and luvin—a nice, sensible feemale, never goin in
                  for he-female conventions, green cotton umbrellers and pickled beats. Otheller is
                  a good provider and thinks all the world of his wife. She has a lazy time of it,
                  the hired girl doin all the cookin and washin. Desdemony, in fact, don't hav to
                  git the water to wash her own hands with. But a low cuss named Iago, who I bleeve
                  wants to git Otheller out of his snug government birth, now goes to work &
                  upsets the Otheller family in the most outrajus stile. Iago falls in with a
                  braneless youth named Roderigo & wins all his money at poker. (Iago allers
                  played foul,) He thus got money enuff to carry out his onprincipled skeem. Mike
                  Cassio, a Irish man, is selected as a tool by Iago. Mike was a clever feller &
                  orfficer in Otheller's army. He liked his tods too well, however, & they
                  floored him, as they have many other promisin young men. Iago injuces Mike to
                  drink with him, Iago slyly throwin his whisky over his shoulder. Mike gits as
                  drunk as a biled owl & allows that he can lick a yard full of the Veneshun
                  fancy before breakfast, without sweatin a hair. He meets Roderigo & proceeds
                  for to smash him. A feller named Montano undertakes to slap Cassio, when that
                  infatooated person runs his sword into him. That miserable man, Iago, pretents to
                  be very sorry to see Mike conduck hisself in this way, & undertakes to smooth
                  the thing over to Otheller, who rushes in with a drawn sword & wants to know
                  what's up. Iago cunninly tells his story, and Otheller tells Mike that he thinks a
                  good deal of him but he can't train no more in his regiment. Desdemony sympathises
                  with poor Mike & interceeds for him with Otheller. Iago makes him bleeve she
                  does this because she thinks more of Mike than she does of hisself. Otheller
                  swallers Iago's lyin tail & goes to makin a noosence of hisself ginrally. He
                  worries poor Desdemony terrible by his vile insinuations & finally smothers
                  her to deth with a piller. Mrs. Iago cums in just as Otheller has finished the
                  fowl deed and gives him fits right & left, showin him that he has bin orfully
                  gulled by her miserable cuss of a husband. Iago cums in, & his wife commences
                  rakin him down also, when he stabs her. Otheller jaws him a spell & then cuts
                  a small hole in his stummick with his sword. Iago pints to Desdemony's deth bed
                  & goes orf with a sardonic smile onto his countenance. Otheller tells the
                  peple that he has dim the state sum service & they know it; axes them to do as
                  fair a thing as they can for him under the circumstances, & kills hisself with
                  a fish-knife, which is the most sensible thing he can do. This is a breef skedule
                  of the synopsis of the play.
               Edwin Forrest is a grate acter. I thot I saw Otheller before me all the time he
                  was actin, and when the curtain fell, I found my spectacles was still mistened
                  with salt-water, which had run from my eyes while poor Desdemony was dyin. Betsy
                  Jane—Betsy Jane! let us pray that our domestic bliss may never be busted up by a
                  Iago!
               Edwin Forrest makes money acting out on the stage. He gits five-hundred dollars a
                  nite & his board & washin. I wish I had such a Forrest in my Garding!
            
            
               Several years ago Bill McCracken lived in Peru, Indiana. [We were in Peru several
                  years ago, and it was a nice place we don't think.] Mr. McCracken was
                  a screamer, and had whipped all the recognized fighting men on the Wabash. One day
                  somebody told him that Jack Long, blacksmith at Logansport, said he would give him
                  (McCracken) a protracted fit of sickness if he would just come down there and
                  smell of his bones. The McCracken at once laid in a stock of provisions,
                  consisting of whisky in glass and chickens in the shell, and started for
                  Logansport. In a few days he was brought home in a bunged-up condition, on a
                  cot-bed. One eye was gouged out, a portion of his nose was chawed off, his left
                  arm was in a sling, his head was done up in old rag, and he was pretty badly off
                  himself. He was set down in the village bar-room, and turning to the crowd he, in
                  a feeble voice, said, hot tears bedewing his face the while, "Boys, you know Jack
                  Long said if I'd come down to Loginsput he'd whale h—ll out of me; and, boys you
                  know I didn't believe it, but I've been down thar and I found he
                     would."
               He recovered after a lapse of years and led a better life. As he said himself, he
                  returned from Logansport a changed man.
            
            
               MOSES THE SASSY; OR THE DISGUISED DUKE.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  ELIZY.
                  My story opens in the classic presinks of Bostin In the parler of a bloated
                     aristocratic mansion on Bacon street sits a luvly young lady, whose hair is
                     cuvered ore with the frosts of between 17 Summers. She has just sot down to the
                     piany, and is warblm the popler ballad called "Smells of the Notion," in which
                     she tells how with pensiv thought, she wandered by a C beat shore. The sun is
                     settin in its horizon, and its gorgus light pores in a golden meller fluid
                     through the winders, and makes the young lady twict as beautiful nor what she
                     was before, which is onnecessary. She is magnificently dressed up in a Berage
                     basque, with poplin trimmins, More Antique, Ball Morals and 3 ply carpeting.
                     Also, considerable gauze. Her dress contains 16 flounders and her shoes is red
                        morocker, with gold spangles onto them. Presently she
                     jumps up with a wild snort, and pressin her hands to her brow, she exclaims:
                     "Methinks I see a voice!"
                  
                     
                        "Oh that I should live to see myself a ded body!" screamed the
                           unfortnet man.
                     
                  
                  A noble youth of 27 summers enters. He is attired in a red shirt and black
                     trowsis, which last air turned up over his boots; his hat, which it is a plug,
                     being cockt on to one side of his classical hed. In sooth, he was a heroic look
                     in person, with a fine shape. Grease, in its barmiest days near projuced a more
                     hefty cavileer. Gazin upon him admirinly for a spell, Elizy (for that was her
                     name) organized herself into a tabloo, and stated as follers.
                  "Ha! do me eyes deceive me ear-sight? Is it some dreams? No, I reckon not! That
                     frame! them store close! those nose! Yes, it is me own, me only Moses!"
                  He (Moses) folded her to his hart, with the remark that he was "a hunkey
                     boy."
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  WAS MOSES OF NOBLE BIRTH?
                  Moses was foreman of Engine Co. No. 40. Forty's fellers had jus bin havin an
                     annual re-union with Fifty's fellers, on the day I introjuce Moses to my
                     readers, and Moses had his arms full of trofees, to wit: 4 scalps, 5 eyes, 3
                     fingers, 7 cars, (which he chawed off) and several half and quarter sections of
                     noses. When the fair Elizy recovered from her delight at meetin Moses, she
                     said:—"How hast the battle gonest? Tell me!"
                  "We chawed 'em up—that's what we did!" said the bold Moses.
                  "I thank the gods!" sed the fairy Elizy. "Thou did'st excellent well. And,
                     Moses," she continnered, layin her hed confidinly agin his weskit, "dost know I
                     sumtimes think thou istest of noble birth?"
                  "No!" said he, wildly ketchin hold of hisself. "You don't say so!"
                  "Indeed do I! Your dead grandfather's sperrit comest to me the tother
                     night."
                  "Oh no, I guess it's a mistake," sed Moses.
                  "I'll bet two dollars and a quarter he did!" replied Elizy. "He said, 'Moses is
                     a Disguised Juke!'"
                  "You mean Duke," said Moses.
                  "Dost not the actors all call it Juke!" said she.
                  That settled the matter.
                  "I hav thought of this thing afore," said Moses, abstractedly. "If it is so,
                     then thus it must be! 2 B or not 2 B! Which! Sow, sow! But enuff. O life!
                        life!—you're too many for me!" He tore out some of his pretty
                     yeller hair, stampt on the floor sevril times, and was gone.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  THE PIRUT FOILED.
                  Sixteen long and weary years has elapst since the seens narrated in the last
                     chapter took place. A noble ship the Sary Jane, is a sailin from France to
                     Ameriky via the Wabash Canal. A pirut ship is in hot pursoot of the Sary. The
                     pirut capting isn't a man of much principle and intends to kill all the people
                     on bored the Sary and confiscate the wallerbles. The capting of the S. J. is on
                     the pint of givin in, when a fine lookin feller in russet boots and a buffalo
                     overcoat rushes forored and obsarves:
                  "Old man! go down stairs! Retire to the starbud bulk-hed! I'll take charge of
                     this Bote!"
                  "Owdashus cuss!" yelled the capting, "away with thee or I shall do
                     min-rer-der-r-r!"
                  "Skurcely," obsarved the stranger, and he drew a diamond-hilted fish-knife and
                     cut orf the capting's hed. He expired shortly, his last words bein, "we are
                     governed too much."
                  "People!" sed the stranger, "I'm the Juke d'Moses!"
                  "Old hoss!" sed a passenger, "methinks thou art blowin!" whare-upon the Juke
                     cut off his hed also.
                  "Oh that I should live to see myself a ded body!" screamed the unfortnit man.
                     "But don't print any verses about my deth in the newspapers, for if you do I'll
                     haunt ye!"
                  "People!" sed the Juke, "I alone can save you from yon bloody pirut! Ho! a peck
                     of oats!" The oats was brought and the Juke, boldly mountin the jibpoop,
                     throwed them onto the towpath. The pirut rapidly approached, chucklin with
                     fiendish delight at the idee of increasin his ill-gotten gains. But the leadin
                     hoss of the pirut ship stopt suddent on comin to the oats, and commenst for to
                     devour them. In vain the piruts swore and throwd stones and bottles at the
                     hoss—he wouldn't budge a inch. Meanwhile the Sary Jane, her hosses on the full
                     jump, was fast leavin the pirut ship!
                  "Onct agin do I escape deth!" sed the Juke between his clencht teeth, still on
                     the jibpoop.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  THE WANDERER'S RETURN.
                  The Juke was Moses the Sassy!
                  Yes it was!
                  He had bin to France and now he was home agin in Bostin, which gave birth to a
                     Bunker Hill!! He had some trouble in gitting hisself acknowledged as Juke in
                     France, as the Orleans Dienasty and Borebones were fernest him, but he finally
                     conkered. Elizy knowd him right off, as one of his ears and a part of his nose
                     had bin chawed off in his fights with opposition firemen durin boyhood's sunny
                     hours. They lived to a green old age, beloved by all, both grate and small.
                     Their children, of which they have numerous, often go up onto the Common and
                     see the Fountain squirt.
                  This is my 1st attempt at writin a Tail & it is far from bein perfeck, but
                     if I have indoosed folks to see that in 9 cases out of 10 they can either make
                     Life as barren as the Dessert of Sarah, or as joyus as a flower garding, my
                     objeck will have bin accomplished, and more too.
               
            
            
               
               INTERVIEW WITH PRESIDENT LINCOLN.
               I hav no politics. Nary a one. I'm not in the bisiness. If I was I spose I should
                  holler versiffrusly in the streets at nite and go home to Betsy Jane smellen of
                  coal ile and gin, in the mornin. I should go to the Poles arly. I should stay
                  there all day. I should see to it that my naburs was thar. I should git carriges
                  to take the kripples, the infirm and the indignant thar. I should be on guard agin
                  frauds and sich. I should be on the look out for the infamus lise of the enemy,
                  got up jest be4 elecshun for perlitical effeck. When all was over and my candydate
                  was elected. I should move heving & arth—so to speak—until I got orfice, which
                  it I didn't git a orfice I should turn round and abooze the Administration with
                  all my mite and maine. But I'm not in the bisniss. I'm in a far more respectful
                  bisniss nor what pollertics is. I wouldn't giv two cents to be a Congresser. The
                  wuss insult I ever received was when sertin citizens of Baldinsville axed me to
                  run fur the Legislater. Sez I, "My frends, dostest think I'd stoop to that there?"
                  They turned as white as a sheet. I spoke in my most orfullest tones, & they
                  knowd I wasn't to be trifled with. They slunked out of site to onct.
               
                  
                     An Interview with President Lincoln.
                  
               
               There4, havin no politics, I made bold to visit Old Abe at his humstid in
                  Springfield. I found the old feller in his parler, surrounded by a perfeck swarm
                  of orfice seekers. Knowin he had been capting of a flat boat on the roarin
                  Mississippy I thought I'd address him in sailor lingo, so sez I "Old Abe, ahoy!
                  Let out yer main-suls, reef hum the fore-castle & throw yer jib-poop
                  overboard! Shiver my timbers, my harty!" [N. B. This is ginuine mariner langwidge.
                  I know, becawz I've seen sailor plays acted out by them New York theater fellers.]
                  Old Abe look! up quite cross & sez, "Send in yer petition by & by. I can't
                  possibly look at it now. Indeed, I can't. It's onpossible sir!"
               "Mr. Linkin, who do you spect I air?" sed I.
               "A orfice-seeker, to be sure!" sed he.
               "Wall, sir," sed I, "you's never more mistaken in your life. You hain't gut a
                  orfiss I'd take under no circumstances. I'm A. Ward. Wax figgers is my perfeshun.
                  I'm the father of Twins, and they look like me—both of them. I cum to
                  pay a frendly visit to the President cleck of the United States. If so be you
                  wants to see me say so—if not say so, & I'm orf like a jug handle."
               "Mr. Ward, sit down. I am glad to see you, Sir."
               "Repose in Abraham's Buzzum!" sed one of the orfice seekers, his idee bein to git
                  orf a goak at my expense.
               "Wall," sez I, "ef all you fellers repose in that there Buzzum thare'll be mity
                  poor nussin for sum of you!" whereupon Old Abe buttoned his weskit clear up and
                  blusht like a maidin of sweet 16. Jest at this pint of the conversation another
                  swarm of orfice-seekers arrove & cum pilin into the parler. Sum wanted post
                  orfices, sum wanted collectorships, sum wantid furrin missions, and all wanted
                  sumthin. I thought Old Abe would go crazy. He hadn't more than had time to shake
                  hands with 'em before another tremenjis crowd cum porein onto his premises. His
                  house and dooryard was now perfeckly overflowed with orfice seekers, all clameruss
                  for a immejit interview with Old Abe. One man from Ohio, who had about seven
                  inches of corn whiskey into him, mistook me for Old Abe and addrest me as "The
                  Pra-hayrie Flower of the West!" Thinks I you want a offiss putty bad.
                  Another man with a gold heded cane and a red nose told Old Abe he was "a seckind
                  Washington & the Pride of the Boundliss West."
               Sez I, "Square, you wouldn't take a small post-offis if you could git it, would
                  you?"
               Sez he, "a patrit is abuv them things, sir!"
               "There's a putty big crop of patrits this season, aint there Squire!" sez I, when
                     another crowd of offiss seekers pored in. The house, door-yard,
                  barn & woodshed was now all full, and when another crowd cum I
                  told 'em not to go away for want of room as the hog-pen was still empty. One
                  patrit from a small town in Michygan went up on top the house, got into the
                  chimney and slid down into the parler where Old Abe was endeverin to keep the
                  hungry pack of orfice-seekers from chawin him up alive without benefit of clergy.
                  The minit he reached the fire-place he jumpt up, brusht the soot out of his eyes,
                  and yelled: "Don't make eny pintment at the Spunkville postoffiss till you've read
                  my papers. All the respectful men in our town is signers to that there
                  dockyment!"
               "Good God!" cride Old Abe, "they cum upon me from the skize—down the chimneys, and
                  from the bowels of the yearth!" He hadn't more'n got them words out of his deliket
                  mouth before two fat offiss-seekers from Wisconsin, in endeverin to crawl atween
                  his legs for the purpuss of applyin for the tollgateship at Milwawky, upsot the
                  President cleck & he would hev gone sprawlin into the fire-place if I hadn't
                  caught him in these arms. But I hadn't more'n stood him up strate before another
                  man cum crashin down the chimney, his head strikin me vilently agin the mards and
                  prostratin my voluptoous form onto the floor. "Mr. Linkin," shoutld the
                  infatooated being, "my papers is signed by every clergyman in our town, and
                  likewise the skoolmaster!"
               Sez I, "you egrejis ass," gittin up & brushin the dust from my eyes, "I'll
                  sign your papers with this bunch of bones, if you don't be a little more keerful
                  how you make my bread basket a depot in the futer. How do you like that air
                  perfumery?" sez I, shuving my fist under his nose. "Them's the kind of papers I'll
                  giv you! Them's the paper's you want!"
               "But I workt hard for the ticket; I toiled night and day! The patrit should be
                  rewarded!"
               "Virtoo," sed I, holdin' the infatooted man by the coat-collar, "virtoo, sir, is
                  its own reward. Look at me!" He did look at me, and qualed be4 my gase. "The fact
                  is," I continued, lookin round on the hungry crowd, "there is scarcely a offiss
                  for every ile lamp carrid round durin' this campane. I wish thare was. I wish
                  thare was furrin missions to be filled on varis lonely Islands where eppedmics
                  rage incessantly, and if I was in Old Abe's place I'd send every mother's son of
                  you to them. What air you here for?" I continnered, warmin up considerable, "can't
                  you giv Abe a minit's peace? Don't you see he's worrid most to death! Go home, you
                  miserable men, go home & till the sile! Go to peddlin tinware—go to choppin
                  wood—go to bilin' sope—stuff sassengers—black boots—git a clerkship on sum
                  respectable manure cart—go found as original Swiss Bell Ringers—becum 'origenal
                  and only' Campbell Minstrels—go to lecturin at 50 dollars a nite—imbark in the
                  peanut bizniss—write for
                  the Ledger—saw off your legs and go round givin concerts, with
                  techin appeals to a charitable public, printed on your handbills — anything for a
                  honest living, but don't come round here drivin Old Abe crazy by your outrajis
                  cuttings up! Go home. Stand not upon the order of your goin, but go to onct! If in
                  five minits from this time," sez I pullin' out my new sixteen dollar huntin cased
                  watch and brandishin' it before their eyes, "Ef in five minits from this time a
                  single sole of you remains on these here premises, I'll go out to my cage near by,
                  and let my Boy Constructor loose! & of he gits amung you, you'll think old
                  Solferino has cum again and no mistake! Clear out you varmints!" You ought to hev
                  seen them seamper, Mr. Fair. They run orf as the Satun hisself was arter them with
                  a red hot ten-pronged pitchfork. In five minits the premises was clear.
               "How kin I ever repay you, Mr. Ward, for your kindness?" sed Old Abe, advancin and
                  shakin me warmly by the hand. "How kin I ever repay you, sir!"
               "By givin the whole country a good, sound adminstration. By poerin' ile upon the
                  troubled waturs, North and South. By pursooin' a patriotic, firm, and just course,
                  and then if any State wants to secede, let 'em Sesesh!"
               "How 'bout my Cabinit, Mister Ward?" sed Abe.
               "Fill it up with Showmen, sir! Showmen is devoid of politics. They hain't got any
                  principles! They know how to cater for the public. They know what the public
                  wants, North & South Showmen, sir, is honest men. Ef you doubt their literary
                  ability, look at their posters, and see small bills! Ef you want a Cabinit as is a
                  Cabinit fill it up with showmen, but don't call on me. The moral wax figger
                  perfeshun musn't be permitted to go down while there's a drop of blood in these
                  vains A. Linkin, I wish you well! Ef Powers or Walcutt wus to pick out a model for
                  a beautiful man, I scarcely think they'd sculp you; but ef you do the fair thing
                  by your country you'll make as putty a angel as any of us! A. Linkin, use the
                  talents which Nature has put into you judishusly and firmly, and all will be well!
                  A. Linkin, adoo!"
               He shook me cordyully by the hand—we exchanged picters, so we could gaze upon each
                  others' liniments when far away from one another—he at the hellum of the Ship of
                  State, and I at the hellum of the show bizniss—admittance only 15 cents.
            
            
               ON "FORTS."
               Every man has got a Fort. It's sum men's fort to do one thing, and sum other men's
                  fort to do another, while there is numeris shiftliss critters goin round loose
                  whose fort is not to do nothin.
               
                  
                     Artemus rescood from the Kanawl.
                  
               
               Shakspeer rote good plase, but he wouldn't hav succeeded as a Washington
                  correspondent of a New York daily paper. He lackt the rekesit fancy and
                  imagginashun.
               That's so!
               Old George Washington's Fort was to not hev eny public man of the present day
                  resemble him to eny alarmin extent. Whare bowts can George's ekal be fownd? I ask,
                  & boldly anser no whares, or eny whare else.
               Old man Townsin's Fort, was to maik Sassyperiller. "Goy to the world! another life
                  saived!"(Cotashun from Townsins advertisemunt.)
               Cyrus Field's Fort is to lay submachine tellegraf under the boundin billers of the
                  Oshun, and then hev it Bust.
               Spaldin's Fort is to maik Prepared Gioo, which mends everything. Wonder of it will
                  mend a sinner's wickid waze. (Impromptoo goak).
               Zoary's Fort is to be a femaile circus feller.
               My Fort is the grate moral show bizniss & ritin choice famerly literatoor for
                  the noospapers. That's what's the matter with me.
               &c., &c., &c. So I mite go on to a indefinite extent.
               Twict I've endeverd to do things which thay wasn't my Fort. The fust time was when
                  I undertuk to lick a owdashus cuss who cut a hole in my tent & krawld threw.
                  Sez I, "my jentle Sir go out or I shall fall unto you putty hevy." Sez he, "Wade
                  in, Old wax figgers," whareupon I went for him, but he cawt me powerful on the hed
                  & knockt me threw the tent into a cow pastur. He pursood the attack &
                  flung me into a mud puddle. As I aroze & rung out my drencht garmints I
                  koncluded fitin wasn't my Fort. He now rize the kurtin upon Seen 2nd: It is rarely
                  seldum that I seek consolation in the Flowin Bole. But in a sertin town in
                  Injianny in the faul of 18—, my orgin grinder got sick with the fever & died.
                  I never felt so ashamed in my life, & I thowt I'd hist in a few swallers of
                  suthin strengthin. Konsequents was I histid in so much I dident zackly know whare
                  bowts I was. I turnd my livin wild beests of Pray loose into the streets and spilt
                  all my wax wurks. I then bet I could play hoss. So I bitched myself to a Kanawl
                  bote, there bein two other hoases hitcht on also, one behind and another ahead of
                  me. The driver hollerd for us to git up, and we did. But the hosses bein onused to
                  sich a arrangement begun to kick & squeal and rair up. Konsequents was I was
                  kickt vilently in the stummick & back, and presuntly I fownd myself in the
                  Kanawl with the other hosses, kickin & yellin like a tribe of Cusscaroorus
                  avvijis. I was rescood, & as I was bein carrid to the tavern on a hemlock
                  Bored I sed in a feeble voise, "Boys, playin hoss isn't my Fort."
               MORUL—Never don't do nothin which isn't your Fort, for ef you do you'll find
                  yourself splashin round in the Kanawl, figgeratively speakin.
            
            
               We have no intention of making fun of serious matters in telling the following
                  story: we merely relate a fact.
               There is a rule at Oberlin College that no student shall board at any house where
                  prayers are not regularly made each day. A certain man fitted up a boarding house
                  and filled it with boarders, but forgot until the eleventh hour, the prayer
                  proviso. Not being a praying man himself, he looked around for one who was. At
                  length he found one—a meek young man from Trumbull County—who agreed to pay for
                  his board in praying. For awhile all went smoothly, but the boarding-master
                  furnished his table so poorly that the boarders began to grumble and to leave, and
                  the other morning the praying boarder actually "struck"! Something like the
                  following dialogue occurred at the table:
               
                  Landlord—Will you pray, Mr. Mild?
               
                  Mild—No, sir, I will not.
               
                  Landlord—Why not, Mr. Mild?
               
                  Mild—It don't pay, sir. I can't pray on such victuals as these. And
                  unless you bind yourself in writing to set a better table than you have for the
                  last three weeks, nary another prayer do you get out of me!
               
               And that's the way the matter stood at latest advices.
            
            
               
               JOY IN THE HOUSE OF WARD.
               DEAR SIRS,—I take my pen in hand to inform you that I am in a state of grate
                  bliss, and trust these lines will find you injoyin the same blessins. I'm
                  reguvinated. I've found the immortal waters of yooth, so to speak, and am as
                  limber and frisky as a two-year old steer, and in the futer them boys which sez to
                  me "go up, old Bawld hed," will do so at the peril of their hazard, individooally.
                  I'm very happy. My house is full of joy, and I have to git up nights and larf!
                  Sumtimes I ax myself "is it not a dream?" & suthin withinto me sez "it air;"
                  but when I look at them sweet little critters and hear 'em squawk, I know it is a
                  reality—2 realitys, I may say—and I feel gay.
               I returned from the Summer Campane with my unparaleld show of wax works and livin
                  wild Beests of Pray in the early part of this munth. The peple of Baldinsville met
                  me cordully and I immejitly commenst restin myself with my famerly. The other nite
                  while I was down to the tavurn tostin my shins agin the bar-room fire & amuzin
                  the krowd with sum of my adventurs, who shood cum in bare heded & terrible
                  excited but Bill Stokes, who sez, sez he, "Old Ward, thare's grate doins up to
                  your house."
               
                  
                     "Twins, marm," sez I, "twins!"
                  
               
               Sez I, "William, how so?"
               Sez he, "Bust my gizzud, but its grate doins," & then he larfed as if hee'd
                  kill hisself.
               Sez I, risin and puttin on a austeer look, "William, I woodunt be a fool if I had
                  common cents."
               But he kept on larfin till he was black in the face, when he fell over on to the
                  bunk where the hostler sleeps, and in a still small voice sed, "Twins!" I ashure
                  you gents that the grass didn't grow under my feet on my way home, & I was
                  follered by a enthooslastic throng of my feller sitterzens, who hurrard for Old
                  Ward at the top of their voises. I found the house chock full of peple. Thare was
                  Mis Square Baxter and her three grown up darters, lawyer Perkinses wife, Taberthy
                  Ripley, young Eben Parsuns, Deakun Simmuns folks, the Skoolmaster, Doctor Jordin,
                  etsettery, etsettery. Mis Ward was in the west room, which jines the kitchin. Mis
                  Square Baxter was mixin suthin in a dipper before the kitchin fire, and a small
                  army of female wimin were rushin wildly round the house with bottles of camfire,
                  peaces of flannil, &c. I never seed sich a hubbub in my natral born dase. I
                  cood not stay in the west room only a minit, so strung up was my feelins, so I
                  rusht out and ceased my dubbel barrild gun.
               "What upon airth ales the man?" sez Taberthy Ripley. "Sakes alive, what air you
                  doin?" & she grabd me by the coat tales. "What's the matter with you?" she
                  continnered.
               "Twins, marm," sez I, "twins!"
               "I know it," sez she, coverin her pretty face with her apun.
               "Wall," sez I, "that's what's the matter with me!"
               "Wall, put down that air gun, you pesky old fool," sed she.
               "No, marm," sez I, "this is a Nashunal day. The glory of this here day isn't
                  confined to Baldinsville by a darn site. On yonder woodshed," sed I, drawin myself
                  up to my full hite and speakin in a show actin voice, "will I fire a Nashunal
                  saloot!" sayin whitch I tared myself from her grasp and rusht to the top of the
                  shed whare I blazed away until Square Baxter's hired man and my son Artemus
                  Juneyer cum and took me down by mane force,
               On return in to the Kitchin I found quite a lot of people seated bet the fire, a
                  talkin the event over. They made room for me & I sot down. "Quite a eppisode,"
                  sed Docter Jordin, litin his pipe with a red hot coal.
               "Yes," sed I, "2 eppisodes, waying abowt 18 pounds jintly.
               "A perfeck coop de tat," sed the skoolmaster.
               "E pluribus unum, in proprietor persony," sed I, thinkin I'd let him know I
                  understood furrin langwidges as well as he did, if I wasn't a skoolmaster.
               "It is indeed a momentious event," sed young Eben Parsuns, who has been 2 quarters
                  to the Akademy.
               "I never heard twins called by that name afore," sed I, "but I spose its all
                  rite."
               "We shall soon have Wards enuff," sed the editer of the Baldinsville Bugle
                     of Liberty who was lookin over a bundle of exchange papers in the
                  corner, "to apply to the legislater for City Charter?"
               "Good for you, old man!" sed I, "giv that air a conspickius place in the next
                     Bugle."
               "How redicklus," sed pretty Susan Fletcher, coverin her face with her knittin work
                  & larfin like all possest.
               "Wall, for my part," sed Jane Maria Peasley who is the crossest old made in the
                  world, "I think you all act like a peck of fools."
               Sez I, Mis. Peasly, air you a parent?"
               Sez she, "No, I aint."
               Sez I, "Mis. Peasly, you never will be."
               She left.
               We sot there talkin & larfin until "the switchin hour of nite, when grave
                  yards yawn & Josts troop 4th," as old Bill Shakespire aptlee obsarves in his
                  dramy of John Sheppard, esq., or the Moral House Breaker, when we broke up &
                  disbursed.
               Muther & children is a doin well; & as Resolushuns is the order of the day
                  I will feel obleeged if you'll insurt the follerin —
               Whereas, two Eppisodes has happined up to the unnersined's house, which is Twins;
                  & Whereas I like this stile, sade twins bein of the male perswashun & both
                  boys; there4 Be it
               
                  Resolved, that to them nabers who did the fare thing by sade
                  Eppisodes my hart felt thanks is doo.
               
                  Resolved, that I do most hartily thank Engine Ko. No. 17 who, under
                  the impreshun from the fuss at my house on that auspishus nite that thare was a
                  konflagration goin on, kum galyantly to the spot, but kindly refrand frum
                  squirtin.
               
                  Resolved, that frum the Bottum of my Sole do I thank the
                  Baldinsville brass band fur givin up the idea of Sarahnadin me, both on that great
                  nine & sinse.
               
                  Resolved, that my thanks is doo several members of the Baldinsville
                  meetin house who fur 3 whole dase hain't kalled me a sinful skoffer or intreeted
                  me to mend my wicked wase and jine sade meetin house to onct.
               
                  Resolved, that my Boozum teams with meny kind emoshuns towards the
                  follerin individoouls, to whit namelee—Mis. Square Baxter, who Jenerusly refoozed
                  to take a sent for a bottle of camfire; lawyer Perkinses wife who rit cum versis
                  on the Eppisodes; the Editor of the Baldinsville Bugle of Liberty,
                  who nobly assisted me in wollupin my Kangeroo, which sagashus little cuss seriusly
                  disturbed the Eppisodes by his outrajus screetchins & kickins up; Mis. Hirum
                  Doolittle, who kindly furnisht sum cold vittles at a tryin time, when it wasunt
                  konvenient to cook vittles at my house; and the Peasleys, Parsunses &
                  Watsunses fur there meny ax of kindness.
               
                  Trooly yures,
                  ARTEMUS WARD.
               
            
            
               PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS.
               You'll be glad to learn that I've made a good impression onto the mind of the
                  lan'lord of the Greenlion tavern. He made a speech about me last night. Risin' in
                  the bar he spoke as follers, there bein over 20 individooals present: "This North
                  American has been an inmate of my 'ouse over two weeks, yit he hasn't made no
                  attempt to scalp any member of my family. He hasn't broke no cups or sassers, or
                  furniture of any kind. (Hear, hear.) I find I can trust him with
                  lited candles. He eats his wittles with a knife and a fork. Peple of this kind
                  should be encurridged. I purpose 'is 'elth!" (Loud 'plaws.)
               What could I do but modestly get up and express a fervint hope that the Atlantic
                  Cable would bind the two countries still more closely together? The lan'lord said
                  my speech was full of orig'nality, but his idee was the old stage coach was more
                  safer, and he tho't peple would indors that opinion in doo time.
               
                  
                     "Has my clothin' a Welchy appearance!"
                  
               
               I'm gettin' on exceedin' well in London. I see now, however, that I made a mistake
                  in orderin' my close afore I left home. The trooth is the taler in our little
                  villige owed me for a pig, and I didn't see any other way of gettin' my pay. Ten
                  years ago these close would no doubt have been fash'n'ble, and perhaps they would
                  be ekally sim'lar ten years hens. But now they're diff'rently. The taler said he
                  know'd they was all right, because he had a brother in Wales who kept him informed
                  about London fashins reg'lar. This was a infamous falsehood. But as the ballud
                  says (which I heard a gen'l'man in a new soot of black close and white kid gloves
                  sing t'other night), Never don't let us despise a Man because he wears a Raggid
                  Coat! I don't know as we do, by the way, tho' we gen'relly get out of his way
                  pretty rapid; prob'ly on account of the pity which tears our boosoms for his
                  onhappy condition.
               This last remark is a sirkastic and witherin' thrust at them blotid peple who live
                  in gilded saloons. I tho't I'd explain my meanin' to you. I frekently have to
                  explain the meanin' of my remarks. I know one man—and he's a man of varid
                  'complishments—who often reads my articles over 20 times afore he can make
                  anything of 'em at all. Our skool-master to home says this is a pecoolerarity of
                  geneyus. My wife says it is a pecoolerarity of infernal nonsens. She's a exceedin'
                  practycal woman. I luv her muchly, however, and humer her little ways. It's a
                  recklis falshood that she hepecks me, and the young man in our neighborhood who
                  said to me one evenin', as I was mistenin' my diafram with a gentle cocktail at
                  the villige tavun—who said to me in these very langwidge. "Go home, old man,
                  onless you desires to have another teapot throwd at you by B. J.," probably
                  regrets havin' said so. I said, "Betsy Jane is my wife's front name, gentle yooth,
                  and I permits no person to alood to her as B. J. outside of the family circle, of
                  which I am it principally myself. Your other observations I scorn and disgust, and
                  I must polish you off." He was a able-bodied young man, and, remoovin' his coat,
                  he inquired if I wanted to be ground to powder? I said, Yes: if there was a
                  Powder-grindist handy, nothin' would 'ford me greater pleasure, when he struck me
                  a painful blow into my right eye, causin' me to make a rapid retreat into the
                  fire-place. I hadn't no idee that the enemy was so well organised. But I rallied
                  and went for him, in a rayther vigris style for my time of life. His parents lived
                  near by, and I will simply state 15 minits had only clapst after the first act,
                  when he was carried home on a shutter. His mama met the sollum procession at the
                  door, and after keerfully looking her offspring over, she said, "My son, I see how
                  it is distinctually. You've been foolin' round a Trashin' Masheen. You went in at
                  the place where they put the grain in, cum out with the straw, and you got up into
                  the thingamyjig, and let the horses tred on you, didn't you, my son?" The pen of
                  no livin Orthur could describe that disfortnit young man's sittywation more
                  clearer. But I was sorry for him, and I went and nussed him till he got well. His
                  reg'lar original father being absent to the war, I told him I'd be a father to him
                  myself. He smilt a sickly smile, and said I'd aheady been wuss than two fathers to
                  him.
               I will here obsarve that fitin or be allus avided, excep in
                  extreem cases. My principle is, if a man smites me on the right check, I'll turn
                  my left to him, prob'bly; but if he insinooates that my gran'mother wasn't all
                  right, I'll punch his hed. But fitin is mis'ble bizniss, gen'rally speakin, and
                  whenever any enterprisin countryman of mine cums over here to scoop up a Briton in
                  the prize ring I'm allus excessively tickled when he gets scooped hisself, which
                  it is a sad fack has thus far been the case—my only sorrer bein' that t'other
                  feller wasn't scooped likewise. It's diff'rently with scullin boats, which is a
                  manly sport, and I can only explain Mr. Hamil's resunt defeat in this country on
                  the grounds that he wasn't used to British water. I hope this explanation will be
                  entirely satisfact'ry to all.
               I'm a little sorry you've got politics over here, but I shall not diskuss 'em with
                  nobody. Tear me to peaces with wild omnibus hosses, and I won't diskuss 'em. I've
                  had quite enuff of 'em at home, thank you. I was at Birmingham t'other night, and
                  went to the great meetin' for a few minits. I hadn't been in the hall long when a
                  stern looken' artisan said to me,
               "You ar from Wales?"
               No, I told him I didn't think I was. A hidgyis tho't flasht over me. It was of
                  that onprincipled taler, and I said, "Has my clothin' a Welchy appearance?"
               "Not by no means," he answered, and then he said, "And what is your opinyin of the
                  present crisis?"
               I said, "I don't zackly know. Have you got it very bad?"
               He replied, "Sir, it is sweepin' over England like the Cymoon of the Desert!"
               "Wall," I said, "let it sweep!"
               He ceased me by the arm and said, "Let us glance at hist'ry. It is now some two
                  thousand years —"
               "Is it, indeed?" I replied.
               "Listen!" he fiercely cried; "it is only a little over two thousand years since
                  —"
               "Oh, bother!" I remarkt, "let us go out and git some beer."
               "No, Sir. I want no gross and sensual beer. I'll not move from this spot till I
                  can vote. Who ar you?"
               I handed him my card, which in addition to my name, contains a clabrit description
                  of my show. Now," I proudly said "you know me?"
               "I sollumly swear," he sternly replied, "that I never heard of you or your show in
                  my life!"
               "And this man," I cried bitterly, "calls hisself a intelligent man, and thinks he
                  orto be allowed to vote! What a holler mockery!"
            
            
               
               FOURTH OF JULY ORATION.
               DELIVERED JULY 4TH, AT WEATHERSFIELD, CONNECTICUT, 1859.*

               
                  *[I delivered the follerin, about two years ago,
                  to a large and discriminating awjince I was 96 minits passin a given pint. I have
                  revised the orasbun and added sum things which makes it approposser to the times
                  than it otherwise would be. I have also corrected the grammers and punktooated it.
                  I do my own punktooatin now days. The printers in VANITY FAIR offiss can't
                  punktooate worth a cent.]
               FELLER CITIZENS: I've been honored with an invite to norate before you to-day; and
                  when I say that I skurcely feel ekal to the task, I'm sure you will believe
                  me.
               Weathersfield is justly celebrated for her onyins and patritism the world over,
                  and to be axed to paws and address you on this, my fust perfeshernal tower threw
                  New Englan, causes me to feel—to feel—I may say it causes me to feel.
                  (Grate applaws. They thought this was one of my eccentricities, while the fact is
                  I was stuck. This between you and I.)
               I'm a plane man. I don't know nothing about no ded languages and am a little shaky
                  on livin ones. There, expect no flowery talk from me. What I shall say will be to
                  the pint, right strate out.
               
                  
                     Mr. Ward delivering his great Fourth of July Oration.
                  
               
               I'm not a politician and my other habits air good. I've no enemys to reward, nor
                  friends to sponge. But I'm a Union man. I luv the Union — it is a big thing—and it
                  makes my hart bleed to see a lot of ornery peple a-movin heaven—no, not heaven,
                  but the other place—and earth, to bust it up. Too much good blood was spilt in
                  courtin and marryin that hily respectable female the Goddess of Liberty, to git a
                  divorce from her now. My own State of Injianny is celebratid for unhitchin marrid
                  people with neatness and dispatch, but you can't git a divorce from the Goddess up
                  there. Not by no means. The old gal has behaved herself too well to cast her off
                  now. I'm sorry the picters don't give her no shoes or stockins, but the band of
                  stars upon her hed must continner to shine undimd, forever. I'me for the Union as
                  she air, and whithered be the arm of every ornery cuss who attempts to bust her
                  up. That's me. I hav sed! [It was a very sweaty day, and at this pint of the
                  orashun a man fell down with sunstroke. I told the awjince that considerin the
                  large number of putty gals prosent I was more fraid of a DAWTER STROKE. This was
                  impromptoo, and seemed to amoose them very much.]
               Feller Citizens—I hain't got time to notis the growth of Ameriky frum the time
                  when the Mayflowers cum over in the Pilgrim and brawt Plymouth Rock with them, but
                  every skool boy nose our career has been tremenjis. You will excuse me if I don't
                  praise the erly settlers of the Kolonies. Peple which hung idiotic old wimmin for
                  witches, burnt holes in Quakers' tongues and consined their feller critters to the
                  tredmill and pillery on the slitest provocashun may hav bin very nice folks in
                  their way, but I must confess I don't admire their stile, and will pass them by. I
                  spose they ment well, and so, in the novel and techin langwidge of the nusepapers,
                  "peas to their ashis." Thare was no diskount, however, on them brave men who fit,
                  bled and died in the American Revolushun. We needn't be afraid of setting 'em up
                  two steep. Like my show, they will stand any amount of prase. G. Washington was
                  abowt the best man this world ever sot eyes on. He was a clear-heded, warm-harted,
                  and stiddy-goin man. He never slopt over! The prevailin weakness of most men is to
                  SLOP OVER! [Put them words in large letters—A. W.] They git filled up and slop.
                  They Rush Things. They travel too much on the high presher principle. They git
                  onto the fust poplar hobby-horse whitch trots along, not carin a sent whether the
                  beest is even goin, clear sited and sound or spavined, blind and bawky. Of course
                  they git throwed eventooally, if not sooner. When they see the multitood goin it
                  blind they go Pel Mel with it, instid of exertin theirselves to set it right. They
                  can't see that the crowd which is now bearin them triumfantly on its shoulders
                  will soon diskiver its error and cast them into the hoss pond of Oblivyun, without
                  the slitest hesitashun. Washington never slopt over. That wasn't George's stile.
                  He luved his country dearly. He wasn't after the spiles. He was a human angil in a
                  3 kornered hat and knee britches, and we shan't see his like right away. My
                  frends, we can't all be Washington's, but we kin all be patrits & behave
                  ourselves in a human and a Christian manner. When we see a brother goin down hill
                  to Ruin let us not give him a push, but let us seeze rite hold of his coat-tails
                  and draw him back to Morality.
               Imagine G. Washington and P. Henry in the character of seseshers! As well fancy
                  John Bunyan and Dr. Watts in spangled tites, doin the trapeze in a one-horse
                  circus!
               I tell you, feller-citizens, it would have been ten dollars in Jeff Davis's pocket
                  if he'd never bin born!
               Be shure and vote at leest once at all elecshuns. Buckle on yer Armer and go to
                  the Poles. See two it that your naber is there. See that the kripples air provided
                  with carriages. Go to the poles and stay all day. Bewair of the infamous lise
                  whitch the Opposishun will be sartin to git up fur perlitical effek on the eve of
                  eleckshun. To the poles! and when you git there vote jest as you darn please. This
                  is a privilege we all persess, and it is 1 of the booties of
                  this grate and free land.
               I see mutch to admire in New Englan. Your gals in particklar air abowt as snug
                  bilt peaces of Calliker as I ever saw. They air fully equal to the corn fed gals
                  of Ohio and Injianny, and will make the bestest kind of wives. It sets my Buzzum
                  on fire to look at 'cm.
               
                  
                     He still, my sole, be still,
                     & you, Hart, stop cuttin up!
                  
               
               I like your skool houses, your meetin houses, your enterprise, gumpshun &c.,
                  but your favorit Bevridge I disgust. I allude to New England Rum. It is worse nor
                  the korn whisky of Injianny, which eats threw stone jugs & will turn the
                  stummuck of the most shiftliss Hog. I seldom seek consolashun in the flowin Bole,
                  but tother day I worrid down some of your Rum. The fust glass indused me to sware
                  like a infooriated trooper. On takin the secund glass I was seezed with a desire
                  to break winders, & arter imbibin the third glass I knockt a small boy down,
                  pickt his pocket of a New York Ledger, and wildly commenced readin
                  Sylvanus Kobb's last Tail. Its drefful stuff — a sort of lickwid litenin, gut up
                  under the pesonal supervishun of the devil—tears men's inards all to peaces and
                  makes their noses blossum as the Lobster. Shun it as you would a wild hyeny with a
                  fire brand tied to his tale, and while you air abowt it you will do a fust rate
                  thing for yourself and everybody abowt you by shunnin all kinds of intoxicatin
                  lickers. But unless your inards air cast iron, avoid New Englan's favorite
                  Bevrige.
               My frends, I'm dun. I tear myself away from you with tears in my eyes & a
                  pleasant oder of Onyins abowt my close. In the langwidge of Mister Catterline to
                  the Rummuns, I go, but perhaps I shall cum back agin. Adoo, peple of Wethersfield.
                  Be virtoous & you'll be happy!
            
            
               A WAR MEETING.
               Our complaint just now is war meetins. They've bin havin 'em bad in varis parts of
                  our cheerful Republic, and nat'rally we caught 'em here in Baldinsville. They
                  broke out all over us.
               Our big meetin came off the other night, and our old friend of the
                     Bugle was elected Cheerman.
               
                  
                     The Editor of "The Bugle" is interrupted by Betsy Jane and her female
                        warriors.
                  
               
               The Bugle-Horn of Liberty is one of Baldinsville's most eminentest
                  institootions. The advertisements are well written, and the deaths and marriages
                  are conducted with signal ability. The editor, Mr. SLINKERS, is a polish'd,
                  skarcastic writer. Folks in these parts will not soon forgit how he used up the
                     Eagle of Freedom, a family journal published at Snootville, near
                  here. The controversy was about a plank road. "The road may be, as our cotemporary
                  says, a humbug; but our aunt isn't bald-heded, and we
                  haven't got a one-eyed sister Sal! Wonder if the Editor of the Eagle of
                     Freedom sees it?" This used up the Eagle of Freedom
                  feller, because his aunt's head does present a skinn'd appearance, and his sister
                  SARAH is very much one-eyed. For a genteel home thrust, Mr. SLINKERS has few
                  ekals. He is a man of great pluck likewise. He has a fierce nostril, and I
                  b'lieve, upon my soul, that if it wasn't absolootly necessary for him to remain
                  here and announce in his paper, from week to week, that "our Gov'ment is about to
                  take vig'rous measures to put down the rebellion"—I b'lieve, upon my soul, this
                  illustris man would enlist as a Brigadier Gin'ral, and git his Bounty.
               But to return to the war meetin. It was largely attended. The Editor of the
                     Bugle arose and got up and said the fact could no longer be
                  disguised that we were involved in a war. "Human gore," said he, "is flowin. All
                  able-bodied men should seize a musket and march to the tented field. I repeat it,
                  sir, to the tented field."
               A voice—"Why don't you go yourself, you old blowhard?"
               "I am identified, young man, with a Arkymedian leaver which moves the world," said
                  the Editor, wiping his auburn brow with his left coat-tail: "I allude, young man,
                  to the press. Terms, two dollars a year, invariably in advance. Job printing
                  executed with neatness and dispatch!" And with this brilliant bust of clekance the
                  editor introduced Mr. J. Brutus Hinkins, who is sufferin from an attack of College
                  in a naberin place. Mr. Hinkins said Washington was not safe. Who can save our
                  national capectle?
               "DAN SETCHELL," I said. "He can do it afternoons. Let him plant his light and airy
                  form onto the Long Bridge, make faces at the hirelin foe, and they'll skedaddle!
                  Old SETCH can do it."
               "I call the Napoleon of Showmen," said the Editor of the Bugle—"I
                  call that Napoleonic man, whose life is adorned with so many noble virtues, and
                  whose giant mind lights up this warlike scene—I call him to order."
               I will remark in this connection, that the editor of the Bugle does
                  my job printing.
               "You," said Mr. Hinkins, "who live away from the busy haunts of men, do not
                  comprehend the magnitood of the crisis. The busy haunts of men is where people
                  comprehend this crisis. We who live in the busy haunts of men—that is to say, we
                  dwell, as it were, in the busy haunts of men."
               "I really trust that the gentl'man will not fail to say suthin about the busy
                  haunts of men, before he sits down," said I.
               "I claim the right to express my sentiments here, said Mr. Hinkins, in a slightly
                  indignant tone, "and I shall brook no interruption, if I am a Softmore."
               "You couldn't be more soft, my young friend," I observed, where-upon
                  there was cries of "Order! order!"
               "I regret I can't mingle in this strife personally," said the young man.
               "You might inlist as a liberty-pole," said I in a silvery whisper.
               "But," he added, "I have a voice, and that voice is for war." The young man then
                  closed his speech with some strikin and original remarks in relation to the
                  star-spangled banner. He was followed by the village minister, a very worthy man
                  indeed, but whose sermons have a tendency to make people sleep pretty
                  industriously.
               "I am willin to inlist for one," he said.
               "What's your weight, parson?" I asked.
               "A hundred and sixty pounds," he said.
               "Well, you can inlist as a hundred and sixty pounds of morphine, your dooty bein
                  to stand in the hospitals arter a battle, and preach while the surgical operations
                  is bein performed! Think how much you'd save the Gov'ment in morphine."
               He didn't seem to see it; but he made a good speech, and the editor of the
                     Bugle rose to read the resolutions, commencin as follers:
               
                  Resolved, That we view with anxiety the fact that there is now a war
                  goin on, and
               
                  Resolved, That we believe Stonewall JACKSON sympathizes with the
                  secession movement, and that we hope the nine-months men —
               At this point he was interrupted by the sounds of silvery footsteps on the stairs,
                  and a party of wimin, carryin guns and led by BETSY JANE, who brandish'd a loud
                  and rattlin umbereller, burst into the room.
               "Here," cried I, "are some nine-months wimin!"
               "Mrs. WARD," said the editor of the Bugle—"Mrs. WARD, and ladies,
                  what means this extrord'n'ry demonstration?"
               "It means," said that remarkable female, "that you men air makin fools of
                  yourselves. You air willin to talk and urge others to go to the wars, but you
                  don't go to the wars yourselves. War meetins is very nice in their way, but they
                  don't keep Stonewall JACKSON from comin over to Maryland and helpin himself to the
                  fattest beef critters. What we want is more cider and less talk. We want you
                  able-bodied men to stop speechifying, which don't mount to the wiggle of a sick
                  cat's tail, and go to fitin; otherwise you can stay to home and take keer of the
                  children, while we wimin will go to the wars!"
               "Gentl'men," said I, "that's my wife! Go in, old Gal!" and I throw'd up my ancient
                  white hat in perfeck rapters.
               "Is this roll-book to be filled up with the names of men or wimin?" she cried.
               "With men—with men!" Our quoty was made up that very night.
               Still believin that the Goddess of Liberty is about as well sot up with as any
                  young lady in distress could expect to be, I am
               
                  Yours more'n anybody else's,
                  A. WARD.
               
            
            
               
               POPULARITY.
               What a queer thing is popularity. Bill Pug Nose of the "Plug-Uglies" acquires a
                  world-wide reputation by smashing up the "champion of light weights," sets up a
                  saloon upon it, and realizes the first month; while our Missionary, who collected
                  two hundred blankets last August, and at that time saved a like number of little
                  negroes in the West Indies from freezing, has received nothing but the yellow
                  fever. Fiddlers, Prima-Donnas, Horse Operas, learned pigs, and five-legged calves
                  travel through the country, reaping "golden opinions," while editors, inventors,
                  professors, and humanitarians generally, are starving in garrets. Revivals of
                  religion, summer resorts, and pleasure trips, are popular, while trade, commerce,
                  and chloride of lime are decidedly NON EST. Popularity is a queer thing, very. If
                  you don't believe us, try it.
            
            
               WOMAN'S RIGHTS.
               I picht my tent in a small town in Injianny one day last seeson, & while I was
                  standin at the dore takin money a deppytashun of ladies came up and sed they wos
                  members of the Bunkumville Female Moral Reformin & Wimmin's Rite's
                  Associashun, and thay axed me if they cood go in without payin.
               "Not exactly," sez I, "but you can pay without goin in."
               
                  
                     The Otoe Indian buries his tomahawk, and settles down to farming.
                  
               
               "Dew you know who we air?" said one of the wimin—a tall and feroshus lookin
                  critter, with a blew kotton umbreller under her arm—"do you know who we air
                  Sir?"
               "My impreshun is," sed I, "from a kersery view, that you are females."
               "We air, Sur," said the feroshus woman—"we belong to a Society whitch beleeves
                  wimin has rites—which beleeves in razin her to her proper speer—whitch beleeves
                  she is endowed with as much intelleck as man is—whitch beleeves she is trampled on
                  and aboozed—& who will resist henso4th & forever the incroachments of
                  proud & domineering men."
               Durin her discourse, the exsentric female grabed me by the coat-kollor & was
                  swinging her umbreller wildly over my hed.
               "I hope, marm," sez I, starting back, "that your intensions is honorable? I'm a
                  lone man hear in a strange place. Besides, I've a wife to hum."
               "Yes," cried the female, "& she's a slave! Doth she never dream of
                  freedom—doth she never think of throwin of the yoke of tyrrinny & thinkin
                  & votin for herself?—Doth she never think of these here things?"
               "Not bein a natral born fool," sed I, by this time a little riled, "I kin safely
                  say that she dothunt."
               "O whot—whot!" screamed the female, swingin her umbreller in the air. O, what is
                  the price that woman pays for her expeeriunce!"
               "I don't know," sez I; "the price to my show is 15 cents pur individooal."
               "& can't our Sosiety go in free?" asked the female.
               "Not if I know it." sed I.
               "Crooil, crooil man!" she cried, & bust into teers.
               "Won't you let my darter in?" sed anuther of the exsentric wimin, taken me a
                  feckshunitely by the hand. "O, please let my darter in — shee's a sweet gushin
                  child of natur."
               "Let her gush!" roared I, as mad as I cood stick at their tarnal nonsense; "let
                  her gush!" Where upon they all sprung back with the simultanious observashun that
                  I was a Beest.
               "My female friends," sed I, "be4 you leeve, Ive a few remarks to remark; wa them
                  well. The female woman is one of the greatest institooshuns of which this land can
                  hoste. It's onpossible to get along without her. Had there bin no female wimin in
                  the world, I should scarcely he here with my unpareleld show on this very
                  occashun. She is good in sickness—good in wellness—good all the time, O, woman,
                  woman!" I cried, my feelins worked up to a hi poctick pitch, "you air a angle when
                  you behave yourself; but when you take off your proper appariel &
                  (mettyforically speaken)—get into panty-loons—when you desert your firesides,
                  & with your heds full of wimin's rites noshuns go round like roarin lyons,
                  seekin whom you may devour someboddy—in short when you undertake to play the man,
                  you play the devil and air an emfatic noosance. My female friends," I continnered,
                  as they were indignantly departing "wa well what A. Ward has sed!"
            
            
               SCANDALOUS DOINGS AT PITTSBURG.
               Here in the Buzzum of my famerly I am enjoyin myself, at peas with awl mankind and
                  the wimmin folks likewize. I go down to the village ockashunly and take a little
                  old Rye fur the stummuck's sake but I avoyd spiritus lickers as a ginral thing. No
                  man evir seen me intossikated but once, and that air happind in Pittsburg. A
                  parsel of ornery cusses in that luvly sity bustid inter the hawl durin the nite
                  and aboosed my wax works shaimful. I didnt obsarve the outrajus transacshuns ontil
                  the next evening when the peple begun for to kongregate. Suddinly they kommensed
                  fur to larf and holler in a boysterious stile. Sez I good peple what's up? Sez
                  thay them's grate wax wurks, isn't they, old man. I immejitly looked up ter whare
                  the wax works was and my blud biles as I think of the site which then met my Gase.
                  I hope to be dodrabbertid if them afoursed raskals hadent gone and put a old kaved
                  in hat onter George Washington's hed and shuved a short black klay pipe inter his
                  mouth. His noze thay had painted red and his trowris legs thay had shuvd inside
                  his butes. My wax figger of Napoleon Boneypart was likewise mawltreatid. His sword
                  wus danglin tween his legs, his cockd hat was drawn klean down over his ize, and
                  he was plased in a stoopin posishun lookin zactly as tho he was as drunk as a
                  biled owl. Ginral Tayler was a standin on his bed and Wingfield Skotts koat tales
                  ware pind over his hed and his trowsis ware kompleetely torn orf from hisself. My
                  wax works representin the Lord's Last Supper was likewise aboozed. Three of the
                  Postles ware under the table and two of um had on old tarpawlin hats and raggid
                  pee jackits and ware smokin pipes. Judas Iskarriot had on a cocked hat and was
                  apeerently drinkin, as a Bottle of whisky sot befour him. This ere specktercal was
                  too much fur me. I klosed the show and then drowndid my sorrers in the flowin
                  Bole.
            
            
               THE CENSUS.
               The Sences taker in our town bein taken sick he deppertised me to go out for him
                  one day, and as he was too ill to giv me informashun how to perceed, I was
                  consekently compelled to go it blind. Sittin down by the road side I drawd up the
                  follerin list of questions which I proposed to ax the peple I visited: 
                     Wat's your age?
                     Whar was you born?
                     Air you marrid, and if so how do you like it?
                     How many children hav you, and do they sufficiently resemble you as to
                        proclood the possibility of their belongin to any of your nabers?
                     Did you ever hav the measels, and if so how many?
                     Hav you a twin brother several years older than yourself?
                     How many parents hav you?
                     Do you read Watt's Hims regler?
                     Do you use boughten tobacker?
                     Wat's your fitin wate?
                     Are you trubeld with biles?
                     How does your meresham culler?
                     State whether you air blind, deaf, idiotic or got the heaves?
                  
               
               Do you know any Opry singers, and if so how much do they owe you?
               What's the average of virtoo on the Ery Canawl?
               If 4 barrils of Emptins pored onto a barn floor will kiver it how many plase can
                  Dion Bourcicault write in a year?
               Is beans a regler article of diet in your family?
               How many chickins hav you, on foot and in the shell?
               Air you aware that Injianny whisky is used in New York shootin galrys instid of
                  pistils, and that it shoots furthest?
               Was you ever at Niagry Falls?
               Was you ever in the Penitentiary?
               State how much pork, impendin crysis, Dutch cheeze, popler suvrinty, standard
                  poctry, childrens' strainer's, slave code, catnip, red flannel, ancient histry,
                  pickled tomaters, ole junk, perfoomery, coal ile, liberty, hoop skirt, &c.,
                  you hav on hand?
               But it didnt work.
               I got into a row at the fust house I stopt to, with some old maids. Disbeleven the
                  ansers they giv in regard to their ages I endevered to open their mouths and look
                  at their teeth, same as they do with hosses, but they floo into a vilent rage and
                  tackled me with brooms and sich. Takin the senses requires experiunse, like any
                  other bizniss.
            
            
               WAX FIGURES VS. SHAKSPEARE.
               
                  ONTO THE WING—1859.
                  MR. EDITOR:
               
               
                  
                     "Home Guard Drill."
                  
               
               I take my Pen in hand to inform yu that I'm in good helth and trust these few
                  lines will find yu injoyin the same blessins. I wood also state that I'm now on
                  the summir kampane. As the poet sez — 
                     
                        ime erflote, ime erflote
                        On the Swift rollin tied
                        An the Rovir is free.
                     
                  
               
               Bizness is scacely middlin, but Sirs I manige to pay for my foode and raiment
                  puncktooally and without no grumblin. The barked arrers of slandur has bin leviled
                  at the undersined moren onct sins heze bin into the show bizness, but I make bold
                  to say no man on this footstule kan troothfully say I ever ronged him or eny of
                  his folks. I'm travelin with a tent, which is better nor hirin hauls. My show
                  konsists of a serious of wax works, snakes, a panoramy kalled a Grand Movin Diarea
                  of the War in the Crymear, komic songs and the Cangaroo, which larst little cuss
                  continers to konduct hisself in the most outrajus stile. I started out with the
                  idear of makin my show a grate Moral Entertainment, but I'm kompelled to sware so
                  much at that air infernal Kangeroo that I'm frade this desire will be flustratid
                  to some extent. And while speakin of morrality remines me that sum folks turn up
                  their nosis at shows like mine, sayin they is low and not fit to be patrernized by
                  peple of high degree. Sirs, I manetane that this is infernal nonsense. I manetane
                  that wax figgers is more elevatin than awl the plays ever wroten. Take Shakespeer
                  for instunse. Peple think heze grate things, but I kontend heze quite the reverse
                  to the konrtary. What sort of sense is thare to King Leer who goze round cussin
                  his darters, chawin hay and throwin straw at folks, and larfin like a silly old
                  koot and makin a ass of hisself ginerally? Thare's Mrs. Macbeth—sheze a nise kind
                  of woomon to have around, aint she, a puttin old Mack, her husband, up to slayin
                  Dunkan with a cheeze knife, while heze payin a frendly visit to their house. O its
                  hily morral, I spoze, when she larfs wildly and sex, "gin me the daggurs—He let
                  his bowels out," or wurds to that effeck—I say, this is awl strictly propper I
                  spoze? That Jack Fawlstarf is likewise a immoral old cuss, take him how ye may,
                  and Hamlick is as crazy as a loon. Thare's Richurd the Three peple think heze
                  grate things, but I look upon him in the lite of a monkster. He kills everybody he
                  taks a noshun to in kold blud, and then goze to sleep in his tent. Bimeby he wakes
                  up and yells for a hoss so he kan go orf and kill sum more peple. If he isn't a
                  fit spesserman for the gallers then I shood like to know whare you find um.
                  Thare's largo who is more ornery nor pizun. See how shamful he treated that hily
                  respecterble injun gentlemun, Mister Otheller, makin him for to beleeve his wife
                  was two thick with Casheo. Obsarve how largo got Casheo drunk as a biled owl on
                  corn whiskey in order to karry out his sneekin desines. See how he wurks Mister
                  Othellers feelins up so that he goze and makes poor Desdemony swaller a piller
                  which cawses her deth. But I must stop.
               
                  Very Respectively, Yures,
                  A. WARD, T. K.
               
            
            
               TOUCHING LETTER FROM A GORY MEMBER OF THE HOME GUARD.
               
                  —BROADWAY, Dec. 10, '61.
                  
                  Dear Father and Mother:
               
               We are getting along very well. We mess at Delmonico's Do not repine for your son.
                  Some must suffer for the glorious Stars and Stripes, and dear parents, why
                  shouldn't I? Tell Mrs. Skuller that we do not need the blankets she so kindly sent
                  to us, as we bunk at the St. Nicholas and Metropolitan. What our brave lads stand
                  most in need of now, is Fruit cake and Waffles. Do not weep for me.
               
                  HENRY ADOLPHUS.
               
            
            
               
               ARTEMUS WARD TO THE PRINCE OF WALES.
               FRIEND WALES,—You remember me. I saw you in Canady a few years ago. I remember you
                  too. I seldim forgit a person.
               I hearn of your marrige to the Printcis Alexandry, & ment ter writ you a
                  congratoolatory letter at the time, but I've bin bildin a barn this summer, &
                  haint had no time to write letters to folks. Excoos me.
               Numeris changes has tooken place since we met in the body politic. The body
                  politic, in fack, is sick. I sumtimes think it has got biles, friend Wales.
               In my country we've got a war, while your country, in conjunktion with Cap'n Sems
                  of the Alobarmy, manetanes a nootral position!
               I'm fraid I can't write goaks when I sit about it. Oh no, I guess not!
               Yes, Sir, we've got a war, and the troo Patrit has to make sacrifisses, you
                  bet.
               
                  
                     The miserable man once played Hamlet, and expired to slow music (produced
                        by himself, as there was no orchestra).
                  
               
               I have already given two cousins to the war, & I stand reddy to sacrifiss my
                  wife's brother ruther'n not see the rebelyin krusht. And if wuss cums to wuss I'll
                  shed ev'ry drop of blood my able-bodid relations has got to prosekoot the war. I
                  think sumbody oughter be prosekooted, & it may as well be the war as anybody
                  else. When I git a goakin fit onto me it's no use to try ter stop me.
               You hearn about the draft, friend Wales, no doubt. It caused sum squirmin', but it
                  was fairly conducted, I think, for it hit all classes. It is troo that Wendill
                  Phillips, who is an American citizen of African scent, 'scaped, but so did
                  Vallandiggum, who is Conservativ, and who wus resuntly sent South, tho' he would
                  have bin sent to the Dry Tortoogas if Abe had sposed for a minit that the
                  Tortoogusses would keep him.
               We haint got any daily paper in our town, but we've got a female sewin' circle,
                  which ansers the same purpuss, and we wasn't long in suspents as to who was
                  drafted.
               One young man who was drawd claimed to be exemp because he was the only son of a
                  widow'd mother who supported him. A few able-bodid dead men was drafted, but
                  whether their heirs will have to pay 3 hundrid dollars a peace for 'em is a
                  question for Whitin', who 'pears to be tinkerin' up this draft bizzniss right
                  smart. I hope he makes good wages.
               I think most of the conscrips in this place will go. A few will go to Canady,
                  stoppin on their way at Concord N.H., where I understan there is a Muslum of
                  Harts.
               You see I'm sassy, friend Wales, hittin all sides; but no offense is ment. You
                  know I aint a politician, and never was. I vote for Mr. Union—that's the only
                  candidate I've got. I claim, howsever, to have a well-balanced mind; tho' my idees
                  of a well-balanced mind differs from the idees of a partner I once had, whose name
                  it was Billson. Billson and me orjanized a strollin' dramatic company, & we
                  played. The Drunkard, or the Falling Saved, with a real drunkard. The play didn't
                  take particularly, and says Billson to me, Let's giv 'em some immoral dramy. We
                  had a large troop onto our hands, consistin' of eight tragedians and a bass drum,
                  but I says, No, Billson; and then says I, Billson, you haint got a well-balanced
                  mind. Says he, Yes, I have, old hoss-fly (he was a low cuss)—yes, I have. I have a
                  mind, says he, that balances in any direction that the public rekires. That's wot
                  I calls a well-balanced mind. I sold out and bid adoo to Billson. He is now an
                  outcast in the State of Vermont. The miser'ble man once played Hamlet. There
                  wasn't any orchestry, and wishin to expire to slow moosic, he died playin on a
                  claironett himself, interspersed with hart-rendin groans, & such is the world!
                  Alars! alars! how onthankful we air to that Providence which kindly allows us to
                  live and borrow money, and fail and do bizniss!
               But to return to our subjeck. With our resunt grate triumps on the Mississippi,
                  the Father of Waters (and them is waters no Father need feel 'shamed of—twig the
                  wittikism?), and the cheerin look of things in other places, I reckon we shan't
                  want any Muslum of Harts. And what upon airth do the people of Concord N. H., want
                  a Muslum of Harts for? Haint you got the State House now? & what more do you
                  want?
               But all this is furrin to the purpuss of this note, arter all. My objeck in now
                  addressin' you is to giv you sum adwice, friend Wales, about managin your wife, a
                  bizniss I've-had over thirty years' experience in.
               You had a good weddin. The papers hav a good deal to say about "vikings" in
                  connexion tharewith. Not knowing what that air is, and so I frankly tells you, my
                  noble lord dook of the throne, I can't zackly say whether we had 'em or not. We
                  was both very much flustrated. But I never injoyed myself better in my life.
               Dowtless, your supper was ahead of our'n. As regards eatin' uses Baldinsville was
                  allers shaky. But you can git a good meal in New York, & cheap too. You can
                  git half a mackril at Deimonico's or Mr. Mason Dory's for six dollars, and biled
                  pertaters throwed in.
               As I sed, I manige my wife without any particler trouble. When I fust commenst
                  trainin' her I institooted a series of experiments, and them as didn't work I
                  abanding'd. You'd better do similer. Your wife may objeck to gittin' up and
                  bildin' the fire in the mornin' but if you commence with her at once you may be
                  able to overkum this prejoodiss. I regret to obsarve that I didn't commence arly
                  enuff. I wouldn't have you s'pose I was ever kicked out of bed. Not at all. I
                  simply say, in regard to bildin' fires that I didn't commence arly enuff. It was a
                  ruther cold mornin' when I fust proposed the idee to Betsy. It wasn't well
                  received, and I found myself layin' on the floor putty suddent. I thought I git up
                  and bild the fire myself.
               Of course now you're marrid you can eat onions. I allus did, and if I
                  know my own hart, I allus will. My daughter, who is goin' on 17 and is frisky,
                  says they's disgustin. And speakin of my daughter reminds me that quite a number
                  of young men have suddenly discovered that I'm a very entertainin' old feller, and
                  they visit us frekently, specially on Sunday evenins. One young chap—a lawyer by
                  habit—don't cum as much as he did. My wife's father lives with us. His intelleck
                  totters a little, and he saves the papers containin' the proceedins of our State
                  Legislater. The old gentl'man likes to read out loud, and he
                  reads tol'ble well. He eats hash freely, which makes his voice clear; but as he
                  onfortnitly has to spell the most of his words, I may say he reads slow. Wall,
                  whenever this lawyer made his appearance I would set the old man a-readin the
                  Legislativ' reports. I kept the young lawyer up one night till 12 o'clock,
                  listenin to a lot of acts in regard to a draw-bridge away off in the east part of
                  the State, havin' sent my daughter to bed at half past 8. He hasn't been there
                  since, and I understan' he says I go round swindlin' the Public.
               
                  I never attempted to reorganize my wife but once. I shall never
                  attempt again. I'd bin to a public dinner, and had allowed myself to be betrayed
                  into drinking several people's healths; and wishin' to make 'em as robust as
                  possible, I continuerd drinkin' their healths until my own became affected.
                  Consekens was, I presented myself at Betsy's bedside late at night with consid'ble
                  licker concealed about my person. I had sumhow got perseshun of a hosswhip on my
                  way home, and rememberin' sum cranky observations of Mrs. Ward's in the mornin' I
                  snapt the whip putty lively, and, in a very loud woice, I said, "Betsy, you need
                  reorganizin'! I have cum, Betsy," I continued—crackin' the whip over the bed—"I
                  have cum to reorganize you! Ha-ave you per-ayed to-night?"
               I dream'd that night that sumbody had laid a hosswhip over me sev'ril conseckootiv
                  times; and when I woke up I found she had. I haint drank much of anythin' since,
                  and if I ever have another reorganizin' job on hand I shall let it out.
               My wife is 52 years old, and has allus sustaned a good character. She's a good
                  cook. Her mother lived to a vener'ble age, and died while in the act of frying
                  slap-jacks for the County Commissionerr. And may no rood hand pluk a flour from
                  her toomstun! We haint got any picter of the old lady, because she'd never stand
                  for her ambrotipe, and therefore I can't giv her likeness to the world through the
                  meejum of the illusterated papers; but as she wasn't a brigadiergin'ral,
                  particerly, I don't s'pose they'd publish it, anyhow.
               There's varis ways of managin' a wife, friend Wales, but the best and only safe
                  way is to let her do jist about as she wants to. I 'dopted that there plan sum
                  time ago, and it works like a charm.
               It may interest you to know that I'm prosperin' in a pecoonery pint of view. I
                  make bout as much in the course of a year as a Cab'net offisser does, & I
                  understan' my bizniss a good deal better than sum of 'em do. Respecks to St. Gorge
                  & the Dragon.
               
                  "Ever be happy."
                  A. WARD.
               
            
            
               "I AM HERE!"
               
                  
                     The Boston man gets into a state of excitement with the
                        mule-driver.
                  
               
               There is no mistake about that, and there is a good prospect of my staying here
                  for some time to come. The snow is deep on the ground, and more is falling.
               The doctor looks glum, and speaks of his ill-starred countryman, Sir J. Franklin,
                  who went to the Arctic once too much.
               "A good thing happened down here the other day," said a miner from New Hampshire
                  to me. "A man of Boston dressin' went through there, and at one of the stations
                  there wasn't any mules. Says the man who was fixed out to kill in his Boston
                  dressin', 'Where's them mules?' Says the driver, 'Them mules is into the
                  sage-brush. You go catch 'em — that's wot you do.' Says the man of
                  Boston dressin', 'Oh no!' Says the Driver, 'Oh yes!' and he took his long coach
                  whip and licked the man of Boston dressin' till he went and caught them mules. How
                  does that strike you as a joke?"
               It didn't strike me as much of a joke to pay a hundred and seventy-five dollars in
                  gold fare, and then be horse-whipped by stage-drivers, for declining to chase
                  mules. But people's ideas differ in regard to shrewdness—which "reminds me of a
                  little story." Sitting in a New England country store one day I overheard the
                  following dialogue between two brothers:
               "Say, Bill, wot you done with that air sorrel mare of yourn?"
               "Sold her," said William, with a smile of satisfaction.
               "Wot 'd you git?"
               "Hund'd an' fifty dollars, cash deown!"
               "Show! Hund'd an' fifty for that kickin', spavin'd critter?—Who'd you sell her
                  to?"
               "Sold her to mother!"
               "Wot!", exclaimed brother No, 1, "did you railly sell that kickin' spavin'd
                  critter to mother? Wall, you air a shrewd one!"
               A Sensation Arrival by the overland Stage of two Missouri girls. They are going to
                  Nevada territory to join their father.
               "This is the first Squar' meal we've had since we left Rocky Thompson's," said the
                  eldest. Then addressing herself to me, she said:
               "Air you the literary man?"
               I politely replied that I was one of "them fellers."
               "Wall, don't make fun of our clothes in the papers. We air going right straight
                  through in these here clothes, we air! We ain't goin' to rag
                     out till we get to Nevady! Pass them sassiges!"
            
            
               We have read a great many stories of which Winchell, the great wit and mimic, was
                  the hero, showing always how neatly and entirely he sold somebody. Any one who is
                  familiar with Winchell's wonderful powers of mimicry cannot doubt that these
                  stories are all substantially true. But there is one instance which we will
                  relate, or perish in the attempt, where the jolly Winchell was himself sold. The
                  other evening, while he was conversing with several gentlemen at one of the
                  hotels, a dilapidated individual reeled into the room and halted in front of the
                  stove, where he made wild and unsuccessful efforts to maintain a firm position. He
                  evidently had spent the evening in marching torchlight processions of forty-rod
                  whiskey down his throat, and at this particular time was decidedly and
                  disreputably drunk. With a sly wink to the crowd, as much as to say, "We'll have
                  some fun with this individual," Winchell assumed a solemn face, and in a ghostly
                  voice said to one of the company:
               "The poor fellow we were speaking of is dead!"
               "No?" said the individual addressed.
               "Yes," said Winchell. "You know both of his eyes were gouged out, his nose was
                  chawed off, and both of his arms were torn out at the roots. Of course he couldn't
                  recover."
               This was all said for the benefit of the drunken man, who was standing, or trying
                  to stand, within a few feet of Winchell, but he took no sort of notice of it and
                  was apparently ignorant of the celebrated delineator's presence. Again Winchell
                  endeavored to attract his attention, but utterly failed as before. In a few
                  moments the drunken man staggered out of the room.
               "I can generally have a little fun with a drunken man," said Winchell, "but it is
                  no go in this case.
               "I suppose you know what ails the man who just went out?" said the "gentlemanly
                  host."
               "I perceive he is alarmingly inebriated," said Winchell; "does anything else all
                  him?"
               "Yes," said the host,—"HE'S DEAF AND DUMB!"
               This was true. There was a "larf," and Winchell subsided.
            
            
               
               THINGS IN NEW YORK.
               The stoodent and connyseer must have noticed and admired in varis parts of the
                  United States of America, large yeller hanbills, which not only air gems of art in
                  theirselves, but they troothfully sit forth the attractions of my show—a show let
                  me here obsarve that contains many livin', wild animils, every one of which has
                  got a Beautiful Moral.
               Them hanbils is sculpt in New York.
               & I annooly repair here to git some more on 'um;
               & bein' here, I tho't I'd issoo a Address to the public on matters and
                  things.
               Since last I meyandered these streets, I have been all over the Pacific Slopes and
                  Utah. I cum back now, with my virtoo unimpared, but I've got to git some new
                  clothes.
               
                  
                     An objeck who says he wont go to the war.
                  
               
               Many changes has taken place, even durin' my short absence, & sum on um is
                  Sollum to contempulate. The house in Varick street, where I used to Board, is
                  bein' torn down. That house, which was rendered memoriable by my livin' into it,
                  is "parsin' away! parsin' away!" But some of the timbers will be made into canes,
                  which will be sold to my admirers at the low price of one dollar each. Thus is
                  changes goin' on continerly. In the New World it is wat—in the Old World Empires
                  is totterin' & Dysentaries is crumblin'. These canes is cheap at a dollar.
               Sammy Booth, Duane street, sculps my hanbils, & he's a artist. He studid in
                  Rome—State of New York.
               I'm here to read the proof-sheets of my hanbils as fast as they're sculpt. You
                  have to watch these ere printers pretty close, for they're just as apt to spel a
                  wurd rong as anyhow.
               But I have time to look round sum & how do I find things? I return to the
                  Atlantic States after a absence of ten months, & what State do I find the
                  country in? Why I don't know what State I find it in. Suffice it to say, that I do
                  not find it in the State of New Jersey.
               I find some things that is cheerin', partic'ly the resolve on the part of the
                  wimin of America to stop wearin' furrin' goods.
               I never meddle with my wife's things. She may wear muslin from Greenland's icy
                  mountins, and bombazeen from Injy's coral strands, if she wants to; but I'm glad
                  to state that that superior woman has peeled off all her furrin clothes and jumpt
                  into fabrics of domestic manufactur.
               But, says sum folks, if you stop importin' things you stop the revenoo. That's all
                  right. We can stand it if the Revenoo can. On the same principle young men should
                  continer to get drunk on French brandy and to smoke their livers as dry as a
                  corn-cob with Cuby cigars because 4-sooth if they don't, it will hurt the Revenoo!
                  This talk 'bout the Revenoo is of the bosh, boshy. One thing is tol'bly certin—if
                  we don't send gold out of the dountry we shall have the consolation of knowing
                  that it is in the country. So I say great credit is doo the wimin for this
                  patriotic move—and to tell the trooth, the wimin generally know what they're
                  'bout. Of all the blossins they're the soothinist. If there'd never bin any wimin,
                  where would my children be to-day?
               But I hope this move will lead to other moves that air just as much needed, one of
                  which is a general and therrer curtainment of expenses all round. The fact is we
                  air gettin' ter'bly extravagant, & onless we paws in our mad career in less
                  than two years the Goddess of Liberty will be seen dodgin' into a Pawn Broker's
                  shop with the other gown done up in a bundle, even if she don't have to Spout the
                  gold stars in her head-band. Let us all take hold jintly, and live and dress
                  centsibly, like our forefathers, who know'd moren we do, if they warnt quite so
                  honest! (Suttle goaketh.)
               At a special Congressional 'lection in my district the other day I delib'ritly
                  voted for Henry Clay. I admit that Henry is dead, but inasmuch as we don't seem to
                  have a live statesman in our National Congress, let us by all means have a
                  first-class corpse.
               Them who think that a cane made from the timbers of the house I once boarded in is
                  essenshal to their happiness, should not delay about sendin' the money right on
                  for one. And now, with a genuine hurrar for the wimin who air goin' to abandin
                  furren goods, and another for the patrotic everywheres, I'll leave public matters
                  and indulge in a little pleasant family-gosip.
               It was II, P. M., when I reached my homestid and knockt a healthy knock on the
                  door thereof.
               A nightcap thrusted itself out of the front chamber winder. (It was my Betsy's
                  nightcap.) And a voice said:
               "Who is it?"
               "It is a man!" I answered in a gruff vois.
               "I don't b'lieve it!" she sed.
               "Then come down and search me," I replied.
               Then resumin' my nat'ral voice, I said, "It is your own A. W., Betsy! Sweet lady,
                  wake! Ever of thou!"
               "Oh," she said, "it's you, is it? I thought I smelt something."
               But the old girl was glad to see me.
               In the mornin' I found that my family were entertainin' a artist from Philadelphy,
                  who was there paintin' some startlin' water-falls and mountins, and I morin
                  suspected he had a hankerin' for my oldest dauter.
               "Mr. Skimmerhorn, father," sed my dauter.
               "Glad to see you, Sir!" I replied, in a hospittle vois. "Glad to see you."
               "He is an artist, father," sed my child.
               "A whichist?"
               "An artist. A painter."
               "And glazier?" I askt. "Air you a painter and glazier, sir?"
               My dauter and wife was mad, but I couldn't help it, I felt in a comikil mood.
               "It is a wonder to me, Sir," said the artist, "considerin' what a wide-spread
                  reputation you heve, that some of our Eastern managers don't secure you."
               "It's a wonder to me," said I to my wife, "that somebody don't secure him with a
                  chain."
               My reported capture by the North American savijis of Utah, led my wide circle of
                  friends and creditors to think that I had bid adoo to earthly things and was a
                  angel playin' on a golden harp. Hents my rival home was onexpected.
               A few days after my return I was shown a young man, who says he'll be Dam if he
                  goes to the war. He was sittin' on a barrel, & was indeed a Loathsum
                  objeck.
               Last Sunday I heard Parson Batkins preach, and the good old man preached well,
                  too, tho his prayer was ruther lengthy. The Editor of the Bugle,
                  who was with me, said that prayer would make fifteen squares, solid nonparil."
               
                  A. WARD.
               
            
            
               AGRICULTURE.
               
                  The Barclay County Agricultural Society having seriously invited the author of
                     this volume to address them on the occasion of their next annual Fair, he wrote
                     the President of that Society as follows:
               
               
                  NEW YORK, June 12, 1865.
                  DEAR SIR: —
               
               I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 5th inst., in
                  which you invite me to deliver an address before your excellent agricultural
                  society.
               I feel flattered, and think I will come.
               I have been an honest old farmer for some four years.
               My farm is in the interior of Maine. Unfortunately my lands are eleven miles from
                  the railroad. Eleven miles is quite a distance to haul immense quantities of
                  wheat, corn, rye, and oats; but as I hav'n't any to haul, I do not, after all,
                  suffer much on that account.
               My farm is more especially a grass farm.
               
                  
                     Artemus finds it pleasant strolling about his farm with his dressing-gown
                        and cigar.
                  
               
               My neighbors told me so at first, and as an evidence that they were sincere in
                  that opinion, they turned their cows on to it the moment I went off
                  "lecturing."
               These cows are now quite fat. I take pride in these cows, in fact, and am glad I
                  own a grass farm.
               Two years ago I tried sheep-raising.
               I bought fifty lambs, and turned them loose on my broad and beautiful acres.
               It was pleasant on bright mornings to stroll leisurely out on to the farm in my
                  dressing-gown, with a cigar in my mouth, and watch those innocent little lambs as
                  they danced gaily o'er the hill-side. Watching their saucy capers reminded me of
                  caper sauce, and it occurred to me I should have some very fine eating when they
                  grew up to be "muttons."
               I wrote to my old friend, Mr. Dexter H. Follett, of Boston, for two shepherd dogs
                  Mr. F. is not an honest old farmer himself, but I thought he knew about shepherd
                  dogs. He kindly forsook far more important business to accommodate, and the dogs
                  came forthwith. They were splendid creatures—snuff-colored, hazel-eyed,
                  long-tailed, and shapely-jawed.
               We led them proudly to the fields.
               "Turn them in, Mr. Perkins," I said.
               Eli turned them in.
               They went in at once, and killed twenty of my best lambs in about four minutes and
                  a half.
               My friend had made a trifling mistake in the breed of these dogs.
               These dogs were not partial to sheep.
               Eli Perkins was astonished, and observed:
               "Waal! did you ever?" I certainly never had.
               There were pools of blood on the greensward, and fragments of wool and raw lamb
                  chops lay round in confused heaps.
               The dogs would have been sent to Boston that night, had they not rather suddenly
                  died that afternoon of a throat-distemper. It wasn't a swelling of the throat. It
                  wasn't diphtheria. It was a violent opening of the throat, extending from ear to
                  ear.
               Thus closed their life-stories. Thus ended their interesting tails.
               I failed as a raiser of lambs. As a sheepist, I was not a success.
               Last summer Mr. Perkins said, "I think we'd better cut some grass this season,
                  sir."
               We cut some grass.
               We hired four honest farmers to assist us, and I led them gaily to the
                  meadows.
               I was going to mow myself.
               I saw the sturdy peasants go round once ere I dipped my flashing scythe into the
                  tall green grass.
               "Are you ready?" said E. Perkins.
               "I am here!"
               "Then follow us!"
               I followed them.
               Followed them rather too closely, evidently, for a white-haired old man, who
                  immediately followed Mr. Perkins, called upon us to halt. Then in a low firm voice
                  he said to his son, who was just ahead of me, "John, change places with me. I
                  hain't got long to live, anyhow. Yonder berriyn' ground will soon have these old
                  bones, and it's no matter whether I'm carried there with one leg off and ter'ble
                  gashes in the other or not! But you, John—you are young."
               The old man changed places with his son. A smile of calm resignation lit up his
                  wrinkled face, as he said, "Now, sir, I am ready!"
               "What mean you, old man?" I said.
               "I mean that if you continner to bran'ish that blade as you have been bran'ishin'
                  it, you'll slash h— out of some of us before we're a hour-older!"
               There was some reason mingled with this white-haired old peasant's profanity. It
                  was true that I had twice escaped mowing off his son's legs, and his father was
                  perhaps naturally alarmed.
               I went and sat down under a tree. "I never know'd a literary man in my life," I
                  overheard the old man say, "that know'd anything."
               Mr. Perkins was not as valuable to me this season as I had fancied he might be.
                  Every afternoon he disappeared from the field regularly, and remained about some
                  two hours. He said it was a headache. He inherited it from his mother. His mother
                  was often taken in that way, and suffered a great deal.
               At the end of the two hours Mr. Perkins would reappear with his head neatly done
                  up in a large wet rag, and say he "felt better."
               One afternoon it so happened that I soon followed the invalid to the house, and as
                  I neared the porch I heard a female voice energetically observe, "You stop!" It
                  was the voice of the hired girl, and she added, "I'll holler for Mr. Brown!"
               "Oh, no, Nancy," I heard the invalid E. Perkins soothingly say, "Mr. Brown knows I
                  love you. Mr. Brown approves of it!"
               This was pleasant for Mr. Brown!
               I peered cautiously through the kitchen-blinds, and, however unnatural it may
                  appear, the lips of Eli Perkins and my hired girl were very near together. She
                  said, "You shan't do so," and he do-soed. She also said she would get
                  right up and go away, and as an evidence that she was thoroughly in earnest about
                  it, she remained where she was.
               They are married, and Mr. Perkins is never troubled with headache.
               My friend Mr. D. T. T. Moore, of the Rural New Yorker, thinks if I
                  "keep on" I will get in the Poor House in about two years.
               If you think the honest farmers of Barclay Co. want me, I will come.
               
                  Truly Yours,
                  CHARLES F. BROWNE.
               
            
            
               
               A MORMON ROMANCE.—REGINALD GLOVERSON.
               
                  CHAPTER I.—THE MORMON'S DEPARTURE.
                  The morning on which Reginald Gloverson was to leave Great Salt Lake City with
                     a mule-train, dawned beautifully.
                  Reginald Gloverson was a young and thrifty Mormon, with an interesting family
                     of twenty young and handsome wives. His unions had never been blessed with
                     children. As often as once a year he used to go to Omaha, in Nebraska, with a
                     mule-train for goods; but although he had performed the rather perilous journey
                     many times with entire safety, his heart was strangely sad on this particular
                     morning, and filled with gloomy forebodings.
                  The time for his departure had arrived. The high-spirited mules were at the
                     door, impatiently champing their bits. The Mormon stood sadly among his weeping
                     wives.
                  
                     
                        "I knew when my Reginald staggered into the dooryard that he was on
                           the Die."
                     
                  
                  "Dearest ones," he said, "I am singularly sad at heart this morning; but do not
                     let this depress you. The journey is a perilous one, but — pshaw I have always
                     come back safely heretofore, and why should I fear? Besides, I know that every
                     night, as I lay down on the broad starlit prairie, your bright faces will come
                     to me in my dreams, and make my slumbers sweet and gentle. You, Emily, with
                     your mild blue eyes; and you, Henrietta, with your splendid black hair; and
                     you, Nelly, with your hair so brightly, beautifully golden; and you, Mollie,
                     with your cheeks so downy; and you, Betsey, with your wine-red lips, far more
                     delicious, though, than any wine I ever tasted—and you, Maria, with your
                     winsome voice; and you, Susan, with your—with your—that is to say, Susan, with
                     your—and the other thirteen of you, each so good and beautiful, will come to me
                     in sweet dreams, will you not, Dearestists?"
                  "Our own," they lovingly chimed, "we will!"
                  "And so farewell!" cried Reginald. "Come to my arms, my own!" he said, "that
                     is, as many of you as can do it conveniently at once, for I must away."
                  He folded several of them to his throbbing breast, and drove sadly away.
                  But he had not gone far when the trace of the off-hind mule became unhitched.
                     Dismounting, he essayed to adjust the trace; but ere he had fairly commenced
                     the task, the mule, a singularly refractory animal — snorted wildly, and kicked
                     Reginald frightfully in the stomach. He arose with difficulty, and tottered
                     feebly towards his mother's house, which was near by, falling dead in her yard,
                     with the remark, "Dear Mother, I've come home to die!"
                  "So I see," she said; "where's the mules!"
                  Alas I Reginald Gloverson could give no answer. In vain the heart-stricken
                     mother threw herself upon his inanimate form, crying, "Oh, my son—my son I only
                     tell me where the mules are, and then you may die if you want to."
                  In vain—in vain! Reginald had passed on.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.—FUNERAL TRAPPINGS.
                  The mules were never found.
                  Reginald's heart-broken mother took the body home to her unfortunate son's
                     widows. But before her arrival she indiscreetly sent a boy to Bust the news
                     gently to the afflicted wives, which he did by informing them, in a hoarse
                     whisper, that their "old man had gone in."
                  The wives felt very badly indeed.
                  "He was devoted to me," sobbed Emily.
                  "And to me," said Maria.
                  "Yes," said Emily, "he thought considerably of you, but not so much as he did
                     of me."
                  "I say he did!"
                  "And I say he didn't!"
                  "He did!"
                  "He didn't!"
                  "Don't look at me, with your squint eyes!"
                  "Don't shake your red head at me!"
                  "Sisters!" said the black-haired Henrietta, "cease this unseemly wrangling. I,
                     as his first wife, shall strew flowers on his grave."
                  "No you won't," said Susan. "I, as his last wife, shall strew
                     flowers on his grave. It's my business to strew!"
                  "You shan't, so there!" said Hearietta.
                  "You bet I will!" said Susan, with a tear-suffused cheek.
                  "Well, as for me," said the practical Betsy, "I ain't on the Strew, much, but I
                     shall ride at the head of the funeral procession!"
                  "Not if I've been introduced to myself, you won't," said the golden-haired
                     Nelly; "that's my position. You bet your bonnet strings it is."
                  "Children," said Reginald's mother, "you must do some crying, you know, on the
                     day of the funeral; and how many pocket-handkerchers will it take to go round?
                     Betsy, you and Nelly ought to make one do between you."
                  "I'll tear her eyes out if she perpetuates a sob on my handkercher!" said
                     Nelly.
                  "Dear daughters-in-law," said Reginald's mother, "how unseemly is this anger.
                     Mules is five hundred dollars a span, and every identical mule my poor boy had
                     has been gobbled up by the red man. I knew when my Reginald staggered into the
                     door-yard that he was on the Die, but if I'd only thunk to ask him about them
                     mules ere his gentle spirit took flight, it would have been four thousand
                     dollars in our pockets, and no mistake! Excuse those
                     real tears, but you've never felt a parent's feelins."
                  "It's an oversight," sobbed Maria. "Don't blame us!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.—DUST TO DUST.
                  The funeral passed off in a very pleasant manner, nothing occurring to mar the
                     harmony of the occasion. By a happy thought of Reginald's mother the wives
                     walked to the grave twenty abreast, which rendered that part of the ceremony
                     thoroughly impartial.
                  That night the twenty wives with heavy hearts, sought their twenty respective
                     couches. But no Reginald occupied those twenty respective couches—Reginald
                     would nevermore linger all night in blissful repose in those twenty respective
                     couches—Reginald's head would nevermore press the twenty respective pillows of
                     those twenty respective couches—never, nevermore!
                  In another house, not many leagues from the House of Mourning, a gray-haired
                     woman was weeping passionately. "He died," she cried, "he died without
                     sigerfyin, in any respect, where them mules went to!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.—MARRIED AGAIN.
                  Two years elapse between the third and fourth chapters.
                  A manly Mormon, one evening, as the sun was preparing to set among a select
                     apartment of gold and crimson clouds in the western horizon — although for that
                     matter the sun has a right to "set" where it wants to, and so, I may add, has a
                     hen—a manly Mormon, I say, tapped gently at the door of the mansion of the late
                     Reginald Gloverson.
                  The door was opened by Mrs. Susan Gloverson.
                  "Is this the house of the widow Gloverson?"—the Mormon asked.
                  "It is," said Susan.
                  "And how many is there of she?" inquired the Mormon.
                  "There is about twenty of her, including me," returned Susan.
                  "Can I see her?"
                  "You can."
                  "Madam," he softly said, addressing the twenty disconsolate widows, "I have
                     seen part of you before! And although I have already twenty-five wives, whom I
                     respect and tenderly care for, I can truly say that I never felt love's holy
                     thrill till I saw thee! Be mine—be mine!" he enthusiastically cried, "and we
                     will show the world a striking illustration of the beauty and truth of the
                     noble lines, only a good deal more so— 
                        
                           'Twenty-one souls with a single thought,
                           Twenty-one hearts that beat as one!'"
                        
                     
                  
                  They were united, they were!
               
            
            
               THE NOBLE RED MAN
               
                  
                     Lo! The poor Red man and a "pretty waiter girl."
                  
               
               The red man of the forest was form'ly a very respectful person. Justice to the
                  noble aboorygine warrants me in sayin' that orrigernerly he was a majestic
                  cuss.
               At the time CHRIS, arrove on these shores (I allood to CHRIS. COLUMBUS) the
                  savajis was virtoous and happy. They were innocent of secession, rum, draw-poker,
                  and sinfulness gin'rally. They didn't discuss the slavery question as a custom,
                  They had no Congress, faro banks, delirium tremens, or Associated Press. Their
                  habits was consequently good. Late suppers, dyspepsy, gas companies, thieves, ward
                  politicians, pretty waiter-girls, and and other metropolitan refinements, were
                  unknown among them. No savage in good standing would take postage-stamps. You
                  couldn't have bo't a coon skin with a barrel of 'em. The female Aboorygine never
                  died of consumption, because she didn't tie her waist up in whale-bone things; but
                  in loose and flow-in' garments she bounded, with naked feet, over hills and plains
                  like the wild and frisky antelope. It was a onlucky moment for us when CHRIS. sot
                  his foot onto these 'ere shores. It would have been better for us of the present
                  day if the injins had given him a warm meal and sent him home ore the ragin'
                  billers. For the savages owned the country, and COLUMBUS was a fillibuster.
                  CORTEZ, PIZARRO, and WALKER were one-horse fillibusters—COLUMBUS was a four-horse
                  team fillibuster, and a large yaller, dog under the waggin. I say, in view of the
                  mess we're makin' of things, it would have been better for us if COLUMBUS had
                  staid to home. It would have been better for the show bisniss. The circulation of
                  VANITY FAIR would be larger, and the proprietors would all have boozum pins! Yes,
                  sir, and perhaps a ten-pin alley.
               By which I don't wish to be understood as intimatin' that the scalpin' wretches
                  who are in the injin bisniss at the present day are of any account, or calculated
                  to make home happy, specially the Sioxes of Minnesoty, who desarve to be murdered
                  in the first degree, and if POPE will only stay in St. Paul and not go near 'em
                     himself, I reckon they will be.
               A MAN in Buffalo—an entire stranger to us—sends us a quarter-column puff of his
                  business, with the cool request that we "copy as editorial, and oblige." If he
                  does not eventually subside into a highway robber it won't be for lack of the
                  necessary impudence.
            
            
               BUSTS.
               There are in this city several Italian gentlemen engaged in the bust business.
                  They have peculiarities and eccentricities. They are swarthy-faced, wear slouched
                  caps and drab pea-jackets, and smoke bad cigars. They make busts of Webster, Clay,
                  Bonaparte, Douglas, and other great men, living and dead. The Italian buster comes
                  upon you solemnly and cautiously. "Buy Napo-leon?" he will say, and you may
                  probably answer "not a buy." "How much giv-ee?" he asks, and perhaps you will ask
                  him how much he wants. "Nine dollar," he will answer always. We are sure of it. We
                  have observed this peculiarity in the busters frequently. No matter how large or
                  small the bust may be, the first price is invariably "nine dollar." If you decline
                  paying this price, as you undoubtedly will if you are right in your head, he again
                  asks, "how much giv-ee?" By way of a joke you say "a dollar," when the buster
                  retreats indignantly to the door, saying in a low, wild voice, "O dam!" With his
                  hand upon the door-latch, he turns and once more asks, "how much giv-ee?" You
                  repeat the previous offer, when he mutters, "O ha!" then coming pleasantly towards
                  you, he speaks thus: "Say! how much giv-ee?" Again you say a dollar, and he cries,
                  "take 'um, take 'um!" — thus falling eight dollars on his original price.
               Very eccentric is the Italian buster, and sometimes he calls his busts by wrong
                  names. We bought Webster (he called him Web-STAR) of him the other day, and were
                  astonished when he called upon us the next day with another bust of Webster,
                  exactly like the one we had purchased of him, and asked us if we didn't want to
                  buy "Cole, the wife-pizener!" We endeavored to rebuke the depraved buster, but our
                  utterance was choked, and we could only gaze upon him in speechless astonishment
                  and indignation.
            
            
               
               THE ISTHMUS.
               On the ninth day we reach Aspinwall in the Republic of Grenada. The President of
                  New Grenada is a Central American named Mosquero. I was told that he derived quite
                  a portion of his income by carrying passengers' valises and things from the
                  steamer to the hotels in Aspinwall. It was an infamous falsehood. Fancy A. Lincoln
                  carrying carpet-bags and things! and indeed I should rather trust him with them
                  than Mosquero, because the former gentleman, as I think some one has before
                  observed, is "honest."
               I intrust my bag to a speckled native, who confidentially gives me to understand
                  that he is the only strictly honest person in Aspinwall. The rest, he says, are
                  niggers—which the colored people of the Isthmus regard as about as scathing a
                  thing as they can say of one another.
               I examine the New Grenadian flag, which waves from the chamber-window of a
                  refreshment saloon. It is of simple design. You can make one.
               Take half of a cotton shirt, that has been worn two months, and dip it in molasses
                  of the Day and Martin brand. Then let the flies gambol over it for a few days, and
                  you have it. It is an emblem of Sweet Liberty.
               
                  
                     An inebrated Colifornia miner desires to be an angel, and with the angels
                        stand.
                  
               
               At the Howard House the man of sin rubbeth the hair of the horse to the bowels of
                  the cat, and our girls are waving their lily-white hoofs in the dazzling
                  waltz.
               We have a quardille, in which an English person slips up and jams his massive brow
                  against my stomach. He apologizes, and I say, "all right, my lord." I subsequently
                  ascertained that he superintended the shipping of coals for the British steamers,
                  and owned fighting cocks.
               The ball stops suddenly.
               Great excitement. One of our passengers intoxicated and riotous in the street.
                  Openly and avowedly desires the entire Republic of New Grenada to "come on."
               In case they do come on, agrees to make it lively for them. Is quieted down at
                  last, and marched off to prison, by a squad of Grenadian troops. Is musical as he
                  passes the hotel, and smiling sweetly upon the ladies and children on the balcony,
                  expresses a distinct desire to be an Angel, and with the Angels stand. After which
                  he leaps nimbly into the air, and imitates the war-cry of the red man.
               The natives amass wealth by carrying valises, &c., then squander it for
                  liquor. My native comes to me as I sit on the veranda of the Howard House smoking
                  a cigar, and solicits the job of taking my things to the cars next morning. He is
                  intoxicated, and has been fighting, to the palpable detriment of his wearing
                  apparel; for he has only a pair of tattered pantaloons and a very small quantity
                  of shirt left.
               We go to bed. Eight of us are assigned to a small den upstairs, with only two lame
                  apologies for beds.
               Mosquitoes and even rats annoy us fearfully. One bold rat gnaws at the feet of a
                  young Englishman in the party. This was more than the young Englishman could
                  stand, and rising from his bed he asked us if New Grenada wasn't a Republic? We
                  said it was. "I thought so," he said. "Of course I mean no disrespect to the
                  United States of America in the remark, but I think I prefer a bloated monarchy!"
                  He smiled sadly: then handing his purse and his mother's photograph to another
                  English person, he whispered softly, "If I am eaten up, give them to Me
                  mother—tell her I died like a true Briton, with no faith whatever in the success
                  of a republican form of government!" And then he crept back to bed again.
               We start at seven the next morning for Panama.
               My native comes bright and early to transport my carpet sack to the railway
                  station. His clothes have suffered still more during the night, for he comes to me
                  now dressed only in a small rag and one boot.
               At last we are off. "Adios, Americanos!" the natives cry; to which I pleasantly
                  reply, "Adous! and long may it be before you have a chance to Do us
                  again."
               The cars are comfortable on the Panama railway, and the country through which we
                  pass is very beautiful. But it will not do to trust it much, because it breeds
                  fevers and other unpleasant disorders at all seasons of the year. Like a girl we
                  most all have known, the Isthmus is fair but false.
               There are mud huts all along the route, and half-naked savages gaze patronizingly
                  upon us from their doorways. An elderly lady in spectacles appears to be much
                  scandalized by the scant dress of these people, and wants to know why the Select
                  Men don't put a stop to it. From this, and a remark she incidentally makes about
                  her son who has invented a washing machine which will wash, wring, and dry a shirt
                  in ten minutes, I infer that she is from the hills of old New England, like the
                  Hutchinson family.
               The Central American is lazy. The only exercise he ever takes is to occasionally
                  produce a Revolution. When his feet begin to swell and there are premonitory
                  symptoms of gout, he "revolushes" a spell, and then serenely returns to his
                  cigarette and hammock under the palm trees.
               These Central American Republics are queer concerns. I do not of course pecisely
                  know what a last year's calf's ideas of immortal glory may be, but probably they
                  are about as lucid as those of a Central American in regard to a republican form
                  of government.
               And yet I am told they are a kindly people in the main. I never met but one of
                  them—a Costa-Rican on board the Ariel. He lay sick with fever, and I went to him
                  and took his hot hand gently in mine. I shall never forget his look of gratitude.
                  And the next day he borrowed five dollars of me, shedding tears as he put it in
                  his pocket.
               At Panama we lose several of our passengers, and among them three Peruvian ladies,
                  who go to Lima, the city of volcanic irruptions and veiled black-eyed
                  beauties.
               The Señoritas who leave us at Panama are splendid creatures. They learned me
                  Spanish, and in the soft moonlight we walked on deck and talked of the land of
                  Pizarro. (You know old Piz conquered Peru! and although he was not educated at
                  West Point, he had still some military talent.) I feel as though I had lost all my
                  relations, including my grandmother and the cooking stove, when these gay young
                  Señoritas go away. They do not go to Peru on a Peruvian bark, but on an English
                  steamer.
            
            
               AT THE TOMB OF SHAKSPEARE.
               MR. PUNCH, MY DEAR SIR,—I've been lingerin by the Tomb of the lamentid
                  Shakespeare.
               It is a success.
               I do not hes'tate to pronounce it as such.
               You may make any use of this opinion that you see fit. If you think its
                  publication will subswerve the cause of litteratoor, you may publicate it.
               I told my wife Betsy when I left home that I should go to the birth-place of the
                  orthur of Otheller and other Plays. She said that as long as I kept
                  out of Newgate she didn't care where I went. "But," I said, "don't you know he was
                  the greatest Poit that ever lived? Not one of these common poits, like that young
                  idyit who writes verses to our daughter, about the Roses as growses, and the
                  Breezes as blowses—but a Boss Poit—also a philosopher, also a man who knew a great
                  deal about everything."
               
                  
                     Artemus Ward visits the Tomb of Shakspeare, and makes a slight
                        mistake.
                  
               
               She was packing my things at the time, and the only answer she made was to ask me
                  if I was goin to carry both of my red flannel night caps.
               Yes. I've been to Stratford onto the Avon, the Birthplace of Shakspeare. Mr. S. is
                  now no more. He's been dead over three hundred (300) years. The peple of his
                  native town are justly proud of him. They cherish his mem'ry, and them as sell
                  picturs of his birth-place, &c., make it prof'tible cherisin it. Almost
                  everybody buys a pictur to put into their Albiom.
               As I stood gazing on the spot where Shakspeare is s'posed to have fell down on the
                  ice and hurt hisself when a boy (this spot cannot be bought—the town authorities
                  say it shall never be taken from Stratford), I wondered if three hundred years
                  hence picturs of my birthplace will be in demand? Will the peple of
                  my native town be proud of me in three hundred years? I guess they won't short of
                  that time because they say the fat man weighing 1000 pounds which I exhibited
                  there was stuffed out with pillers and cushions, which he said one very hot day in
                  July, "Oh bother, I can't stand this," and commenced pullin the pillers out from
                  under his weskit, and heavin 'em at the audience. I never saw a man lose flesh so
                  fast in my life. The audience said I was a pretty man to come chiselin my own
                  townsmen in that way. I said, "Do not be angry, feller-citizens. I exhibited him
                  simply as a work of art. I simply wished to show you that a man could grow fat
                  without the aid of cod-liver oil." But they wouldn't listen to me.
               "And this," I said, as I stood in the old church-yard at Stratford, beside a
                  Tombstone, "this marks the spot where lies William W. Shakspeare. Alars! and this
                  is the spot where —"
               "You've got the wrong grave," said a man—a worthy villager: "Shakspeare is buried
                  inside the church."
               "Oh," I said, "a boy told me this was it." The boy larfed and put the shillin I'd
                  given him into his left eye in a inglorious manner, and commenced moving backwards
                  towards the street.
               I pursood and captered him, and after talking to him a spell in a skarcastic
                  stile, I let him went.
               The old church was damp and chill. It was rainin. The only persons there when I
                  entered was a fine bluff old gentleman who was talking in a excited manner to a
                  fashnibly dressed young man. "No, Ernest Montresser," the old gentleman said, "it
                  is idle to pursoo this subject no further. You can never marry my daughter. You
                  were seen last Monday in Piccaddly without a umbreller! I said then, as I say now,
                  any young man as venturs out in a uncertain climit like this without a umbreller,
                  lacks foresight, caution, strength of mind and stability; and he is not a proper
                  person to intrust a daughter's happiness to."
               I slapt the old gentleman on the shoulder, and I said, "You're right! You're one
                  of those kind of men, you are —"
               He wheeled suddenly round, and in a indignant voice, said, "Go way—go way! This is
                  a privit intervoo."
               I didn't stop to enrich the old gentleman's mind with my conversation. I sort of
                  inferred that he wasn't inclined to listen to me, and so I went on. But he was
                  right about the umbreller. I'm really delighted with this grand old country,
                     Mr. Punch, but you must admit that it does rain rayther numerously
                  here. Whether this is owing to a monerkal form of gov'ment or not, I leave all
                  canded and onprejudiced persons to say.
               William Shakspeare was born in Stratford in 1564. All the commentaters,
                  Shaksperien scholars, etsetry, are agreed on this, which is about the only thing
                  they are agreed on in regard to him, except that his mantle hasn't fallen onto any
                  poet or dramatist hard enough to hurt said poet or dramatist much.
                  And there is no doubt if these commentaters and persons continner investigatin
                  Shakspeare's career, we shall not, in doo time, know anything about it at all.
                  When a mere lad little William attended the Grammer School, because, as he said,
                  the Grammer School wouldn't attend him. This remarkable remark, comin from one so
                  young and inexperunced, set peple to thinkin there might be somethin in this lad.
                  He subsequently wrote Hamlet and George Barnwell.
                  When his kind teacher went to London so accept a position in the offices of the
                  Metropolitan Railway, little William was chosen by his fellow pupils to deliver a
                  farewell address. "Go on, Sir," he said, "in a glorus career. Be like a eagle, and
                  soar, and the soarer you get the more we shall all be gratified! That's so."
               I returned to the hotel. Meetin a young married couple, they asked me if I could
                  direct them to the hotel which Washington Irving used to keep?
               "I've understood that he was onsuccessful as a lan'lord." said the lady.
               "We've understood," said the young man, "that he busted up."
               A very nice old town is Stratford, and a capital inn is the Red Horse. Every
                  admirer of the great S. must go there once certinly; and to say one isn't a
                  admirer of him is equv'lent to sayin one has jest about brains enough to become a
                  efficient tinker.
               I guess I'm through, and so I lay down the pen, which is more mightier than the
                  sword, but which I'm fraid would stand a rayther slim chance beside the needle
                  gun.
               
                  Adoo! adoo!
                  ARTEMUS WARD.
               
            
            
               
               HORACE GREELEY'S RIDE TO PLACERVILLE.
               When Mr. Greeley was in California ovations awaited him at every town. He had
                  written powerful leaders in the Tribune in favor of the Pacific
                  Railroad, which had greatly endeared him to the citizens of the Golden State. And
                  therefore they made much of him when he went to see them.
               At one town the enthusiastic populace tore his celebrated white coat to pleces,
                  and carried the pieces home to remember him by.
               The citizens of Placerville prepared to fête the great journalist, and an extra
                  coach, with extra relays of horses, was chartered of the California Stage Company
                  to carry him from Folsom to Placerville—distance, forty miles. The extra was in
                  some way delayed, and did not leave Folsom until late in the afternoon. Mr.
                  Greeley was to be fêted at 7 o'clock that evening by the citizens of Placerville,
                  and it was altogether necessary that he should be there by that hour. So the Stage
                  Company said to Henry Monk, the driven of the extra, "Henry, this great man must
                  be there by 7 to-night." And Henry answered, "The great man shall be there."
               The roads were in an awful state, and during the first few miles out of Fulsom
                  slow progress was made.
               "Sir," said Mr. Greeley, "are you aware that I must be at Placerville
                  at 7 o'clock to-night?"
               "I've got my orders!" laconically returned Henry Monk.
               Still the coach dragged slowly forward.
               "Sir," said Mr. Greeley, "this is not a trifling matter. I must be
                  there at 7!"
               
                  
                     Horace Greeley's gay and festive adventures on the overland route from
                        California.
                  
               
               Again came the answer, "I've got my orders!"
               But the speed was not increased, and Mr. Greeley chafed away another half hour;
                  when, as he was again about to remonstrate with the driver, the horses suddenly
                  started into a furious run, and all sorts of encouraging yells filled the air from
                  the throat of Henry Monk.
               "That is right, my good fellow!" cried Mr. Greeley. "I'll give you ten dollars
                  when we get to Placerville. Now we are going!"
               They were indeed, and at a terrible speed.
               Crack, crack! went the whip, and again "that voice" split the air. "Git up! Hi yi!
                  G'long! Yip—yip!"
               And on they tore, over stones and ruts, up hill and down, at a rate of speed never
                  before achieved by stage horses.
               Mr. Greeley, who had been bouncing from one end of the coach to the other like an
                  India-rubber ball, managed to get his head out of the window, when he said:
               "Do—on't—on't—on't you—u—u think we—e—e—e shall get there by seven if we
                  do—on't—on't go so fast?"
               "I've got my orders!" that was all Henry Monk said. And on tore the coach.
               It was becoming serious. Already the journalist was extremely sore from the
                  terrible jolting, and again his head "might have been seen" at the window.
               "Sir," he said, "I don't care—care—air, if we don't get
                  there at seven!"
               "I have got my orders!" Fresh horses. Forward again, faster than before. Over
                  rocks and stumps, on one of which the coach narrowly escaped turning a
                  summerset.
               "See here!" shrieked Mr. Greeley, "I don't care if we don't get there at all!"
               "I've got my orders! I work for the Californy Stage Company, I do.
                  That's wot I work for. They said, 'git this man through by seving.'
                  An' this man's goin through. You bet! Gerlong! Whoo-ep!"
               Another frightful jolt, and Mr. Greeley's bald head suddenly found its way through
                  the roof of the coach, amidst the crash of small timbers and the ripping of strong
                  canvas.
               "Stop, you — maniac!" he roared.
               Again answered Henry Monk:
               "I've got my orders! Keep your seat, Horace!"
               At Mud Springs, a village a few miles from Placerville, they met a large
                  delegation of the citizens of Placerville, who had come out to meet the celebrated
                  editor, and escort him into town. There was a military company, a brass band, and
                  a six-horse wagon-load of beautiful damsels in milk-white dresses, representing
                  all the States in the Union. It was nearly dark now, but the delegation were amply
                  provided with torches, and bonfires blazed all along the road to Placerville.
               The citizens met the coach in the outskirts of Mud Springs, and Mr. Monk reined in
                  his foam-covered steeds.
               "Is Mr. Greeley aboard?" asked the chairman of the committee.
               "He was, a few miles back!" said Mr. Monk; "yes," he added, after
                  looking down through the hole which the fearful jolting had made in the
                  coach-roof—"yes, I can see him! He is there!"
               "Mr. Greeley," said the Chairman of the Committee, presenting himself at the
                  window of the coach, "Mr. Greeley, sir! We are come to most cordially welcome you,
                  sir—why, God bless me, sir, you are bleeding at the nose!"
               "I've got my orders!" cried Mr. Monk. "My orders is as follers: Git him there by
                  seving! It wants a quarter to seving. Stand out of the way!"
               "But, sir," exclaimed the Committee-man, seizing the off leader by the reins—"Mr.
                  Monk, we are come to escort him into town! Look at the procession, sir, and the
                  brass band, and the people, and the young women, sir!"
               "I've got my orders!" screamed Mr. Monk. "My order's don't say
                  nothin' about no brass hands and young women. My orders says, 'git him there by
                  seving!' Let go them lines! Clear the way there! Whoo-ep! KEEP YOUR SEAT, HORACE!"
                  and the coach dashed wildly through the procession, upsetting a portion of the
                  brass band, and violently grazing the wagon which contained the beautiful young
                  women in white.
               Years hence gray-haired men, who were little boys in this procession, will tell
                  their grandchildren how this stage tore through Mud Springs, and how Horace
                  Greeley's bald head ever and anon showed itself, like a wild apparition, above the
                  coach-roof.
               Mr. Monk was on time. There is a tradition that Mr. Greeley was very indignant for
                  awhile; then he laughed, and finally presented Mr. Monk with a bran new suit of
                  clothes.
               Mr. Monk himself is still in the employ of the California Stage Company, and is
                  rather fond of relating a story that has made him famous all over the Pacific
                  coast. But he says he yields to no man in his admiration for Horace Greeley.
            
            
               The other evening we enlivened a railroad car with our brilliant presence. The
                  conductor came in. The following were a few of the questions put to him: One old
                  fellow, who was wrapped up in a horse blanket and who apparently had about two
                  pounds of pigtail in his mouth, wanted to know "What pint of compass the keers was
                  travelin' in?" An old lady, wanted to know what time the 8 o'clock train left Rock
                  Island for "Dubu-kue?" A carroty-haired young man wanted to know if "free
                  omyibuses" run from the cars to the taverns in Toledo? A tall, razor-faced
                  individual, desired to know if "conductin" paid as well eout West as it did deoun
                  in his country; and a portly, close-shaven man, asked the price of corner lots in
                  Omaha. These and many other absurd questions, the conductor answered calmly and in
                  a resigned manner.
            
            
               AMONG THE FREE LOVERS.*

               
                  *Some queer people, calling themselves "Free
                  Lovers," and possessing very original ideas about life and morality, established
                  themselves at Berlin Heights, in Ohio, a few years since. Public opinion was
                  resistlesaly against them, however, and the association was soon disbanded.
               Some years ago I pitched my tent and onfurled my banner to the breeze, in Berlin
                  Hites, Ohio. I had hearn that Berlin Hites was ockepied by a extensive seck called
                  Free Levers, who beleeved in affinertys and sich, goin back on their domestic ties
                  without no hesitation whatsomever. They was likewise spirit rappers and high
                  presher reformers on gineral principles. If I can improve these ere misgided peple
                  by showin them my onparalleld show at the usual low price of admitants, methunk, I
                  shall not hav lived in vane! But bitterly did I cuss the day I ever sot foot in
                  the retchid place. I sot up my tent in a field near the Love Cure, as they called
                  it, and bimeby the free lovers begun for to congregate around the door. A ornreer
                  set I have never sawn. The men's faces was all covered with hare and they lookt
                  half-starved to deth. They didn't wear no weskuts for the purpuss (as they sed) of
                  allowin the free air of hevun to blow on to their boozums. Their pockets was
                  filled with tracks and pamphlits and they was bare-footed. They sed the Postles
                  didn't wear boots, & why should they? That was their stile of argyment. The
                  wimin was wuss than the men. They wore trowsis, short gownds, straw hats with
                  green ribbons, and all carried bloo cotton umbrellers.
               
                  
                     Horace Greeley's gay and festive adventures on the overland route from
                        California.
                  
               
               Presently a perfeckly orful lookin female presented herself at the door. Her gownd
                  was skanderlusly short and her trowsis was shamful to behold.
               She eyed me over very sharp, and then startin back she sed, in a wild voice:
               "Ah, can it be?"
               "Which?" sed I.
               "Yes, 'tis troo, O 'tis troo!"
               "15 cents, marm," I anserd.
               She bust out a cryin & sed:
               "And so I hav found you at larst—at larst, O at larst!"
               "Yes," I anserd, "you have found me at larst, and you would have found me at fust,
                  if you had cum sooner."
               She grabed me vilently by the coat collar, and brandishin her umbreller wildly
                  round, exclaimed:
               "Air you a man?"
               Sez I, "I think I air, but if you doubt it, you can address Mrs. A. Ward,
                  Baldinsville, Injianny, postage pade, & she will probly giv you the desired
                  informashun."
               Then thou ist what the cold world calls marrid?"
               "Madam, I istest!"
               The exsentric female then clutched me franticly by the arm and hollerd:
               "You air mine, O you air mine!"
               "Scarcely," I sed, endeverin to git loose from her. But she clung to me and
                  sed:
               "You air my Affinerty!"
               "What upon airth is that?" I shouted.
               "Dost thou not know?"
               "No, I dostent!"
               "Listin man, & I'll tell ye!" sed the strange female; for years I hav yearned
                  for thee. I knowd thou wast in the world, sumwhares, tho I didn't know whare. My
                  hart sed he would cum and I took courage. He has cum—he's here—you
                  air him—you air my Affinerty! O 'tis too mutch! too mutch!" and she sobbed
                  agin.
               "Yes," I anserd, "I think it is a darn site too mutch!"
               "Hast thou not yearned for me?" she yelled, ringin her hands like a female play
                  acter.
               "Not a yearn!" I bellerd at the top of my voice, throwin her away from me.
               The free lovers who was standin round obsarvin the scene commenst for to holler
                  "shame!" "beast," etsettery, etsettery.
               I was very mutch riled, and fortifyin myself with a spare tent stake, I addrest
                  them as follers: "You pussylanermus critters, go away from me and take this
                  retchid woman with you. I'm alaw-abidin man, and bleeve in good, old-fashioned
                  institutions. I am marrid & my orfsprings resemble me if I am a showman! I
                  think your Affinity bizniss is cussed noncents, besides bein outrajusly wicked.
                  Why don't you behave desunt like other folks? Go to work and earn a honist livin
                  and not stay round here in this lazy, shiftless way, pizenin' the moral atmosphere
                  with your pestifrous idees! You wimin folks go back to your lawful husbands if
                  you've got any, and take orf them skanderlous gownds and trowsis, and dress
                  respectful like other wimin. You men folks, cut orf them pirattercal whiskers,
                  burn up them infurnel pamplits, put sum weskuts on, go to work choppin wood,
                  splittin fence rales, or tillin the sile. I pored 4th my indignashun in this way
                  till I got out of breth, when I stopt.
            
            
               HIGH-HANDED OUTRAGE IN UTICA.
               In the Faul of 1856, I showed my show in Utiky, a trooly grate sitty in the State
                  of New York.
               The people gave me a cordyal recepshun. The press was loud in her prases.
               I day as I was givin a descripshun of my Beests and Snaiks in my usual flowry
                  stile, what was my shorn & disgust to see a big burly feller walk up to the
                  cage containin my wax figgers of the Lord's Last Supper, and cease Judas Iscarrot
                  by the feet and drag him out on the ground. He then commenced fur to pound him as
                  hard as he cood.
               "What under the son are you abowt?" cried I.
               Sez he, "What did you bring this pussylanermus cuss here fur?" & he hit the
                  wax figger another tremenjis blow on the hed.
               Sez I, "You egrejus ass, that air's a wax figger—a representashun of the false
                  'Postle."
               Sez he, "That's all very well fur you to say but I tell you, old man, that Judas
                  Iscarrot can't show hisself in Utiky with impunerty by a darn site!" with which
                  observashun he kaved in Judassis hed. The young man belonged to I of the first
                  famerlies in Utiky. I sood him, and the Joory brawt in a verdick of Arson in the
                  3d degree.
            
            
               DULL.—It is a scandalous fact that this city is desperately and fearfully barren
                  of incident. No "dem'd, moist, unpleasant bodies" are fished up out of the river;
                  no ambitious young female runs off with her "feller;" no stabbings, gougings, or
                  fisticuffs occur; no eminent merchant suspends; no banker or railroad man
                  defaults; and not even a dog fight disturbs the rigid and corpse-like quiet of the
                  city. We want a murder. We insist upon having a murder. A manslaughter wont do. It
                  must be murder, premeditated, foul, and unnatural. It must be a luscious murder,
                  abounding in soul-harrowing incidents. Some "man in human shape" must chop the
                  heads of his entire family off with a meat-axe, or insert a butcher-knife
                  ingeniously under their fifth ribs. Let murder be done. Bring on your
                  murderers.
            
            
               
               SCIENCE AND NATURAL HISTORY.
               MR. PUNCH, MY DEAR SIR,—I was a little disappointed in not receiven a invitation
                  to jine in the meetins of the Social Science Congress.
               I don't exackly see how they go on without me.
               I hope it wasn't the intentions of the Sciencers to exclood me from their
                  deliberations.
               Let it pars. I do not repine. Let us remember Homer. Twenty cities claim Homer
                  dead, thro' which the livin Mr. Homer couldn't have got trusted for a sandwhich
                  and a glass of bitter beer, or words to that effeck.
               
                  
                     Natural History.—Sudden and unexpected playfulness of the Bear.
                  
               
               But perhaps it was a oversight. Certinly I have been hospitably rec'd in this
                  country. Hospitality has been pored all over me. At Liverpool I was asked to walk
                  all over the docks, which are nine miles long; and I don't remember a instance
                  since my 'rival in London of my gettin into a cab without a briton comin and
                  perlitely shuttin the door for me, and then extendin his open hand to'ards me, in
                  the most frenly manner possible. Doos he not, by this simple yit touchin gesture,
                  welcum me to England? Doesn't he? Oh yes—I guess he doesn't he. And it's quite
                  right among two great countries which speak the same langwidge, except as regards
                  H's. And I've been allowed to walk round all the streets. Even at Buckingham
                  Pallis, I told a guard I wanted to walk round there, and he said I could walk
                  round there. I ascertained subsequent that he referred to the sidewalk instid of
                  the Pallis—but I couldn't doubt his hospital feelins.
               I prepared a Essy on Animals to read before the Social Science meetins. It is a
                  subject I may troothfully say, I have successfully wrastled with. I tackled it
                  when only nineteen years old.
               In case I had read the Essy to the Social Sciencers, I had intended it should be
                  the closin attraction. I had intended it should finish the proceedins. I think it
                  would have finished them. I understand animals better than any other class of
                  human creatures. I have a very animal mind, and I've been identified with 'em
                  doorin my entire perfecsional career as a showman, more especial bears, wolves,
                  leopards and serpunts.
               The leopard is as lively a annual as I ever came into contack with. It is troo he
                  cannot change his spots, but you can change 'em for him with a paint-brush, as I
                  once did in the case of a leopard who wasn't nat'rally spotted in a attractive
                  manner. In exhibition him I used to stir him up in his cage with a protracted
                  pole, and for the purpuss of makin him yell and kick up in a leopardy manner, I
                  used to casionally whack him over the head. This would make the children inside
                  the booth scream with fright, which would make fathers of families outside the
                  booth very anxious to come in—because there is a large class of parents who have a
                  uncontrollable passion for takin their children to places were they will stand a
                  chance of being frightened to death.
               One day I whacked this leopard more than ushil, which elissited a remonstrance
                  from a tall gentleman with spectacles, who said, "My good man, do not beat the
                  poor caged animal. Rather fondle him."
               "I'll fondle him with a club," I anserd, hitting him another whack.
               "I prithy desist," said the gentleman; "stand aside, and see the effeck of
                  kindness. I understand the idiosyncracies of these creeturs
                     better than you do." With that he went up to the cage, and
                  thrustin his face in between the iron bars, he said, soothinly," Come hither,
                  pretty creetur." The pretty creetur come-hithered rayther speedy, and seized the
                  gentleman by the whiskers, which he tore off about enuff to stuff a small cushion
                  with.
               He said, "You vagabone, I'll have you indicted for exhibition
                     dangerous and immoral animals."
               I replied, "Gentle Sir, there isn't a animal here that hasn't a beautiful moral,
                  but you mustn't fondle 'em, You mustn't meddle with their idiotsyncracies."
               The gentleman was a dramatic cricket, and he wrote a article for a paper, in which
                  he said my entertainment was a decided failure.
               As regards Bears, you can teach 'em to do interesting things, but they're
                  onreliable. I had a very large grizzly bear once, who would dance, and larf, and
                  lay down, and bow his head in grief, and give a mournful wale, etsetry. But he
                  often annoyed me. It will be remembered that on the occasion of the first battle
                  of Bull Run, it suddenly occured to the Fed'ral soldiers that they had business in
                  Washington which ought not to be neglected, and they all started for that
                  beautiful and romantic city, maintainin a rate of speed durin the entire distance
                  that would have done credit to the celebrated French steed Gladiateur. Very nat'rally our Gov'ment was deeply grieved at this defeat; and I
                  said to my bear, shortly after, as I was givin a exhibition in Ohio—I said,
                  "Brewin, are you not sorry the National arms has sustained a defeat?" His business
                  was to wale dismal, and bow his head down, the band (a barrel orgin and a wiolin)
                  playing slow and melancholly moosic. What did the grizzly old cuss do, however,
                  but commence darncin and larfin in the most joyous manner. I had a narrer escape
                  from being imprisoned for disloyalty. I will relate another incident in the
                  carreer of this retchid Bear. I used to present what I called
                  in the bills a beautiful living Picture—showing the Bear's fondness for his
                  Master: in which I'd lay down on a piece of carpeting, and the Bear would come and
                  lay down beside me, restin his right paw on my breast, the Band playing
                     "Home, Sweet Home," very soft and slow. 'Altho' I say it, it was
                  a tucbin thing to see. I've seen Tax-Collectors weep over that performance.
               Well, one day I said, "Ladies and Gentlemen, we will now show you the Bear's
                  fondess for his master," and I went and laid down. "I tho't I observad a pecooliar
                  expression into his eyes, as he rolled clumsily to'ard me, but I didn't dream of
                  the scene which follered. He laid down, and put his paw on my breast, "Affection
                  of the bear for his Master," I repeated. "You see the Monarch of the Western Wilds
                  in a subjugated state. Fierce as these animals natrally are, we now see that they
                  have hearts, and can love. This Bear, the largest in the world, and measurin
                  seventeen feet round the body, loves me as a mer-ther loves her che-ild!" But what
                  was my horror when the grizzly and infamous Bear threw his other paw
                     under me, and riz with me to his feet. Then claspin me in a close
                  embrace he waltzed up and down the platform in a frightful manner, I yellin with
                  fear and anguish. To make matters wuss, a low scurrilus young man in the audiens
                  hollered out, "Playfulness of the Bear! Quick moosic!" I jest 'scaped with my
                  life.
               
                  Very respectively yours,
                  ARTEMUS WARD.
               
            
            
               IS INTRODUCED TO THE CLUB.
               MR. PUNCH, MY DEAR SIR,—It is seldim that the Commercial relations between Great
                  Britain and the United States is mard by Games.
               It is Commerce, after all, which will keep the two countries friendly toards each
                  other rather than statesmen.
               I come of a very clever famly.
               The Wards is a very clever famly, indeed.
               I believe we are descendid from the Puritins, who nobly fled from a land of
                  despitism to a land of freedim, where they could not only enjoy their own
                  religion, but prevent everybody else from enjoyin his.
               As I was walkin along Regent street, amoosin myself by stickin my penknife into
                  the calves of the footmen who stood waitin by the swell-coaches (not one of whom
                  howled with angwish), I was accosted by a man of about thirty-five summers, who
                  said, "I have seen that face somewheres afore!"
               
                  
                     "Young woman, I'm not your Saler boy. Far different."
                  
               
               He was a little shabby in his wearin appard. His coat was one of those black,
                  shiny garments, which you can always tell have been burnished by adversity; but he
                  was very gentlemanly.
               "Was it in the Crimea, comrade? Yes, it was. It was at the stormin of Sebastopol,
                  where I had a narrow escape from death, that we met!"
               I said, "No, I wasn't at Sebastopol, I escaped a fatal wound by not bein there. It
                  was a healthy old fortress," I added.
               "It was. But it fell. It came down with a crash."
               "And plucky boys they was who brought her down," I added; "and hurrah for
                  'em!"
               The man graspt me warmly by the hand, and said he had been in America, Upper
                  Canada, Africa, Asia Minor, and other towns, and he'd never met a man he liked as
                  much as he did me. "Let us," he added, "let us to the shrine of Bachus!" And he
                  dragged me into a public house. I was determined to pay, so I said, "Mr. Bachus,
                  giv this gen'l'man what he calls for."
               We conversed there in a very pleasant manner till my dinner-time arrove, when the
                  agree'ble gentleman insisted that I should, dine with him. "We'll have a banquet,
                  Sir, fit for the gods!"
               I told him good plain vittles would soot me. If the gods wanted to have the
                  dispepsy, they was welcome to it.
               We had soop and fish, and a hot jint, and growsis, and wines of rare and costly
                  vintige. We had ices, and we had froots from Greenland's icy mountins and Injy's
                  coral strands; and when the sumptoous reparst was over, the agree'ble man said
                  he'd unfortinitly left his pocket-book at home on the marble centre-table. "But,
                  by Jove!" he said, "it was a feast fit for the gods!"
               
                  I said, "Oh, never mind," and drew out my puss; tho I inardly
                     wishes the gods, as the dinner was fit for 'em, was there to
                  pay for it.
               I come of a very clever famly.
               The  gentleman then said, "Now, I will show you our Club. It dates
                     back to the time of William the Conqueror."
               "Did Bill belong to it?" I inquired.
               "He did."
               "Wall," I said, "if Billy was one of 'em, I need no other endorsement as to its
                  respectfulness, and I'll go with you, my gay trooper boy!" And we went off
                  arm-in-arm.
               On the way the agreeble man told me that the Club was called the Sloshers. He said
                  I would notice that none of 'em appeared in evenin dress. He said it was agin the
                  rools of the club. In fack, if any member appeared there in evenin dress he'd be
                  instantly expeld. "And yit," he added, "there's geneyus there, and lorfty
                  emotions, and intelleck, You'll be surprised at the quantities of intelleck you'll
                  see there."
               We reached the Sloshers in due time, and I must say they was a shaky-looking lot,
                  and the public house where they convened was certingly none of the best.
               The Sloshers crowded round me, and said I was welcome. "What a beautiful brestpin
                  you've got," said one of 'em. "Permit me," and he took it out of my neckercher.
                  "Isn't it luvly," he said, parsin it to another, who passed it to another. It was
                  given me by my Aunt, on my promisin her I'd never swear profanely; and I never
                  have, except on very special occasions. I see that beautiful boosum pin a parsin
                  from one Slosher to another, and I'm reminded of them sad words of the poit,
                  "parsin away! parsin away!" I never saw it no more. Then in comes a athletic
                  female, who no sooner sees me than she utters a wild yell, and cries:
               "At larst! at larst! My Wilyim, from the seas!"
               I said, "Not at all, Marm. Not on no account. I have heard the
                  boatswain pipe to quarters—but a voice in my heart didn't whisper Seu-zan! I've
                  belayed the marlin-spikes on the upper jibpoop, but Seuzan's eye wasn't on me,
                  much. Young woman, I am not you're Saler boy. Far different."
               "Oh yes, you are! she howled, seizin me round the neck. "Oh, how I've lookt
                  forwards to this meetin!"
               "And you'll presently," I said, "have a opportunity of lookin backwards to it,
                  because I'm on the point of leavin this institution."
               I will here observe that I come of a very clever family. A very clever fam'ly,
                  indeed.
               "Where," I cried, as I struggled in vain to release myself from the eccentric
                  female's claws, "where is the Capting—the man who was into the Crimea, amidst the
                  cannon's thunder? I want him."
               He came forward, and cried, "what do I see? Me Sister! me sweet Adelaide! and in
                  teers!"
               Somehow my coat was jerked off, the brest-pocket of which contained my
                  pocket-book, and it parsed away like the brestpin. Then they sorter quietly
                  hustled me into the street.
               It was about 12 at night when I reached the Greenlion.
               "Ha! ha! you sly old rascal, you've been up to larks!" said the lanlord, larfin
                  loudly, and digging his fist into my ribs.
               I said, "Bigsby, if you do that agin, I shall hit you! Much as I respect you and
                  your excellent fam'ly, I shall disfigger your beneverlent countenance for
                  life!"
               "What has ruffled your spirits, friend?" said the lanlord.
               "My spirits has been ruffled," I answered in a bittur voice, by a viper who was
                  into the Crimea. What good was it," I cried, "for Sebastopol to fall down without
                  enwelopin in its ruins that viper?"
               
                  ARTEMUS WARD.
               
            
         
      
      
         
            
            
               
                  Artemus Ward at the Rink
               
            
         
      
   
