
    ----CITATION----
        Bartol, Mary.. Honor May .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5750 wright2-0231
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               HONOR MAY.
            
            
               BOSTON:
               TICKNOR AND FIELDS.
            
            1866.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by TICKNOR AND FIELDS, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts.
               UNIVERSITY PRESS: WELCH, BIGELOW, & Co.,
               CAMBRIDGE.
            
         
         
            TO MY BROTHER HORACE.
         
      
      
         
            Honor May
            
            
               
                  
                     "LA musique n'est-elle pas comme un interprète divin des sentiments les plus nobles? Ce n'est pas l'agilité merveilleuse des doigts, ce n'est pas la vivacité fiévreuse de l'archet, ce n'est pas la combinaison savante de certaines cordes plus ou moins tendues et touchées en mesure, qui font un virtuose.
                     "La musique, c'est l'expression, c'est la voix qui pleure, qui aime, qui gémit, qui glorifie, c'est le cœur qui palpite de joie ou qui saigne de douleur; rien n'en survivra que la pensée; c'est le lien entre la terre d'argile et les espaces infinis, incommensurables.....
                     "Il semble que les anges aient voulu faire entendre aux croyants un écho des concerts célestes. La musique est comme un ressouvenir de la voix divine, et son triomphe sera toujours la louange du Seigneur."
                  
                  J.-T. DE SAINT-GERMAIN.
               
            
            
               HONOR MAY.
               WE were a happy family,—my dear mother, Uncle Robert, and myself,—and yet we dwelt in remembrance of grief. But the shadow of our sorrow did not sadden us. In my heart abode the memory of a father's counsel; the retrospect of his life was the solace of my mother's trials. The thought of his genuine virtues came like moonlight to our quiet evenings. His opinions, his judgments, his smile, the tones of his voice, were recalled again and again. They brought us an image of the past, pale like the reflection of a sunbeam.
               My mother's fortune was moderate, but it sufficed for our wants. Uncle Robert alone was a little prodigal; but then, had he not the means? Nature and circumstances had been bounteous to him. He was the curled darling of friends, if not of nations. His noble head looked kindly from its elevation on common-statured mortals, and his pleasant eyes expressed a happy heart. He was a man of power. Ships sailed on distant oceans by the force of his will. Gold from India filled his purse, spices grew for him in Ceylon, fruits floated to him through the cool blue waves of southern seas.
               He seemed ubiquitous. Surrounded by men soliciting employment and money, approached by lovers of art, appealed to by the needy, he was ever ready to listen to and do for all.
               Life was full of enjoyment for me at this time. I was exuberant with health, and my physical freshness shaped all forms with its own elastic power. Every bright morning I saw the sun rise over the sea. It gave me a rapture which followed far into day. A mile from out our little town rose a range of green knolls along the curve of the shore. These were my hills, my mounts of worship, my altars of prayer. Below stood dark rocks, bristling like time-worn fortresses, and from their stony portals stretched strips of silver sand. Each day I sought my verdant knolls. I saw the distant ships glide by like spectres, the harbor glowed red at the sun's first glance, little houses on the opposite shore had windows of sunbeams, and a white church stood clear against the sky. My summons home was the ringing of the old town bell. It clanged the breakfast hour, and at the first stroke I left my grassy hills. My walk home was half a run. I stopped to pick a rose or listen to a bird, and then hurried along the lane, lined with alders. As I look back to this time, a waft of wild roses and sweet-brier steals to my sense; I see the anemone and mayflower; aroma crushed from the lowly pennyroyal rises beneath my steps; I part the tendrils of wild growth at the entrance of the lane; I cross the open field and reach my home. Uncle Robert smiles as I lay the flowers I have picked at my mother's plate; he tells his dreams, which are much better than early walks, he says; we have a breakfast seasoned with laugh and story, and the day's practical duties present themselves.
               I recall what I then styled my studies,—German, French, history, and music; this last made my atmosphere and colored my life. I thought my knowledge of it superior. Alas for the conceit of ignorance! It is true I had acquired a facile finger by diligent practice, and my ear was quick to retain what it had once enjoyed. These were my poor claims to wisdom. I played hours every day.
               Uncle Robert, who was a musical enthusiast, brought me transcripts of opera melodies; he sent to London for editions of rare music; even organ fugues and oratorios in score were wafted by his ships to our little parlor. I played in love, and that sentiment excused my many defects. It was during these days that a change, sweet and unforeseen, fell upon us. One morning, when Uncle Robert had gone to C——, and I was away on a visit to my green hills, a letter floated to our door,—a single sheet of paper, on which were traced lines so serious and so tender, that they opened all our hearts. These lines were a plea from one woman for another,—an appeal made by my mother's old schoolfellow, on behalf of a solitary girl who had begun the struggle of life. These were the simple, affectionate words:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "DEAR SUSAN:—Young Miss May, lately orphaned, wants to try Summerston for a musical life. Will you let her board with you a few weeks, till she becomes known? She desires to teach. Perhaps your daughter will consent to be a pupil. Tell me your feelings without hesitation, and soon. But I know you will let me send her. You were always kind to your
                           
                              "PRISCILLA."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               This was a request not to be put aside. My mother wiped her eyes, then wrote a warm invitation for the orphan to come to us without delay, and Uncle Robert despatched the letter by return of mail.
               And now we were in a state of expectation.
               One evening I had been looking at Victor Hugo's Hernani, and playing its characteristic music. "Don't like it too well, Emmie," said my uncle; "it is effective, but not really fine. That noble brigand is unworthily treated by his Italian friends,—or foes. Let me give you something." And my uncle played with fervor a grand Gloria in Excelsis; then, to the sound of its vibrations, he went out into the night.
               A storm blew wildly on the coast. The wind rose and fell with irregular swell and lull, as I read aloud to my dear mother the majestic monologues of the bandit prince. The sonorous sounds pleased her ear, and I told the story in English as I went. I repeated the words of Dona Sol. "This silence is too deep, this calm is too profound. Say, wouldst thou not welcome a star in the distance, or a voice of the night, tender and delicious, which should suddenly float in the air?—a bird that should warble in the fields, or a nightingale lost in the shadows and in the moss, or a far-off flute?" She asks this of Hernani, and the startling note of a horn makes reply to her words.
               At that moment the sharp report of a gun fell on our ears. "A vessel in distress!" exclaimed my mother. I echoed her words, and, opening the door, called, "Miriam! Miriam!"
               Miriam appeared. She had heard a signal-gun before, and was ready for the crags. In a few minutes we were on our way. I followed the motions of Miriam's lantern, which swung like a pendulum in the storm. Across the street, through the lane, and over the pasture,—it seemed but a minute, and we were on the rocks. What a perilous night! and the poor ship knew it well, sending forth cries of distress. We saw her, vague yet visible, blown, beaten by the might of the storm. How the foam boiled below the cliffs! how it hugged and licked the vessel, tossed like a shell on its bubbles! Snow-flakes fell from sable clouds into a blacker sea, the lighthouse flame shone bright through the darkness, a ghostly shore bounded the wide and desolate bay. Men ran to and fro on the sands, hoarsely shouting counsel to each other. Torches flickered and cast lurid light on groups of workers and watchers. Suddenly they showed me Uncle Robert, towering above his fellows. He directed, he labored, he gave quick orders, and his companions obeyed.
               "There's the boat!" cried Miriam; "they're going to land the passengers. God help them this night!" For one moment a black atom rose on the crest of a wave, then it was lost.
               "I see it again!" screamed Miriam, and she swung her lantern, as if to light the mariners on their uncertain way. Rising and falling, the boat came on, growing larger to view, with every minute,—then, as it neared him, into the waves plunged Uncle Robert, followed by half a dozen men, and before we could speak the little ark was pulled up on a strip of beach, between two ugly teeth of rock.
               "You creeturs!" screamed Miriam, charging with her lantern, through the air, at them. "You have n't got her, have you? You'd like to eat her all up, but you can't." At this moment, cheers filled the air.
               Shout upon shout rose from below, for the strong vessel had slipped from the embraces of the reef, which, but a moment before, had threatened her destruction. Down into the sea had slid the cunning keel, and now, erect, with vigorous motion the beautiful ship sailed on, through obstructing waves, towards her haven. On and on and on. Proudly and securely,—farther and farther from us, towards the old town wharves. Away to meet the rescued vessel flowed the tide of watchers. Miriam and I were left alone on the shore. We gave one look at the gloomy sea, then turned and walked home in silence.
               "Robert will be out all night," said my mother, as she heard our account of the boat landing, and the released ship. "We will go to bed."
               I went up stairs, but could not forget what had happened.
               In vain I repeated to myself that the ship was saved. I heard still the voice of wind and waves, telling of what had so nearly been death. Before my window stretched a whirl of waters, girdled with snow, and on the cape watched the lighthouse with its lid of fire.
               
               I resolved to listen for Uncle Robert's first footstep. One—two hours passed, and, still resolving, I fell asleep. Morning brought a subdued strife of elements. I rose early and stole down stairs. I found my mother watching at the window and Miriam preparing an ample breakfast, which Uncle Robert had bespoken by a messenger. Suddenly, a sleigh whirled up the street and stopped at our door. "Robert!" exclaimed my mother. I flew to give him welcome. There, on the steps, stood my Uncle, and by his side a slender woman. "Emmie, this is Miss May. A waif of the storm."
               And thus on the wings of the wind had she come.
               Tall, slender, pale, blue-eyed, was she who extended her arms and folded me in a tranquil embrace. In another moment she had encircled my mother, saying, "Can I ever thank you?"
               "Thank us by being happy. And you were on board the ship!"
               She shivered and cast her eyes upward. "O that dreadful night!"
               She moaned rather than spoke, and I trembled as I looked at her.
               I felt a child by her side. Her figure was slight and supple, and grace hovered round every motion. She still held to my mother as Miriam called us to breakfast. "Come, my dear."
               "Call me Honor," was her simple answer, as she kissed my mother's cheek.
               We were hardly seated at table before Uncle Robert joined us.
               "Ah, Sue, don't look so pale and anxious,—everything has gone well. As for you, Emmie, I have half a mind to scold you for being out so late last night."
               "What has become of the poor men who worked so hard, Uncle Robert?"
               "Here is one of them; how does he look, pretty fresh?"
               "O, I don't mean you."
               "Well, eight are coming to breakfast with Miriam. The rest have carried home silver for their morning meal. Noble fellows they are, every one. They saved Mr. Cram hundreds of dollars last night. The ship is hardly injured, but at one time I thought she was gone. It was a fortunate wave that took her down the reef. A great part of their treasure was brought off in the boat. I hardly see how the men saved her from the rocks."
               "But, my dear Honor," said my mother, "why didn't you come here last night?"
               "The Captain begged us not to hurry about landing; besides, I could n't disturb you at an unseasonable hour."
               "The ship didn't get fairly up to the wharf till very late, Sue," interposed my uncle. "I was fortunate enough to see Miss May as soon as she arrived, and I thought it more prudent for her to remain in the cabin than to brave the storm. By the way," turning to our guest, "is your baggage marked H. M.?"
               "Yes, those are my initials. Honor May is my name; anything saved?"
               "Two trunks and a carpet-bag; you shall have them in the course of an hour."
               "Thank you." Then to my mother, with a smile and a sigh, "They hold all my worldly goods."
               At this moment Miriam announced to my uncle that "somebody wanted to speak to him." As she retreated, her glances rested on Honor. I wondered in my heart what she would think of our new acquaintance, for her opinions were by no means unimportant. Miriam had come to my mother at the age of sixteen, a poor, uneducated girl. With uncommon mental power, with a pride which was her protector, with an ambition which was her teacher, she became, under my mother's guidance, a remarkable woman. And when her mistress had failed in strength, Miriam had taken sole charge of the household.
               With a will indomitable in early youth, but now softened by the dictates of reason, Miriam swayed her sceptre. She was privileged to say and do pretty much as she chose. As to her doing, there was no end to it, her brain being a most fertile source of invention. Miriam had some faults,—but who is without? She possessed a quick temper and a withering tongue. Sometimes a whirlwind of anger swept through the kitchen; lightning glances flashed from Miriam's green-gray eyes, and a tempest of words filled the house. My admirable mother was unawed by this commotion. She remained calm and unmoved, and Miriam passed from anger to apology,—sometimes from burning passion to melting contrition. I knew the signs of storm, and, when I saw premonitory symptoms, made my escape. When outside elements were in commotion, I sought my own room; when nature was calm, I fled to my knolls.
               I have said that I loved music. Uncle Robert had fostered in me the germ of a joy which has ever been next to human love, the best sentiment of my heart. Music had birth in my soul, and his voice was to its life like the sun to opening flowers. But alone, without teaching, unless Uncle Robert's aid could be called such, slowly, sometimes painfully, did I travel towards the temple of sound. Day by day did I try to tell what Beethoven told to me; day by day did I try to call from the keys the weird fancies of Schumann, and the simpler beauties of Haydn. But, be neath my unskilful fingers, the tones seemed colorless and cold. Occasionally I forgot my discouragement, especially when the notes were simple and easily played. Then my heart glowed with ardor caught from the harmonies that flowed from my touch, and the tones assumed a brightness and contour unknown at other moments.
               We were sitting together a few days after Honor had come to us. The whole day previous she had spent by herself; in prayer, Miriam had said. Well might she who had been snatched from the grasping arms of death give thanks to God for a longer life. Well might she pour out her heart in gratitude after the tumult and danger of the night had passed and day had dawned on her soul.
               "I am glad you play," said Honor, addressing me. "I heard you yesterday."
               "You play too," I said, as a ray of light shone from her blue eyes.
               "Not much."
               "Do you sing?" was my next question.
               This was involuntarily drawn from my lips by the tone of her voice.
               "Yes, I love to sing";—and, without waiting to be asked, she moved to the piano and began a wild yet simple prelude. Her voice was pure as crystal as she sang a melody with a gay refrain. I felt it sweet and peculiar, and said to myself, "I wish Uncle Robert were here. I wonder what he would say about it." Uncle Robert was judge for me. He reigned my critic, my king; and from his dictum I made no appeal. Honor sang without effort, simply as a child. I heard every word. Without mouthing or grimace, she gave her verses to the air, as if she had been speaking. I was silent at the close, and Honor, with the pause of a moment, went on. One song followed another, as the carol of a bird begins afresh after an interval of rest. Then came a longer pause, and Honor rose from the piano.
               "She has n't a strong voice," said Miriam to me, when I went into the kitchen, a few moments after. "It is n't round and full like Eliza's. Hers sounds like a trumpet. It's enough to take the ruff off the house when she sings."
               It was true what Miriam said. Honor's voice was slender compared to Eliza Ray's. Yet the latter gave me little pleasure when she sang, though I knew not why till Uncle Robert told me.
               "She has a large, rich voice," he said, "but no method, no cultivation, no taste, no style."
               "Alice says she sings just as they do at the opera," was my reply.
               "There she's mistaken," said Uncle Robert. "Does n't Alice know how to tell the genuine from the spurious, the real from the artificial? Because Eliza attempts opera songs in a dashy way, getting over notes instead of singing them; because she makes quivers in the place of trills, and keeps part of her voice in her throat, Alice thinks she sings as they do at the opera. O what a generation!" groaned Uncle Robert. "I'll show you the difference some day, my dear; but you'll perceive it without my showing."
               "Thanks to my uncle's fine taste. There are not many girls who have such a musical friend as mine."
               "Ah, Emmie, I can't do much; but I do see that half the world are wrong when they think they are right. I almost lose my patience to hear some people talk,—people who have had as many opportunities as I to hear and judge, and they do not use the senses and reason that nature gave them."
               "Why does n't somebody tell Eliza about her singing?" asked I. "It is a pity she should go on making attempts without success."
               "Some one ought to speak to her."
               "Why not you, Uncle Robert?"
               "She would n't thank me for telling the truth. She wouldn't believe me, either. But I will speak, Emmie, even if it should do no good. For the sake of art I will tell her." And Uncle Robert frowned and laughed at the same time.
               He kept to his resolve, and mentioned his views to Eliza,—not too gently, I fear, for he was sometimes abrupt. Art was not benefited, neither were we. Eliza became cold to every member of the family from that time. She was nothing daunted by Mr. Barberick's opinion, and sent her fullest tones through the church each Sunday, as if determined that he and everybody else should have the benefit of Miss Ray's contralto.
               There were times when she gave me pleasure,—when the rich quality of her low notes, veiled by my small treble,—for I sang with Eliza in church,—entered my ear like the mellow resonance of a horn. We sometimes made harmony together, though I fear concord did not attune Eliza's sentiments towards me. Uncle Robert scolded me occasionally for false intonation, but this did not happen often.
               I was almost always conscious of my failing in this respect; besides, I was always informed of it. My uncle was quick to criticise; and the fair Eliza—for fair she was—never hesitated to tell me of my faults. Thus there was little danger that my vanity would thrive unduly; praise was seldom heard by me; but it was sweet, and I tried to win and deserve it.
               I can recall with great distinctness our quiet Sabbaths. How bright were the golden morns! how calm the cloudy ones! The streets were quiet, save for occasional pedestrians. Nicely-dressed men, women men, and children went by to their little chapel on the hill. I liked to see the Sunday clothes of the men, the devout faces of the women, the serious looks of the children, as they walked in groups. All nature seemed joyful.
               Even trees and flowers waved their leaves and shed their incense, as if giving thanks for the peace of that day. Elms and larches bent softly to the light air; maples gave grateful shade to the garden-walks. In this secluded spot roses and verbenas, pinks and nasturtiums, glowed together. Portulaca buds waited for their noon, and heliotropes dotted the brightest beds of color with their purple clusters. Balm stole from the blossoms as they breathed out their life to the air, and soothed senses and spirit to rest.
               All things seemed holy as the day itself. The song of birds, the occasional step of a passer-by, and a revelling of bees, now here, now there, were the chief sounds that mingled with the dreamy softness of the atmosphere.
               My mother visited all her flowers in turn, looking to discover the needs of each, and discerning their wants by her fine instinct at a glance. The kitten bounded by, her glossy fur shining blue as a greyhound; with one leap she cleared the rose-bed, and settled herself behind a currant-bush, ready to dart out at the first provocation. If the sun did not shine, there was naturally urally less brightness, but the peculiar charm attending a cloudy sky. Then the flowers nodded on their stalks, heavy with moisture, instead of swaying themselves to the movements of the breeze.
               Sabbath morning in the garden! How pure and serene are the memories of that day in that place! If the rain came thick and fast, and the wind blew, I looked out on the storm. The strong horse-chestnut, the pale abelia, with its silver-lined leaves, the purple beech, and the white lilac, all bowed to the force which gave to the wind its fleetness. With apparent joy they abandoned themselves to the elements; now drooping their boughs, now tossing them, as if to catch the whirling winds in their soft fringes. On cloudy days, when no rain fell, a wonderful charm stole through the haze.
               In my memory is the picture of an autumn Sabbath, which, if I were an artist, I could vividly paint. The garden, its high fence, with a guard of lattice, is before me. A pale mist, through which the sun pushes a golden glow, shows among the maple branches, red with fading foliage. A fresh but mild breeze plays with leaves and flowers. Rows of asters line the walks; and I see my dear mother examining the beauties of each, always thinking the last the prettiest. How trimly grow the small ones like daisies, and how tenderly she turns them to my view, with her fair, plump fingers! How large show the giant size,—in their regality suggesting youthful dahlias! How generously open are the quilled blossoms, which seem formed to breathe tiny tones, like Liliputian trumpets; and how softly glow the peony-flowered, expanding in all colors! As my eye ranges along the borders, I see dark purple, pale pearl, and lavender, crimson, pink, and flesh, creamy-white, rich blue, purple dashed with light flecks, white and crimson mingled like currants and cream, and pale ones suffused with pink, soft as the heart of a rose. I see all. I admire all.
               Suddenly the bell calls to church. Its tones float up among the trees and low round our dwelling. My dear mother says, "It is time to go," and we part. She, an invalid, stays at home, and I turn my steps churchward.
               Sunday was impressively, for me, the one day in seven. As I entered the church, where a holy atmosphere ever reigned, my worldly desires were hushed to rest. When the good man rose and spoke in his tender voice, I felt that he was indeed a shepherd, caring for his wandering sheep. When prayer flowed out like an exhalation of his pure being, tranquillity stole over me; and, at the singing of the chant, my soul rose upward to celestial spheres. The sermon I did not always comprehend. I could understand enough for my daily guidance, and the rest stood in my mind emblematic of pure piety.
               It was our pastor's wish that the choir should be composed of volunteers,—that those who loved to sing should sing with their hearts and voices too. Thus it came that Eliza Ray and little I, a sweet tenor and an uncertain bass, led the congregation in this part of the service. For two years this had been the arrangement; and since he had gone who wished it, still it was continued.
               Very few of those gathered together joined in our musical praise. At first, fifty voices made themselves heard, but they speedily diminished, like Falstaff's men in buckram, to two.
               Uncle Robert was chorister, and, under pain of his displeasure, we were forced to sing what he considered good music. Joe Haydn Schmidt was organist. For thirty years had he tried his best to keep the choir together; and, although sopranos, contraltos, tenors, and basses followed each other like the succession of seasons, old Joe remained at his post.
               As I look back to this time of my life, I perceive how my whole being turned itself to sound. A loud laugh, a sharp tone of voice, grated on my ear; the sudden peal of brass startled me, and the clang of many instruments sent tremulous vibrations through my frame. Soft, mellow, tuneful sounds soothed me to a calmer state. I became critical,—I, who knew so little. Far beyond, was something which I felt to be attainable, yet something that I knew not, save in spirit.
               On my fleshly ears this harmony had never descended. Unconsciously I had imbibed prejudice and knowledge together from my uncle's teaching; and, as he oftener blamed than praised, I dropped charity on the road, and learned too quickly to condemn. My duties at home were light,—my dear mother being full of indulgence, and happy to hear me play and sing throughout the day; and Miriam, so proud of what she considered extraordinary talent, that she scorned all my offers of assistance, and excluded me from her domain.
               Joe Haydn's mildness acted on my character in gentle counteraction to my uncle's example. With a sensitive ear he bore a sensitive heart, and his criticism was as delicate as his taste. Often, in my walks, when I heard the sound of the organ in the church, I turned to the door, opened it softly, and crept into a corner of the building. There, unseen, I listened to the story of the old man's heart, for he told it to his organ.
               Sound after sound spoke from the keys, one tone followed another, and both mingled into one clear treble, fuller mezzo, and rolling bass, till, in a tide of sound, the melody was repeated o'er and o'er. From a bright major Joe ever crept to his favorite minor third and diminished seventh. They cried among the joyous triads like sobs of pain,—wild wails of woe for bliss departed. Sometimes the old man played in this way for hours, not heeding even the ringing of the noon bell above his head. All sounds were merged in the voices of his cherished organ. No other instrument was so sweet to his ear,—no other so dear to his soul. No principal piped so clear and fine, no dulciana sang so bird-like, no diapason rolled so smooth, no hautboy sounded so rich, no trumpet so triumphant, as those in his organ. In tenderest love he questioned them, and as tenderly they replied; and, forgetful of everything beside, the old man played on.
               Often I left my corner and went up softly into the organ-loft. Then I spoke gently, fearing to disturb his musical revery; but I never startled him. He looked, smiled without speaking, wandered in the mazes of his theme a few moments longer, and then rose from his seat.
               "Well, my dear," was his frequent salutation, "it is time to go, I suppose";—and then we walked to his house next the church. Sometimes I borrowed the key, and went back in the afternoon to repeat to the organ what its master had already told it. It was a vain attempt. Some rhythm sang again,—some harmony reappeared; but all was fragmentary.
               
               I pressed the keys with tender caresses, but the cold ivory kept its secret. Then I turned to some of the old fugues and tried to pick out the notes; but I was never satisfied with my efforts.
               One afternoon, after Honor came to us, I went to the church to practise. Soon I grew tired and discouraged, and, in a fit of dejection, dropped my head on my hands. The keys answered to the sudden touch, and vibrated not inharmoniously. The murmurs died on my ear in long-drawn, soft reverberations. Hardly had they ceased, when the sweetest echoes took up the sound. The harmonies came nearer and nearer. I looked round to discover the cause, but nothing was visible. Still sounded the airy strains; and, as the echo of the organ died away, other melodies fell on the ear. How divine they were!
               Harmonies, rich beyond anything I had ever heard, flowed all around me. But who was the invisible player? As I asked this question, I perceived before me a delicate figure, shaded by floating garments. Raising my head, I saw the lovely face of St. Cecilia. Her eyes were fixed on me, and her lips parted to speak. "Strive!" was the word which issued from her lips. "Strive daily, and you will fill the air with music!"
               "Strive!" I repeated, and rose to approach her. With a smile of rapture on her countenance, she vanished ished from my view. I tried to follow, and, in the effort, woke. It was then all a vision! She had not spoken.
               "Yes!" I exclaimed. "She has spoken. St. Cecilia has visited me."
               Harmonies still resounded from the organ. The keyboard had been my pillow. It had lulled me to sleep, and had responded again to my waking motions.
               I looked around. The church was filled with shadows of twilight. Far in the corners crept a purple gloom. Into the pulpit, from the window above, fell a flood of orange light, brightening the crimson curtains, and touching the Bible and hymn-book with a warm glow. A broad, bright ray beamed athwart the darkness, like a ladder of glory, showing the vault with its flying cherubs and azure sky.
               "Seraphs on high and demons below," murmured a voice near me. I turned and saw Joseph Haydn.
               "Ah! I have to come and fetch you now."
               It was indeed time to go. The bell struck at that moment the signal for evening service.
               "Don't be frightened," said Joe. "It's only the first bell. You've got half an hour before rehearsal."
               I was punctual at my post. Joe sat at the organ, meditating through his fingers. One by one came the rest of the choir,—Eliza last. She was entirely independent dependent. Sometimes she did not come at all. Nobody thought of asking why, except tall Gonflin, the tenor, who admired our contralto, and tried to accommodate himself to her moods.
               "Good evening," was his salutation.
               She tossed her head by way of reply.
               Our practice was always interesting, and sometimes entirely agreeable, but oftener unsatisfactory. Gonflin's voice lacked power, but his intonation was true. Simon, our basso, a robusto, could pour out a drowning volume of sound, but he often growled so flat, that he dragged us all towards his own uncertain level. On this evening I was excited to the utmost limit of forbearance. A beautiful Gloria Patri was marred by the slow time in which it was taken.
               "It is a little slow," said our dear old organist, when we had finished.
               "Play faster, then," was Simon's reply.
               "I began it faster, but you held me back."
               "Miss Emily, we'll take it faster," said presumptuous basso, unconscious of his own shortcomings, and insinuating that I was the delinquent.
               Joe began again. I tried with all my power to aid him. What was the use? Eliza dragged and covered me entirely. Gonflin kept to the time, but Simon sagged, sagged down into the depths.
               "This is too bad," said Simon, when we had ended ed. "I think we might try again and do better," darting a reproachful glance at me.
               We did try again, and, either from fatigue or temper, I sang flat. At this juncture Uncle Robert entered and informed me of the fact.
               "Yes," rejoined Eliza, "I noticed it. This is the third time we have tried it," added she, with a sigh of resignation.
               "Suppose we try it again now?" suggested Simon, accenting the last word, as if a clew to the mystery had been gained, and there would no longer be any trouble, if I would only rectify my mistake.
               "No," cried I, passionately; "I shall not try it again. I know I sang flat last time, but I was so pulled down by trying to keep you in time and tune that I was completely tired out." This remark I finished with a flood of tears, and sat down, indignant with the whole choir, even with Joe himself. "Why did he not take his own time, instead of giving up to the laggards?"
               As I asked myself this question a mild voice spoke at my side. "Your organist was a little slow, young lady, and discords will sometimes arise in the midst of concords."
               I turned hastily. A young stranger stood near. How reproachful was his glance! I blushed at the remembrance of my own words and manner. When had I ever so spoken before? Even my friends were astonished at this exhibition of feeling, and what must a stranger think. Would he call me termagant, tartar, virago, vixen? All these appellations passed pleasantly through my mind, as applicable to myself on the present occasion.
               "Mr. Maurice!" exclaimed Old Joe, stepping forward. "I am happy to see you, sir, and to introduce you to our choir. Mr. Gonflin, the Rev. Mr. Maurice."
               "It gives me pleasure to know them all," said the young clergyman, bowing to each, in a way which quietly interrupted Joe's ceremonies. "Our new minister, indeed!"
               Uncle Robert had informed me of his arrival, and I had asked how he looked. I had longed to meet him, and I had. What an introduction to my future pastor! I blushed while he continued: "I heard Gloria Patria from the house, and could not resist the temptation of listening nearer, and making the acquaintance of some of my parishioners."
               Eliza bridled and smiled graciously. Simon comported himself more modestly, and Mr. Gonflin retired into private life,—voice and all. After an interval, which seemed interminable, I dared to lift my eyes, and found that Mr. Maurice had retreated to a corner with Uncle Robert.
               Joe was trotting round, peering after Mr. Gonflin. "We are to try Gloria Patri again, my dear," he whispered, in passing; "now don't be afraid. I 'll keep them to true time, depend upon it."
               Mr. Gonflin ventured to emerge from somewhere, and moved his lips, but, as far as sound was concerned, we might as well have had no tenor. Simon managed to keep up; and though Eliza sang rather loud, Mr. Maurice evidently enjoyed her voice. His presence stimulated all to do their duty, except myself. I could hardly sing for shame; and at last Uncle Robert cried out, "Do give us a little treble over there?"
               Then I stopped singing entirely, but a few bars finished the chant. My voice would not come at all; mortification and tears stifled it, I believe. When we prepared for Gloria in Excelsis, Mr. Maurice asked permission to join us. "How is it, Mr. Gonflin, will you allow me on your part?"
               Mr. Gonflin bowed and mumbled, "O yes, sir, if you please, sir,—very happy,"—and something else, lost in the roof of his mouth.
               Instantly Joe began, and they joined their voices. How they were lifted by the minister's tenor! There was a freshness in his tones, which told of mountains and of pines and of free winds among the tree-tops. I forgot my sorrow, my tears ceased to flow, and I glanced at Mr. Maurice. How happy he looked, with a flush on his cheek and a light in his eye! A thought sprang in my mind. "How like Honor he is! and yet not like! He has the same hair, eyes, figure,—but there is a look which is not Honor's. Ah, it is St. Cecilia!" I said, as a look of rapture beamed from his eyes at the end of Gloria in Excelsis. "That is Gloria indeed," he murmured; "shall we try it again?"
               Dear old Joe bowed to every chord he struck, and played strange pranks with the sub-bass. All things have an end, and so had the rehearsal. Mr. Maurice walked part way home with Uncle Robert and myself, and talked so pleasantly that I almost forgot the pains of the evening. "Honor!" I exclaimed, as I opened the door, "I have seen the minister!"
               "He has a beautiful tenor, and is evidently a singer, don't you think so, Uncle Robert?"
               "Yes, very fair. I only wish Gonflin sang one tenth part as well."
               "O Honor," I interrupted, "such an impression as I have given Mr. Maurice of my temper!" and I narrated what had been said and done at the church, not excusing my own impatience and sadness.
               Uncle Robert laughed heartily. "Which do you care most about, Emmie? Mr. Maurice's disapproval, or the wrong itself?"
               Honor seemed indifferent to my woes, but my dear mother gave me her warmest sympathy.
               The good old parish was at this time in an unquiet condition. As a body, we had not imbibed the serenity of our former pastor's spirit. Agitations were moving among us. Some of the 'parishioners were for old customs,—they wanted old-fashioned preaching, like that of our dear, departed saint, and old-fashioned singing, such as they had heard in childhood. They did not fancy chants, or anything else that savored of Episcopacy.
               "It is no better than Popery," exclaimed Mrs. Cram; "and I do hope the next minister won't tolerate Mr. Barberick's doings in the choir. When dear Dr. Lincoln was alive, we had the good old music, everybody could join and turn the tune, but for the last six months new notions have prevailed. Goodness! it is enough to turn anybody's head to think of it."
               Uncle Robert tried to explain to her that the Glorias and chants were many of them composed long before Hebron, Balerma, and Olmutz. He told her that they were written by doctors of music, who had lived before any of us were born, and that they had sounded through cathedral aisles for hundreds of years. "And you know, Mrs. Cram," continued my uncle, "that we sing many old hymn tunes, such as Irish, Mear, Ocean, and others. Some of the ancient tunes are poor, and you don't want to hear them, I know. Now the chants are grand, and they are short too. Listening to them won't make us Episcopalians. I think it is no harm to adopt some of the English Church service,—especially let us introduce its music into our choirs, with limitations. We shall grow more liberal if we do this."
               Mrs. Cram was mystified rather than enlightened by Uncle Robert's explanation, and in no way convinced. She remained of her own opinion, and became more opposed to Mr. Barberick than before. Many among the congregation were of her mind; but Uncle Robert maintained his cause against them all, supported by the choir and the rising generation. I was sometimes uncharitable enough to mistrust Eliza's professions of admiration for the old masters; and when Simon talked about his "appreciation" of Bach, it sounded like estimation of self, for he used scientific terms, talked loud, and made people stare.
               Our musical differences had begun to assume a serious aspect. Where was the spirit of love which our departed pastor had left as a legacy?
               At this period came the new minister. Mr. Cram had heard him preach in B——, and had reported favorably of him to the committee. For six months various clergymen had spoken to our congregation, but not one had left an abiding impression on the general mind. The void left by him who had been taken from us grew more and more deep, and a painful weariness filled the hearts of the people. Suddenly these tidings of Mr. Maurice infused new life into our numbers. A meeting was called, and a large majority of the parish voted to invite the young minister to become their pastor. From this time, a spirit of content, dashed with expectation, prevailed in the old parish.
               Mr. Maurice accepted the call, and came to Summerstown a week before Honor's arrival.
               Mr. Cram had received him and taken him to his house. For several days he had been ill, and Mrs. Cram had been his nurse. It was with a little triumph of manner that she described the new minister to those less fortunate than herself, and promised to introduce them on his recovery. The tenth day he was reported better; and that very night, when the storm descended, had he gone forth to aid the tossed and frightened voyagers.
               On Saturday came the proclamation that he would speak to his new congregation the next day. That evening, in the organ-loft, the informal interview between Mr. Maurice and his choir had taken place, and the curiosity of a few was satisfied.
               To my surprise, Honor, who had a bad cold, prepared pared to go to church with us Sunday morning. "You ought not to venture out with such a throat," remonstrated my mother.
               "You will catch more cold," added Miriam sharply, not well pleased at the idea of playing nurse needlessly.
               "I must go," replied Honor. "How can I stay away after my rescue from peril?" she asked solemnly.
               We set out together,—Uncle Robert, Honor, and myself. The air was cold.
               "How do you like this, young ladies?" inquired my uncle. "Five below zero, and sharp enough to nip a man's ears."
               Snow glistened all around. In the street it lay grooved like chiselled marble; along the way stood walls of parian; trees and fences were covered with diamond points; giant icicles thrust themselves like daggers from the house-eaves; the ground was scattered with jewel dust; and, over all, stretched a pavilion of perfect blue.
               Far in the north, Mount Washington raised his summit, lustrous with snow and sunbeams. It was an inspiring day. My feet sprang elastic from their tread. For a moment I felt that I might fly. I lingered behind my companions to drink the frosty air. Suddenly I became conscious of a new sensation. I lost my wings, my tread grew more firm, and a strange, still exhilaration took possession of me. I felt the cold in every pore; and, as I absorbed the inspiring tonic, it seemed as if I were turning to marble,—outwardly passive, inwardly triumphant. I sang a silent song of exultation. Did I not dwell in a crystal realm whose sapphire roof looked down on a globe of diamond light? We reached the church, ascended the steps, and melted into the shade of the portal. I went to my seat in the choir. Uncle Robert and Honor sat in the gallery near. A hush rose in the holy place as a solemn petition fell from the lips of the preacher; and many hearts, I believe, joined in his fervent supplications for strength, courage, and patience amid the world's temptations.
               I gave no thought to the duties of the choir. For the first hymn, Joe Haydn played Habakkuk on the full organ. The sounds inspired me; and when he resumed the tune, in smooth-toned diapason, my voice came. I was unconscious of Eliza, Gonflin, and Simon. I only knew that a hymn of praise was ascending from earth to heaven. Again came prayer, again a solemn hymn, and Mr. Maurice began his sermon. "We have thought of thy loving-kindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple." These were his first words; and then followed, "Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind."
               
               There were not many dry eyes as he gave thanks for the late danger and deliverance. In words of power he spoke of the sea, its change, its constancy, its glory, its mystery. In a short half-hour I lived over again the fearful gale and that night of watching. Honor sat pale as a marble image. Not a tear escaped her eye, not a flush passed over her cheek. She seemed absorbed in holy contemplation. Not a word came from her lips on our way home. Silently she entered the house and retired to her own room.
               My mother and I sat together in the evening and reviewed the day. Miriam entered as Honor's name was mentioned. She stopped and passed judgment peremptorily. "I never saw nobody like her. Can't tell whether she's flesh or fish, rather think she's fish. There she sat through the sermon for all the world like a carved figger-head. I guess she's a mermaid."
               "She's pale, but she has n't green hair, Miriam."
               "Well, when she shows feeling, I'll believe she's got it."
               Honor's voice, calling me, interrupted my defence. As I closed the door Miriam grumbled something about cold blood, and then launched into vituperations against clams, oysters, and stupid girls.
               It was dark in Honor's room, and she lay quietly in bed. "I want to tell you about the music to-day, Emily; it was very good, and you sang better than either of the others. I don't say it to please you, but because it is true, and I want to encourage you in the right way. Besides, I shall criticise your faults another time. Now I feel as if I could speak of myself. You ought to know about me, and why I came to Summerstown."
               "Won't it tire you to talk so much?"
               "No, it will relieve my mind. I am alone in the world, Emily. It is a sad thing to say. My mother left me two years ago. It is but three months since my father breathed his last." Here she paused, overcome with emotion.
               "I wish Miriam could see her now!" was my mental ejaculation.
               In a moment she resumed: "There were five little brothers and sisters who died in childhood. I was the only one who thrived and lived. To what purpose?" she murmured, with a sigh. "My parents feared the same fate for me. I believe their care kept me.
               "My mother was—but I cannot describe her. Such heavenly eyes as she had! How our pastor loved her for her kindness to the poor! She taught me prayer and piety. I have never known such a character and such a heart. And my father, Emily. You should have heard him sing. His voice had no honeyed sweetness; it rang like a trumpet. He never could have been a troubadour, but he was always a chevalier. He rarely sang songs of sentiment, perhaps partly from a want of sympathy with the subject. He used to say sentiment was a thing to feel, not to talk or sing about. It might be expressed in poetry, painting, and instrumental music; these were its proper exponents. The human voice was too sympathetic a medium, and, in nine cases out of ten, turned sentiment into weakness. My mother did not quite agree with him, and they had frequent arguments on this topic. How well, how serenely they talked, and with what intentness I listened to see which gained the victory. But I never could decide. My constitutional tendencies inclined me to my father's opinion, but how could I differ from my dear mother?
               "At the age of seventeen, under the direction of the former, I began a regular discipline of the voice. I am now twenty-three, and for six years have been a diligent student of vocalization. And yet how little I can do! I have no riches, Emily. My father's long illness diminished his means, and I must depend on my own resources. A week ago I sold my little all, took my slender receipts and travelled to B——. From there I sailed for Summerstown. You know the rest. I hope to form classes for vocal instruction in your quiet town. Shall I succeed?"
               "Without a doubt. How pleased Uncle Robert will be! Honor, I should like to know about the passage. Would it be painful for you to tell me?"
               Her answer came, after the lapse of a few seconds. "The storm waked me."
               "O, how did you feel, frightened?"
               "I had a conviction that we were lost."
               "Did you keep still?"
               "Yes; the captain told us we should be saved if we were only quiet."
               After a moment's pause, she said, "Death came very near to me that night, Emily." She cast her eyes upward, and, in a solemn voice continued, "I can never forget the review of life which my soul took in that hour of agony, neither can I forget my resolves for the future." There was a moment's silence, she closed her eyes, and softly said, "Good night."
               I found Uncle Robert in the parlor. I told him Honor's history. "Poor girl!" he exclaimed. "You must be the first pupil, Emmie, and I will get her plenty more. I can promise her that she will find enough to do in benighted Summerstown."
               Uncle Robert always spoke of the musical state of our little town as he would have mentioned the mental condition of an Esquimaux settlement. I was quite accustomed to this, and had almost adopted his mode of thinking; but Honor's appearance among us had suddenly raised the hope for a better future.
               
               The thought that I was really to take lessons in singing almost inspired me, and I played my favorite airs and choruses from the Messiah till ten o'clock.
               "Which do you prefer, Uncle Robert, 'Rejoice greatly,' or 'O thou that tellest good tidings'?" This was my question, breaking in on half an hour's performances, uninterrupted by conversation. "Was anything more lovely ever written?" This was remark number two, addressed to my mother. I turned my head.
               Uncle Robert had gone. My dear mother was sleeping in her chair, and Mr. Maurice sat by her side, smiling at her and at me. "I rang," he began, in apologetic tones; "I was shown in; as I did not disturb anybody, I couldn't resist staying to hear Handel."
               "Sing, Emily," said my mother, roused to consciousness of externals by the sound of voices. "Sing, Mr. Maurice." Her tones were more of command than request, for she was not quite awake.
               "O, if you please," I added, in a voice of entreaty, and the minister walked to the piano. He opened the volume at the recitative, "Comfort ye my people." I played the short prelude and he sang. I have spoken before of his voice as fresh and sympathetic.
               "Comfort ye, comfort ye." There was consolation in the words as he spoke them. As he went on, I felt that Jerusalem was truly pardoned. Her warfare was accomplished, her iniquity forgiven.
               At the conclusion Mr. Maurice turned the leaf, evidently expecting me to continue with "Every valley." I did so, for I could not have breathed a doubt as to his ability to execute the scale passages of this melody. I drew a long breath as we came to the sixth bar; the tenor took it quietly, and with only a few falters finished the difficulties. I glowed with pleasure to see that only occasional obstacles assailed him, and that, above and through them all, shone out the divine spirit of peace and forgiveness.
               Suddenly Honor's bedroom door opened, and she walked out. She, whom I had thought asleep two hours before, made her appearance; a light of joy shone in her countenance. Without delay she said, "Will you play 'Rejoice greatly'?"
               I obeyed like one in a dream. Far beyond astonishment was I, or great would have been my surprise at Honor's interpretation of this sacred song. I forgot that she had a cold. So did she; it certainly did not speak in her voice; for more vibrant, silver tones I had never heard. If Mr. Maurice gave his part sympathetically, Honor rendered hers triumphantly. As the groups of notes slipped from her lips, they sounded pure as the fall of pearls. No stiff thoughts of vocalization disturbed the harmony of the aria. Joy gushed from her soul as she repeated the words "Rejoice, rejoice, rejoice!" It was no common gladness, but the religious ecstasy of a happy penitent. So might indeed sing the daughter of Zion.
               Honor's voice rang clear, as the exultant "Shout, shout, shout!" proclaimed a holy victory won from forgiveness. The little room echoed her call.
               "Won't you try something else?" asked Uncle Robert, who had entered a few moments before.
               "How beautiful are the feet!" suggested Mr. Maurice.
               I found the place and prepared for the change of key. All listened intently as Honor sang the peaceful melody. It brought a hush on our previous enthusiasm. Waves of calm sound followed the call of jubilee. Quiet measures filled the air with serenity. The apostle's thoughts, cradled in lulling triplets, fell soothingly on the ear.
               "The gospel of peace," echoed Mr. Maurice, as he rose to take leave. "May peace be with you all."
               Filled with desire to know what was thought of Honor's voice and singing, I ran to the entry and caught the minister's first words.
               "Very fine; pure voice and good style."
               "She reminds me of Clara Novello," was Uncle Robert's reply. He reached for his cap and coat and passed out of the door with Mr. Maurice. The latch clicked, the hinges creaked, and I lost what followed. I flew to the kitchen and saluted Miriam with "What do you think of that?"
               "The minister sings well, I declare."
               "Did n't you hear 'Rejoice greatly'?"
               "Hear it? Why the woman sang so loud she waked me right out of a sound nap. But she's got a most splendid voice."
               "Why, I never heard anything like it. We thought, the other day, she had n't much power. A slight mistake on our part, Miriam; Uncle Robert says she reminds him of that famous singer, Madame Novello."
               Miriam yawned; she had on a night-cap and an old shawl. She didn't seem the least sleepy, notwithstanding the gape. I turned away indignantly and went back to the parlor.
               "O Honor, how charming!"
               She smiled, "Did you like it?"
               "Like it! Why, I never heard anything so beautiful."
               Honor folded her hands. A gleam of light made her blue eyes bluer, and she looked strangely happy. "My dear father was always so pleased when I sang well. To-morrow you will take your lesson and we will see about your voice."
               "O, I have n't got any." I remembered her silver shouts, and then thought of my own poor pipings. "If I could ever hope to approach you, Honor, I would practise all the time."
               "That would do more harm than good. There is such a thing as singing too much, as well as too little. But I have tired you all, so good night."
               The next day I took my first lesson, and a lesson it truly was. I had thought to go through a good many exercises, and to please Honor more than I did on Sunday. But, to my surprise, I could not sing even the diatonic scale correctly.
               I did nothing right, from holding my head, to placing my tongue and lips in proper positions. I did not bring my voice from the chest. I did not make good tones; the quality of the lower register was coarse, that of the medium lacked purity, while the higher voice was thin and nasal. I do not say that Honor told me all this in words. I drew my inference from the very plain fact that I sang hardly two consecutive notes without correction. Honor's criticisms were of the mildest kind. "That sound is good, but this mixed tone must be avoided," was her first advice, made emphatic by illustration. "Inhale in this manner, not in that." Then followed an example.
               At the end of half an hour Honor proposed a rest. "You have done very well. I was drilled in this way for months and months. Yes, for years. It is the only discipline which will give a singer control of the voice. Often, with my father, I sang the scale for an hour, varying its character to prevent it from becoming monotonous. If you can sing the scale well, smoothly, firmly, sustainedly, you will be able to do almost anything. I don't mean the long scale, that will come by and by, when you have conquered exercises requiring flexibility rather than sustaining power. I like your voice. It is sweet, and practice will increase its volume."
               "You are encouraging, Honor. Uncle Robert wants me to sing, and I am willing to learn for his sake, apart from the pleasure it gives me; but if I ever make a fortune it will be with hands, not with voice. My heart goes out through my fingers; the ivory, cold as it is, always inspires me. I forget myself when I play, but am conscious while I sing."
               "I think I can tell you why, Emily. Your voice is less developed than your fingers. You can't help knowing and feeling it, in your practice; the voice don't come right, and you can't forget the fact; the fingers go on smoothly, and make almost independent little journeys, and you hardly know that you will them to do it. With me, it is just the other way. I am keenly alive to the action of playing, and am always wishing it over. When I sing, my voice comes of itself. I think our opposite discipline has produced opposite results. I hope you will sing, for, in true singing, health and music meet. My father used to say: 'Train the voice and you train the chest. The position for a singer is the position for a soldier. Erect, yet natural posture, shoulders back, voice ready for the utterance of a charge or roundelay.' I believe in it. I am sure that education of the fingers entices to injurious attitudes. Head bent down, stooping shoulders and contracted chest are often the consequences of piano study, though these should be guarded against. I must watch you when you play, Emily, and keep you upright, it will give long sight and healthy lungs."
               "I never thought of all this. Where did you learn so much, Honor?"
               "From my father."
               "What was his first name?"
               "Henry,—Henry May. He studied medicine, took his diploma, and was called Dr. May, although he practised but seldom."
               "And you have no relatives?"
               "O yes; some are wealthy and influential, but I choose to be independent even of them. Do you know the Shirleys of C——?"
               "The Shirleys of High Street, those patrons of the arts?"
               "The very same. They wished me to live with them, but I declined. My uncle and aunt are kind, but dependence would make me wretched."
               "You will have so many scholars in Summerstown that you will be as rich as a Begum in a few years; then you can pay your relations a visit."
               "I don't think they would welcome me more cordially if I were rich, but they are somewhat aristocratic in another way. I am not sure that the idea of my teaching would be pleasant to them. That a May should earn her own bread might seem derogatory to the family dignity in the eyes of Cordelia and Jane. My father used to call them Countess Cora and Lady Jane. They are good girls, but they love the world. Their mother would rather feed me on strawberries and cream than have me toil with these fingers, but Uncle George approves my intentions. He is a noble man, and Mary and George are dear cousins.
               "I should n't say these things, but I feel that I owe you candor,—you, your mother, and uncle, who have taken me, a wanderer, into the love of your home. My relatives are generous and kind. You may think that duty leads me to them; but when I say that we are not enough alike to be happy together, you will understand me. I have told all to your mother, and her answer is, 'Stay, my child'; do you say stay, Emily?"
               
               "Stay forever, Honor, and teach me how to sing."
               And so our minstrel stayed. She, for whom we had looked and longed, whom we had anticipated some calm day, whose coming had been pictured like that of a green leaf or spring flower, quiet and shy, she had flown to us across the bay on tempestuous winds, and now brooded like a dove amid our household.
               Little had been spoken of her voyage. She had not inclined to talk of it. Within her breast had she locked the secrets of the storm and the night.
               Uncle Robert had informed a dozen people of Miss May's purpose to teach, and no less than four applicants for her time and talents appeared within a week. My mother was pleased, and I found Miriam considerably mollified at the idea that Miss May was n't proud. Uncle Robert's eyes sparkled when he heard that several pupils were already secured.
               "I am afraid you'll all get tired of music," said Honor.
               "You challenge a compliment," replied Uncle Robert, with a bow.
               "O no," exclaimed Honor. Her color did not rise at the implied admiration.
               "Miriam thinks everybody must redden and quiver if they have any feeling," was my thought, as I gazed at her calm face. "I do believe blushing is a question of skins. Look at Honor's fair, pale complexion. One would think she might blush often. But examine her skin,—it looks like the petal of a white camellia, it is as soft and as thick too. Blood does not easily color that texture. Her feelings are hid in her heart, they don't assert themselves at every trifling word."
               Thus I talked mentally, and compared the oval face before me to the rosy countenance of Miss Eliza Ray, contralto.
               "Here is an example," I continued, as I recalled my companion in the choir; "complexion like an apple-blossom. Skin transparent as rice-paper. How she blushes when Gonflin talks sentiment! I wonder if her feelings are very deep! It is a question of skins." Thus uncharitably I settled the matter, though I hold to the opinion still, with limitations.
               The next day Honor was a little hoarse, in spite of her fine voice the evening before, and thought it prudent not to practise. When I had sung scales for ten minutes, she checked me. "That will do now."
               "But I'm not tired."
               "I am glad to hear it. But you must n't wait to be tired. You may sing the scales as often as you wish through the day. I think I am safe in promising this, but it must be at intervals. If you repeat them too often, I will tell you. There are two dangers for pupils;—to the indolent, the danger of too little practice tice; to the ardent, the danger of too much. I hope you will avoid both. I had a friend who sang so much and so unwisely that the result was an almost constant hoarseness, perceptible chiefly in her speaking voice. Be careful and not mar the delicate organ nature has given you in the same way."
               I closed the piano, sobered by Honor's earnestness. She went to her room and I mused alone. Day declined and twilight came on. I crept back to the keyboard. Varied fancies stole in with the gloom. Old memories awakened, half-forgotten melodies spoke in broken voices, wild waltzes rocked under my fingers, and a bolero, which I knew in childish days, tripped out its delicate measure.
               With the first note came the picture of a young girl dancing. How vividly she reappeared! So had I seen her in years that had gone. A slender figure, clad in black bodice and crimson skirt, rose before me. Her neck seemed a lily, each cheek a carnation. She waved her graceful arms on the air. To the impulse of music and the click of castanets she circled the floor, directing her steps with such enchantment that every note was made beautiful by motion. Now she lingered, here advanced, there retreated, then floated like a cloud, till, in my childish admiration, I thought her a creature almost of the skies. My touch brought back the swaying form, the soft gestures, the feet gliding in charmed spheres to rhythmic sounds. I saw her float more slowly, then vanish, and suddenly my fingers ceased their motion.
               "Emmie," said my uncle the next morning, "I have an idea which will please you. I propose that we have a musical club."
               "Delightful, but how to carry out your idea?"
               "I have it all planned. Miss May for prima donna, if she consents; Mr. Maurice, first tenor; Miss Eliza, principal alto; and Simon, chief of bass. These, with their satellites, will be enough to constitute a club."
               Honor opened her eyes.
               "Miss May, to you we look for important aid. I trust the idea is agreeable."
               "I should enjoy it, but do you realize the task you are undertaking? It will require patience and perseverance to bring such a body into healthy condition. I remember my father made the experiment once. How he worked!"
               "Did he succeed at last?" asked my uncle, hastily.
               "To my satisfaction, though not to his own."
               "That's enough, courage Emmie!"
               I felt ready to run and dance at the prospect of regular musical meetings. My mother smiled to see my enthusiasm. Miriam indulged in sarcastic sallies at the expense of our project. She predicted first, want of members, and then want of room; and, when I told her of the inconsistency, she looked at me with a roguish twinkle in her eye. "Never mind me, my dear, my bark's worse than my bite."
               Good soul! though her tongue was sharp, the work of her hands atoned for this defect. Little by little had she laid up her earnings, till enough had been gained to buy a house and garden-spot for her father and his wife. For sixteen years she had been their staff.
               What nobleness and what gentleness met in her impetuous nature! Constantly were her gains given to a step-mother who had never shown the kindness of a parent. I patted her hands, gave her a hug, and danced away.
               Honor talked of the club too calmly to satisfy me. She took the idea as she took her breakfast, indifferently.
               "What do you think of her?" asked Miriam, one day, as Honor floated through the kitchen.
               "Think of her? She's magnificent. Even you must acknowledge it now, Miriam."
               "O, she looks well enough! but I can't help feeling as if she had lived with the fishes,—so chilly, so—"
               At this moment Honor floated back again. Miriam was taking cake from the oven. "Here's nice cake, Miss May, all crisp and hot."
               Honor took a cooky,—broke, tasted, and laid it on the table, as if it had been a chip, yet with no dissatisfaction of manner. Whether it were sweet or sour, salt or fresh, spicy or insipid, she did not say.
               "Is it nice?" I asked quickly, fearing brusque speech from Miriam.
               "Very nice," was the calm reply. "How soon shall you be ready for a lesson?"
               As she left the kitchen Miriam cast upon her a strange, questioning glance. "Well, I declare!" was her ejaculation. Then, drawing a long breath, "I knew she was a mermaid."
               The club meeting was appointed for the next evening. Uncle Robert had the management of affairs. He liked very well the office of director. Miriam prophesied that the bell would n't ring once. She was mistaken. As the clock struck seven, ting, ting, was heard in the entry. I peeped through a crack and saw Miriam usher in Mr. Gonflin and two friends. Peal! went the bell, and Simon entered with half a dozen men, all talking in deep voices. Then came several young girls, escorted by two tenors, and a barytone who wished to be considered a tenor. Then appeared Miss Eliza with a neighbor, who was musically amphibious; being neither soprano, nor contralto, nor mezzo. Her friends styled her soprano-contralto, which my uncle said was "nonsense." "Her voice is a beautiful mezzo, Emmie, of power and compass."
               This was his dictum. During the next half-hour there were sundry droppings in of people who "did n't know exactly where they did belong,—thought they'd help,—willing to take any part." At this, my uncle said, "Oh!" and I saw Honor smile.
               Good will is a good thing, and we began our studies that evening, twenty in number. Uncle Robert selected a familiar choral for our first attempt. He went through the measures respectably. There was a predominance of bass and treble, sounding like drum and fife. Part of the melody was high, and here Honor's voice showed its silver. When she descended to medium tones, Eliza and her friend covered her with their combined volume.
               Uncle Robert was troubled at the want of balance in the parts, but he could not make a nice adjustment of incongruous elements, and soon gave up the attempt. He favored us with an analysis of the composition, told its meaning, as he understood it, and how it should be expressed.
               I saw signs of weariness at this interruption, but singing was a safety-valve for the dissatisfaction; and when the voices came out on a second attempt at the choral, faces brightened again.
               At nine o'clock Uncle Robert laid down his baton, which looked rather authoritative, and the evening's practice was over. The members of the new club were in high spirits, and stayed to say what a nice beginning we had made. Brilliant results were prophesied as the end of such meetings, and conversation became almost hilarious. To Mr. Maurice it was a happy occasion. More than half the assembled number were his parishioners, whom he was glad to see, and who delighted in meeting him. For every person in the room he had a smile, a word, or a look, which made him or her happier. My mother looked even handsomer than usual, with color in her cheeks and brightness in her eyes. My uncle spared his criticisms, and made himself generally agreeable. Before we separated, it was unanimously voted that the assembly present should be considered a society, that it should have its constitution and its weekly meetings. At ten o'clock, we adjourned.
               I was delightfully excited. I talked of the various kinds of voices, told my opinion of the choral, and suggested a dozen new members. Mr. Maurice, who had lingered, asked Honor to sing. Without hesitation she took a seat at the piano, and warbled a fluty canzonette, in an unknown tongue. I could not understand the words, but turned them to a meaning of my own, and rested content to hear the soft wavering sounds upon the air.
               
               "What a perfect note!" I exclaimed, internally, as an expanded and diminished tone faded into silence.
               "That must be B flat," said my uncle. Honor smiled. I rose and looked at the key-board. My uncle was right. Then came another verse, which, whatever it meant, conveyed to my mind, through the same notes, sung in the same way, the same idea,—only, at the end, was a short cadenza, up which tripped the voice, like a young bird's song, to a fine point; there it rested several seconds, then, with a little flutter, nestled down to the key-note, which it touched lovingly, as if it had found a haven of rest.
               "Was the highest note C?" I asked, as Honor finished.
               "No, no, Emmie!" exclaimed my uncle. "I call it D flat. Am I not right, Mr. Maurice? What do you say?"
               "I hardly dare to hazard an opinion on such a nice point, Mr. Barberick. I will tell you what the song suggested to me. Among other things, a procession of soap-bubbles, floating softly and breaking brilliantly; a pink rose, half unfolded; a bright cloud sailing by. Music always paints to my mind's eye what it tells to my ear; but the reverse is not true: pictures do not suggest music. Even as a child, I associated colors with sounds, but not sounds with colors. Do you understand what I mean, Mr. Barberick?"
               "Dimly,—for I have never had the same experience. Will you give us some examples?"
               "The tones of a flute bring rose-color to my thoughts, and rose-odor to the air. The trumpet blows scarlet-tones,—scarlet bright as the honey-suckle which bears its name. When I hear a horn, my thoughts are tinged with gold."
               "How does the organ color your brain?"
               "With many shades, corresponding to the qualities of the different stops. Purple is the predominant hue. A fife, on the contrary, suggests the brightest orange."
               "How is it with the violin? What color does it represent, in the abstract, without reference to the compositions it illustrates? What does it paint?"
               "That I cannot answer with any positiveness, the shades of color blend so tenderly and continuously; but I believe they are mostly black and white, melting into gray, like the web of humanity, and, like that, checkered with bars of ruby and gold. Many of the hues are inexpressible. Some are crimson as the current of life; all are rayed with threads of light. As to the legends and pictures that speak and glow from its strings, they are echoes of the composer's thoughts."
               
               "I think I understand," said my uncle.
               Mr. Maurice continued. "Instruments are like cunning painters. Each has its character, which unconsciously expresses its nature. Its different voices tell its predominant hue, whether grave or gay, hard or mellow. When an instrument translates an author, the composition is faithfully interpreted,—presupposing the intelligence of the artist,—but it is tinged with the color the instrument itself suggests. For instance, any rustic-dance creates its natural surroundings; the mind easily comprehends the greensward, a knot of peasants, a castle on the hill, a vineyard, and a valley. A more republican sketch would give a cottage and a brook; but as our climate does not allow dances on the green, in a general way, we will return to the castle, the vineyard, and the peasants. The simple melody has not in itself power to express this; to a mind ignorant of peasant-life, this scene could not paint itself. Such a listener would be conscious of the passage of pleasing emotions, corresponding to the movement of the melody; but to any intelligence familiar with rural life in the Old World, a rusticdance, simply by the power of association, makes this sketch of chateau, hill and vale. Now, if the composer is true to his subject, simple though it be, he will write a melody so fresh and vigorous that it will shade the sketch and make it a lifelike drawing. Then for the coloring from any instrument. Suppose it to be a violin! Let cheerful hands interpret the measures and the drawing becomes a picture. I can see that the tones of the instrument, naturally tinged with gray, change, in the dance, to ruby; they dress the girls in crimson bodices, they put red roses in their hair, they tie ribbons in the hats of the lads, and away whirl the dancers on the green. Let a fifer play this same rustic-dance, which pictures a scene of innocent enjoyment. A new color is instantly added, heightening the features of the tableau. In my mind the tones of a fife correspond with a dark shade of orange. This same color is in harmony with military exploits. Recruiting officers enlist their men to the sound of the fife; it thus becomes a call to the field, perhaps a summons to glory. This vivid hue of orange typifies intense, fierce action; so that a fife, in its piercing voice, suggests defiant color, and then war, its correspondent life. I can see new movements in the dance, at the sound of these high, shrill tones; to the gayety of the flying figures is added a wildness, mixed with fear. The idea of separation enters the mind, and reflects itself in the positions of the dancers. The ring is broken, and the couples become despairing lovers. The thought of conscript comes to mind; the dance ceases,—it is a dance only in name."
               "I understand you, Mr. Maurice," said my uncle. "Now allow me to ask a question. How would it seem to you if the same hilarious measures were blown from the mouth of a trumpet?"
               "I should interpret it by these words: 'On to the field!' In following out the details of the picture, I should see tears on the cheeks of the village-girls, the holiday-suits of the lads would suddenly change to soldiers' uniform, and the final adieus would be spoken. And yet, Mr. Barberick, all this is the refinement of fantasy. I might, in an unimaginative mood, understand the melody, simply, through its name and measure, as a merry round. I might see neither castle, vineyard, nor peasants, but only vaguely behold a circling throng. But if I once imagined the picture, I think I could paint in harmonious coloring and true correspondence. Shades and sequences would be in sympathy."
               "I feel certain that your adaptations would be felicitous," replied my uncle. "Will you imagine the same dance from the keyboard of an organ, and tell me its impression on your mind?"
               "It would still be a dance, though no more a dance of happy peasants. The music would borrow purple and dignity from the voices of the pipes; the sounds would fall on the air with nobility. A vision would arise of dukes and fair ladies moving in Terpsichorean mazes beneath the eye of royalty. Grandly would the measures swell, echoing from palace walls; the queen would smile on a subject; the king would admire the stately grace of a duchess. But I should not like the picture,—it would not be natural. The organ should never give voice to a dance. It should speak praises and prayer.
               "Mr. Barberick, these are rambling thoughts, not to be reduced to any tangible system. Each mind must color its visions alone, if it has them to color, unexpectant of the appreciation or comprehension of its brother and sister minds. Perhaps I have failed this evening to elicit even the sympathies of our auditors in these views. How is it, Miss Emily,—could you follow the rays of orange, red, and violet in this mental prism, made by the colors of fancy in our brains?"
               "Perfectly, Mr. Maurice; I have often had the same kind of fancies myself."
               "Have you indeed?" asked my uncle. "Then you are a disciple of the new school; for we must found a school on your ideas, Mr. Maurice."
               The minister smiled.
               "Did you ever associate colors with names?" was my inquiry.
               "Names?" echoed Mr. Maurice.
               "Proper names; names of people and places. My own name is green to my thoughts. All the Emilys, Emmas, and Emelines are green as leeks. But you are laughing at me, Uncle Robert."
               "Only because you are uncomplimentary to yourself. I don't laugh at anything else, child."
               "What color is my name?" asked Mr. Maurice.
               "Green, light green"; was my uncompromising reply.
               "But you don't know my first name."
               "No"—lingered on my lips.
               "Edgar."
               "O, Edgar is brown,—rich, dark brown."
               "And what color do you think of with my name?" asked Honor.
               "Perfect gold, clear as light, pure as a sunbeam."
               "We are not so visionary as might seem to the uninitiated," continued my uncle. "Some composers clothe certain keys in characteristic colors. They are significant, through delicate tints or vivid shades, of special mental feelings or conditions. Thus, E major is in harmony with blue. This bright, clear key is chosen as the exponent of cheerful thoughts. Two sharps is the signature of many vernal songs. G being typical of green, harmonizes with spring, the season of all tender buds and growths. D is the acknowledged military key,—though martial music may, of course, speak under a signature of flats as well as of sharps. D is the correspondent of brilliant color and contest; according to Mr. Maurice's theory, it is the trumpet tone. Marches are often written in this valiant key. This certainly supports him in his position."
               "A good deal of this is new to me," replied Mr. Maurice. "What a happy confirmation of my fantasies!"
               "Do you know the musical theory of brown expressed in tone?"
               Mr. Maurice professed his ignorance.
               "A quaint and delicate fancy has been entertained that if all sounds could reach each other in an atmosphere above the earth, and there mingle into one, that this union would make a soft, warm tone, corresponding to the color called brown."
               "Are you a disciple, Miss May?" asked my uncle. "I should feel gratified by your sympathy. You are not as bizarre in your fancies as we, but far more delicate. You color in sepia."
               "No, Mr. Barberick. I cannot follow your analogies. I do not see colors when I hear sounds; and I do not desire to feel this correspondence, beautiful though it may be. Sounds, to my ear, are pure, individual, self, inviolate in their nature. Besides, I fear any competitor to the love which fills my mind. Music tolerates no rival."
               
               "If your love for sound is true," interposed my uncle, "no other art will tempt you from it. You should dread no rival to music. Fear denotes weakness."
               "O, you misunderstand me!" exclaimed Honor. "No other art can tempt me to desert my own,—never; or to love it any less,—never. I am only anxious lest other admirations may intrude themselves on my devotion to sound, and make my purpose less simple, less entire. I have always endeavored to keep my musical aims single, to have my musical thoughts determined. I have striven to make my purposes so defined that no wandering fancies could shadow them."
               "They ought not to shadow them, Miss May. If the fancies are fine, they will strengthen and mature your purposes. You live in the world, but you are not of the world. You are a nun."
               "Mr. Barberick, I have tried to educate gifts which God gave me. I have had no leisure to minister to various tastes for the beautiful, if I would. You may like luxurious banquets, but I prefer the simplest fare."
               "My dear young lady," continued my uncle, "I admire your courage, but allow me to ask you a few questions. Are you not narrowing your sympathies, while you are deepening your resolves? Have you any right to exclude from your soul contemplations of beautiful correspondences? And if you think you have a right and accomplish it, is it not a poor success? Are you generous to deprive yourself of all the aid and warmth which pictured and sculptured thought would give to your soul? Once received, it would flow back into heart, voice, and life. Your singing would be as truthful as it is now, but it would be more graceful, more sympathetic."
               Honor laughed when I expected her to cry.
               "O, Mr. Barberick, do I deserve all this because I cannot accept the new theory? I love sculpture, but cannot turn my music into form. I enjoy pictures, but cannot establish their connection with tones. My songs I cherish within themselves. Remember, Mr. Barberick, that I now consider myself among the professors of music, and must reflect no discredit on my vocation." My uncle persistently resumed: "Let me counsel you to seek, I repeat it, to seek enjoyment in pictured and plastic art, to blend that pleasure with your love of tone, and to contemplate Nature in her divinest moods. As you do this, more and more delicate and noble will be all expressions of truth and beauty, through your special medium,—the voice."
               "Mr. Barberick, this would consume me. When I give myself to general ardor, I feel unnerved for special effort. My powers are weakened, my achievements ments puerile. I know my words cannot compete with your arguments. I can only say what experience tells me. My path lies before me, like the track leading to a mountain height. The peak towers above. If I reach the top, it will give command of the region below; but if I loiter to gather flowers or moisten my lips with wild fruit, I lose the beckoning summit, and find myself, in the heat of day, on the steep hillside, vigor and victory gone.
               My uncle smiled. "It is I who am not logical enough to meet your pretty ingenuities. But if I were climbing, either the path which leads to fame or the winding mountain way, I should stop and rest for the very reason which would call you forward. I would pick a golden-rod, emblem of encouragement; I would wave my flowery feather and look back at the steep path I had traversed; I would glance down the precipitous emerald shoulder of the mountain, into gloomy ravines below; I would gaze at shining ponds, at villages dwindled to hamlets, at orchards dwarfed to potato-fields; I would inhale the clear air, and upward I would march with a song of praise in my soul. As I climbed, I would carry in my memory the separate pictures of beauty I had seen, for I should find no others precisely like them. I would not disdain the blueberries for my parched lips; I would gather them, and thank God for his bounties scattered on the bleak hillside. I would admire the flowers or the berries of the mountainash, as the season offered one or the other; and I would cut from its branches a staff to support my steps to the summit. Should n't I reach it fresher than you, Miss May, and with more treasures in my memory?"
               "Perhaps so," replied Honor; "but would you enjoy its one view as much as I?"
               "Yes; I am sure of it."
               "Come, Robert," said my mother, "think your own way, and let Honor have her opinion."
               "I don't think I have changed her mind, have I?" addressing Honor, who looked pale and weary.
               "Only as far as this: I believe in your way for you; but I believe in my way for me. I did not think two sincere persons could have such different aspirations. And yet, Mr. Barberick, I am convinced, after what you have said, that different people must travel different roads to reach the same end."
               "Certainly," replied my uncle; "and I will allow that your road is good to a certain point; a little farther on, it becomes somewhat shady." Here my uncle smiled meaningly. "But I confess that you could sing your song of joy on the mountain top with an intensity derived from a single purpose,—and this the rambler could never equal. Yet, tell me, could you warble any other song? Could you tell, in sound, any view but that of a lofty summit, aspiring to the sky?" Then, without waiting for Honor's reply, he continued: "I enjoy, perhaps I appreciate, the earnestness and simplicity imparted from your heart to your songs. These, I trust, you will keep; but there is danger that in the very cherishing of these qualities, gifts of your soul, you may exclude powerful and tender sympathies. Will you remember what I have said?"
               "Gratefully, Mr. Barberick, and improve, if ever I become convinced that it is truth for me."
               "O woman, woman!" was my uncle's answering ejaculation.
               "I have been a listener to logic," said Mr. Maurice, interrupting a long-continued silence on his part; "now I will listen to something else, if Miss May will be good enough to show the success of her theory."
               "And will Miss May be good enough to let me select her song?" added my indefatigable uncle; and before anybody could remonstrate, the music was ready for illustration. Honor looked at the open sheet.
               "O, welcome, fair Wood!" was the title she read. "I have never seen this, Mr. Barberick, so I shall read, or rather spell it."
               "O, welcome, fair Wood!" repeated Mr. Maurice. "I have not heard the song for months. It will give us a waft of summer."
               I began the accompaniment with secret fear. This was Uncle Robert's test, which he was eager to apply, as proof of the soundness of his theory. If Honor should support him, rather than herself, he would be more than glad.
               But Honor was undisturbed, and ready to begin. She was in admirable voice. Her reading was without fault. What a scholar she was,—strict to the fraction of a note! and how true were her tones,—pure as bells! But I began to tremble, for I saw Uncle Robert ready with his criticisms.
               "You do not carry us to the forest," was the judgment as the last note left her lips. "Now, create the picture of a grove in your mind," said the censor. "Keep it; make it vivid, wander amid the shade, and don't forget to pick flowers and berries," he added, with a smile. "Think of this, and try the song again, to please me. You did wonderfully well: it was a reading and a faithful one; now warm the melody, color it, make it dramatic."
               I have thought since that Honor showed a lovely patience in pleasing my uncle so sweetly; but she was truly amiable, and he had a fascination that few could resist.
               Again I touched the prelude, and again Honor sang "O, welcome, fair Wood!"
               
               "Better, very good," was my uncle's praise. "I saw the trees, and I heard the birds sing, but the air was cool. Try again, and give Mr. Maurice his waft of summer."
               And Honor sang the third time. Her tones became more tender, and my uncle gave a word of praise. How sweet was her voice! I could easily imagine a thrush piping his song on the tree-top, as her clear tones fell on the air.
               "That is still better," said my uncle. "Perhaps now you comprehend my meaning, as to coloring and warmth."
               "Yes, I understand; and I can go with you so far. I am earnest in studying the character of each melody. I like to grasp its specialities, and make them utter themselves, through my voice; but I cannot follow your generalizations."
               "O, in time, in time!" said my uncle.
               Mr. Maurice interposed. "I understand your position, Miss May, and sympathize with you. Here is a man of universal genius. He can't expect others to stand on his level." And he laughingly extended his hand for good-night.
               "I thought you sympathized with me!" exclaimed Uncle Robert.
               "I do! Good night."
               "I will walk part way with you. I scent treason."
               As they left the house, Honor said, earnestly, "Let us try 'O, welcome, fair Wood!' again."
               It was club night. Miriam, who was getting the tea-things ready, jerked the cups, set the plates down hard, and shoved the chairs sharply up to the table. When I went into the kitchen a few minutes after, she made several unintelligible, snarling ejaculations, and then said, as if talking to herself, "I declar, I like your real up-and-down folks,—no half-and-half for me. Gi'm me a real ging'ry gal, or a soft-hearted one that would n't hurt a fly. As for your pale women, cold and stiff as blomonge,—don't like 'em! Mr. Barberick thinks a deal on 'em,—says they've got int-lect. Who cares? I don't."
               I laughed uncontrollably. Miriam looked at me with an angry light in her eyes. "You'll laugh t' other side your mouth soon. Ha'n't she stole your uncle's heart away? And somebody else's too?"
               "Has she?" was all I could say for laughing; then, as soon as I could speak, "As to Uncle Robert, you are mistaken. I should jump with joy, if I thought it was so. If she would only marry him! then they would both live with us always. I can't think she fancies Mr. Maurice."
               "Fiddlesticks," was Miriam's reply, as she tossed her head and banged the door after her. Still I laughed. Presently Miriam reappeared, looking like a fate. I saw her headache banner. A handkerchief was bound round her temples to stop their throbbing; and her nostrils were stuffed with wormwood, to exclude the odor of supper. As usual, she was relentless to physical pain, and suffered no one to give aid, in consideration of her condition. "She sick? O, no; she was always well," and so she perambulated the house, sniffing wormwood, and ruling all the family, except Honor. Here was the secret of her dislike. Serenity she did not comprehend, and she did not venture to attack it.
               Mr. Maurice did not come to the club meeting. Uncle Robert went after him. He had gone two miles on an errand of mercy. But we held our gathering, and sang so well that even my uncle was almost satisfied. He thanked Honor for her "fine support of the soprano." While he was speaking, I thought of Miriam's words, and looked at the two together. Honor's fair hair contrasted with my uncle's dark curls. Her slight, firm figure showed by the side of his tall, muscular form, like a palm-tree near an oak. "How well he could protect her!" was my thought. "I wish he would love her." And I conjured up a pretty picture of Uncle Robert as a married man. How kind and affectionate he would be, and how Honor would improve under his influence. Then her sympathetic nature would unfold. What a woman and what a singer Mrs. Barberick would be! Even Miriam would love her. But would Mr. Maurice be pleased? Here was a question hard to answer. Honor could n't marry my uncle and the minister too. So I returned to my original admiration, and thought of her as Honor May. I smiled as I imagined Uncle Robert in love. He, who had never cared for anybody in particular. He was fond of Honor certainly; but he was fond of a great many people. He told her of her faults as freely as he scolded me. "Venus, with the voice of a nightingale, cannot win him," I said to myself. But if Honor should fall in love with his beauty and goodness, and be made unhappy by his indifference! She pays him such deference,—more than she does Mr. Maurice. "Dear me, I see how it will be,—just as it always is in novels,—people play at cross purposes all the time, and everybody marries somebody else. Honor will be sad because Uncle Robert does n't care for her. Mr. Maurice, poor man, will be wretched because he will want to marry her, and she won't even think of him. What shall I do?"
               As I asked myself this question, I saw my uncle bend his head and look at Honor earnestly, yet tenderly. "I sha'n't judge you till I hear you sing something secular, which you have studied," were his words.
               
               Honor turned to me. "Emmie, I am protesting against being judged, as I was the other night, in a simple musical reading. It is not easy to pick out the notes and think what the words mean at the same time. Mr. Barberick says he will give me another hearing."
               This certainly was gracious in my uncle. He had much the appearance of a handsome Sultan giving commands to a subject. He seemed to forget Honor, our friend and guest, and to remember only Miss May, the singer; but then he did it so graciously, that his very sincerity became a compliment.
               "And shall you condescend to sing to him, Honor?"
               "You forget that I am going to convert him to my theory. He shall hear something I have studied." She looked among her music, and handed a sheet to my uncle.
               "Old Towler!" he ejaculated, in astonishment. "Can you venture on this?"
               If Uncle Robert had said, "Can you venture?" to me, I should have failed; but Honor had a poise of nature, which raised her above small anxieties. It was beautiful to see her serene and modest manner, as she opened the music, and said, "Come, Emmie."
               I played the prelude. I am not positive whether I did anything after but listen. I can hardly describe Honor's singing of this song, which in its character is properly a subject for manly style and delivery, if not for manly voice. There is an assertion that the music was written for a soprano; but it is not easy to place this statement in harmony with the sentiment of the verses,—and certainly but few women would "venture it," as my uncle said.
               But Honor began; with her faultless enunciation she gave the lines,— 
                     
                        "Bright chanticleer proclaims the dawn,
                        And spangles deck the thorn;
                        The lowing herds now quit the lawn,
                        The lark springs from the corn."
                     
                  
               
               Instantly I saw the clear morning, the fields with their dew-sparkling hedges, and the movement of the little warbler from the green blades upward. What a beautiful scale of G came from Honor's lips as she said, "Arise the burden of my song." But it was not simply that she gave the notes,—it was how she gave them. When the call of "Hey! ho! chivy!" rang out, followed by "Hark forward! Hark forward!" I really went to the hunt. I saw the fox and the hounds, the fleet horses and the scarlet coats. At the end of the first verse, my uncle exclaimed, "I am converted! I did n't think you could sing it so well."
               Honor was really pleased, and sang the next verse with dramatic power.
               
               "Miss May!" exclaimed Uncle Robert, "do you know what a treasure you have in your voice?"
               Honor colored with pleasure. "I shall tell Miriam that she can blush," thought I; but a little whisper came, "No, don't,—she'll say it was because Mr. Barberick praised."—"It would be very nice to have her for my aunt," was another reflection; "then I could take lessons all the time." Decidedly, I was selfish.
               That night, while in my mother's chamber, I broached the subject, with more abruptness than tact. "Miriam thinks Uncle Robert is in love with Honor."
               "My dear child," said my mother, and then she held her handkerchief to her face.
               "But I don't think so,—I don't, really. I have never seen a symptom of it. I was thinking it would be such a pleasant thing,—but you would n't like it!"
               "I should be very particular about your uncle's wife, my dear. He should marry—in short he should n't marry a common person, and we don't know anything about Honor,—family is very important,—I don't mean position, of course,—that's of no consequence,—but constitution, tendencies, inheritances, all should be studied in making such a choice." Then, in scarcely an audible voice, "Is she fond of him?"
               "I don't think so. You know she is indifferent to everybody in her manner, and she treats uncle as she treats other people."
               "I hope not," sighed my mother. "Robert is going away soon for the season; then the danger will be over. I hope she is not already interested in him, poor girl. I must speak to him about it. Now good night; go to bed and go to sleep."
               I don't know as my mother spoke to Uncle Robert on this delicate matter. I did not venture to mention it again. She was right, however, about the time of his going. A few days after, he mentioned, in his good-humored, nonchalant way, that he was going to England, perhaps to China. My mother grew pale.
               "Need you, so soon, Robert?"
               "O, I will bring you a gown of gold, and a crown for Miss Honor, and to Emmie—why myself—won't that be enough?"
               "We shall miss you," said Honor, softly.
               My uncle looked pleased, for her voice had trembled in speaking. In a moment she said, "I have never given thanks for your kindness, but, believe me, I shall not forget it."
               I was too much surprised to speak; but my uncle broke silence with, "It's all Emmie and her mother, Miss May; but I will claim your thanks, when I bring the crown from India."
               
               Kind words could not postpone our sorrow; nor Uncle Robert's smiles make us forget the parting. In less than a week he sailed, and away with him floated half the sunshine of the house.
               Weary was the time after he had gone. During the day, Honor taught her pupils with the punctuality of a clock; but their numbers did not grow, and she had more leisure than she desired. In the evenings, she was our light and life. Ever kind and ever tuneful, she stole the hours with her charming voice. Miriam grumbled at our low spirits. "Mr. Barberick's gone, and it can't be helped. What's the use making such a fuss? Perk up, Emmie, and look cheerful!"
               I tried to follow her counsel, and our circle was beginning to brighten, when another change fell on our life. Our minstrel pined, our dove spread her wings.
               The club met a few evenings after, and Honor was in brilliant voice. I saw her face light up, as she sang, "Great is the glory when laurels we gather." Mr. Maurice remarked it too, for he said to me, in a low voice, "How fine she is!"
               "I shouldn't be surprised if she became a famous singer. Uncle Robert thinks a grand future awaits her."
               Was it my fancy, or did a shadow rise on the minister's face? After a minute he spoke. "Would it be wise in Miss May to become professional? Would your uncle approve such a life for her?"
               "O, yes!—what objection could there be to it?"
               "Many,—which you could hardly comprehend, were I to explain them; but, seriously, would you feel willing to become a professional singer?"
               "I should be proud to do it, if I could."
               "Could you obey the behests of any crowd that chanced to assemble within four walls?"
               "No, indeed! I would make the crowd mind my behests."
               "And you think one woman can sway a crowd,—can sing what she likes? No, she must descend to the taste of her audience."
               "I cannot agree with you, Mr. Maurice," said Honor, calmly. The four-part song was finished, and she had overheard the last remark. "My testimony is admissible, for I have sung in several charity-concerts."
               "Ah, Miss May, that is a different thing. Charity-concerts usually draw charitable audiences. On this ground, I cannot accept your testimony. Could you influence indiscriminate assemblies to the love of noble music?"
               "I believe I could, in time. I have faith in quiet, steady effort. I think the masses can be drawn upward. I should not go to meet them, Mr. Maurice." And a cold, proud look passed into Honor's eyes. "This is no new thought with me, Mr. Maurice; for the past year it has been a serious subject of consideration,—serious, because in it I see my destiny,—the destiny of duty."
               Mr. Maurice looked at her with a half-incredulous, half-admiring smile. "Pray tell me, Miss May, how far would you conform to the tastes of the public? for therein lies the pith of the matter."
               "If I were to select for an evening's entertainment, I would give true and simple melodies to those who like light music. Could a fastidious ear object to 'My Nannie O,' or 'Blow, blow, thou bitter wind'? Those who prefer classical writers should hear Beethoven and Mozart, and dramatic tastes should be fed on the best that stimulating music can give. Now, Mr. Maurice, laugh at my theory, for it is before you."
               "I cannot laugh,—I admire,—but is it practicable? I try to see this beautiful castle which you have built in the air. Clouds soften it with purple shadows, and mists, creeping round, hide the sands on which it stands. But approach its towers, enter its doors, try to live there, and then see"
               "Then see," repeated Honor. "Yes, Mr. Maurice, perhaps I will see some day, and such a view as I shall have from these same towers! The landscape will be fair, though remote; but before long, worldlings and critics will seek my shelter, and will tell me it is founded on a rock. You shake your head. Cannot I convert you?"
               "I should only be convinced by seeing your ideas put in successful practice; and, pardon me, but I should be sorry to have you convince me."
               After the pause of a minute, Honor replied: "I am alone in the world, dependent on my faculties for support. When I ask, 'For what am I best fitted?' my conscience gives unhesitating answer. God has given me a voice to please the ear, muscular strength to bear an active life, love for sweet sounds, and talent enough to braid them all together as a staff for my support in life's up-hill journey. Shall I cast them away? Shall I hide them in a napkin?"
               "I would not have you hide or cast them away. Use them for yourself, friends, and pupils."
               "I mean so to use them. It was my parents' desire, and, to me, sacred as a command. But cannot I do more? After the practical view of the matter is put aside, there is another and a higher aspiration, which lights my life with hope. It is this: the belief that I can reform the musical world. I cannot tell you how strong the feeling is within me. I see so much that is false, trivial, and degenerate, that I long to utter my protest against it."
               "You are doing that very thing now," replied the minister, who did not lose sight of his point for a moment; "and doing it, perhaps, more effectually by teaching than you could in any other way. What a pleasure to plant the germ of all that is true in your pupils' minds! These you can lead in the right path, piercing to the centre of their thoughts, and training them, as the gardener trains the vine, for free and perfect flowering. Believe me, you can spread your own ideas infinitely in this way. Other generations will live them out and teach them again to rising minds. This is the true way, Miss May, the true way."
               "Yes, I believe it. I shall always want to teach, but I would like to sing beside; this would be illustrating my own ideas, testing my theory."
               "I don't know," answered Mr. Maurice, doubtfully. "You would get admiration, of course; but what you desire is appreciation, and where would you find it? How many hearers would or could comprehend why and how you sang thus and so?"
               "But that is not necessary. I should not expect unscientific people to understand what they had never studied; but the effect is what I should strive for. I should make them love, not comprehend, what I sung. Do we any of us comprehend Handel or Beethoven, Mr. Maurice?"
               "Perhaps not, excepting at moments when their inspiration is revealed to us, and we meet them soul to soul."
               "Mr. Maurice, if I could bring a true spiritual communion between those who live and those who have died, I should feel as if I had fulfilled my mission; I so firmly believe that it would make people better! And I must confess, too, that I would like a little authority, with which to move my wand. A quiet, unknown teacher, amidst her little circle, plants but sparsely, and perhaps on uncongenial soil; but give her more area, endow her with fame, and see how the germs are fostered! Without a name, I can do little; but if I wore a crown, people would obey me."
               "You know Uncle Robert is to bring you a crown of gold from India, and then you will be a queen."
               "O, Emmie, I should n't like it as well as the laurel."
               Honor sighed as she spoke these words, and there was silence amongst us. I don't know how it was that our trio had been unmolested so long. The members of the club who had lingered after practice were gathered in a knot about Eliza, the contralto. Somebody had persuaded her to sing, and, as she moved to the piano, I could not but admire a certain richness pervading her figure and complexion, which diffused around a positive and almost odorous atmosphere. Involuntarily I compared her to a luxuriant tree, grafted with various fruits,—such copies of pink, polished apples were her cheeks, such correspondents ents of cherries her round, scarlet lips, so soft and wavy, like amber willow leaf-buds, her drooping hair. And the sound of her voice, floating on my ear, aroused the same sensation that the odor of a fullblown jessamine or the melting flavor of a perfected pear gave birth to in other senses. But here was the end of my delight; after the quality came nothing more,—no aspiration in her tones carried me away from her; indeed, occasional falseness of intonation kept her tangible, sensuous before the bodily vision; and while I drank her fruity voice as a votary of Bacchus might quaff a Rhine vintage, it was passing the fleshly portal without an echo in the soul.
               Several times I had begged Honor to point out to me Eliza's defects, but very reluctantly had she done it and with stint. She had stopped with her first criticism, unwilling, as it were, to make a second. To-night I turned to her, and whispered, "Tell-me, what is the matter? it is n't music to me."
               "She does not bring out her voice properly, and consequently makes unequal tones,—some thin, others throaty."
               "This is a mechanical fault; is it the whole trouble?"
               "You know, Emmie, that I am a mechanical singer, and sometimes, I think, nothing more than a mechanical listener; for, I confess, an offence against first principles is to me serious. I demand clear utterance, perfect intonation, and neat vocalization. These are necessities, and no natural melody of voice, or power of dramatic utterance, can excuse shortcomings in these particulars. When a singer gains this standard, then I will listen to intensity of expression."
               "With a protest, Honor."
               "Well, it is not the thing most to my taste in song, but it wins the world; and sometimes I think I may be wrong, there are so many against me."
               "Even Uncle Robert."
               "O, no, he is not against me. He requires the essentials in an artist as absolutely as I, and I think he objects to the impassioned school as much; but he does like descriptive singing.—I don't quite understand it," mused Honor half to herself, "for he can't tolerate anything from instruments but the coldest classics."
               "I think I see the difference, Honor. Instruments are no more than brass and wood; but the singer has a heart, as well a voice, and feeling should flow from the lips."
               "Has n't the violin a soul?" asked Mr. Maurice.
               "Certainly, I have heard its sighs," was Honor's reply.
               "I don't undervalue the human voice," continued Mr. Maurice; "it is a glorious gift from God to man; and I don't oppose your theory, Miss Emmie. At the same time, I bear witness that I have heard from instruments of brass and wood as expressive sounds as any to which I ever listened. I do not think I want anybody to sing to me Beethoven's Adelaide again."
               "Mr. Maurice!"
               "Your exclamation is natural; but if you had heard it sobbed from the throat of a horn, you would not wonder at what I say. And I have listened to Schubert's Serenade, more than once, when the accompaniment charmed me more than the voice."
               "Was it well sung?"
               "Very; but there was more humanity in the long-drawn wail of the violoncello than in the clear human soprano telling the lover's story."
               "It is so out of place," interrupted Honor, "for a soprano to take this Serenade. A tenor should always sing it."
               "Yes, I believe it would be better," replied Mr. Maurice; "tender passion, longing, murmuring night-winds, should be breathed in a softer tone than trebles usually possess."
               "I know from my own experience," resumed Honor, "that I can sing certain things naturally,—they come from me; and others are comparatively meaningless,—outside of myself."
               "Then why shouldn't singers always choose their own songs?" was my inquiry. "If I could really make music out of anything, I would always choose what I loved, what was congenial, what would sing itself."
               "Amateurs can do this, Emmie, but a professed vocalist must be content, sometimes, to be chosen for. Audiences demand certain things; and, in opera and oratorio music, each singer must fill his or her rôle."
               "But not if they do neither themselves nor the composer justice."
               "Not if they do themselves and the composer discredit. But it would not be safe to indulge one's predilections too often; they might turn to whimseys, or, what is worse, to tyrants. The three occasions on which I took the soprano solos in the Messiah showed me how this might be. 'Rejoice Greatly' sang itself, and I never felt any real care about it. At first, 'Come unto Him' was hard and stiff to render; and I was so sorry that my voice should n't be pliable to such sentiments!"
               "I think it is flexible for the sentiments," said Mr. Maurice.
               "Yes; I didn't mean that; but the written music runs against the flow of my voice. When tones don't come naturally, sentiment is stifled. In this sacred song, while I wanted to give others the sense of rest, I felt only restraint. But it was my duty to sing it, because there was no one else to take it; and, by constant practice, I rubbed out most of the stiffness. So you see, Emmie, if I had given up to my first feelings, I should have caused a disappointment to many and lost a victory over myself."
               "But let me ask, Honor, did you ever satisfy yourself in it?"
               "No; but then I can say that of most songs. I can generally see where and how I could have rendered them differently and better."
               "Do you ever feel that with 'Rejoice Greatly'?"
               "Not always; but sometimes. I have a very vivid idea of the way in which that should be given; and once or twice I have sung it with such pure pleasure that I have remembered nothing to regret."
               "And she so calm, so serene," said Mr. Maurice, in a low tone, to me. "Apparently, the natural expression of her soul is a gush of religious joy. And yet I should have selected something more tranquil as the medium through which her temperament should speak. There is almost an inconsistency between her peaceful spirit and her radiant voice; but harmony exists between the latter and her brilliant vocalization."
               "You think her organization peculiar, Mr. Maurice?" Honor had stepped into the entry with the last-departing club members, and I was free to talk about her, for the first time, with our minister.
               "Yes; somewhat so. Very healthy!" he added with emphasis; "calm, delicate, pure, heroic. She is uncommon, and very fine."
               "O, I am so glad, for I cannot see a fault in her. It is so pleasant to find somebody to agree with me."
               "Somebody? Why, Miss Emily, I should think everybody would agree with you. She is admirable."
               "Yes, is n't she? And people do admire her, but I don't think they appreciate her. They don't approach her, and they think she does n't approach them. How can she, a stranger, make the first advances?"
               Mr. Maurice smiled, and I suddenly remembered that I shouldn't have said so much. And, indeed, how did I know this, excepting from some remarks that Eliza had made in my hearing, and which were not worth a remembrance?
               "She is just what you say, Mr. Maurice," I hurriedly resumed;—"calm, pure, delicate, heroic. What a perfect description—"
               "And tender?" he asked, as I stopped to take breath in the midst of my enthusiasm.
               I started, as if somebody had given me a blow. Was she tender? I could n't say yes, and I would n't say no. "She is very kind, Mr. Maurice,"—and I sought in my memory for something which would let me add, "and tender." But no confidence, no glow came up with her image. She was a fair St. Agnes, a sweet-voiced St. Cecilia.
               "Yes, I see," said Mr. Maurice; "reticent,—cannot throw herself into conversation or song. I am sorry. But there is no perfection here."
               I followed this soliloquy (for he spoke to himself) half curiously, half indignantly, making rapid resolves to dispute his opinions of my beautiful Honor; but as often as I strove to make her another position, she faded from my thought, and became as pale a vision as the Lady of Avenel.
               "Your friend's capacities are undeveloped, Miss Emily. Her future career will be what she and circumstances make it. I hope she will not become a professional singer. If you have influence, dissuade her from it."
               "I shouldn't dare to take the responsibility, Mr. Maurice. Why do you counsel me so?"
               "I see a pathway, dark, tangled, thorny, leading to the mount of fame, and she must tread it alone."
               "But the mount will be glorious after the toil."
               "O my child, you little know the pangs of bleeding feet and weary heart. Do not let her go." He gave a deep sigh, and was silent, for Honor came into the room and towards us.
               "Honor, please tell me how you and Uncle Robert differ in your musical theories. You say you think alike, but I have never heard you agree yet in any of your arguments."
               "Because we only argue those points on which we differ."
               "Tell me your points of agreement."
               "Why, you little infidel, must I go over the whole ground to convince you too? But I won't refuse. Firstly, Mr. Barberick and I believe that true intonation and distinct enunciation are requirements to be made of every singer."
               "What will you do with those to whom nature has denied perfect articulation?" asked Mr. Maurice.
               "Place them below those to whom nature has been more generous."
               "But if they are gifted in other respects!"
               "Give them their dues, Mr. Maurice; imperfect articulation is only one fault, offsetting sometimes many virtues,—a flaw in a diamond. These people would take their true position, as everybody does, after their test."
               "And what is the test?"
               "Time and the musical world give the verdict."
               "Now, Honor, tell us secondly."
               "Yes, presently. I want to say that I believe constant and conscientious effort will overcome any slight defect of articulation."
               "I believe so too," replied Mr. Maurice; "witness Demosthenes."
               
               "And thus I shall maintain my first position," said Honor playfully. "True intonation and distinct enunciation are requirements to be made of every singer; without the first, no one need ask high reputation. By reputation, I don't mean popularity, though both are more or less joined together. My secondly, Emmie, is the point of argument. Your uncle maintains that singers should personate their music, in that way penetrating the hearts of listeners,—that they should depict with voice and manner, so that others may feel the description,—that the subject of the music should reach the audience as vividly through the ear, as the forms and colors of painting appeal to the mind through the medium of the eye. I know that the ear should receive sound as the eye receives color, and I believe it will take the sense with the sound. I suppose some true artists consider dramatic interpretation necessary; it is the nature of certain persons to help on even their conversation by attitudes and gestures; it is the instinct of others to let the voice tell its own story. Now I cannot be an actress. If I ever attempt it, I fail, for it continues to be acting, all the time. I never forget myself; and if I try, by look or motion, to add to the meaning of a song, I take away its simplicity."
               "If you were to hear Madam S., you would modify your opinion," interrupted Mr. Maurice.
               Perhaps. But I fear you misunderstood me. I don't object to fire or pathos, if they come from the heart into the voice naturally; but where they are forced, artificial, put on, I feel as I always feel about anything that is untrue. It really offends me to see a person make a gesture, throw an eye-glance, or smile winningly, to help out the meaning of conversation or music. I could not do it without losing a sense of my own dignity."
               "I know you will understand this," said I to our minister, not a little proud of what I considered Honor's splendid support of her position.
               "Perfectly,—but I go farther than Miss May. She sees art as art,—I look at art as second nature; and I believe it must be second nature, before the student can become the singer. Your theory is admirable, Miss May. Fundamental principles should be severely observed by the pupil; during the novitiate, too much conscience cannot be given to these points. Let intonation, enunciation, vocalization, be perfect, or as nearly perfect as anything can be in this world; then let individual nature expand, still keeping to scientific laws, but rising above them; let the soul fill with her power and love these true principles, widening them to the breadth of the world, and there is my ideal,—the sympathetic singer and the conscientious artist, both in one. Take the student, entering on a professional career from disciplinary tutelage; if he give nothing but his mechanical excellence to art, he is simply a fine machine in nice working condition; if nobler ardor does not swell his soul, impelling him into the subject of his song, he continues a machine, and his hearers will remain beyond and independent of him."
               "But if he does not feel keenly, can he help it?" asked Honor.
               "Yes, decidedly; everybody can help it. Let him cultivate his emotions; visit the suffering, pray for them; see poverty, and relieve it; witness crime, and hold to charity; fondle children, pick flowers, gaze at the ocean, study the sky; and remember that we were given hearts and souls, not for ourselves alone, but for the infinite family of brothers and sisters in the world."
               "But it is not necessary to be good in order to be great," said I, coming to Honor's assistance; "for I remember hearing a celebrated tenor when I was a child, who was called a wicked, unprincipled, mean man. And he made half the people cry!" I added, triumphantly.
               "I am not surprised to hear that," said Mr. Maurice, calmly. "We cannot always judge of people's characters by the momentary impression they produce on us. This man had probably an ardent temperament, and felt for the moment what he sang. But if his character really lacked purity, he could not have continued to make audiences cry. His sensibilities would become blunted by his indulgence of a poor life, and he would gradually sink to a low level. But let the good student make for himself a generous life, let him obey the commandments of Christ as implicitly as the principles of art, and he will establish a standard enduring as time."
               "Your's is a noble theory!" exclaimed Honor, "but how often will you find a person of delicate susceptibilities and of lofty virtues? I know my sympathies are not as quick as Emily's,—indeed, they are duller than most persons.' What can I do?" she asked, in a distressed tone.
               Mr. Maurice smiled half sadly, as he answered, "My dear young lady, your sympathies will develop as you mix with the world."
               "But I thought the world hardened people."
               "Not everybody. A year hence, Miss Honor will agree with me. If we could only keep in mind what the Apostle Paul says about charity, the most indifferent among us would become sympathetic. I don't want any pretence of feeling, anything put on, as you say; but people must try to feel, if they don't feel, and, in due season, the sympathies will be ready to gush out at a word."
               
               Honor sighed, as if she despaired of attaining this high ideal. "I believe in it,—I believe in it, Mr. Maurice," she said, earnestly; "but can I ever gain the goal?"
               "I think so. You have a severe standard of art, which you hope and expect to attain. Why not subject your nature as well as your voice to stern discipline?"
               "But Honor is amiable and sincere and kind and generous now!" I exclaimed with some indignation.
               "Hush, Emmie, you don't know my shortcomings. I shall think of what you have said, Mr. Maurice, when I am away."
               "Away!" I cried, and "Away!" echoed the minister.
               "Yes, away. I cannot be a burden on you any longer,—my scholars do not increase, and I must seek my fortunes elsewhere."
               "O Honor!" I said, in an appealing voice.
               "Don't ask me to stay here. My life eats on itself. Something calls me from behind those hills,"—and she waved her hand, as if answering the summons. "I languish and must be free." She rose and paced the room in her own peculiar, gliding way, but now the lithe form was filled with fiery life, and the steps passed by like winds.
               I felt awed and kept silence. Mr. Maurice rose to say good night. As he approached Honor, she stopped, and gave him her hand. He pressed it, and said sadly, "Don't let ambition sing her siren songs in your ear."
               "You misunderstand me, Mr. Maurice. My future shall satisfy even you. Good night."
               "O Honor," I moaned again. "Don't go."
               She turned, and, throwing her arms around me, burst into tears. "Emmie, I can't tell what is within me. If I could put my feelings into words, you would see how natural they are. I am not ambitious for myself alone. O, no!"
               "I know it, Honor; then why not stay?"
               "I must do something for art,—something that will live after me. I must study diligently, so that in a few years I shall be able to show others what a singer should be"; and she raised her head as if conscious of dawning powers in her being. "It is not for myself that I care,—you understand that. I do not want fame, but I should like to point the way to that which is noble and true. What I shall do is vague and shadowy before me,—but I shall do. I wish I could tell you what this something is, which presses my brain and swells my chest almost to suffocation; but if I try to grasp it, it fails me. Deeds, not language, must describe it. If I could have you by my side, how happy I should be! Come with me; be my strength, my counsel, my support; come."
               
               "Where?"
               "To C——."
               "To C——?"
               "Yes. I have thought of this for weeks, Emily, and my resolve is taken. I have talked several times with your mother. Will you forgive our conspiracy?"
               "But mamma cannot spare me."
               "She is almost ready to go herself."
               "Leave her home, Honor? O, never!"
               "Come and see."
               We found my mother in the kitchen, talking with Miriam on domestic matters. The discourse ceased on our appearance.
               "O, mamma, Honor has been telling me—"
               "Yes, I see the secret is divulged. Do you want to go, Emmie? I think your uncle would approve, and I am ready to close the house for a few months."
               "But what will you do, Miriam?"
               "Never mind me. I'll shift for myself. I'd kind o'like to run home for a couple o' months and see how father's getting along. O, go, Emmie; you'll have a real nice visit, and the journey'll do your ma heaps o' good."
               I mistrusted Miriam's blandness, and searched in my mind for the mixed motives which prompted this counsel. Suddenly it flashed upon me that Honor's scheme showed to her opponent a charming prospect. She was going, and who could tell the time of her return? Delightful uncertainty! In a single moment I divined the peace it brought to Miriam's heart. I could not help smiling at the transparency of her artifice. And I smiled again as I felt the power of that spell which our silent Honor had cast upon us. A pale girl had become our white queen, and we were turned hither and thither as she listed. Yet we liked it, and Miriam looked on without grumbling, in the hope of ultimate victory for herself. The decision was made, and I felt like one transported.
               Miriam put the new thought into action without delay, and for a series of days her energy resounded through the house. At length everything was prepared for our departure. "Ah, Emmie, the day is won," said Honor. "To C——, C——, C——," and she trilled such an outgush of melody, that Miriam was startled.
               At the end of two weeks our household was scattered. My mother, Honor, and I were settled in C——, and Miriam with her virtues and asperity at safe distance.
               Our hostess in C—— was just the pleasantest little woman, and she had just the pleasantest room vacant. We were soon quite at home; and as Mr. Shirley's house was not far distant, Honor came to see us every day. She had nearly finished her visit, and was anxious to find a boarding place near us. When I mentioned this to Mrs. Miller, our landlady, she was on the qui vive directly.
               "I think she can be accommodated next door, my dear; I'll run in and see." And, before I could beg her not to take any trouble about it, she was in Mrs. Frost's parlor. "Good news!" she exclaimed, fifteen minutes after; "my friend has consented to take Miss May. How nice it will be! The walls of the houses join, and you can knock to each other on the partition any time."
               "I'll run and tell Honor directly."
               "But it rains too hard," said my mother.
               "Dear little mother, when have I minded the weather? You shall see how I'll wrap up."
               "Mamma," said a young voice, and a small head of dark hair peeped into the room.
               "Milly dear, go right out,—it is n't proper to come in."
               "O, let her, Mrs. Miller."
               With this small encouragement the little dark head, close shaved, entered boldly, and was quickly followed by a rotund body and two chubby legs, cased in red and white stockings. The owner of these sturdy members trotted to mamma, and then, feeling secure, stared round, sucking her thumb as she made observations.
               "All fixed now!" she exclaimed, as I drew on the hood of my water-proof.
               "Not quite, Milly," and I reached for my india-rubber roots.
               "Big, funny boots!" said the little voice.
               "Now I'm ready,—got a kiss for me?"
               Out went the rosebud lips, and gave me such a sip!
               "Milly do too."
               "No,—Milly would wet her toes."
               Out into the rain I hurried, thoughtless of all but the delightful plan for Honor. I was suddenly recalled to consciousness of externals by sharp personal contact, and, looking up, saw a young man making ineffectual grasps at his hat and umbrella, which the elements were trying to appropriate. After a tantalizing pursuit, he succeeded in catching his hat, and turned to apologize.
               "I am very sorry," I interrupted.
               "Don't excuse yourself, but me," said the stranger, in a half-laughing voice. At this moment, the wind, like an elf, whirled away his beaver, and he darted after, leaving a half-formed sentence on his lips. Far down the street he disappeared, and, in spasmodic and baffled conflict, was lost to view.
               I found Honor and Mary Shirley together. I stayed only long enough to delight them with my tidings, and then hurried home. On my way, I passed a confectioner's shop. The gas was burning, and showed the counters glittering with glass jars, crystal sugar, and frosted cake. I could not resist the temptation to stop and buy something for Milly. As I asked for barley-balls, I heard a familiar voice by my side, and, turning, saw my acquaintance of the street. He was talking to a little boy, whom he held by the hand, and to whom he was evidently unable to deny anything. The little fellow opened inquiring eyes on my sweet purchase, and his senior looked towards me. My involuntary smile quickened his memory.
               He raised his hat, with a half-rueful, half-comic glance at its dented side.
               "Will you permit me to escort you home? My umbrella is safe, as you see. I observe you have none."
               "But my candy, Uncle Phil," said the child.
               "We'll have the candy, Charlie."
               I took Charlie's part and urged the claim of sugar, saying that I did not need the least protection.
               "I congratulate you on your courage and independence," replied the stranger, with a mixture of mirth and pique in his manner.
               I murmured my thanks for his politeness, to which he responded by a bow, worthy a descendant of Chesterfield. I bowed in return, and hurried out of the shop.
               Without trouble or delay, Honor took possession of her new quarters, and we were together once more. 'T is true, Uncle Robert's absence dropped its alloy into this honey-cup; but then he wrote such nice letters! Good Mr. Maurice faded to a vision of integrity, passing to and fro in my memory like an angel. All around was music and novelty, and I entered on a new life. In a week, Honor had three scholars, two of whom were her cousins; in another week she counted ten pupils, and was fairly launched in her career of teacher.
               Every morning, I was waked by Honor's voice. To the early light she gave her fresh tones; in purity and warmth they ascended, like a hymn of praise, for the new day. It was a pity to muffle the inspiring sound with my thrumming; but if the voice was delight, it was incentive too, and I responded to its call with the strongest scales I could play, thus letting my linnet know that I was almost as early as she. At nine o'clock, Honor went out and gave the best of the morning to her scholars. In the afternoon she practised again, and in the evening she often sang elaborate exercises. Her warble was my good-night. The happy time was after tea, for then Honor came to give my lesson; and I had instruction almost every evening.
               
               A letter from Uncle Robert reached us a few days after our arrival in C——. It enclosed a postscript, which I could not forget: "I hope, Emmie, there will be no thought of separation among you. Regard Miss May as a sister, and continue to make her one of the trio, which is my happiest memory."
               My dear mother shook her head over this, for it matched a counsel to herself.
               "I hope he is not in love with Honor."
               "I should be delighted!"
               "Foolish Emily! She is a stranger to us. If she should have designs!"
               "Honor is incapable of designs; and, besides, I don't think she will marry anybody."
               "Wait and see."
               Hardly a day went by that Uncle Robert was not a topic between Honor and myself; and, one morning, in detailing some experiences, my fair-haired singer finished with this avowal: "I admire your uncle, Emmie. His counsel to me has been invaluable. I don't know anybody quite equal to Uncle Robert."
               "I am so glad, Honor; for I am almost sure he loves you";—and I gave my head a sagacious toss.
               "O foolish Emily! Not in that way at all";—and with a smile, but no blush, Honor looked at me with her far-seeing eyes. "My darling, you will love and be loved. I must live for my art." Her slender figure seemed to expand, and light filled her countenance. As I looked at her, I felt a prophecy.
               My piano was not neglected. I had applied to Herr Stultz the day after our arrival in C——, but learned at the house that he was indisposed, and would not be able to attend to pupils for a fortnight. This time had elapsed; and one bright morning I walked in the direction of his lodgings. A sober-looking man answered my ring, and pointed me up a flight of stairs, at the head of which a door stood invitingly open. I followed the motion, and soon found myself in the presence of a fair-complexioned man, who bent upon me a keen, but calm, blue eye, as I entered the room. He rose from the piano where he was seated, trying some manuscript music, and came forward to receive me. As I mentioned Mr. Barberick's name, his manner changed from polite to cordial; and I felt that Uncle Robert was my passport for a welcome. He wished me to play to him. I consented, and turned to a statue. How my marbled fingers got over the keyboard I knew not; but he was pleased that I tried to please, and in return touched a series of delicate mazurkas.
               
               "Ven shall ve begin?" asked the good-natured German. "Soon? Dat better for you; it vill not do to vaste time. To-morrow?"
               So I said to-morrow. The sound of ascending steps announced other visitors; and although I wanted to hear some more charmingly twisted English, I remembered Herr Stultz's injunction, "It vill not do to vaste time," and with "Good morning," I broke our conference and passed to the door.
               I crossed the Park on my way home, and felt the sweet influences of a mild winter's day. Snow made my path white, and the elm branches dropped around me flakes downy as a young bird's feathers. I was in a mood to be glad with Nature; her soft warm breath penetrated and soothed my senses; it brought me the fresh smell of moist earth; it muffled the noise of distant streets; it spread itself in mist over the distant hills, giving me a vision of the land of promise. I was happy, and music came from my lips in undertone. A bird, sitting high and lonely on a leafless linden, bent his bright eye upon me and burst into song.
               My dear mother rejoiced with me that my dreaded visit was over. I rejoiced myself, but with an anticipatory dread of to-morrow. I thought of the German's calmness, and was half afraid of it. What would happen if I should ever disturb that serene equipoise?
               In the afternoon I practised indefatigably, with the hope of preparing myself for next morning's trial, and was so tired, when night came, that I went to bed in the midst of Honor's exercises, and fell asleep directly.
               The next morning her voice waked me, and I sprang to the labor of the day. Very soon I answered her call with my scales, which I took heroically. Then, after this ivory contest, I selected some pastime pieces for my invigorated fingers,—things that I could play rather nicely. I reflected that I had not done myself justice the day before, and felt a spice of indignation at somebody for my want of self-possession. So I said to myself, "When he asks me to-day, I shall play this arrangement of 'The Last Rose of Summer,' and perhaps 'La Cascade.' That will be enough to let him see what I can do." And I went over and over and over my little stumbling-places, and tried to polish them into smoothness. Breakfast surprised me in my efforts. I obeyed the summons with trepidation, for my lesson was at nine o'clock, and the hour was fast approaching.
               "Emmie shakes!" said Milly, as my hand trembled in taking a cup of tea. "O you naughty child!" was my internal exclamation. The little observer having succeeded in drawing attention to my nerves, I shook still more. With the excuse that I must practise, I left the table and sat down at the belabored piano. Here I tried over double-note exercises, till I could play no more. My ears failed to criticise; I could no longer say whether my efforts were successes or failures, for hearing and mind were both in expectation of the door-bell. At last it sounded, and my nerves quivered to its vibrations. Milly pranced into the entry, and had the satisfaction of a pat on her head from the Professor. He entered the room, and was received by my mother with an equanimity almost equal to his own. The lesson began. Alas for my good resolves! lost opportunities did not come back; there was no time for cascades or roses of summer,—nothing but scales and exercises. "Secont fing-er, Mees; secont fing-er." Din, din, ascending crescendo,—din, din, descending diminuendo, double notes, and trill,—were the occupation of the hour. Present display and future fame dwindled into distance, and I became absorbed in practicalities of sound.
               Suddenly Honor sang beyond the wall. Apparently my piano had challenged her to labor, for she attacked one of Panseron's most brilliant exercises. Had she known that critical ears were catching her voice, she would not have given it to them. My fingers tripped, and I looked at the partition, which half admitted, half excluded the sound.
               The Professor's ears actually dilated like a rabbit's. "Who sings?" asked he quickly.
               "Honor," was my spontaneous reply.
               "Honor, Fraulein Ehre. She come here sometime?"
               "O, yes; almost every day."
               "Now, dis exercise. Secont fing-er, Mees."
               I picked up my notes again. After a short time Honor's voice died away, and my brain and hands worked together in harmony.
               Indefatigably did the German watch for my faults, and, alas! found them. My cheeks grew red, my wrists ached, and my head whirled with anxiety and bewilderment. Suddenly the door opened, and Honor came in. She had forgotten my lesson, and was audience without meaning it.
               "Come in, Honor," said my mother, seeing her stop on the threshold.
               "Honor!" softly echoed the German to himself. "Fraulein Ehre!"
               Then my dear mother, with dignity, introduced the two. "Miss May,—Mr. Stultz."
               "I heard you," said the Professor, nodding at the wall. "Vill you sing to me? I have five minutes to listen."
               Honor was a little startled by this sudden appeal.
               "O sing," I said, in reply to her look of alarm.
               
               Without a word of excuse, she sat down at the piano, where I gave her place, and sang a simple melody, to her own accompaniment.
               Although I had seen her show herself a violet before, I could not but admire, with some surprise, the unobtrusive song. All would have been glad at it, to nobody but a musician would it have revealed the singer. Her voice simply sounded fresh and clear; it rang no high notes, silvered no scales, proclaimed neither her compass nor her culture.
               "German song?" interrogated the Professor.
               "No, sir. I have not studied German music."
               "Ah! Italian?"
               "O yes," I interrupted, finding that Honor was shading herself in the very borders of truth; "let me select!" and I found "Qui la Voce." And my fear of my own fingers becoming merged in anxiety about Honor's tones, I boldly played the accompaniment.
               Her voice sounded not bright, but melodious, as compared with its usual vibrant quality. It floated like a lute upon the wind, and touched my heart. "If Uncle Robert could but hear her now!" was my thought."
               I stole a look out of the corner of my eye at the Professor. In vain. No enthusiasm appeared, but he said, in a pleased tone, "Goot. I like your voice." With this he went away, for his five minutes utes had elapsed. No sooner had he gone, than Honor bewailed her breaking in upon the lesson, while I exulted in the same.
               "Never mind, he heard you sing."
               "I don't think he was charmed."
               "Then it is his fault, for you sang delightfully."
               "I am always delightful to you, Emmie. I wish I deserved your admiration. But I did sing well this morning."
               There was not a look nor a tone of vanity accompanying this assertion. She simply uttered a conviction. The accident that she was the object of self-criticism did not obscure her perceptions nor her veracity. For the time, she was her own auditor and judge.
               I was not astonished, when Herr Stultz asked me, a few days afterward, if Fraulein would be willing to sing in church; but when I put the same question to Honor, she colored with surprise and pleasure. "I never thought he approved me so much as that, Emmie. I should like it of all things."
               "I don't think I'll let him know that the idea pleases you so much. I will say that you are considering the proposition. Won't that be dignified and conventional?"
               "O no, Emmie, I shall answer the question truthfully. I should like to sing in church very much indeed deed. It is the one thing I should delight to do, and I want you to say so. Never have any disguise with others, Emmie. You may be reserved and candid too. If you are frank, people will be sincere with you."
               "But you'll dictate your own terms?"
               "I shall take whatever salary they offer. If I were differently situated, my voice would be given to the church. Worship ought not to be rewarded; but I have an idea, which calls for money,—a plan to unfold, which must be laid on silver; and I feel that it is right to take a salary, as a means to good. Otherwise, Emmie, I could not receive compensation."
               "What plan, Honor?"
               "I'll tell you some day, when I see it a little clearer myself."
               Herr Stultz received Honor's message as if it were what he had expected, and replied that he would report to the Music Committee of Golden Lane without delay. I felt piqued at this indifference, and threw my ire into my fingers, to his satisfaction. I played brilliantly, without knowing it, and was surprised to hear, "Ver goot; you play to-day mit vat you call fire. Ver goot!"
               With a promptness which I hardly expected, Committee No. 1 of Music at Golden Lane called on Honor that very evening, and she accepted the terms he offered. I could hardly find fault with two hundred and fifty dollars per annum, and thought what a help this would be to Honor's plan.
               "It is very strange that they should engage me without a hearing. I always supposed a trial was necessary; but I am so glad to escape it." And Honor gave a sigh of relief.
               "Herr Stultz was the trial, without your knowledge. You know he first heard you through the wall, and afterwards here, when you would not have shown off a bit if I had not insisted upon it. So I shall take some of the credit of this appointment to myself."
               "You may, Emmie; for I certainly should not have sung 'Qui la Voce,' if it had not been your suggestion, and without that exhibition your Professor would have known little of my abilities."
               "Would you have sung it if you could have foreseen this result?"
               "I don't know. I believe not; for although this opportunity is just what I desire, I could n't lift a finger to obtain it."
               "But it would n't be forward or indelicate to do yourself justice?"
               "Neither, Emmie. I acknowledge your theory, and want to put it in action. I even go further than you. I think a false impression is an untruth; but when ought we to tell the whole truth? The fear of being misunderstood is a strong check on candor."
               "You are very reserved, Honor."
               "I am afraid so. I have tried to overcome it; but whenever I want to be as open as the day, an invisible hand holds me back and seals my lips. You would n't wish me to propose singing an Italian song to Herr Stultz?"
               "Yes, I would have you propose it, because you can do it, and you know you can; and the consciousness of your power should make you superior to that self-consciousness so mixed up of pride and vanity."
               "You reason very well for me; but how would you do yourself? Would you say, 'Let me play you a piece of Thalberg's, Herr Stultz?' intimating that, by your rendering, you can give him pleasure."
               "O Honor, how unfair! You can sing; I only try to play."
               "For the sake of argument, grant this, Emmie, and take you on your own ground. Would you offer to play to a decidedly inferior performer than yourself something which you know you can play?"
               "Certainly. I should n't have the least hesitation about it."
               That very day tested my courage. Mrs. Miller "took the liberty" of introducing "a young friend" into our parlor. Mr. Pry did n't play himself, but was extravagantly fond of music, and she had told him about me,—how well I performed and how much I practised,—and now would n't I play something? anything I thought of. O, would n't I play Gottschalk's "Marche de Nuit"? it was so beautiful.
               Thus exhorted and overcome, I sat down to the piano, but my "self-consciousness, so mixed up of pride and vanity," rose in my breast, and tingled down to my finger-ends. One cause of this might be that the young friend was a whiskered youth of nearly six feet, who looked at me from his elevation with such complacency that I felt myself reduced to a pigmy. Then he maintained a total silence, and this chilled me. But calling to mind my advice of the morning to Honor, I assumed unconsciousness and struck my chords. Do what I would, however, I could not forget myself, and began the march with a blunder; fate or carelessness pursued, for I made several variations of this kind on the original subject, and ended with a discord.
               Then the youth broke silence with "How magnificently Gottschalk plays it! I heard him last week."
               "Did you?" I asked severely, with the internal comment, "You need n't have told me of it."
               
               "Now play something else," said Mrs. Miller, who imagined I was showing off to advantage. "Let me see,—what have you learned lately?"
               "Catch me proposing anything!" was my silent ejaculation. "Honor is right and I am a goose." But just then getting a glimpse of the little landlady's imploring face, I struck into an old but familiar air, and, resolving that "I would n't care," I got through respectably.
               "I will do it," was my internal resolve, as I saw my page of theories unrolling before me. "I will practise what I preach. Would you like to hear 'La Cascade,' sir?"
               "Very much; I do n't know it."
               This last remark was inexpressibly comforting, and I made the Cascades flow with tolerable smoothness. I saw this gave pleasure. Mrs. Miller was delighted; so I proposed several other pieces, and, gaining courage as I went on, my fingers lost their fever and chills, and I really enjoyed my own performance.
               The Sunday came for Honor's appearance at Golden Lane,—the day which I had anticipated as the time of her victory over the unexpectant ears of a dull congregation. Alas! vain were my hopes. No crow was ever hoarser than the new soprano. A sudden cold had seized upon her throat, clouding her tuneful organs with a veil of foggy texture.
               "You do not mean to go to church!"
               "O, yes; I can sing better than I can speak. I managed a faint scale this morning."
               She seemed unconcerned, and we set out together. The choir began the service, and my misgivings were confirmed. Honor could hardly sing.
               The tenor stared, the organist frowned, and people looked up from their pews, as if to ask where the treble had gone. I scolded very hard internally, and returned fixed looks to all inquiring glances. Apparently Honor did n't mind her failure. In the first hymn tune her voice became more pliable, in the second it sounded clearer, and the closing chant showed some of its brilliant tones.
               As we went out of church I felt nervous, lest Honor should hear herself criticised. Presently I heard one young man ask another, "What do you think of our stunning treble, Phil?"
               "I think she has a cold," was the reply. Something in the voice attracted my look, and there stood my acquaintance of the street and candy shop.
               Charlie was holding his hand and smiling at me. As I smiled, in return, he exclaimed in a loud voice, "Uncle Phil, Uncle Phil, there she is!"
               Uncle Phil gave me a peculiar bow, glanced at Honor, and spoke to his companion in a low voice. The latter turned round, inspected Honor, and evidently dently reported the result of his observations. Honor looked at him calmly, then spoke in her serenest tones.
               "Don't be disturbed, Emmie. That young man does n't know enough to criticise the music or my voice. At this minute he is evidently discussing me."
               As Honor ceased, I heard the words "light hair" and "fine eyes." If a look could have silenced the stripling, my own eyes would have sent it.
               Life began to bring duties as well as pleasures at this time; and the former marked their grooves, so that my days soon filed off in routine. When Herr Stultz came, it seemed as if I had known him for months; and Honor's singing, beyond the wall, sounded like last year's bobolink.
               My mother and I sat sewing one afternoon, when Honor opened the door. She entered, looking almost rosy. "O Emmie, the second series of afternoon concerts begins next week. Don't you want to meet me at Shandon's, in an hour, and buy tickets?"
               I said, "Yes," of course, and she vanished like a fairy. At the music store we saw Herr Stultz. He bowed, came directly towards us, and entered into conversation with Honor. I looked at the latter, as I would have gazed at a stranger, and could not but acknowledge that she was singularly attractive. Her superior height, her willowy figure, her calm, blue eyes, her profuse flaxen hair, her dazzling teeth, her fair and pale complexion, arrested the eye; and, beyond this beauty of color and form, glimmered a spell which combined the subtlety of fascination and the strength of rectitude,—a spell which enchained all who listened to her few and quiet words. The conversation with Herr Stultz was somewhat protracted, and I was beginning to wonder what they could find to talk about, when I heard her say, "I will ask my friends";—then turning to me, with "Is it time to go, Emmie?" she took my arm, and we went towards home.
               We were punctual at the afternoon concert. Honor was glad to get a leisure hour for enjoyment; duty in the form of lessons, to be given after her pleasure, awaited her; but for a little while she was free. For me, the place was filled with seriousness; yet all around bright bonnets were in motion, like butterflies. Young girls whispered and turned towards new-comers, and many eyes glanced at the doors, with every entrance. The stage stretched empty and cold before us. The uncertain light which fell from high windows, casting shadows into corners, the extent of space, the remoteness of the pale blue ceiling, suggested a world and its heaven; and when violins sounded in far-off chambers, their voices seemed like echoes of other spheres. Soon Beethoven's Sixth Symphony sounded from the orchestra, and we were surrounded with the rural sounds of a country summer day. Birds twittered in the flowing andante; the quail spoke, the cuckoo called, and the brook purled away in the distance. As the next movement began, Herr Stultz glided into the seat before us. "Gaité," whispered the German, "frolic, pleasure, tanz"; and surely staccato triplets sounded like the clatter of coarse shoes on the green. The tempest rose and rushed to its culmination. Full harmonies sounded the strife of elements, and chromatics moaned forth the agony of nature. Then followed the grateful Allegretto.
               I turned to Honor: "Uncle Robert would enjoy this, for it illustrates his theory to a charm. And yet you think he likes the coldest classics for instrumentation."
               "But 't is not de highest music," interrupted the German; "'t is not goot to describe too mooch; leave to de heart to interpret,—dat's better. Beethoven don't illustrate in dis way mooch."
               Honor smiled: "You see, Emmie, Herr Stultz agrees with me."
               "O, dere must be meaning, Mees; but to say dat some phrases mean conversation about such and such tings is not goot, except in opera, for dere is de story; but 't is not goot to explain too mooch; feel it in de heart, dat is enough."
               "How careless to let those balcony doors swing so hard," said Honor, as three young girls and as many youths entered near us. They bustled to their seats, and then began a whispered accompaniment to "Labitsky."
               "Dat is impolite," said Herr Stultz; and he sibillated his disapproval.
               The sun declined, shadows gathered, the music died, people rose with rustling of silks and confusion of tongues, and poured in a tide towards the vestibule. Honor hurried away to her lessons, and I floated, a waif on the human river. Suddenly some one spoke my name. I turned and saw the lovely Mary Shirley. She began her sweet speech, and we moved on together. Outside the large door stood foppish young men, staring at the women they deemed worthy their notice, and among these was the bold youth I had seen at Golden Lane, and my friend Uncle Phil. To my surprise, they instantly joined my beauty. She introduced them in the prettiest way, calling both her cousins. Uncle Phil turned into Philip Lee, and the youth became Tom Ranger. The latter was evidently proud of his position by Miss Shirley, and saluted his acquaintances with an air. "Would n't they like to stand in my shoes?" he whispered to Philip, who had dropped behind with me.
               He nodded to Tom, and began in a laughing voice: "I am very glad to know you at last, Miss Barberick. Charlie will be pleased. You made a conquest of the little fellow in the candy-shop."
               "I bribed him with a peppermint."
               "Ah, that is the secret. Well, when I want to make an impression, I'll do the same."
               He was very pleasant, yet not absorbing enough to keep me from looking at Miss Shirley.
               "How beautiful she is," I said, in reply to a glance of his eye.
               "Very beautiful."
               "You are cousins?"
               "In the second degree, but she seems like a sister."
               I looked at Philip Lee. He had no beauty. His chief charms were a winning smile and pleasant voice. In a crowd I should not have looked twice at his face or figure, so little were they unlike scores of other men.
               "I want you to come and see us," said Mary, at parting. "Say to-morrow, and we will have a social tea-drinking. Tell Honor she must n't say no."
               "Say I shall expect her. Tom and Phil will escort you home."
               "I will do myself that pleasure now," said Philip, turning the corner with me.
               "Mr. Ranger did n't know that Honor was his cousin's cousin," was a rather abrupt beginning of conversation on my part.
               "Did n't know it on Sunday, you mean. I must sue for his pardon to Miss May and yourself. I have already scolded him. Part of his apology must be his twenty years, and part the fact that he has always had his own way. I sincerely regret that you were annoyed. I trust your friend has recovered from her cold."
               "O, entirely!" was my brisk reply, feeling that he had given Honor no praise. "She is quite well, and in fine voice."
               "What a beautiful soprano! I don't think it is like anything I ever heard."
               "It is very clear."
               "Clear as a bell, and sweet as a flute, and yet there's something in it not of earth."
               "You will think so when you really hear her. Shall you be at church next Sunday?"
               "Without fail, Miss Barberick. I have not always been to Golden Lane; but I believe I shall become a parishioner from this time forth."
               "Is it on Honor's account?" I thought. "Well, music is part of worship, and he will enjoy her voice more and more." And then I wondered how he could know about her singing, for she had done herself great injustice on Sunday; and where else had he heard her? As a stranger, I should not have admired her myself on that day. If I had known then what I afterwards learned, that Philip had listened evening after evening to Honor's warbling and my playing, an invisible auditor of invisible performers, I should have ceased wondering.
               "And you had n't heard that Honor was to sing at Golden Lane?"
               "Not at all. I had only arrived in town the day I had the pleasure of making your acquaintance on the sidewalk; and although I have heard Mary speak often of Cousin Honor, by some oversight it was not told me that she had come to C——."
               "Aristocratic prejudices, without doubt," was my reflection. Pride forbade them to mention that a relative was to sing for salary.
               As we reached the door he stopped. Moved by common politeness, I asked him in. "Thank you." And, as he entered, "If Miss May should be at home, perhaps she will give you a message for my cousin—for to-morrow," he added, seeing that I did not comprehend. "I hope to tell Mary that you will both take tea with her."
               "But Honor has not come back!" when, as if to convict my tongue of guilt, she began to sing beyond the wall.
               Philip smiled and looked glad, while I stammered, "I had no idea,—please wait one second and I will see."
               My mother came into the room just then. I performed the ceremony of introduction, and, while they were attending to each other, I sped over the threshold to Honor's room.
               "O, Honor, it is so funny! You know the young man whose hat I knocked off! Well, he is Mary Shirley's second cousin, and she wants us to go there to tea to-morrow, and he is waiting to carry back your answer. What do you say?"
               "Would you like to go, Emmie?"
               "I don't care. I'll do just as you say, though I'd rather like it, if you don't object."
               "Very well, we'll go. Word the answer your own way. 'With pleasure' would be no falsehood." And she turned to her scales.
               Back I flew, to find Philip and mamma talking as coseyly as old friends. The former looked askingly at me, and I said, "Honor and I will go with pleasure."
               What a smile broke over his countenance! There was a radiant sweetness about it which transfigured him. He sat half an hour, apparently not hearing Honor's scales, and making himself quite charming; so that when he rose, my mother said, "Will you come again, Mr. Lee?"
               
               "Thank you for the permission." And, with a courtly bow, he was gone.
               "He is delightful, Emmie. I have not seen so pleasant a young man for a great while."
               "I think he is agreeable, mamma."
               We went to the Shirleys, and had an agreeable visit. Honor sang as much as they desired, and was in such brilliant voice that they were all astonished. They had forgotten how fine she was, and then she had made great progress since they had heard her. Cordelia and Jane were both at home. George, whom I remembered by name as Honor's lovely youth, had gone to live in Lyons; through his father's influence, a rich firm in that place had accepted him as younger partner. The family spoke of France as his future home. Mrs. Shirley seemed a tender, affectionate woman; Cordelia moved magnificent and haughty; and Jane was slight, light, cold, and insipid. I could see what Honor had told me,—that pride tinged with its dark colors the two older daughters, and I wondered how they could enjoy Honor's singing when they reflected on the position she had chosen. Honor entranced us all. She did not seem to know it. In reality the centre of admiration, she was as calm as a child. As for Tom Ranger, he made himself ridiculous. He hardly took his eyes from her face; and, when we were ready to go, he waited to put on Honor's shawl, thus installing himself her cavalier. Philip had to take me, as I thought, with some vexation; but he was undisturbed, so I did n't fret much. The next day a bouquet was left for Honor and one for me; and, as we were taking an afternoon walk, Philip and Tom overtook us. This time the former secured Honor, at which Tom's discomfiture was so apparent, that I had hard work to preserve my gravity. That Honor was not pleased at this meeting, I very well knew; for, instead of doing her errands, she went directly home, and said, "Good evening," at the door, in her remote way.
               "If you do it next time, old fellow," I heard Tom Ranger say to Philip, grasping his arm, and the latter looked at him half sadly.
               "Now, Emmie," said Honor, as soon as we got indoors, "I've no idea of being followed in this way. I know you don't like it, and it is very disagreeable to me. I want nobody's admiration. I have come to C—— to study. Music is my one aim, motive, object in life, next to a good conscience, and each is consistent with the other. What art is higher and purer? Tell me, Emily. My voice has never done harm to me or anybody else, and I don't mean it shall ever bring wrong or give pain. This senseless adoration, which very young men offer to women as old or older than themselves, is the most sickening of all things. I want nobody's attention,—nobody's love. If these young gentlemen don't see that I dislike it, I shall tell them so."
               I was half petrified, never having heard Honor speak out in this way before. "Philip is n't very young, and he's more sensible and modest than Tom."
               "O, I don't object to his admiration for you, my dear."
               "Admiration for me!"
               "Certainly. Don't you see it and feel it? He is gentlemanly, and would behave himself with propriety, if this Ranger didn't drag him round. He acts as mentor, I suspect. But I won't find fault with him, Emmie, for I should like to have him attend to you in his own way."
               "But he cares nothing for me. He escorts me, simply because he can't escort you. He knows Tom's fascination, and sees your coldness."
               "If Tom will only see it too, I shall be satisfied. He ought not to waste his time in this way. It is very bad for him. I must cure him of this passing fancy." In five minutes more, she was singing her most difficult exercises.
               The next day but one was Sunday. True to his word, Philip Lee was at Golden Lane, and Tom Ranger too. The latter began by casting glances at Honor, but I could see that Philip frowned them down. Honor never sang better. If heads were turned before in dissatisfaction, they were now raised in admiration. Her voice rang through the air like a silver cornet, and, with every note, grew purer and more ethereal. I could hardly believe my eyes when I saw Tom Ranger carry his handkerchief to his face, as if to wipe away a tear. The sermon was solemn, the people hushed, and the thought came to my mind that heaven would be like this. Leaving church was like passing from a happy to a care-crowded region; and when I saw the two young men waiting for us, it gave me a feeling of pain. "What would Honor say?" Nothing, I hoped, to disturb the calm state in which the holy benediction had left us; and yet she should speak the truth.
               "Don't be troubled, Emmie; I will manage it," whispered Honor, seeing my anxiety. Then, nodding pleasantly to the young men, she said, "We are going home alone," and turned immediately in the opposite direction. It was all over. How kindly,—how skilfully managed.
               "Will they understand, Honor?"
               "O yes; they won't wait for us again. I shall tell them we don't wish it. If Mr. Lee comes to see you to-morrow, please tell him what I say."
               
               "O, Honor, I hardly dare."
               "Come in for me, then. I will let him know just how we feel, and he'll understand, and explain it to his cousin. It is a serious thing to me, Emily. On the Sabbath I desire that my thoughts may be away from earthly ambition and earthly pursuits. I feel that I stand in the presence of God, and to Him I utter praise and prayer. Emily, the atmosphere must be holy about me!"
               "Perhaps you could draw other people up, if they came to you," said I, thinking of Philip's serious looks and Tom's tears.
               "I am only strong for myself; if I can walk alone, in the right way, I shall be satisfied; besides, does my example count for nothing? I owe it to my conscience to add to the worship of the day, and to do this I must be serene. It is my duty, in the highest sense, to make the Sabbath more holy for all who hear me. It is my duty, in a lower sense,—I must return to the congregation what they give me in another form. You may think me uncharitable and cold in thrusting the feelings of others away; and I suppose I am cold, for with these things I have no sympathy."
               She looked anything but cold at this moment. Her cheeks flushed, and her eyes filled with holy light, she stood a prototype of the vision of my dream, the heavenly St. Cecilia.
               Several weeks passed quickly away. Apparently, the fancy of Tom Ranger was turning to an honest admiration; his liking for Honor was fast becoming a passion, founded not precisely on his knowledge of her fine qualities, for he had not seen her enough to appreciate these, but a passion born of a love for the beautiful and true; even his intuition had glimpses of her purity of soul, and his ear had learned, through her voice, the sweetness of her nature.
               Of this growth in his feelings I became suddenly aware. Philip Lee came frequently to see my mother. Sometimes I was at home, as often out. Not seldom I left my mother to entertain him, while I went in to Honor's to practise; not caring to inflict my studies on his sensitive ears. Tom occasionally came with him. They had called twice on Honor, but she had been engaged to visitors. She had not asked them to repeat their visit, and it was apparent that she did not wish to receive them.
               On a pleasant morning, my mother and I sat sewing. Honor had gone to give lessons. I had practised two hours at the piano, and was in a comfortable frame of mind. The door-bell rang; I heard Milly trotting to inspect the comers. A shriek of laughter and a short scuffle proclaimed Philip. He was her special favorite, although she often tried to run away from him.
               
               Philip it proved to be, together with Charlie and Tom Ranger.
               Milly instantly took off Charlie to find her "pussy tat," and Tom, under pretence of looking at some music, whispered, "Put on your bonnet and walk round the square; don't say no."
               Now, I had no particular objection to walking with Tom, since I had got to know him, and, to say the truth, he had improved on acquaintance; besides, it was Honor he admired, not me. So I got ready, and announced that we were going to take a little exercise.
               "I am glad of it," said my mother. "You will have a pleasant walk."
               If she could have seen into the next half-hour she would not have made the prophecy. No sooner had we lost sight of the house than Tom exclaimed, "Miss Emily, I shall die! If she would only see me, I would n't ask her to marry me now; I would n't say one word to offend her; but I cannot live without seeing her or hearing her. She won't receive my notes,—sends them all back,—only broke the seal of the first one. She won't receive me, and what shall I do?" Of course, all this referred to Honor.
               "But she has no time to receive calls. Do you know how busy she is,—how hard she works?"
               "If she would only let me save her this! I am independent, and almost twenty-one. If I had a throne, she should share it. O, Miss Emily, can't I see her once in a while? Philip says it is no use to ask; but I thought you might intercede for me. I am so changed since I knew her! I have an ambition I never felt before. I could become anything for her sake. Will you tell her, Miss Emily?"
               "I will tell her, certainly; but I can't give you any hope. I don't think she cares for anything but music, and to that she devotes all her time, her heart, and her will."
               "I will help her; she shall do just as she pleases, if she 'll only—on-ly—" and poor Tom almost gulped down his handkerchief, to keep from crying outright.
               "I will speak to her this afternoon."
               "Can I come this evening and find out what she says?"
               "Yes, come to-night."
               "I'll be here; but I won't go in now." (We had reached the door.) "Tell Philip not to mind me. I am off for Boxville. Good bye, Miss Emily."
               Poor Tom! my heart warmed to him, and I forgot that I had ever considered him an impertinent youth. The idea of his helping Honor along in her musical life raised a smile, for, unlike Philip, he had no appreciation of sounds; but when I remembered a certain manliness, which had dawned through the sensitiveness of his boyish feelings, I felt half inclined to cry. "Does anything ever come quite right in this world?" I asked myself. My father's voice, far away, replied, "Yes, my child, all things are right."
               Philip was sitting with my mother, "waiting for Charlie," he said; but as Milly and the little boy had n't finished their call on "pussy tat," he waited still, and with equanimity. In a few minutes, however, Charlie came, and they took their leave. Philip was really a fine fellow. I had taken a decided liking to his many good qualities, which shone forth in action and speech. Refinement characterized his manner, and unselfishness his treatment of others.
               My dear mother was beginning to talk of his admiration for me, but I was forced to destroy the illusion. The idea pleased her, and she busied herself in building castles in the air. But when I assured her that I did n't care at all for Philip in that way, and that I was quite certain he had no thought of me, she drew a long breath, like one relieved.
               "I am glad of it, my dear; I could n't well spare you. It is a great deal better that he should come as a friend. I wish he had business; it would be much better for him."
               "But he has studied medicine, and is going to establish himself, he says."
               "I hope he will do it without delay; it is n't well for a young man to be idle. He is too rich to be pricked to exertion."
               "How rich is he, mamma?"
               "Mrs. Miller says his father left two hundred thousand dollars, and he is an only child. His mother died years ago."
               "O, how much good he can do!"
               "Yes, if he chooses. I think he is benevolent, but without system."
               "Why does Charlie call him Uncle Phil, if he is not his nephew? I always thought he was a brother's son."
               "He is a cousin's child, and left in his particular care. I think he has the same as adopted him; I judged so from what he said to-day."
               "You are quite in Philip's confidence. Has he told you all his affairs?"
               "That's for him to say, my dear, for I don't know what all is; he may have a great deal more to tell. There is something winning about that young man, Emily; but I am glad, on the whole, that you don't care for him nor he for you."
               My promise to Tom, of telling Honor, was not easy to fulfil. In the first place, I dreaded it; in the next, it was hard to find her at home; and, lastly, it was a serious thing to take her time. Systematic as the clock, she had every hour appropriated, and if I stole her moments I stole her purse. And for such a communication! How would she—calm, practical, unimpassioned as she was—receive it? The more I thought about it, the more anxious I became, and I made the resolve to confess all as soon as I heard her begin to practise; and that she was sure to do on coming from her round of lessons.
               So I practised myself, and diligently, two hours on piano studies, half an hour on vocal exercises, and then sat down with my mother, sewing my fingers, as well as my work, in nervous impatience. At half past twelve came the well-known do-o-o. Simply saying that I was going into Honor's a moment, I slipped out of the door, feeling much the same as if I were paying a visit to the dentist.
               "Honor, please stop one moment, I have something to tell you," was my salutation.
               "Tell away, Emmie." Re-e-e. "I can hear while I sing."
               "No, you can't; just listen. Tom Ranger is in a dreadful condition. I really pity him, Honor."
               She opened her blue eyes wide. "What is the matter?"
               "Why, he has set his heart on you, Honor, and you won't allow him to come here. You send his notes back unanswered."
               "And unread," she interrupted. "I cannot be troubled in this way."
               "But, Honor, his feeling is real. He says if he could only come and see you once in a while, and hear you sing, it would make him better. Don't you think you ought to do it, Honor,—for his sake? He is really going through a struggle. He is so respectful, so modest! There's nothing he would not do for you; he wants to help you in your musical life."
               "Poor boy!" murmured Honor; "I had no idea he had any real feeling for me."
               "He is coming to Mrs. Miller's to-night to hear what you say."
               "Then I'll come too, and I'll make him understand that we are to be good friends. I shall be kind, Emily; you need n't fear. I don't despise true feeling. But I can let him see that my life forbids me to think of anything of this sort. I am older than he, Emily, and I can speak freely."
               "He is almost twenty-one."
               "And I almost twenty-four. Not only by three years, but by the privileges of my sex, I am far before him in the journey of life. Poor boy! I will help him to his consolation."
               
               How noble she seemed as she said all this! Involuntarily my thoughts passed through years that had gone. I saw my dear father's smile, and the approving look of the good man who had influenced all to the highest and best. Truly, virtue is the same in all times. Things and places and people change, but goodness never.
               Tom came early, before I expected him, and in a state of agitation which he could hardly conceal from my mother. Indeed, if Mrs. Miller had not asked her into a back room to inspect an intricate pattern of crochet, I think she must have discovered the secret.
               Honor entered soon after; and going directly to Tom, she shook hands with him, and said: "Emily told me you would be here, and I have come, hoping that we may have a good long talk."
               I went to the piano, and discreetly selected a Sonata of Haydn's, which occupied my fingers at least twenty minutes. I played Andante and Largo as slow as possible, and the Allegro non troppo with great license. I made the forte with fury, all the mezzos forte, every piano a mezzo, and of pianissimo I took no notice. Thus I succeeded in deafening myself and in practically ignoring the company. Then I selected some studies which I gave in a vociferous style; and then, finding Honor still talking ing and Tom listening, I stole away to hear about the crochet.
               By what magic Honor settled the matter I do not know; but when I went back Tom was smiling, and Honor preparing to sing some ballads.
               "We have arranged something pleasant,—Tom and I." (Honor had never called him anything but Mr. Ranger before.) "We are to have a musical meeting occasionally here, provided Mrs. Barberick and Mrs. Miller and Emily say yes."
               "I should be delighted, and neither mamma nor Mrs. Miller will say no."
               Tom was in a condition of balm and bliss. When Honor left, she allowed him to step with her to Mrs. Frost's door. I waited on our own steps till he came back.
               "O Miss Emily, how much I owe to you! She has placed things in such a different light that I am almost reconciled; at least, I hope I shall be. I am proud to have her esteem, and indeed I will deserve it. She is an angel."
               "You know you are to come here whenever we have any music, Tom."
               "There's no fear of my forgetting that. When will be the first meeting?"
               "I don't know what evening; probably in the course of a week."
               
               "Can't you have it before?"
               "Perhaps so. I'll let you know."
               "Well, I shall be running in. Perhaps I can help you. Won't Phil be pleased? I think he is demented on the subject of music."
               "He does n't talk so very much about it."
               "He?—no. He never talks about anything that he feels deeply. You can get a regular discourse out of him on flowers, literature, and music, perhaps, in the abstract; but approach any particular thing which moves him, and he is silent. He might perhaps be more free with women; but I can't make him talk to me. I think Phil is reserved, though a stranger would never suspect it. He is the most affable fellow I know, and apparently tells every thought; but way down deep he keeps his own counsel."
               "Isn't he sincere, Tom?" asked I, feeling my faith in Phil shaken a bit.
               "O yes. I don't think he ever told a falsehood in his life. A good many things he don't tell at all; and, if he wants to do any particular thing, he does it,—makes his plans and carries them out,—and that's the first you know about it."
               "Sly, Tom?"
               "No,—not sly, deep."
               "Set, Tom?"
               "Not always: sometimes a little mulish; at others hardly knows his own mind. Phil's a fine fellow, but not like anybody else. But what are you questioning me for? Don't take a fancy to him, for he's as hard as a flint towards the sex. Do you believe, he actually tried the game of laughing me out of my admiration for Miss May?—said other women had sweet voices, and blue eyes, and flaxen hair. I turned round on him at that, and pinned him, till he confessed he did n't know anybody who had such a ravishing voice,—ravishing, that's the word he used. He pretended to think Mary Shirley handsomer; but I told him he knew better, and he did n't dare to say it again. But I must n't keep you on the steps any longer this cold evening. Good night."
               I went to sleep that night with a peaceful conscience. My speaking had done good. Tom was saved from absurdity and unhappiness, and Honor from wrong-doing, through neglect. If I had not told her, the poor fellow would have been miserable for a while at least, and he would certainly have made himself ridiculous.
               The next morning, directly after breakfast, Honor came in for me to walk round the Park.
               "I must thank you, Emmie, for what you did yesterday. I had no idea this young man had so much kind feeling and good sense. I told him my situation, my prospects, my ambition,—for I suppose I ought to call it so,—and he understood everything delicately. Now he will be content, and glad to see me win name and fame. I told him that you, under the protection of your mother, could entertain whatever friends you chose; but that I could receive no gentlemen visitors. That if I, soprano at Golden Lane, saw one, I must see others; that I had no time to spend in this manner; and that it would be prejudicial to me if I did so."
               "And he appreciates it all?"
               "I believe so. I shall be kind to him, Emily. I want to have his friendship. He will not be here long. Did you know it?"
               "No. Where is he going?"
               "To Europe, and in three months. He says he may be away six months, or a year,—possibly longer. And now, Emmie, I have got something to tell you."
               "What is it?"
               "Do you remember the afternoon we went to buy tickets at Shandon's?"
               "Yes, and we met Herr Stultz."
               "And he and I had quite a long talk."
               "Yes, I remember it."
               "Herr Stultz made me a proposition——"
               "Goodness! Herr Stultz! You would not marry him!"
               "O, Emmie!" and Honor laughed as I had never heard her laugh before. "I don't mean a matrimonial proposition,—a professional one. He wants me to sing at a concert! What do you think about it?"
               "I don't know. I cannot tell."
               "I did n't promise anything. I said I would speak to my friends."
               "Would you care to do it yourself?"
               "It is the very thing I desire, and yet I am afraid. When I think of going before the public, I shrink within myself."
               "You have sung at concerts, Honor?"
               "Several times at home, where I knew everybody, and everybody knew me; and on every occasion it was for a benevolent object, and the audience, of course, ready to be pleased. Here, a stranger, presenting myself for criticism,—O, it makes me shiver to think of it! And yet I want to do it. Herr Stultz offers remuneration, and this would help on my plan, Emmie. I have never told you what this plan is. I supposed Mr. Maurice would think it impracticable, and I knew Mr. Barberick would laugh at it as a chimera. So I did n't talk about it at Summerstown. Ever since I was left alone, it has been a purpose in my mind. I want to have an institution somewhat like a conservatoire, only on a smaller scale, to begin in a very small way. It would be for young girls, and for poor girls in particular, so that all who have voice and talent, or talent without the voice, might be trained in the right manner."
               "And who would take charge of it, Honor?"
               "I, Emily. I could take care of the vocal department, and I would employ the very best teacher I could find for the piano,—probably Herr Stultz."
               "But it would be very expensive. You would have to hire a house."
               "Not at first. I would take a room where the pupils could come. One half the day to be devoted to vocal, the other half to instrumental teaching. But, in order to establish it on a permanent basis, it is necessary to have funds, and this it is which makes me so glad to earn money in my small way. I have told my uncle the project, and he has promised to help me, if it seems at all practicable. I should give my time; but the other teacher must be paid."
               "You would establish it principally for poor girls?"
               "Yes, because rich ones can pay the highest prices for tuition, but here the terms would be low. I think the ordinary prices of instruction are too high altogether. I don't ask as much as the celebrated teachers here, and I am sure I am more faithful than some of them. I should teach in classes, as far as I could make it profitable for the development of voices. I should accept only those of positive gifts. It would be such a pleasure to put them in the right way. Emily, I honestly believe most of the teaching of the present day to be false and superficial. I have blushed at the accounts several of my pupils have given me of their former teachers,—accounts which I did not invite, but which I could not refuse to hear,—and these have convinced me that persons of reputation neglect their duty. If I did not watch and criticise every scale sung by my scholars, if I did not spend myself in advice and example, if I did not give of my own vitality in every lesson, my conscience would haunt me. But I know several teachers, both of singing and piano, who simply sit comfortably as auditors of their pupils, correcting glaring faults, of course, but ignoring minor ones,—minor only in comparison; for, if acquired as habits, they would actually prevent any person from becoming a singer. It is cruel that poverty should be a barrier to talent; yet, at the present time, how is a person without money to get a musical education? and of what avail are gifts without training? They serve for the amusement and pleasure of friends, but never answer the lofty demands of art. It is to meet this great want in the community that I propose my plan. Education will then be placed within the reach of those who could not otherwise afford it; only real talent will be encouraged; art will no longer be degraded, musical truth will be proclaimed; pretenders will be banished, and culture given to the world."
               "O, this would be glorious, Honor! and can it be carried out?"
               "I believe so,—in time. As I said, we must begin on a small scale, and grow with our prospects."
               "If you had only talked with Uncle Robert; he would have helped you, I know."
               "I was afraid lest he should call it all a dream. You know how practical he is; and, as far as Mr. Maurice was concerned, I could say nothing of this to him. Do you remember how he objected to my making my life professional, and said if I built castles they would be founded on the sand? Every day I build this castle in the air, and every time it looks more and more beautiful. I believe I shall see it a solid structure some day. But shall I ever finish it?" she exclaimed with a sigh.
               "O yes, Honor; your uncle will help you, I know."
               "It all depends upon him, for without his assistance I can do nothing. But now, Emmie, about the concert: what would you do,—sing or not sing? Please ask your mother; and when I come in after tea to hear your lesson, we will settle it together."
               I expected a positive no from my mother's lips, in answer to Honor's question; but, to my surprise, she hesitated before replying.
               "Honor is so noble and delicate, that she can tell better what to do than I. I should n't wish you to sing at a concert, Emmie; but then you do not intend to do it, so that is not the question. She evidently means to be a professional singer, and I see no objection to the concert. Philip says she will have great fame, as soon as people know about her. He has never heard a more beautiful voice,—not even in Europe. He admires her very much."
               "He shows his taste; you know what Uncle Robert always said."
               That Honor expected objections to the concert scheme was evident from her manner, in approaching my mother in the evening. "Did Emmie tell you, Mrs. Barberick?"
               "Yes, my dear; and I see no reason why you should n't sing if you want to."
               "O, I am so glad! I'll let Herr Stultz know to-morrow."
               "You can come and tell him here,—it is my lesson day."
               "So I can. If I should n't be punctual, you can tell him, Emmie, that I accept, and shall expect to hear further particulars from him."
               I had a cheering lesson, for Honor was unusually bright; and after teaching was over, she sang several songs to my accompaniment. When she left, I went to the door, as usual. Just at the foot of the steps stood a cloaked figure, which glided away like a phantom as we appeared. I watched Honor enter the house, and then came back to talk with my mother and Mrs. Miller, who had popped in for a moment before going to bed. Honor immediately began to sing in her own room. We listened and talked and nodded, and, after a while, said, "Good night."
               I looked out at the stars, and by their light the cloaked figure was again revealed,—this time standing directly underneath Honor's window. Who could it be?
               During the week we had our first musical meeting. The audience consisted of Mr. Shirley, Mary, my mother, and Mrs. Miller. Milly heard the music in bed, and tried very hard to keep her peepers open ten minutes, in which attempt she signally failed. Bridget and Sally listened behind the door. We really had a very charming evening. Tom swallowed every sound of Honor's voice, talking or singing, and Philip listened in his usual tranquil manner. Our programme of performances was long and varied. I insisted on "Qui la Voce"; Tom wanted "Ernani involami"; Philip requested Schubert's "Ave Maria"; my dear mother begged for some old-fashioned music, and Mrs. Miller suggested Scotch songs. So that with these, for Honor sang them all, and some instrumental interludes on my part, we kept busy till half past ten. Honor then said she must go. I ran into the entry to find her shawl and hood, and there stood Philip. Did my eyes deceive me? Certainly I saw or seemed to see him carry the square of blue worsted to his lips, press it tenderly, then lay it down.
               "Are you looking for anything?" he tranquilly asked.
               "Only Honor's hood."
               "Is this it?" and he held up again the blue worsted square he had touched so affectionately the moment before.
               I must have been mistaken: without blush or tremor he handed me the hood, took his hat, and stepped into the parlor. Tom had evidently intended to walk home with Honor. The privilege was small, covering not more than a rod of ground; still he coveted it, and grew red in the face when Philip announced, "You need n't wait for me, Tom; I will see Miss May to her door, and go home from there." Tom made no reply. He cast one glance at Honor, and, whispering to me, "I don't like this in Phil," he said, "Good night," and shut the door unnecessarily hard. Philip opened it, offered his arm, which I was glad to see Honor did not take, and the door closed on them in turn.
               
               As I looked from my window that night, I saw again a dim figure pacing the sidewalk beneath Honor's window. Quick and agitated were its motions. For half an hour did I gaze, fearing some evil; still the form moved backward and forward, as if a perturbed spirit directed its course. At length I closed the window; the figure turned, and that single movement made me think of Philip.
               The next morning I met Philip near the Park. He looked unusually pale and serious. "Miss Emily, you are the very person I want to see."
               "Indeed, sir!"
               Additional paleness spread over his features. "I want to ask you a question. If you cannot answer it now as I wish, don't answer at all. And this is my question: "Will you make my future?" and, as I looked at him, amazed, "Will you marry Philip Lee? Your mother consents."
               "Mamma! have you spoken to her?"
               "Ten minutes ago; I saw her soon after you went out. And now fortune has favored me in meeting you."
               "But you love Honor!" I exclaimed, by an irresistible impulse, as the blue hood and the figure pacing underneath the window flashed into my memory like a ray of light.
               No girl ever blushed more visibly than did Philip at these words. From the clear parting of his soft, brown hair, down to the spotless white of his collar, flowed a tide of crimson.
               "O Philip," I cried, "don't be false to your own heart. Why did you ask me such a question? Would you have deceived me? O, I cannot believe it. If you love Honor, tell her so, but never again name it to me."
               "I might seek to justify myself, Emily, by saying that I did not tell you I loved you; but that would be an evasion of your just reproach. No man has a right to ask a woman to marry him unless he loves her, and I have just done that wrong thing. But, Emily, I respect, I admire, and I will love you, if you can accept me. I have adored Honor May; but would you have me worship a statue all my days? Would you have me forego the sweets of domestic life, because one will not bend her eyes upon me? I have gazed in silence, not daring to speak, lest my voice should sever the tie of friendship that bound us. Yes, in silence till last night, when I told her all. The evening, her exquisite voice, destroyed my self-control. A few words sufficed; only three minutes were granted from your door to her own. She rejected me as she would have thrown away a flower. And now to you I offer this heart which shall cherish, this hand which shall guard you while life endures."
               
               The warmth and suddenness of his words overcame me and I sobbed like a child. We had involuntarily taken a retired path at the western end of the Park, and Philip had placed my arm within his to soothe my agitation. "Emily, if my heart speaks truly, I love you now."
               Many things crowded on my memory. Childhood, with its trials and joys, the sweet paternal counsel, the pastoral advice, all came before me. My mother's and Honor's suspicion that Philip had an affection for me thrilled through me like anguish, for had I not heard his tongue utter adoration for Honor?—and yet came the soft, delusive thought, "Perhaps he loves me now; do I love him?" Serene and sweet, agreeable, intelligent, good, as I believed him, his eyes speaking to my soul, could I say no? How my woman's heart inclined towards him as he pressed my hand and gave to me his future.
               "O Philip!" I sighed, it is so sudden; I cannot say yes."
               "You need not, Emmie; let it come when you will, if it only come."
               "And Uncle Robert!"
               "Will you let me write him?"
               "O, I don't know. Why did n't you fancy Mary Shirley, rather than Honor? Even she is so beautiful and so winning—"
               "She is both, and my cousin. Honor May would be remembered, while twenty lovely Marys might fade like pictures on their walls. Honor is noble and positive through her whole nature,—true to her name. Heaven and integrity look from her eyes."
               "Why give her up!"
               "Give her up! the goddess who hardly looks the way I stand!"
               "She is not haughty."
               "No, but remote and pure as a star; worshipped, but not worshipping."
               "Yes, worshipping all high, all holy things."
               "Beautiful nun! Emily, I could not wish her to marry me without affection."
               "And yet you think a woman can be satisfied with esteem?" I inquired, with a shade of bitterness in my tone.
               "Emmie, I am loving you at this moment. I will love you as much as your warm heart can desire, on one condition."
               "Condition!" I echoed.
               "That you love me";—and his tone was so tender, that my heart beat with a new sensation, half ecstasy, half pain.
               "Please let me go home alone," I said, still half sobbing. "I want to think."
               "Emmie, don't be distressed. If one word that I have said gives you pain, forget it. All shall be as you please. I will be to you a friend forever."
               I drew down my veil and hurried away.
               What comfort to lay my head on my mother's breast, there to tell her every fear, there to weep out my trouble. Gently she soothed me: "Do what your heart prompts, my child. Philip will not urge. You are free."
               Yes, free as air: I had made no promise. Could I ever promise to marry Uncle Phil? To pass through life by his side! The thought was fearful. And yet, who would be a more gentle guide, a more steadfast friend? I had been strangely moved by his pleading voice that day. If he should really love me! His tones lingered on my ear, I felt the warm clasp of his hand, I recalled his kindness, his benevolence, his quiet temper: to be chosen by him was a serious, a solemn thing.
               Henceforth Philip was my almost constant companion. He seldom escorted me to places of amusement, for he understood that I did not wish it; but wherever I went he was sure to be, and he invariably accompanied me home. Honor did not fancy miscellaneous concerts, and had infected me with her opinions on their want of unity, their sacrifice of truth, their degradation of art to a low level, so that we seldom cared to go out in the evening. My mother approved of Honor's views with regard to accepting favors from others, but sighed while she commended.
               "It deprives her of much pleasure. I wish she had some one to protect her."
               "She does n't need anybody to do that, mamma."
               "She is singularly independent, I know."
               "Yes; but not at all unwomanly. I don't believe any of us understand Honor yet. With a purpose in her soul, not only for the present, but for the future, she is constantly pressing on to her goal, and most things beside seem to her of minor importance. Common pleasures she does not regret."
               As for Mr. Shirley, he was so charmed with the position Honor had taken, or rather with her for taking it, that he wrote her his approbation. "Consider me your cavalier, my dear, and when you want to see or hear anything, or go anywhere (I believe this includes all possibilities), apply to your most devoted uncle."
               Honor availed herself of the privilege, and included me; and, whenever an oratorio was to be given, or any true artist to be heard, we would go round to Uncle George and tell him we were waiting for our cavalier. Then the dear old gentleman would bow, as if thanking us for the favor; and as he never had cold, headache, or rheumatism, we would go off rejoicing joicing, one on each arm, guarding him as if he were a gigantic rose of latest importation.
               As far as manner was concerned, Philip was much the same to me as ever, only more devoted; if by chance we were alone together, I had the feeling that his eye watched my movements, day by day. If I took a walk, he met me; wherever I went, he appeared in his quiet way. Honor was so often with me, that I more than once found myself asking if she could be the real attraction. His manner to her, and hers to him, were the same as if nothing had happened. I should not have suspected their secret, had I not surprised Philip into its avowal. One evening he had brought a box of candies. Honor had come in to give my lesson. She was going on with her instruction, ignoring his presence; but my self-command deserted me. I was fast becoming conscious when Philip was near. Formerly I had minded him no more than Uncle Robert, but was now unable to be natural and composed in his presence. Seeing my discomfort, with eyes that appeared not to see, Philip distributed his sweets.
               "Here are chocolate and gum drops for Mrs. Barberick. Miss May, I believe you like rock-candy. Emmie remembers when and to whom I give a lozenge."
               I did remember, and foolishly blushed; then, looking ing at Honor, found her regarding us alternately,—myself with alarm, and Philip with perceptible scorn.
               A shade of sternness stole over the features of the latter, as he said, in a grave voice: "Emily knows that Miss May has rejected me. I have given her an opportunity of doing the same." And the last words, so lingeringly spoken, seemed to imply, if she can.
               
               Honor twined her arm round me, and whispered, "What did I tell you, Emmie?" Then, aloud, to Philip, "Ah! Uncle Phil, I divined it long ago." Then, going to the piano, she sang "Le Siècle d'Amour."
               Thus days and weeks passed away. Philip's conduct compelled my esteem, my judgment approved his qualities, his kindness awakened in my heart ardent and gentle feelings, and yet I was not sure if I loved him. No one but Honor and my mother knew of our relation to each other. It rejoiced the latter, but I think it grieved the former.
               "Tell me all about it, Emmie," she had said, after Philip's departure, the evening on which he had announced it, in vindication of himself.
               And I told her,—concealing nothing. She sighed, as she heard of the continual struggle in my feelings, urging to, yet withholding from, decision, and said, "I am thankful you are free. Keep so, till you know your own heart."
               
               As for my music, it had turned to a restless, fitful accompaniment of my days. It was no longer a mechanical exercise to be achieved with skill, but the expression of my soul in its constant struggle with my heart. Conscience resisted, while I colored my life with the semblance of a passion that I desired to feel, for Philip's sake. When his step sounded on the sidewalk, my heart beat; when his voice greeted me, I trembled; if a distant omnibus stopped its roll at the corner of the street, my ear strained itself to catch the echo of his tread. His voice, his smile, were ever with me, and my mother said, more than once, "I think you love Philip: you ought to end his suspense." And yet I could not.
               "Shall I tell my cousins to come and see you?" he asked one day, with a meaning smile.
               "O no, no."
               "Don't be disturbed, Emmie. I can wait a good while."
               I have since wondered at his patience, for if he did not truly love me, he wished me to accept him. He had then relinquished all hope of Honor. But suavity was one of his gifts.
               The time was now approaching for Herr Stultz's concert. It was to be sacred, but selected. I begged Honor to sing "Rejoice Greatly." The German wanted Cherubini's "Ave Maria," and "I know that my Redeemer liveth." Several rehearsals took place in our parlor, at which Philip and Tom were present. Tom was so manly that I could not but admire him. Honor frequently asked his opinion about musical matters, at which he was greatly pleased. At length the important evening came. The Shirleys attended in a body, and Philip said that I could not refuse to let him accompany me this once. The night was glorious, cool and bright, and I reached the hall glowing with health and pleasure. Then, as I became one of the audience, and realized what was coming, how perturbed I grew! "Almost as much as if I had been going to sing myself," Philip said. I heard the orchestra with an indifference I would not have believed possible, and wished, yet dreaded, to see Honor appear. The moment came. How beautiful she was! A murmur of admiration arose as she stepped forward to sing. Her hair and complexion formed a strong contrast to the black dress she wore; the neat, white collar looked hardly whiter than her slender throat; floating sleeves covered her arms, and a red rose burned on her breast like a star.
               Once more I heard "Rejoice Greatly." Philip listened like one entranced. Her voice, suspended in space, took to itself a wondrous quality. "Divine!" he murmured, as her silver notes dropped in showers of sound, filling the air with joy. They rose, they swelled, they faded, they followed each other like groups of swallows, they died like the voice of the swan. No more fear or dread for Honor. My heart was filled with triumph.
               With delight I saw two of the critics at Golden Lane behind me, and on every side was the aspect of a refined auditory. Like a willow swayed by the wind, Honor bent to her seat, and the air resounded the mighty succession of chords.
               I looked at Philip. "She is a seraph singing to mortals!" and with these words he pressed my hand, as if to say, "Dear child, I admire her, but I am true to thee."
               I cannot well remember, at this interval of time, what followed Honor's song. She embodied the evening. Even Philip was but an accident of the night,—she the night itself. Those rich instrumentations succeeding her voice are but echoes of the past, linking together the melodies she sung. These are of the present, sounding to my soul even now. Who can say they will not form part of the future,—never to cease, never to die? Prayer, the purest aspiration of the soul, rose from Honor's lips as from some sacred altar. "Ave Maria! Ave Maria!" Vividly it comes back in tones of petition. I see the uplifted eyes, the celestial glance, the look of St. Cecilia. I hear the blended but opposing scale-ascending voice, descending strings, ascending strings, descending voice, disagreeing in harmony, antagonistic in concord, till they cease their sportive differing, and die in a shake like that of the breast-full lark.
               "Do you like a trill in a prayer?" whispered Philip.
               "I never thought that I did not. The whole is so beautiful that I have drawn it in without analyzing its elements."
               "This is an ornament rather than an element. The prayer itself is religiously expressed, but the trill sounds extraneous, not like part of the petition. Is it natural? Would anybody make a trill in praying?"
               "O no; but would anybody sing a prayer?"
               "Not precisely; still a prayer written in melody does not sound unnatural, for music is holy in its nature; and some voices, in the expression of emotion, might speak unconsciously the intervals of music. Song is spontaneous utterance; but ornamentations are artistic acquirements, and appendages of the former."
               "I see what you mean, and I believe you are right. You think the scales and ornaments in 'Rejoice Greatly' are quite in place?"
               "Entirely; for they are in harmony with the subject. Any voice in expressing joy would shout from impulse and chase itself along the scale of sounds?"
               "I agree with you, Philip; that is a very pretty simile of yours."
               He looked at me kindly: "Are you trying to flatter, Emmie?"
               "Not at all; I am convinced. And yet, ought n't Cherubini to have known more about the proper introduction of ornaments than either you or I?"
               "He ought to have known, perhaps he did; still my instinct rejects the trill."
               "So does mine, now you have awakened it from slumber."
               Philip looked delighted, and the sweetest of smiles passed over his face. After the concert we went in to see Honor, and found her surrounded by her cousins and several friends, who had requested to be introduced. Herr Stultz came directly forward to speak to me and to express his pleasure. "Fraulein had sung so well; her voice so sweet, so goot! She moost sing noder time; she moost sing alway!" He put by his serenity, rubbed his hands, smiled, and rubbed his hands again. Honor wrapped herself up and withdrew as speedily as possible, for the carriage was waiting to take her home. "She has made a great hit," said one man to another, as we came out of the corridor. "Yes, she'll be a favorite with the public."
               "I am glad, Emmie, that you have not a remarkable voice," was Philip's remark, as if in reply to what he had heard.
               "Glad! Why?"
               "It is such a temptation to public display. I cannot bear to picture you singing to a crowd."
               "O Philip, there is n't a thought of display about Honor. She is as far above most of her hearers as—as the moon is above this earth."
               "I know that; but they hear her, they see her, they scan her. I should not like to have you in the same position."
               "But don't you understand that she is as different from most singers as a swan is from a wren? She sings to elevate and refine. She is an expounder of truth and beauty,—a priestess, a sibyl. Perhaps you do not know that she can create as well as repeat. I have seen several melodies of hers that are original, and in the hands of a pianist they might be made very taking. I shall tell Herr Stultz about them."
               "I know she has talent, Emmie. I have never considered her a mechanical singer. She is true, and utters her own life, which I should think had been singularly free from excitement. No person can truly express what she or he has not felt. Certain kinds of music,—passionate and trivial and jocose,—from being unintelligible, as one might say, to such a nature and life as Miss May's, would be, of course, untranslatable. But all that you say is not precisely an argument in favor of singing in public."
               "Is it not an argument in its favor if Honor can elevate hundreds of people to her standard, if she can elevate even twenty? If she can show people the difference between intrinsic excellence and meretricious pretence; if she can thus nobly point the way that leads to perfection, is not this, all this, an argument, Philip?"
               "Why, my little pleader, how ardent thou art! It is certainly an argument; and yet, in spite of its strength, and the eloquent manner in which it is put, I must say, as I said about the trill in "Ave Maria," my instinct rejects it! and I am very glad that you sing to me instead of to twenty."
               "Do you think Honor would be called a cold singer?" said I, unheeding the affectionate tones in which the last words were uttered; "you said you did not consider her 'mechanical.'"
               "I consider her truthful. So much so, that she cannot make-believe, as the children say, about anything. I do not call her imagination active; thus, she cannot anticipate results which have not been developed in her own experience; and if a song is descriptive of things or feelings unknown to her, it is a dead letter in her lips; but give her music to mate any passage of her life, and she will make the soul answer to the sound. This I believe, though I don't know it. I judge from her wonderful renderings of sacred music, which take their hue from her religious spirit, and transport the listener almost beyond this earth."
               "You won't discourage Honor about singing at concerts; Herr Stultz may ask her again."
               "Do you think she would receive any advice from me? I should not presume to offer it. She is one to tread the wine-press alone."
               From that night Honor became, as Cordelia Shirley expressed it, "quite the rage." She came round to congratulate and to criticise her cousin. "I was delighted with you, Honor. You took all hearts by storm."
               "I should n't care to do that, Cordelia. I should prefer to convince a few understandings and satisfy some sensitive ears."
               "O well, you did that too. You were charming in everything except your dress."
               "What was the matter with that?"
               "Too plain, my dear,—too common; anybody can wear a black dress."
               "A very good reason why I should wear it. I am anybody; perhaps nobody in somebody's estimation."
               "You did very well, even in that high-necked gown. But you might be dazzling."
               "No, I could n't; and I would n't if I could."
               "Well, I should like to be your dressing-maid for once. I'll tell you what you should wear. A sky-blue silk, trimmed with white tulle; that would be lovely; so becoming to your complexion! Pink would do very well too; ruby velvet would n't be amiss. Any color would do, you are so fair."
               "But, my dear Cora, I'm not fair," expostulated Honor, half laughing; "ruby velvet, indeed!"
               "Flaxen hair, blue eyes, and a skin like paper,—not fair! Are you brunette?"
               "I have a pale complexion, and can wear a black dress!"
               "Please let me finish your toilette: blue silk, trimmed with white tulle; low neck, short sleeves; white flowers in your hair."
               "O Cora, I could n't."
               "Could n't what?"
               "Wear low neck and short sleeves. I should n't do it to appear in the queen's drawing-room. In my opinion, a singer should always be dressed with extreme simplicity. She is under the public eye, you remember."
               "What foolish notions!"
               "I have seen singers, when I have blushed for them. To stand very much dressed under the glare of gas, the centre of a crowd's attention, is n't quite delicate, Cora."
               Cora flushed, for she always wore short sleeves and low neck when she went into society.
               "My dear Cora, it is all very well for persons with plump arms and necks to go uncovered; but you know I am thin." This sincere tribute to the beauty of Cordelia's well-developed figure restored her good humor, and she listened to Honor's logic. "I say it is all very well for such persons to appear at parties with low-necked and short-sleeved dresses, unless they carry this fashion to an extreme; but it is not well for any woman to stand thus uncovered, in a blaze of light, the object of hundreds of glances. How any being can sing sacred music in such costume is beyond my conception. Where are her thoughts? Can they be absorbed in the grandeur of the composer's ideas, and the sources from whence he drew his inspirations? or are they engrossed in empty admiration of her own personal appearance? Poor must be the mind which cherishes a consciousness of self at such a time. I have not forgotten what I read of Madame Catalani when a child. It is said she never went on to the stage without carrying a small Bible about her person. If she, with her gifts, needed the support of the sacred volume, do not all who enter the temple of song need the support of serious thoughts?"
               Cordelia looked annoyed; but Honor, unheeding her, went on.
               "Every singer should be a priestess. She should watch the sacred fire that kindles sound; she should keep the flame constantly pure. Her strictest duty is the faithful interpretation of the composer she sings. She must be true to him, and true to herself. She must sing what she feels, and no more. You remember, Emily, this is what Uncle Robert and I have so often discussed. To every waiting soul, knowledge must flow; to every listening ear, delight; and she, the medium, must be as perfect as she can; and, while she utters the magic melodies of great souls, she must be forgotten,—forgotten by others,—above all, forgotten by herself. This is what I desire and pray for."
               "Did you forget yourself the other night?"
               "Yes, Emmie; almost entirely. You see, Cordelia, I can suffer no personal matter to come between me and that which I am to expound. But that is a pretentious word. I cannot expound,—I cannot interpret. I only try to do my best. I cannot sing unless I am unconscious of worldly ties. You may smile, Cordelia, but I never like to wear anything new when I sing sacred music."
               "And this is the woman whom some people call cold!" was my reflection.
               As for Cordelia, she was amazed enough to keep silent. These were new thoughts,—thoughts which had never presented themselves to her mind, and she had nothing to offer in way of reply. So she merely said, "Pshaw! Honor, what strange ideas you have. They'll get rubbed down when you have lived in C—— a while longer. However, as I told you before, you are quite the rage, in spite of your black dress. Ever so many people have gone into raptures about you, and want to come and see you, but I told them you received no visits. Was that right?"
               "Quite right, Cora. I have barely time for practice as it is, so you may keep them all away. My pupils are increasing every week, and my time is almost entirely occupied. I have no leisure."
               "You don't know how delighted papa is about it; and as for Tom, he is quite wild. He says he always knew you were perfect, and he is glad other people are beginning to find it out. Philip is n't in such a fever, but he rejoices in your success."
               How little we know about each other in this world! If Cordelia had even suspected that Philip's unquiet spirit had kept its watches underneath Honor May's window for weeks before it had surrendered itself to the spell that won it; if she had dreamed that the treasure, being won, was unvalued by the winner; if she could have looked further into the pages of my own life, and seen that the same pearl lay ready for the closing pressure of my hand,—would she have wondered, or would she have scorned Honor, Philip, and myself?
               "Tom is going to England in a fortnight," pursued Cora.
               "Is n't that sooner than he expected?" inquired Honor.
               "A little. But he seems restless; he wants to get away. Mary will miss him. At one time they were absorbed in each other; but they are too young for any serious arrangements to be made. It will be time enough when Tom comes back."
               "Tom will be much obliged for your kind interference," thought I.
               Lovely Mary's congratulations were of a different character. She came round the evening after the concert. Honor was practising a half-hour with me, and she made her visit in our parlor. She kissed her cousin, and kissed me, and laughed and cried, and then we all laughed together. She told my mother how wonderful Honor was, and how she had excited her audience.
               My dear mother put down her work, and wiped her eyes. "Honor a celebrated singer!" she said, and sighed.
               "What would Uncle Robert say, and would n't Miriam stare?" This was my interrogation, and thereat my mother smiled. Honor went to her and pressed her hand. "I'll promise not to become too famous. You would n't like that, I know. These girls are so proud of me that they can't tell what they say. You remember that my energies are to be devoted to teaching young girls how to employ the gifts God gave them, and, instead of using their sweet voices for display, to utter through them truths and beauties that wait to be told. I shall sing a few years in the world and be forgotten: my precept and example will live after I am gone."
               There was no rest for Honor from this time. Herr Stultz was completely roused from his state of composure, and came to her with several musical plans,—one, that she should join a society composed of amateurs, enthusiastic in their study of German music; another, that she should accept the invitation of a sacred music society, which had elected her a member of its august body; another, and last proposition, that she should sing at a series of concerts to be given in the month of April, now close at hand.
               The first two Honor accepted with gladness. "This practice is just what I need, Emily. I can keep my voice from rusting; but home study is mechanical. I want to sing with others, to have a different stimulus from that of my scales. I desire to improve in the intellectual department of music. Perhaps, when your uncle comes back, I shall be able to sing 'O Welcome, fair Wood!' in a way to bring soft airs, and birds, and trees all about him. Would n't he be pleased, Emmie?"
               "Delighted! And won't he be charmed at your success? I shall write him all about it."
               "Don't exaggerate."
               "Not a bit. I wish you'd write him yourself, and say,—say everything that's pleasant. 
                     
                        'Bobby Shaftoe 's gone to sea,
                        He,'ll come back and marry me.'
                     
                   That's what I would like to have you say."
               "Foolish Emily! I would much rather sing him a song."
               About this time Philip did a noble act, which I discovered quite by accident. One evening he and Mr. Shirley were having a cosey talk,—a thing that often happened, for Philip was Mr. Shirley's favorite, after his own children and Honor. Uncle George was praising his niece, unconscious that the auditor had admired her only too much. I want to tell you, Phil, that the child has the project of a Musical Institute in her head, and she thinks she can make it succeed. Now, I have confidence in your judgment, and I want to know your opinion as to the feasibility of this scheme. Can she carry it out, Phil?"
               "I think she can. Everybody could not."
               "You ought to hear her talk about it, as I have. Her mind is so pure, so above the world, so ignorant of all evil, that she seems sometimes like an angel. Most women think about their good looks and their gowns; but she does n't seem to know that she has any attractions. I suppose she can't help the consciousness that her voice is sweet; but she does not want to be admired for it. Her soul is full of music, and she wants the world to be full of it too; but it must be true music. If you could only hear her talk, Phil, you would be surprised. I believe her perceptions are as delicate as the antennæ of an insect,—they shrink at the touch of anything untrue. And she, dear girl, wants to promulgate musical truth; she wants to proclaim it to all who will hear her; to infuse it into fresh young minds, and to pour it into fresh young voices, so that they will express all that is blessed and beautiful. I really felt my eyes moisten, old fellow that I am, as she talked with me in this way. I wanted to exclaim, 'There is my purse, dear; do just as you like';—but then I thought somebody might cheat her out of the whole; so I said I would think about it, and if it were practicable I would help her. And now, Phil, what do you think about it?"
               
               "I think it is a glorious project, and I believe she will succeed. She shall succeed. How much does it take? I'll give you carte blanche, only she must n't know where the money comes from."
               "Softly, my boy. I don't intend to draw you in."
               "But I want to be drawn in. What good does my money do lying idle?"
               "It rolls itself over into yellow balls for the little bride that is to come, Phil!"
               "None of the girls will have me. Let me do a kindness to somebody that is n't of my kin."
               And so, after much expostulation, Philip did as he pleased, and Mr. Shirley added his gift to the carte blanche, and the whole was put away in the latter's secret drawer. He could n't keep it to himself, though; and, seeing me next day as he crossed the Park, whispered it in my ear. "Such a surprise for Honor, to-morrow, my dear!" and then he detailed the conversation. "But why Phil wants to keep his part in it secret, I can't imagine. He's too modest,—he's a fine fellow; but he says none of the girls will have him. Is that true, puss?" and, pinching my cheek, he went away laughing.
               I cannot describe the delight which beamed from Honor's face as she ran in the next morning, exclaiming, "Emmie, Uncle Shirley has been to see me, and what do you think?" and then followed an account of what he had done, and of what a friend had done. "Carte blanche! Emily, do you hear? Who could have been so kind? I wish I knew, so as to thank him; but uncle says I am not to know. I believe my gratitude will discover him."
               Never had I seen Honor so much excited. Bright color flushed her cheeks, her face dimpled with smiles, and she moved quickly back and forth, just touching the floor in her walk. "O, I have so much to do. I must see Herr Stultz. Does he come to-day?"
               "Yes, at nine o'clock."
               "Please say that I want to see him for something special, and ask if he can come again at nine this evening. Don't forget, Emmie."
               As she went out, my mother said, "Do you notice the change in Honor? She is as different from what she was in Summerstown as a sunbeam is from moonlight. She was then so pale, so quiet, so cold, I could not understand her. Now she is beginning to be like other girls."
               Truly Honor was radiant and rosy. Hope had given a nourishment to her soul that showed itself in joy. Daily duties strengthened her strength. Never did she seem tired. Cares were the bounding waves over which she guided her little life-boat. Serene as Philip, she was far more vigorous. I sat alone in the twilight and thought of them both. Certainly I loved her the best. His lonely state, his asking eyes, his pleading voice, his kind heart, had won my warmest feelings. Unpitied by Honor, he stood by my side in a false position. What would be the end? Thus I meditated, while the fire blazed and darkness gathered round. My mother was with Mrs. Miller. Honor sang softly beyond the wall. I had heard no step, yet I did not start when a hand stroked my hair, and a voice half sang, "Art thinking of me, love?"
               "Yes, Philip, of you; I want to forget the question you asked me. How I wish I had a sister to give you. Let us both forget the past."
               "Dear Emily, I sometimes think this world's happiness is not for me. If you ever change, and find that you loved me better than you knew, give me a rose and I shall know it. Now, will you play something of Mendelssohn's?"
               I obeyed the tranquil request; and as the waves of bass rocked underneath my fingers, I believe they soothed Philip, for he looked up with a smile: "Now, anything of Chopin's that you like. Was he not all his life pleading for what was never granted?"
               "O Philip, are you sorry? You loved Honor, and then tried to make me happy. Have I not read your heart?"
               "I loved, I worshipped Honor; and then, Emmie, fancied that my lost vows and time might have a value in your eyes. It was no vanity that led me to speak, but a resolve that, if you said yes, every blessing that man can bestow should crown your days. You are the only one who could have raised the wish in my heart, after Honor. You see I have not flattered. You would not wish it."
               "I am proud to be chosen by you,—proud to be second to Honor. She may have changed her mind, Philip."
               "O no, Emmie. She has forgotten me."
               Religious music appeals to the higher order of minds, and to the smaller number; while brilliant, worldly, romantic melodies touch the love of excitement and pleasure inherent in the untutored heart. In both these schools Honor showed excellence. Her soul spoke through the first, her voice and vocalization shone in the second. As the soft Southern language, unknown to a general audience, veils expression and develops tone, as it subordinates sentiment to execution, wondrous mechanical facility in Italian song atones to many for absence of feeling. Honor was felicitous as a fairy in the airy polish of her scales and the gush of her trills, while the dulcet, open, foreign words rounded her notes to richness. So like diamonds did her cadenzas shine, that they eclipsed many a phrase into which should have melted the softer light of pearls. If Miss May had excited the public on her first appearance, she aroused them on her second. Much was due to Herr Stultz, who had conscientiously praised her to many people.
               Thus they were prepared to echo his admiration and preserve their reputation for critical taste at the same time. Apart from these were two classes of listeners,—the unexpectant and the appreciative; the first were dazzled into enjoyment and approval; the second, though charmed, were surprised, and commended without committing themselves by a too hasty judgment. A few were both critical and magnanimous. Previous to the opening of the concert, I had left Honor in a side-room. I had parted from her with many words of encouragement, for she was a little drooping. Then I joined Philip, who waited at the door to conduct me to my seat in the hall.
               I shall not soon forget the introduction to the charms of the evening. "Overture to Fingal's Cave!" So it was written, and the instruments began their story. They spoke in scores of harmonious voices; metals and woods and strings combined in concord and charmed my brain. The lights faded, the hall vanished, and I was alone, far out on the ocean-shore; there rocky islands, sprinkled with spray, rose up; there strange chasms and dark columns sprang from weeds and brine; palace and chapel opened beneath the sands of that shore where billows chant eternally. I stood among winds and waves, the heavens above, a waste of waters all around. Moonlight shone, and soft thunders rolled through the galleries of those rocky halls. Splendors, not of continents, glimmered before me. Storms swept the eternal circle, and spent their power around these crags. In strange lamentations the breezes rose and swelled and sank again, till in sighs they died, and the sands and the shore and the heaving sea dissolved in the moonlight, and I sat, one of the busy world. The instruments had ceased, and Honor stood before me, a pale syren from the halls of the sea. If her parted lips had warbled "Barcarolle" or "Fisher Maiden," I had seen her floating towards me. But glittering walls held us fast, and the ocean was far away.
               With "Ernani Involami" my visions faded, and others filled my brain. In the place of cold waves and bleaker sands, I saw a gorgeous palace. Within its doors stood signor and cavalier; an emperor disguised; youth, beauty, love, pride, and peril. Honor, at first a little tremulous, quickly gained self-control, and made the hall resonant with her voice. Opera-glasses glasses were snatched, and whispered questions asked. At the end of the recitative a hum of approval was heard. Then came the appealing and brilliant aria. Lorgnettes were now in constant passage, and when the last trill had glittered to silence, a storm of admiration burst forth.
               Philip leaned towards me and said, "Are you pleased?" For the first time, I detected a shade of irony round his mouth. Before I could answer, the air was again filled with plaudits, and cries of "Encore!" came from various parts of the house. Philip grew pale. He leaned back and did not speak again for some minutes.
               Honor's next song surprised me, for I had not known which of several she would select. She began "The Young May Moon." Soon I knew that her heart had not felt the author's conception; that it had neither realized the delicate fancy of the poet, nor the playful brightness of the old Irish melody. Her notes were true and clear, but were delivered with none of that captivating grace which makes a love song irresistible to those who are not in love.
               Honor, habitually serious, could not be arch at the requirement of a moment, and the song that should have been winning fell meaningless. I was rejoiced that a wonderful solo from cornet-à-piston followed this failure of Honor's, for I could not but consider it a failure. It would have been an unsuccessful attempt, in my estimation, if anybody but Honor had been the singer; and the fact that she had charmed the public, a moment before, would not hinder them from calling this a fiasco.
               The hero of the next few minutes clouded the Young May Moon. He was a mere youth, who played the crowd to ecstasy. Did that wonderful voice tell him all that it told to me, or was it only his instrument that sung, and not his soul? I turned to Philip and asked the question.
               "I cannot penetrate the mystery and tell you, Emily. If this same hand which holds the cornet should touch the piano, it might not move us so,—could not, perhaps; for did ever tones come from the keyboard as mellifluous as these? Some voices charm in this way, of themselves; if they speak no language, they lull both soul and sense to slumber. One is lapped in soft Lydian airs, and does not struggle against their spell. So with the cornet and French horn and bugle; their voices melt into melody at the moment of birth; they linger in delight of being, then, prolonged to perfection, they faint and fall and die, as if from excess of melody. They 'set the wild echoes flying,' and 'echoes answer, dying, dying, dying.' This pensive youth may be pouring his heart's trouble into the tones that inthrall us; he may not feel them half as much as we do. If we heard him often, we might decide the question, but to-night it is enough to enjoy."
               As he ceased, Honor came forward to sing "All the Blue Bonnets." Even more brilliantly than in our little parlor did her notes ring. "Into the free" penetrated her voice. Its lustre shone up to the ceiling and glanced against the walls, and, with strange effect, one note repeated itself, circling the house and returning to Honor, as if to thank her for its life. As this startling echo completed its spiral journey, it was followed by a second's hush; then hundreds of voices killed the silence. Philip leaned forward with parted lips, and then sank back, covering his face with his hands. Tom Ranger started to his feet, ready to do and dare for Scotland's cause. I was moved at the involuntary homage on Philip's part. This spontaneous tribute to Honor's talent proved not only her excellence, but the ascendency of his sympathy over prejudice. Did it not prove, too, the ascendency of that love he was trying to crush? My heart beat at the question. I tapped the seat before me with my fan. Tom Ranger clapped till he burst his gloves and all around was the thunder of admiration.
               "You are betrayed into approval!" I exclaimed to Philip, "and I am delighted."
               "I prefer silent admiration to noisy applause. But I have not been guilty of any vociferous homage, that you should be pleased."
               "You were not offended at the tribute paid to our friend, and I am satisfied; if I could but have caught you applauding! However, your countenance gives praise enough. But tell me why you should n't admire audibly, if you feel so impelled? Give me a good reason, if you please."
               "Ah, Emmie, I am not good at good reasons,"—and then the crash of instruments silenced his voice.
               We went into the side-room to see Honor, and had time for just a glimpse and a word before she got into the carriage with her uncle. We followed her into the street and walked home.
               "Is n't she the lassie wi' the lint-white locks, Philip?"
               Honor had added to her black dress, this evening, a Highland scarf; and so bright an accompaniment did the tartan make to her hair and complexion, that it gave her what she ordinarily lacked, a look of vitality.
               "You are truly attached to your friend, Emily."
               "Attached! I cannot tell you how fond I am of Honor. Who would not, who does not, love goodness, beauty, and talent combined?"
               "Who would not love a bright, particular star and seek to wed it?" murmured Philip. "But, seriously, Emmie, which do you prefer,—Honor May or Uncle Philip?"
               Although the question was lightly asked, I felt that it veiled profound meaning. "I love Honor best."
               "Ah, Emily, I always hear the truth from you."
               "And you love Honor better than Emmie. I can answer the question for you, without the asking."
               "Emily, I love you."
               "Honor occupies your thoughts."
               "So would any one I knew and admired, as I do her."
               "O Philip, why won't you understand me?"
               "I do understand you, Emily."
               "No, no, no, you do not; for I told you this subject was settled forever between us."
               "Am I obnoxious to you?"
               "No; I like you, respect you, admire you!"
               "That is enough, for I love you. Now, tell me if I don't understand you. The past is a trouble in your heart; you think my affections are vacillating between Honor and yourself, and this evening has opened the old wound. I was pained to see Honor May stand before us a queen and yet a subject; but, Emily, if you had been in her place, the pain would have been harder for me to bear. I have been transparent to you, Emily. You know from me that my love for Honor was one almost of idola. try. But I felt that she could never make me happy. I felt this, and yet I knelt. She told me this same truth in the words with which she rejected me. I turned to you, as from a lily to a rose-bud. I would not change your lovely, domestic virtues, your ardent, sensitive nature, your constant sweetness of temper, for the voice and grace and cold purity of Honor May. I read your thoughts, Emily; you doubt my strength. You think I am not cured. If this weakness should ever again assail me, I will not keep it from you. If I cannot conquer, I will confess it. You shall never be deceived by me."
               I almost shrank from Philip; for against my firm resolve stole the spell of his winning qualities, bending my judgment and softening my will. This very candor was his strong appeal. What other man would have told me his heart in a way so unflattering to my vanity? And his voice! I could not steel myself against its persuasive tones.
               "Am I a persecutor, Emily? I did not mean to offend; only, after this evening, I could not refrain from apologizing for and explaining my want of self-command. In a moment the past came up, bringing remembrance of the adoration I had felt for Honor,—adoration which she did not wish to appreciate. With this past I compared the present, and I saw her who had been my love songstress to a staring crowd. It was momentary. I think it will never happen again to vex you."
               "It would not vex me Philip. I should even wish that your old feeling would rekindle, and that Honor would respond to it, only for poor Uncle Robert."
               "And why poor Uncle Robert?"
               "Because I would like so much that Honor should be my aunt; and I fear she does n't care for anything in this wide world but music, much less for anybody. She wishes the world well, and hopes it will let her go her own way."
               "Is your Uncle Robert very fond of Miss May?"
               "I can't tell at all; he thinks she is perfection, but I do not know that he ever asked her to marry him; and whether Honor would accept him, if he did, is equally unknown to me. She admires him very much, pays great deference to his opinion, and always follows his advice. How two beings possessing beauty, goodness, and gifts of mind can remain insensible to each other's attractions is a matter which I have never been able to understand; and I am not sure that they are insensible, or careless, or dull. Honor may be in love with my uncle; she may have refused him (for she would not tell me, in either case); he may never have asked her to accept him, and he may wish to marry her as soon as he comes home."
               When Philip spoke, it was in a tone of surprise. "I had no idea of this; but, of course, you would not talk needlessly of your uncle's private affairs. I had never suspected that Miss May was hiding such a secret in her heart. It cannot be, Emily. She does not tell it in her voice. But your uncle may love her. Perhaps he is a patient waiter. If you hope he will win her, I hope it too. And then, Emily, when these so gifted with mind and beauty join hearts and hands, shall not the double future of two less handsome and gifted melt together and make one happy life,—our future, our life, Emily?"
               "Really, you are not complimentary. Two less handsome and gifted! Speak for yourself, if you please, Uncle Phil. But here we are at home."
               My resolves grew weak in presence of all this tenderness, spoken in such expressive voice. I could not trust myself to make serious reply, and ran up the steps. In the parlor sat my mother and Mrs. Miller, with Milly and Charlie. Uncle Phil had indulgently brought his little adopted round to spend the evening; consequently, Milly's mother had allowed her to sit up, and great was the delight thereat. Milly was chattering like a blackbird, when we opened the door, telling stories of giants and fairies and elves and flowers in a wise way, deftly spinning the thread of fiction from her own small brain; and Charlie was listening admiringly, with half a smile on his demure countenance. Our entrance stoppe the magic, and Charlie got up to catch Uncle Phil's hand. "Please hear Milly. You hear too, Aunt Emmie."
               Charlie had voluntarily given me this title of affection, and I had answered to it, without thought of embarrassment; but now I blushed, for Philip whispered, "Charlie's instinct confirms my hope." Then aloud, "Come, little boy, we will say good night and go home; it is more than Milly's bedtime, and yours too, for that matter."
               "Charlie, come noder time," said Milly, with drooping eyelids. "Dood night."
               As the door closed on Philip, my mother took a letter from her work-table and held towards me. "From your uncle, my dear, and he is coming very soon. He expected to sail in one week after this date, so we may look for him in seven days."
               My eyes flew over the letter and took in the delight felt by Uncle Robert when he penned it.
               "O mamma, how charming! and he wants us to go to Summerstown as soon as we can. We will be all ready to start; and then, if he feels like staying a few days, we can stay. Dear Uncle Robert!"
               That night my dreams were full of visions, and among them all smiled my uncle; no shadow, but fresh in power and beauty. Music, blown by trumpets, wafted his ship towards the shore, and Philip stood by my side to receive him.
               The next morning Uncle Robert was our theme. We had it at rising, we had it at breakfast, and Tom Ranger came before it was finished.
               "Is it possible Mr. Barberick's coming home? I am so sorry, selfish fellow that I am. I came to say good by. I shall sail Saturday, the very day you expect him. We shall just miss each other." Then, in a low voice, "I want to hear some music, just the last thing; then I can carry it part of the way with me. Can't I hear her sing once more, Miss Emily? You will oblige me, I know."
               All this was uttered in a tone of supplication, and I answered: "O yes; come to-morrow night and we will have everything you want to hear,—that is, if Honor has no musical engagement. If she has, we will meet next night."
               That very afternoon was my last concert. I entered the hall with a feeling of sadness,—sadness which did not last, for the spirit of Haydn cheered me. Every staccato note of the Allegro seemed to fall from fairy touch, and every triplet gleamed like sunlight. A lulling Largo stole after; and then the bold, bright brass sounded a Minuetto and Trio,—on, on, on, with valor to the end. The soft Largo threw a haze into the atmosphere of sound, subduing the ear to dreamy attention. It told to one sense the same soothing tale which the pale ceiling and tender-tinted wall had painted to another; it sighed its story again and again and again, then died in its own recounting.
               An air fit for fairies and the greensward then fell on my ear. Trickling streams purled it, prattling children laughed it,—through every phrase ran the thought of innocent gayety. Over and over, yet once more, turning and sliding in sweet undulations, like ribbons and brooks and laughing language; this way twisting in grace, then that way with newer beauty, till soft intervals fell with a hush; then broad chords culminated in majesty. No complaint was heard, no regretting, no melancholy.
               As silence followed the echoes, I turned and met Philip's smiling eyes. "Beautiful, is n't it?"
               "How long have you been here?"
               "Ever since three o'clock. I came in with Mary. Do you see her?"
               I looked, and two seats before us shone her sunny face, framed in golden curls, which rebelled against the restraining brim of a bonnet, blue as her eyes. She shook a lemon-kid finger at me, and then turned to answer her companion, a dark, foreign-looking man.
               "I am glad to see you so happy, Emily."
               "I can return the compliment." He looked remarkably well, and his beautiful smile came frequently. How could I say what would sadden him?
               "You make me happy, Emily. It is in your nature. Always keep simple, innocent, and gay; it is the charm of any woman. Is n't Haydn a sunbeam? You have n't told me yet."
               "It is just because I am so charmed that I cannot tell you. But I am glad, and sad too, Philip; I am going away. Uncle Robert comes in a week, and he will take us home."
               "And you are sad?" said Philip, in his softest tone. And he talked no more.
               He was silent while we walked home. As we entered the door he whispered, "You will ask me to Summerstown; say, Come, Philip."
               "Mamma will ask you to come." Mamma heard, for her door was open. "O Mr. Lee, you don't need any invitation to Summerstown; but consider that I give you one for all times and seasons."
               Philip bowed with his own native grace, and I turned to the piano for relief. "Let me play you this beautiful Scherzo of Chopin's"; and Philip, leaning ing back in his chair, listened as if life were made up of scherzos.
               That night I heard again the soft Largo,—really heard it. Though at first it seemed the music of a dream, yet, after the moment when waking seems slumber, and slumber divinest waking, I knew that I listened to a serenade. In the street, between my own and Honor's window, stood a dozen figures, and, at a little distance, one which looked like Philip. No whisper of wind disturbed the sounds. Nature listened. I heard Honor's window open. More delicately than from the great orchestra came the movements of the symphony. Moonlight and silence softened every tone to their tranquil spirit. Soon, with reedy voice, the clarionet sang, "When the swallows homeward fly," and Schubert's "Serenade."
               I could not draw myself from the moonlight, even after the figures had vanished and the music had died. As I sat in the cold, bright beams, thinking of the past and praying for the future, a single figure appeared in the white space, where those other figures had stood. Who could it be? and while I wondered, a pleasant voice sang, "Believe me, if all those endearing young charms." Evidently this honor was intended for my Honor. I could see that the singer looked towards her window, steadily ignoring noring mine. With the first words, Honor had shut her window, and I, through the open sash, drank in her serenade. As the first melody ceased, the singer touched on his guitar "Nora Creina," which he uttered in lover-like tones, and then softly breathed Franz's "Good Night." And to this I fell asleep.
               When I spoke to Honor, I found she would be glad to have a musical meeting for Tom's pleasure. "It does not seem possible, Emmie, that two months have passed since he told me he was going to England. What have I accomplished in all this time?"
               "You have accomplished a great deal, Honor. You have been the most diligent teacher and student I ever saw, and your plan is matured to development, ready to bloom with the flowers. You have sung in public, and passed the ordeal of worldly criticism victoriously. O, I forgot your success at Golden Lane, where you have charmed minister, committee, grandees, fine ladies, literati, organist, down to the children of the Sunday school. Is n't this something to do?"
               "It is a great deal to be thankful for, Emmie; but there is much of this that I have only approached. You say I have passed victoriously the ordeal of worldly criticism. Why, this is only C——. Think for a moment that it is but one town in the northern part of this vast continent, and that America, as a country, has no reputation for musical culture. What should poor little I do anywhere else? Hide my diminished head. Imagine me singing in Paris or London. Probably I should not be able to get a hearing in either place. So you see, Emmie, that our world is small, and my success more moderate than you imagined."
               "Nonsense, Honor! This sounds plausible; but let me tell you that Uncle Robert, who has been half round the world, says you are very fine, and that you remind him of Madame Novello."
               "Did he say that?" inquired Honor. "Did he say that, Emily? O, how pleasant, how cheering these words are! They bring comfort just in the right time too; for, as I was practising to-day, I almost came to the conclusion that I had no voice and could not sing. But I only reminded Mr. Barberick of Madame Novello; a plain person may look like a handsome one, yet the likeness don't make beauty."
               "Don't spoil the compliment, Honor, by undervaluing yourself. I assure you that your voice and singing are uncommon. Why, 'think for one moment,' as you said to me, that many of the best singers the world has produced have visited this country, and have sung in C—— to the very ears which have heard you and pronounced you admirable. Don't you suppose that people who have listened to Jenny Lind, Grisi, Bosio, and La Grange can tell whether you are pretender or true artist?"
               "Emily, do you think they can? I am not sure of it. However, I wish I could hear a great singer twice every week, and draw inspiration from her voice and style. Then I believe I could touch the heart and make people better, and even Mr. Barberick would be satisfied with my songs."
               Our musical meeting was unlike any we had had; less exciting, perhaps, but more satisfying. We were all a little sad at the thought of separation. Another week, and Tom Ranger would be floating with winds and waves, and my dear mother and myself (Providence permitting) by our own fireside. Mr. Pry, as if divining Tom's melancholy, sang "When I leave thee" in such a touching way that I half expected a vaudeville performance,—but everybody showed great self-control; and when Honor followed with the rondo from "Somnambula," we were all ready for a change of feeling. Honor rendered this in a manner almost beyond praise. Her voice and vocalization left nothing to desire, and, by their brilliancy, gave to the melody part of its real character. She sang it too with an abandon that I had never heard from her. What could be more rapturous than her carols of joy? What more exultant than her consciousness of love returned? The notes poured from her lips as if the gladness were too great for expression,—clear and distinct, yet with such swiftness that the sounds danced in absolute revelry.
               Philip had said that her heart-history was not enough for such a song. How could he tell? Uncle Robert was coming; might not the hope of seeing him cause this overflow of delight? Then she sang "Dear land of my birth," and certainly proved herself equal to this ballad, if not to any other. Mr. Pry, who had a fondness for Scotch songs, gave "Here's a health to King Charles" with vigor, and adhered to the Stuart cause in "Charlie is my darling," "Come, row me o'er to Charlie," and "Who'll be King but Charlie?" and Honor, feeling the stir in her blood, sang "McGregor's Gathering." I think some people would have criticised Honor's voice, objecting to its metallic quality; but most of these censors would have been worshippers of soft, melodious sounds,—not absorbers of that fine, transparent-textured tone which partakes of the brain as well as of the chest.
               For me, this silver, piercing power, this steely glint, this colorless splendor, flashing from a true, pure soprano, tells of the spirit's nature, the mind's endowments; while deeper, broader, richer voices repeat our earthly experience, speaking of luxury, joy, sorrow, and despair. They are audible sympathies with our daily, sensuous existence. The cold fire which ran through all Honor's upper tones assumed a color as she sang McGregor's wild call.
               I wondered at the spirited march of "Blue Bonnets," but almost shivered to hear of the clan "that is nameless by day." When, in clear repeating, "gather, gather, gather" fell on the ear, as a command, and the last note prolonged itself, half wail, half call, I looked around with momentary thought of "a host in battle array." Honor made the first song a picture of approaching victory,—this, a painting of lake and fen, heather, dun wood, mist, and flood. In one, a valiant race marched to success, at the sound of the trumpet; in the other, Rob Roy and his dark-browed Highlanders met, like phantoms of the night, and vowed to conquer or die.
               "Miss Barberick, I hope you will never let me sing another Scotch song," said Mr. Pry, imploringly. "What a spectacle I have been making of myself to-night!"
               "You looked very well; so, as far as the spectacle is concerned, you have nothing to regret."
               "O Miss Barberick, you know I don't mean that."
               "You sang very well; so well that I should n't think of depriving anybody of such a pleasure."
               "If I am ever tempted to sing a Scotch song again, where Miss May can hear me, it will be in a moment of insanity. You may consider me ready for the asylum when you catch me at it." And Mr. Pry looked more than determined. Not another note would he utter for the evening.
               Then I begged Philip would try his skill, for I had an instinctive conviction that he did sing, although I had never heard him. I do not believe we had any of us extended the compliment to him before.
               "I am not sure that I can give you the least pleasure; yet, on the principle that every one should do his part, I will try. I have received so much enjoyment from you all, that I ought to contribute my crumb, if I can." With no more apology he sat down, and sang "Believe me if all those endearing young charms." At the end of the second line, I felt that Philip and the singer who had serenaded Honor were one and the same. That moonlight night had left in my mind the impression that I knew the figure and the voice under Honor's window. Now I detected the speaking through the singing tones. The resemblance was not strong enough to assert itself without the aid of vision; night and darkness had only suggested it faintly, as an odor suggests a blossom; but as this sweet mystery of perfume changes to certainty at the name of lily or violet, so from Philip's lips came the revelation which calmed my doubts, soothed my fears, and strengthened my resolves. Calmed and soothed and strengthened; for louder than that inner voice, which faintly called, forbidding assent to Philip's fond words, came now the outer voice, forbidding it in song. My fleshly ears had heard too clearly his all-persuasive tones, pleading for what seemed right to grant. Each time the secret disquiet rose and grew. Could I not say one little word to please him who was so kind, and make my mother happy? Once I had been almost ready to whisper yes, and yet I could not. Now the trouble was over. Clearly I saw why I had been preserved from binding him and myself in tiresome bondage. Now I could awake him from miserable self-delusion. He believed truly that he no longer loved Honor. Mistaken Philip! He loved her even through me. Had I been alone, and Honor far away, he would have known his own heart. How I pitied him, for Honor would never marry anybody,—unless it might be Uncle Robert! Thus, while he sang, I grew a new creature, calm and strong to see and do the right. "O Philip, how have you deceived yourself and me! Only three weeks ago to sing so tenderly beneath her window, and then turn to press my hand with blind sophistry, saying, 'Her I admire, but this one I love.'" As I said this to myself, I heard, in persuasive tones, "Thou wouldst still be adored." It seemed but an echo of the confession, "Honor I have adored." Then he sang "Banks of Banna" and "Blow, blow, thou winter wind." The last pleased us all, and Honor asked him to let her hear it again.
               So astonished and perplexed was I at this revelation of Philip's incomprehensible self-deception that I could not act myself. I call it revelation; for, though I had vaguely felt that he did not know his own heart, his protestations and his frankness had almost convinced me, against my will. And now, less than twenty words, murmured to intonations contained within a single octave, had illumined my mind. I had not thought about the serenade, concluding it an offering from some musical admirer of Miss May's. I had even forgotten to ask her about it. Now I knew that Philip was, but three days since, the lover of Honor May. And Honor's lover he must be still. Could Honor's lover, Honor's troubadour, be mine? O no.
               "What's the matter, Emmie?" asked Philip, as I sat looking at him fixedly, without being conscious that I did so. "Did n't you want me to sing?"
               "O, I am so thankful you did sing, Philip."
               "Then I did not disgrace myself. I am glad to know it."
               "No, but you revealed yourself; people always do who sing with expression."
               Tom Ranger came up at the moment. "Just one more song, Miss Emmie."
               "What shall it be?"
               "You and Miss May can decide."
               Honor left the choice to me, and I selected "Casta Diva." This was the crown of the evening's success. I don't believe Tom enjoyed it as much as the patriotic Scotch songs; but Philip was so penetrated with the exquisite vocalization that he complimented the singer. I don't think Miss May considered it much of a tribute; for although she smiled, and said, "I am glad you enjoyed it," she was evidently unmoved. Her manner was certainly too indifferent.
               Philip bit his lip, and turned to say good night. The others followed his example. Tom escorted Miss May home, for the last time, and my mother and I were left together.
               The next day was filled with business: settlement of bills, purchases of worsteds, working-cotton, gloves, books, and music, took up the entire morning. After dinner a basket of plants in full bloom arrived, with Mr. Lee's compliments, and in the evening Mr. Lee came himself; and, after him, Tom Ranger, to say good by. I talked with the latter, while the former held a colloquy with my mother on petunias.
               I was beginning to feel the truth of Tom's account of his cousin, when he said he was so frank and conversible about things in general, and so deep and persistent in things special. How serene, how graceful, how frank he was with my mother in abstract talk; how immovable in his purpose with me! Tom was indulging hopes of a good voyage, and anticipations of a pretty fair time after he got across. I drew the brightest pictures I could call to mind of Uncle Robert's descriptions of travels by land and by sea; and when Tom really said good by, he looked quite cheerful. Philip rose with him, and they walked together to "the Shirleys."
               The next morning I was up before Honor,—great cause of self-gratulation,—and I played fortissimo exercises to inform her of the fact. The expectation of seeing Uncle Robert waked me. I did n't know when the steamer might arrive, so I slept with the uncertainty on my mind. After breakfast I packed every stray thing, and prepared by some scale practice for my lesson, my last lesson. The thought made me feel sad. No more intelligent explanations of musical composition for me; no more clear solution of knotty points; no more analyzations of Beethoven, Mozart, and Mendelssohn; no more descriptions of Germany and art-life; no more quaint English! They were almost gone, and how sorry I should be when I missed them.
               My last lesson,—and yet how pleasant it was! Herr Stultz talked so freely and so kindly, telling of the beauties of harmony and the accuracy of counterpoint, mentioning many little things which he hoped I would "nev-are forget," that the hour flew by on invisible wings. Then he sat down to play to me, for, like Tom Ranger, I wanted some music to carry away. Herr Stultz touched the piano and Chopin spoke. More sad than before did his voice sound. If ever tones were colored with tears, I heard them then. As this genius of Poland twists the braided octave of sounds, he twines in, with supple force, the dun-colored note of human woe,—moaning, crying, wailing, sobbing, despairing, it rises and swells till the heart aches at the voice of agony. Beneath the gay brilliancy of other thought, pulses the pain that cannot rest.
               Through the majesty of the Polonaise, through the capricious grace of the Mazurka, through the abandon of the Scherzo, through the reckless whirl of the waltz, through the dignity of the march, throbs this living sorrow. It images the wrecked seaman tossed on billows, seeking with his eyes that shore his foot may never press, the traveller alone amid the desert, the robin calling for her young, the infant wandering on the moor, the rider sinking into treacherous sands, and, O more truly, the voyaging, lonely soul, crying amid life's waste for sympathy that gives no answer.
               Herr Stultz was filled with sadness at the melancholy that had flowed from beneath his own fingers. He rose, pressed my hand, and said, "Auf wiedersehn!"
               I uttered a simple good by; it was all I could say. Then, with a heavy heart, I went out to find Mary Shirley and tell her of my approaching departure. Could anything be more opposed to the dull pictures in my mind than her ethereal figure? Surely in no world of trial, but in some realm of joy, this slender, radiant creature grew! As I entered the room, I saw her at the window, almost embowered in geraniums. She was dressed in a white morning-gown, fastened with turquoise-colored buttons. Her golden locks strayed about as if a zephyr had blown them, and sunbeams glanced from every curl. Her dimpled fingers were busy at work on a strip of brown and scarlet worsted, which she said was a scarf for Tom. "Poor fellow! he never thought of taking anything to tie round his neck, and it will be cold on deck, so I am making this; it will keep him warm. He is to sail at twelve, and we are going down; won't you come with us? Then you will be at the wharves, to see the other steamer. She won't probably arrive before noon, and you can meet your uncle on the spot. Philip will be with us; and if the steamer don't get in, and you are tired waiting, he will bring you back."
               "Thank you, but it is my last day, you know; to-morrow is Sunday, and we shall go early Monday morning. I shall have to do all my errands before noon; then mamma must n't be alone, to watch and wait and expect. It would be so tedious for her."
               "O no; I did n't think. You ought to be with her, of course."
               Fascinated by the movements of her white fingers and the airy journeys of her curls, which floated about like gold-spangled butterflies, and the long fringes of her deep-blue eyes, and her gay laugh, I lingered for half an hour. Mrs. Shirley and Cordelia were shopping, and Jane invisible, so I had the dear little beauty all to myself. Her words were not so inspiring as her looks; but they were always kind, and sweetly in harmony with her celestial face and form. If anybody should ask me to paint Ariel, and I should realize my conception of that airy messenger, my picture could be no more delicate, no more beautiful, than Mary Shirley. It made me happy to look and let my eyes take in her grace, her coloring, her figure. She bore a faint resemblance to Honor, but the latter did not look like Mary. She had not her exquisite beauty, but the same grace enlarged,—superior height, nobler contour, paler coloring, and a look which, though heavenly, was not cherubic. Mary, with innocent eyes, looked like an angel who had flitted from some bright planet to our dull world; Honor, with her calm orbs and pure brow, an angel too, but one through trial and resolve. When I looked at her I saw the seraph within, who gravely led me upward,—if I could but follow.
               When I got home, my dear mother was expecting Uncle Robert, and almost thought my step was his. I sat down with her and we both expected, wishing the hours away. At length he came, but just when we did not look for him. In vain I tried to read; I did not remember my first page. My mother talked placidly, counting stitches and drawing up threads and examining patterns, as if that was the most important thing to be done.
               At length a gun was heard,—the signal gun of the steamer, as Mrs. Miller said,—and I sang 
                     
                        "What's a' the steer, kimmer, what's a' the steer?
                        Jamie is landed and soon he will be here,"
                     
                   half expecting that the song would bring Uncle Robert to my arms. Half an hour, and another half-hour, passed, and he did not come. Every time the bell rang I ran to the parlor door, expecting to see him. Provoking parcels of boots for Milly, dresses for Mrs. Miller, and a half unwelcome bunch of violets for me, inquiries for unknown persons, and tantalizing handbills, kept the wire in motion for twenty minutes, with short intervals of rest. At the end of that time I felt grim and sat down to the piano, resolved to play a study marked "Con Fuoco." Dinner was spoiling. Catharine had decided to mash the potatoes, for by this time they were soggy as sponges; she was "backening" the beef, and the soup was "keeping warm." She, and everything near her, was in a state of suspense. Still no Uncle Robert. At last came Philip.
               "I went down to the steamer, Mrs. Barberick, thinking to meet your brother."
               "Here he is!" I screamed, for I caught sight of Uncle Robert's dark curls over Philip's shoulder.
               "Don't strangle me, Emmie,—I've been seasick!" gasped my uncle, half laughing, as he emerged from my embrace. "Why, Sue, dear," turning to meet my mother, "how well you look And Emmie, you are more rosy than ever. Town life agrees with you; perhaps you won't care to give it up."
               "O Robert, I long to go home!" said my mother.
               "Why, mamma, I thought you enjoyed being in C——!" I exclaimed, as a pang pierced my heart. I had been so happy that I thoughtlessly believed her so.
               "Don't be troubled, my dear,—I have enjoyed it; but now that home seems so near, I am anxious to be there. We have had a charming winter, Robert; I shall remember C—— with almost as much pleasure as Emily. But we'll have dinner,—you must be hungry,—and tell our experiences over beef and pudding."
               Philip stayed, and we dined delightfully, drinking from our glasses to the account of Nile water, which my uncle had quaffed years before, flavoring our mashed potatoes with descriptions of murphies grown in the Emerald Isle, roasted on the gridiron, and eaten with cream, and cutting our Baldwins to accounts of exorbitant prices of hot-house fruit in London markets. It was late as we rose from table, for my uncle was glad to talk and Philip a willing listener.
               "Why do you go so soon?" asked the latter.
               "A man's home is his rest, Mr. Lee, and I want quiet for the short time I stay. How is it with you, Emmie, about going to Summerstown? Your mother is ready, I know, but I am not so sure of you."
               "I want to be with you, Uncle Robert, wherever that is."
               "Perhaps you will bring her back again, Mr. Barberick."
               "She may come if she chooses; and yet I don't know how I shall spare her."
               Philip spoke to my uncle in a low tone, and I caught the words, "It is my warmest wish."
               Uncle Robert glanced at me and changed the conversation. "By the way, Emmie, how is your friend Miss May?"
               "Very well,—in fine condition and beautiful voice; busy as a bee teaching. You must hear her."
               "Hear her! I hope so."
               "But hear her in a hall. She has sung at two concerts, and another of the series comes off next week. Philip does n't approve of it."
               "Approve of what?" asked my uncle, sharply.
               "Of Honor's singing in public."
               "I have never interfered with Miss May's movements," said Philip, coldly.
               "Of course not," was my uncle's reply. "You are too sensible a fellow to attempt anything of the kind."
               "Mr. Maurice did n't approve either," said I, hastening to remedy the trouble caused by my words, for something was evidently amiss.
               "Miss Honor can decide these things for herself," said Uncle Robert. "I must go and find her. Where is she?"
               "Just the next door, and she will be so glad to see you. I don't believe she knows you are here! You will probably find her at home now, for I saw her go in about five minutes before you came." This must have seemed very free in Philip's eyes, for he had never entered Mrs. Frost's house. As the words escaped me, I turned towards him to see their effect. Calm, unembarrassed, amiable, he returned my glance, and gave with it one of his matchless smiles.
               At that moment Honor began to sing; her voice sounded brilliantly in an exercise of Panseron's,—the very one I remembered hearing one morning before breakfast, when Uncle Robert had played her accompaniment.
               "What a glorious wall!" said my uncle, "decidedly superior to that of the players in 'Midsummer Night's Dream.' How fresh her voice is! I cannot resist such an invitation as that!" and, nodding to Philip, he took his hat and left us. Then, opening the door, he called, "I sha'n't be gone ten minutes; you must all make yourselves happy during my absence."
               "Robert always had such spirits," said my mother, with a pleased smile.
               I believe he seemed more to her like a child than a brother-in-law, and he surely evinced the affection of a son, mingled with a charming freedom and authority, which generous men, who feel themselves protectors, show to women. Fifteen, twenty minutes passed, and Uncle Robert came not.
               "I cannot but think your wishes will soon be realized," whispered Philip. "Would that I could feel so with regard to my own." Then aloud, "Will you play, Emily?"
               I selected several of Mendelssohn's songs; among them the beautiful one of "Spring." "Does n't it seem as if this Felix were appropriately named?" asked Philip. "I believe he had a happy spirit. Please play that again; it is so cheering! How much we can do for each other! These thoughts, bright as the brooks of April, dotted down years ago, speak on this continent, now that the hand of genius is cold, as sweetly as when they had birth beneath a foreign sky."
               "He was happy and good. Don't you believe, Philip, that men's happiness is in proportion to their virtues?"
               "Their spiritual happiness, you mean. Unquestionably. Mortals may struggle with poverty, temptation, and misfortune, and still be in enjoyment of that peace which passeth understanding. To the eye of the world they are often in suffering; their course is onward, upward, with no level for rest, no hours for freedom. Adversity pursues them,—they cannot escape it; yet, with patient toil, they bring bread to their lips and quiet to their hearts. But sometimes the strife is terrible. Did not Jean Valjean drain the cup of sorrow and find the pearl of great price in its depths? Who does not see that his spiritual joy infinitely transcends the common pleasures of a soul that has not fought for victory?"
               
               "I know; but it is hard for the sufferers to realize what their reward is to be, while they are passing through the agony."
               "Yet I believe that, in the very depths of woe, an innocent conscience mitigates unspeakably the pangs of this world's sorrow. Mendelssohn must have had an innocent conscience and few temptations. His was not the happiness gained from struggles with adverse fortune, but the spontaneous joy gushing from a beautiful nature, which finds outward circumstances in harmony with its own condition. Witness this in the 'Venetian Gondolier's Song.' Play it, and see how peacefully the boat rocks on the waters. It is not sad, though in a minor key. The notes float in undulations as glassy as those of the calmest lagoon beneath the moonlight. Mystery and happiness together,—and is not the last the first? Mendelssohn had comparatively no conflicts; every man, of course, has some, being born to trouble; but he was gifted with genius, fortune, health, friends, fine organization. What had he to do but enjoy, and make others the recipients of part of his happiness, through these sweet conceptions of sound?"
               "Would Mendelssohn have been a better man, had he had a harder destiny?"
               "Ah, Emily, you ask questions which I cannot answer. God knows which is the soul's greatest peril, prosperity or misfortune. Whether Felix, virtuous and happy as he was, from organization and externals, was higher than a possible Infelix, wandering, erring, all but lost, yet victorious, is a problem beyond finite power to solve. And yet I believe Infelix restored becomes Felix, and reaches near to heaven."
               "Which do you think the lovelier spirit, Mendelssohn or Chopin? which do you prefer to hear?"
               "That rather depends on my own moods; but you wish my opinion of the two geniuses, apart from any remembrances of special hours of sympathy with each. They composed very differently. The German writing with diligent pen so much for orchestra as well as piano,—adapting so many of his highest thoughts to religious words, thus sending much through the medium of voice and language; the Pole writing exclusively for instrument, giving almost his finest ideas to the piano. See the separate levels of the two minds. It is not easy to compare them. Chopin, delicate, sensitive, fastidious even, with a frail body which continually grieved his spirit, conscious that his peculiar genius was too rare to meet with appreciation from the world, and grieved by this very consciousness,—hiding and cherishing the wrongs of his conquered country, bearing in patience his own physical pain, oppressed with idiosyncrasies,—do they not all sound in the wails of his music? How could he expand happily to the public? His is the voice of mourning. Mendelssohn, the darling of nature, fortune, and circumstance, possessor of a strong, buoyant frame and cheerful spirit, holding in memory a happy country, warm family ties, and loving friends,—his is the voice of gladness. He is without doubt the healthier spirit of the two; consequently, the happier and lovelier. Chopin, the sufferer,—who can ask from him the results of health or happiness? I am inclined to think him the greater genius. Who but he could speak in language which only the soul comprehends? Without words, in simple tones, with little variety of instrument medium, he utters his life. Now that his clay is ashes, the world recognizes his greatness. But I am not telling you which I prefer to hear. When I am happy, I listen to Chopin and become thoughtful, kind, and tender to my fellow-men. When I am melancholy, Mendelssohn tells me that the world is beautiful, and humanity strong and pure."
               Half an hour had passed and still no Uncle Robert.
               "As Mr. Barberick is late, he will pardon me for leaving before he comes," said Philip, glancing at his watch.
               "I should n't be surprised if Honor were telling him about her plan. She is only waiting till Mr. Shirley finds a suitable house, to put it in execution."
               "I hope she will be able to begin soon," said Philip.
               "Her uncle tells me she has set her heart on the success of this scheme."
               "There is nothing dilatory about Honor. She will work as soon as she has a place to work in. I wish she could know the name of her generous friend. She thinks her instinct will reveal him to her."
               "Perhaps he would disappoint her if she knew him," answered the imperturbable Philip.
               I had never allowed the latter to perceive that I recognized him as the donor to Honor's project, for Mr. Shirley had spoken to me in confidence; had he not done so, my delicacy would have respected Philip's reserve. But it was curious to see how completely he kept his secret from all except the initiated.
               Just as I was tempted to smile at his gravity and affected indifference, Honor began to sing. When Uncle Robert entered the house she ceased her practice. Since then a whole hour had elapsed, during which time silence had dwelt beyond the wall. Honor had lost sixty minutes! how would she make it up?
               "Have you any idea of Honor May's industry and perseverance?" This question I addressed to Philip.
               "I imagine her systematic and firm. I suppose it would n't do to say obstinate. But is n't it hard to persuade her to change her mind?"
               
               "She is yielding, when she sees herself in the wrong."
               "But the difficulty is to make her see it! Am I not right, Emily?"
               "No, you are wrong, Philip. You are unjust to Honor. You do not quite understand or appreciate her. But don't let me lose my thread: I want to explain her industry and perseverance. Now about this matter of practising. One would think, at the degree of perfection she has reached, that she would be tempted to relax her rules. It does not seem as if scales and exercises could be necessary for her every day. But no Trappist was ever more pitiless to himself than Honor. She does not fast,—that would injure her voice; but she is ordinarily temperate, and before singing takes only delicate food, just a sustenance. Silence and seclusion are antagonists to her duties as instructor; if they were obligations, neither she nor her voice would be known by the world. She is relentless in her pursuit of right. I say this to show you that what might appear like obstinacy is simply adherence to conscience. If she is cold, tired, weary with trials in teaching, she gives herself a short rest, and then goes through the duty for the hour. One would almost think her room an oratory and her studies religious lessons, so serious is the spirit in which she performs them."
               "I think your friend is physically strong, and far less sensitive to changes of temperature and fatigue than yourself. I have observed her with a professional eye; a doctor sees at a glance indications of temperament and constitution." Philip said this half laughing, too modest to announce himself skilful in earnest. "I am persuaded she has a healthy organization,—a sound body and a sound mind, with no extra delicacy of the nervous system to give her hysterics or whimseys. Such a person can labor more steadily than another of sensitive organization, like a certain young lady I know. This one is very industrious, but her feelings are sometimes stronger than her muscles. Miss May is perfectly well balanced, self-poised, with inclination ready to subserve duty; she can work every day for a month and then be fresher at the end of a week than a being who does everything with her heart as well as her hands."
               "But you don't understand. Honor puts her heart into her music."
               "Does she?"
               "Please don't say that; it does n't sound like you."
               "Not like my better self, perhaps. Let me alter your proposition. If you say that Miss May puts her mind into her music, I will agree with you,—sometimes her soul; but I cannot say that I have ever heard the voice of her heart."
               
               "You make very nice distinctions."
               "But distinctions which you know to be just. Confess that they are so."
               I kept silence. Was it true? Fearfully I asked myself the question, as, like a flash, Honor, fair, remote, inaccessible, arose in my mind. "She does n't parade her feelings. She dislikes sentimentality."
               "Ah, Emily, you are begging the question. Who does like sentimentality? and who does not like sentiment? Your Honor is unapproachable in her sympathies. She is also unapproachable in her excellences. Now, you will forgive me, for this is no compliment, but the truth. I want to be just. You are too fond of your friend. When she is criticised, you are wounded."
               I felt self-reproached, for Philip's accusation was true. I could not but confess to myself that Honor lacked—and what? Never had I been willing to hear, even from those who admired her. Surely, my position was neither noble nor true.
               "Do you think Miss May perfect?" asked Philip.
               "Nobody is perfect."
               "Admirable, irresponsible reply! Do you believe kind criticism would benefit her? would it enable her to grow in character and advance in art? for the latter would certainly follow the former."
               "O yes; and she takes criticism kindly. You would think so, if you could hear Uncle Robert administer it."
               "Then you should be as fearless as Uncle Robert, and by and by she will thank you."
               "Why don't you prescribe? Your title would permit it."
               "I could not venture with any propriety. Miss May is not the subject for me, neither is she the object of these remarks. It is yourself. I am scolding you for over-sensitiveness in a case where truth spoken kindly, but independent of personal feeling, would do so much good. For my professional eye tells me that you know I am right, although you don't acknowledge it."
               "Yes, I do acknowledge it, although it pains me. I really cannot bear to have anybody see a fault or want in Honor; and it really hurts me when I hear people discuss her. But I know the feeling is weak and wrong. Truth should always be heard in the right spirit, and you certainly speak it in the right spirit; so, Philip, I will be frank and reasonable for the future."
               "And I will remember that you have a tender and generous heart. If you possessed Honor's voice and brilliant execution, you would make people wonder at hearing their own joys and sorrows repeated by somebody else."
               
               "Yet you must acknowledge that Honor interprets joy."
               "Yes; I will not find fault with her expression of brighter sentiments."
               "I don't know how to tell Honor of her shortcomings. This hesitancy is not complimentary to her, for she receives all suggestions with humility; it proceeds from myself entirely, from the fear of discouraging her, and from the feeling that this want will be cured as she mingles with the world. Uncle Robert says it will; he thinks she has no faults but those that will take care of themselves. I need such a deal of courage myself, and a few words of blame depress me so much, that I don't dare to utter them to others."
               "Perhaps you are right. Time is the great developer and harmonizer of all things. But Mrs. Barberick will think I have turned lecturer."
               "I think you are right," said my mother. "Emily is too timid; and as for Honor, although I admire her voice, her singing does not move me at all. Anybody must miss feeling and warmth in her tones. But then I am no judge of music, and should n't say so much to anybody else."
               "There, Emmie, I have a champion, and such a champion! I began to think I was wrong, you looked so distressed. But we will be just and you shall be generous. That is a fair compact. Now, I really must go. I shall see you at church to-morrow. Good morning, Mrs. Barberick."
               My dear mother always thought Philip right,—that was a partial consolation for my injustice; and as for the critic, I thought he winced a little under her prompt agreement with his position; that was another and different comfort. "I will ask Uncle Robert if I had better tell her," was the resolution which brought me peace; and just then my uncle came.
               "You have been gone rather more than fifteen minutes."
               "Yes, indeed, Sue, I sat talking with Miss Honor an hour; and afterwards, when I got into the street, I met so many friends that I was held by the button another hour."
               "Did you hear Honor sing?"
               "Yes, Emmie; but how much she has changed! improved, I should say."
               "How, Uncle Robert?"
               "Why, she is another being. She was so pale and calm when the sea washed her ashore, that I used to think of a siren every time I looked at her. Now, she has a certain brightness that is very peculiar and beautiful. Poor girl! the ocean almost took her life; the dry land has given it back."
               "Is she like anybody you ever saw before?"
               
               "Not in the least, Emmie. She is not exactly handsome; but I like her looks better than those of many pretty women I know. She diffuses around her an atmosphere that penetrates your pulses. Formerly it was an atmosphere of tranquillity; now it is one of serenity and radiance combined. Almost anybody else that had such calm ways would be indifferent, insipid; but she is so harmonious that she draws, draws continually and softly, as the pole draws the magnet."
               "But I would n't be the magnet," said my mother, quickly.
               Uncle Robert laughed. "Don't be troubled, Sue; I have no idea of being drawn in." Then, more gravely, "And it is due to Miss May to say that she sings no siren songs; there is more of heaven than earth in her lays. Do you remember a sort of ballad that Miriam used to sing when she first came to us? It was a half-comical nondescript, relating the experiences of two travellers. They came to a barn and pronounced it 'a meeting-house, with the steeple shot away'; they next met a woman and named her 'an angel with the wings shot away.' Now, all women remind me of this, more or less," said my uncle, bowing and smiling; "but the form and countenance which bring the comparison especially to mind are those of Honor May."
               My mother made no reply, but sighed deeply.
               Sunday was clear and soft and balmy,—a rare day for May. Everything leaped to meet the air; birds and buds and blades welcomed the influence that stirred their life. Honor went to rehearsal alone, for this now took place in the morning. I had always been her companion before. Now I waited for Uncle Robert, who was a little late the morning after his voyage.
               "This is the first good night's rest I have had for some time, Sue," said my uncle, as he sipped his tea.
               "I thought you slept as well on water as on land, Robert."
               "Yes,—ordinarily I find no difference; but three days before we got in, the fag-end of a gale caught us, and the steamer rolled a good deal. I shouldn't have minded it much myself; but my state-room companion was a martyr to sea-sickness, and I kept awake to alleviate his sufferings. Poor fellow! what a time he had. I never pitied anybody more. He was as weak as a baby when he landed. I had to lift him into the carriage."
               "Ah, Uncle Robert, this is the reason you were so late. We heard the steamer's gun more than an hour before you got here, and couldn't imagine what had become of you. I understand the delay now."
               "I only did very little,—not more than common humanity prompted. I must call after church and inquire for the patient. He lives the other side of the Park. It is a beautiful walk; would n't you like to go with Miss May?"
               "I think Honor would enjoy it. I 'll propose it the first thing."
               I was anxious to introduce Uncle Robert to Golden Lane collectively,—church, clergyman, congregation, and choir. So we set off early, and entered its precincts in time to hear part of the rehearsal. Uncle Robert criticised both organ and organist, censured the alto, and laughed at the bass. "The tenor is fair; he has a good voice, if he only knew how to use it. He should be put under training, and he would come out a singer. Nature intended him for one. His voice is really fine."
               "You don't say anything about the soprano; is n't she worthy of mention?"
               "Ah, Emmie, you know what I think of her. But now I will listen and pronounce. She can bear judgment, both as a person and an artist. There are not many who can."
               So for the next few minutes my uncle listened in silence, as the choir sang four verses of a hymn to the tune called "Communion."
               "I think she has gained, but I won't peril my judgment till I hear her in something else. This is flowing and easy, and suits her voice."
               But for criticism he had no opportunity; the congregation began to fill the church and the rehearsal ceased.
               I had whispered Uncle Robert's proposition to Honor before taking my seat in church; so, after service she was ready to accompany us round the Park. Philip stood a little aloof as we descended the steps, apparently questioning the expediency of joining us, now that we were marshalled by Uncle Robert. The latter beckoned him, so that matter was speedily decided; and we set off for Hill Street with a sense of happiness at our hearts. Philip and Uncle Robert showed joy in their faces, and Honor was far less absorbed in her own thoughts than usual. In the yards of the handsome houses on Hill Street crocuses were opening their white and blue and yellow cups; some were fully bloomed and the bees had found it out. What a delight it was to hear their humming,—drone, drone, like an army of Liliputian bagpipers, till one felt sleepy at the sound. Tulips had sprouted, showing the red tips of their green leaves; hyacinths lay packed in verdure, ready to push purple and pink spikes at the call of Apollo; the earth sent up fragrance, windows were open, curtains swung to the breeze, bird-cages hung out. People met us with smiles. It was the seventh day, and Nature smiled in her waking. As we passed Western Garden, we saw Boursalt roses bursting into leaf; the blue pond, the dark mould, dotted with breaking buds of myriad life, and the young grass springing to the sun. I looked at all with gratitude in my heart. Honor felt it too. How well she looked by the side of Uncle Robert! how graceful in every motion! He, stalwart and stately, bending his handsome head a little to address her; standing six feet one; crowned with clustering curls that would have been black, save for their dash of brown; almost speaking with his bright eyes, which were "not too dark to be full of feeling, yet enough to glow with fire when angered"; parting his lips, red as cornel berries, against a line of white; and showing on his forehead, where it was unkissed by the sun, the fairness of a woman. He was vivid, noble, well defined. Honor, pure as a snow-wreath, dim as a cloud-rack, with a moon-like lustre on her brow and the starriness of heaven in her eyes, walked by him, a second Beatrice.
               "Are they not made for each other?" I asked of Philip.
               "Do you believe matches are made in heaven, Miss Emily? If so, a feminine soul awaits mine. When Miss May marries your uncle, will this other not hear and grant my petition?"
               "If you give your fortune to Destiny, you must ask the question of her oracles."
               "Be thou my oracle, Emily, and answer graciously."
               "I have already answered, Philip; this persistency is painful."
               "Forgive me; but a feeling at my heart tells me that you prize me more than you know. I am sure I can make you one of the happiest of women. Not a cloud shall shadow your path, if my love can brighten the way."
               As Philip ended, a tone of supplication fell on the air. Why could I not resist it and him? At that moment I felt as if his soul were the fate of mine. Penetrating influences drew me on and on towards him. His goodness, his patience, his serenity, his constancy, and an invisible power which I was weak to withstand, wooed me.
               The old doubts, the old tenderness, waked to another though feebler struggle; the secret voice of expostulation grew fainter and fainter; a strange feeling swelled my heart to pain, and I whispered, "Ask Uncle Robert."
               "Emily, I thank you." These were Philip's only words.
               And I,—where and who was "I"? The heart which had been beating with joy and gratitude now throbbed with trouble. The eyes that had marked the bursting roses, the shining pond, the groups of smiling people, now saw but clouds and visions in the air. Long, long ago the bees had sung their droning songs down in the crocus-cups; did they sing them still? Perhaps. I did not hear them. Beside us walked two beings clothed with spiritual bodies. United in a bond that could never perish, they glided on to the borders of the unknown land. Troubles assailed them, sorrows lay in their way, difficulties opposed their progress. Pleasures too were around them. All these they enjoyed or suffered together,—never alone. They could not separate. Then I tried to see the bond that drew each to the other. Was it of silk or gold? That I could not tell, for where the bands were tied I could see only wreaths of orange flowers and roses and myrtle. But once, when the hands were lifted, I caught the dazzle of bright metal. It pierced my eyes like the flash of a sword; and that moment I knew that under the soft rose-leaves were chains of steel and iron, cold and hard and heavy.
               "Emily," called my uncle, "we are going this way."
               I started, as if waking from a troubled dream. Mechanically I turned and followed, with Philip ever by my side. Were we the fleshly substance of the spirits I had seen? In silence we went. When my uncle stopped to inquire for his patient, I stopped; then moved on after him and found myself at home. Philip had uttered no word; now he pressed my hand, and with a beaming look went away.
               Once alone, I tried to find my former self; it was back beyond the bridge I had built with those few words, "Ask Uncle Robert." O, could I but recall them! Again I saw two shadows bound with flowers and chains, and again I trembled. The rest of that day, which dawned in joy, waned in secret fear. A second time I walked to church with Uncle Robert. I heard Honor sing and the minister preach, but I was absent,—far away. With joy I saw the twilight fall. The day had passed; evening would come; Philip would call to see Uncle Robert, and he should not see him. I would tell him all.
               But why could I not make him happy? Why could I not call my esteem love, and cherish it as my blessing? I could not, and that was all I knew. For the third time I had tried, and the third time I had failed. Now I had irrevocably decided, and we would again be friends.
               At eight o'clock he came. My mother had many things to say to him. I was silent, and glad to be so. Soon Uncle Robert opened the door. Honor was with him. Had he spent the hour since tea with her?
               "Miss May is going to sing, Emmie. Now for your fingers. Here are some new tunes I want you to try." So I sat down and played hymn tunes, not knowing whether I liked them or not. Then Honor sang "Come, ye disconsolate," and "I would not live alway," to please my mother, and "Gratias Agimus" for Uncle Robert. I played without pleasure. Honor's beautiful voice fell on my ear unheeded; for near, by my mother, sat Philip, looking happier than I had ever seen him. Mine was the only troubled soul. At last I had one moment. Honor had finished her song; she went to my mother, and Uncle Robert followed. I beckoned to Philip; he came up with a smile.
               "Don't speak to Uncle Robert; don't ask him; promise."
               "I promise; will that give you peace?"
               "I want you to forget all about it, Philip. Let this be the end."
               "Are you sure you know your own mind, Emily?"
               "O yes, I am quite sure now."
               "You'll let me go to Summerstown?"
               "Let you?"
               "That is enough, dear. Pardon me, Emmie; it slipped out before I knew it."
               I was half inclined to be vexed with Philip, so contented did he appear with what I thought (not to say wished) would have been a disappointment. He was a cavalier in his misfortunes. Did he not take my words in earnest, or had he resolved to persevere? I looked in his face to read his mind. Over it beamed his illumining smile. "Good by," he said. He held out his hand, and, as it pressed mine, I felt that the woman who could possess and return his affection would be indeed blessed.
               It was time for all to say good by; though Honor said good night instead, promising to be in early next morning.
               The rain fell fast as we left Mrs. Miller's door. Milly clung to my neck and cried, "I do too, I do too." But she was pacified with a promise of really going to Summerstown some time with mamma, and consented to part, after giving and receiving several close hugs and a goodly number of kisses. Honor was visibly agitated. "I don't know what I shall do without you, Emmie. There will be no one to encourage me when you are away, nobody to walk with me, nobody to cheer me." And she wiped tears from her eyes. "What shall I do at the next concert?"
               "Why, you will do charmingly and captivate everybody's heart"
               "If I could but captivate something more substantial! If one fine nature admired my song, I should value it more than all the empty praise I hear!"
               "You'll have that satisfaction too. Uncle Robert is coming up, and perhaps I shall come with him."
               "O, if you could, Emmie! Say that you will, if you can."
               
               "I'll promise that; and I think I'll come."
               "Why, my dear, you shall come," said Uncle Robert, who entered the room in time to hear Honor's request and my reply.
               "And you 'll come too, Mr. Barberick," added Honor. "I would like to have you hear me."
               "I will not fail. Now, Emmie, your mother is waiting. The carriage is here. Good by, Miss Honor; good by, Mrs. Miller; and now, little pink, one sailor kiss and away." So Milly pinched Uncle Robert's cheeks and laughed, and hopped down to the sidewalk; and, as we got into the carriage, she clapped her hands and danced a new kind of fling on the bricks.
               "That is a peculiar way of showing sorrow, Emmie. Your little midget is more occupied with the horses just now than anything else. But it is the way with children of a larger growth. I hope all our friends won't forget us so soon."
               At the station, the first person we saw was Philip, holding Charlie by the hand. The little boy was more demure than usual. Railroad excitement had outwardly subdued him, though one knew by his wide open eyes that a deal of thinking was going on in that little brain. We found a very nice car, and Philip took a place by me, while Uncle Robert played with Charlie.
               "Emmie, will you write me your real decision? With that I will be content, and, if you wish it, forever silent. I believe after you get home, and are able to think collectedly about the past, you will understand your own wishes. I am very fond of you; that you know. I believe a quiet preference to be as conducive to happiness in married life as a more romantic fancy. You once said you wished you had a sister to give me; I almost wish I had a brother more fortunate than myself, for I want you to belong to me in some way, and I begin to fear I am going to lose you."
               "Philip, you will think of me differently when I am gone. Separation will show you your real feelings."
               "I don't think they will change. I never expect to feel for another as calmly and happily as I feel for you. I hope I may never suffer for another as I have for your beautiful Honor. But remember, Emily, what makes you happy makes me so too. Now, Charlie, my boy, say good by; the cars are going in half a minute."
               In a cloud of smoke, out into the rain, away from C—— we went. Clouds scudded, showing the blue, and a single ray of sun peeped forth upon the waters and lighted the shore. It was a beautiful day, and the hour of travel fled quickly.
               "We are almost there, Uncle Robert."
               
               "Yes, Emmie. See, Sue, those lights and shadows on the crags."
               My dear mother was watching the effect without speaking. She worshipped nature in all forms but those of the severe and terrible.
               How strange it seemed to be once more at home, after an absence of months. How strange, and yet how natural! The shore and the road beyond looked as if I had seen them but yesterday. Could I have been so long away? At length, with one prolonged scream, we dashed across the road, entered the station, and after repeated snorts and rumblings we stopped. "Mamma, there is Miriam!"
               "How do you do, Mrs. Barberick? and Mr. Barberick, I declare, and Emily! I am so glad to see you. I felt pretty sure you'd come. The house is all ready; everything is ready excepting dinner. I told Sally I would n't cook no squash till I was sure we should have somebody to eat it. So I'll fly home and clap on the vegetables."
               And I, telling my mother and Uncle Robert that I would rather walk than ride, flew after her. O, how pure was the breeze! how green the hillsides! how blue the bay! Off I turned towards my knolls; they rose like towers on the swelling plain. My alder lane was flowering in verdure and redolent of spicy smells. Under a juniper-bush of many arms peeped pink and white May blossoms. Like a paradise was my rural home! C—— faded into a distant, cloudy region before the freshness of this shore, the brightness of this sea. From that vague realm, which had been my world, floated beautiful tones of music and of life; but here was the rote of the ocean, the song of the waves, the sighs of the pine. What orchestra could make such glorious and delicate concords as these? Honor herself could not approach this music. O, if she could but learn their pervading sympathies and melt them into her voice! If she could love nature more, and art no less!
               Each step brought me new pleasure. The day was one of a hundred. Every rock sparkled as if sprinkled with sand of silver, and every window gave golden reflections. I saw the neighbors' children playing ball, young girls were trundling hoop, and two little ones were taking their dolls out for a walk. Nothing had altered. The blacksmith was forging as he forged the day I went away, the grocer was selling tea, and the milliner's girl was standing with bandbox in hand at Madam Blake's door. I turned the road and saw my home. The carriage stood at the door, and Uncle Robert was almost lifting my mother out in his arms. "Ah, Emmie, you have got your flowers!" as he saw my beautiful May blossoms. "Confess you are glad to get home, even from C——. I like many things in town, but give me the country for my home; the wild cherry-trees, the gushing springs, the blueberry plains,—almost as beautiful as Scottish heather, giving the advantage of a fruity harvest,—the sweet grass and scented clover, the sky and sun and moon and stars (which town people cannot see), the pastures, the elms, the birds, the quiet, and the freedom,—O the freedom, Emmie!"
               "Yet you'll be glad enough to get back to C——, Uncle Robert."
               "No, not I. I don't mean to go any sooner than I can help."
               "Why, you are going up to hear Honor sing."
               "Yes, I suppose so, since you have set your heart on it. It was hard for you to leave C——, Emmie."
               "No; I rather wanted to come. I had finished my lessons, and had enjoyed so much that I needed time to think it all over. I shall have such opportunities to practise, now I have got home too. I have made a resolve, Uncle Robert! I am going to play four hours every day. You know this is the way Honor learned to sing; and if I follow her example I think I shall turn out a pianist."
               "There is not the least doubt of it, my dear. I am glad you have come to so excellent a conclusion. By the way, how much did you practise when you were in C——?"
               "Three hours every day, Mr. Barberick,—never missed once; and vocal exercises two hours, sometimes more."
               "Well, I must hear you play and sing as soon as you are rested."
               The house was as neat as Miriam's hands could make it; on the table stood a glass of wild-flowers and in the window a beautiful rose, which Mr. Maurice had sent to my mother. In half an hour we were at our own table once more, praising Miriam's bread and butter and cream and cooking.
               I looked at my piano with longing eyes, and soon left all other attractions to call forth its voice. My mother went to the kitchen and I sat down to charm my uncle.
               "Now, Uncle Robert, you can enjoy preserves and cream to the accompaniment of sweet sounds. Music at meals is after the manner of the ancients."
               "I am quite disposed to be a Sybarite; so let me taste, hear, and enjoy."
               I began with "Gondolied"; then played "Spring Song."
               "You have improved very much, Emmie. I can say it sincerely."
               "Do you think so? I am so glad!"
               "Why, how you blush, child! If Dr. Lee should pay you a compliment, you could not color more. How is that little matter, Emmie? Is he to come here? It shall be as you say."
               "He is coming down to see us all, Uncle Robert. I have told him that is the best way. He thinks I don't know my own mind, but I am quite sure I do. I shall write him next week."
               "Be sure before you speak, and then do it kindly. These things cannot be too tenderly told to men. They are sensitive as girls in their finer feelings. As I said before, be sure before you decide."
               "But I have decided."
               "Be sure, then, before you utter your decision. I have nothing more to say than this, if you don't like Dr. Lee—"
               "But I admire Philip very much."
               "If you don't love him, then, don't accept him. I have known him for years, and can say that his character is unexceptionable, his disposition one which makes him a universal favorite. He is not a Crusader,—in other words, not a bold, energetic man; but his circumstances do not require him to push his fortunes. If they did, he might show a quicker spirit. But remember, Emily, this is one of the most important steps you will ever be called upon to take. Your whole future will be colored by your present resolve. Consult your heart and your mother, and do what they approve. If you find you love Philip (and by this I don't mean with a romantic fancy, but a warm, quiet affection), accept him. If you feel that you could not spend life happily with him, say so with firmness, and above all with kindness."
               I crept out of the room and up stairs to my own chamber, and there cried my sorrows away. As my tears flowed my pain died; and when I bathed my eyes, so that nobody should see any traces of grief, I felt better, and half inclined to be a little hard with Philip as the cause of my trouble. But I remembered all my good resolves, and went to help my mother put her things away. Miriam was before me, and in the midst of great execution, folding and hanging and boxing skirts and dresses and caps. She was brimming over with good nature, and told me what a nice visit she had made, and how well her father and step-mother were getting along, and how the little half-brothers were growing, and what she meant to do for them when they were older. I looked at her with a respect rising to reverence, as I remembered that she, without much teaching, was putting in practice the living principles of the Christian religion, "Love thy neighbor as thyself," "Honor thy father and mother," "Do good to them that persecute you," "Love your enemies"; for Miriam's enemies had been those of her own household. To a cruel step-mother, to a severe father, she was showing a filial tenderness at which angels might rejoice. She was giving love and devotion for harshness, coldness, injustice, and oppression. Was she not following the injunction to return good for evil? My own grief seemed pitiful in contrast with her constant trial, and I did not hesitate to administer to myself a severe rebuke. Opposed to Miriam's life, my own seemed all happiness. Her days were spent in toil; sick or well, came perpetual tasks, which, as long as she could stand, she would surrender to nobody. What had I but self-imposed duties,—occupations which ministered to my taste for the beautiful,—with freedom from these whenever I chose to take it? Truly, my heart was filled with ingratitude for my many blessings, if I dared to utter one complaint, if I breathed one sigh, or looked at the cloud in my abounding sunshine.
               We passed such a pleasant evening, for Mr. Maurice spent it with us! My mother had the opportunity to thank him for his rose, and he an hour for music and for rest. I played a beautiful Andante of Beethoven, and it gave so much pleasure that I played it again. Uncle Robert spoke of "Communion" as a happy extract of its melody. Mr. Maurice was surprised, for he had never heard it.
               "Has n't Joe Haydn given that to the choir this winter?" asked Uncle Robert.
               "Not when I was at home. I was absent two Sundays; possibly they sang it while I was away."
               "What sort of a treble have you had this past winter, as a substitute for Miss May and Emily?"
               "Pretty good,—little Miss Ray; you know her, I think."
               "What! the fair Eliza's sister?" cried my uncle. "Defend us from such rays as these! Why, the child has no power, absolutely no voice."
               Mr. Maurice smiled. "That is sweeping, Mr. Barberick, but I am forced to say appropriate. I am sorry, for the girl is anxious to sing and shows a delicate taste."
               "Does n't the sister drown her with her magnificent soprano-contralto?"
               "Yes, ordinarily; once in a while a little tone pipes out. I fear she will injure her voice in trying to fill the church. I have told her this, and advised her to keep to parlor music, which she interprets pleasantly."
               "But of course she did n't take your advice. I tried once to give Miss Eliza Ray a few ideas on the bringing out of tones. Instead of receiving it in the proper spirit, she showed disdain and almost resentment."
               "Perhaps you did not offer your counsel in an agreeable manner, Uncle Robert."
               "I did not flatter the young lady; I remember enough of our interview to be sure of that. We'll have you in the choir soon, Emmie, and see if you can't make a quartette out of the trio."
               "Are Simon and Gonflin still at their posts?"
               "Constant as the Sabbath, Mr. Barberick."
               "They like the salary too well to neglect their duties. How do they get along now?"
               "About as usual. If Gonflin would practise properly, he might do quite well. He has a way of smothering his voice, which judicious discipline might cure. I have been sincere enough to tell him this."
               "He always reminds me of a troubadour," said my uncle; "only, instead of singing to a lady fair, he is perpetually serenading himself. I have no patience with the man."
               "Ah, my dear uncle, patience is n't in your category of virtues."
               "That's true enough, in a practical sense. I wish I could contradict you; but my veracity won't permit me. Now, play again and give me patience. Music always brings it."
               I opened my book at Beethoven's "Funeral March." "Again," whispered Mr. Maurice, as its last notes died; and again I rehearsed its solemn majesty,—a majesty which admits no pomp and splendor of earth,—a majesty which utters the loneliness of suffering genius, and tells of something that shall roll through eternal ages, that shall sound and echo forever.
               An impulse prompted me to touch a wild "Witches' Dance."
               "What a weird round!" said my uncle. "I see the goblins at it, and feel as if I could spin into the ring myself. I believe I am bewitched. This would have been the sort of music for Prospero's isle. The elves could have tripped it airily to these measures. Now, give us something a little less fantastic to break the spell, or I shall think I am Robin Goodfellow."
               I went back to Mendelssohn, and tried to put some of his beautiful thoughts into sounds. I pictured him to my mind in his journey to Italy,—his delight at the country and climate; his charming days, amid new and changing scenes; his life in Rome, and his inspirations in the Eternal City. My dear mother had fallen asleep. Mr. Maurice and my uncle listened silently; and I felt descending upon me a charm, like dropping dew. The same spell held my hearers; I knew it instinctively. At the consciousness, my fingers gained force and suppleness, and the keys became silken to my touch. Kindly and pliable they grew. For the time, they were my subjects, and I their queen. Enchanted currents flowed from my hands and chained them to my will. One theme after another awoke in my brain, and, with magical response, ivory and fingers obeyed the call. Like airy messengers the latter sped, and kindled the silent forces beneath them, at the influences of soul and heart. Dohler's "Nocturne" flowed like a brooklet to the river. Czerny's national melodies, with embellishments, came out, clear and faultless. My fingers were inspired. They were guilty of no trippings, no vagueness. Every note rang like a bell. Each cadenza and scale smoothed themselves without effort of mine; and the double trill in Moschele's arrangement of "The Last Rose of Summer" was so even and polished that it would have pleased Herr Stultz himself.
               "Bravo! Encore!" cried my uncle. "Don't you join me, Mr. Maurice?"
               "With all my heart, and thank Miss Emily for the pleasantest evening I have had these three months. I find it too agreeable, for I have stayed past my time. It is ten o'clock, and you must be tired with your journey. I will say what I ought to have said half an hour ago,—Good night and pleasant dreams. I am sure my visions will be rose-color and gold."
               My dear mother started, opened her eyes, murmured something, and sank directly into the arms of Morpheus. It was a pity to rouse her; but she thanked me for it, and we went up stairs together. Uncle Robert, tempted by the night, walked home with the minister. It was fine and still and balmy. I could hear the murmuring waves as they died on the sands of the shore. The bay spread itself silently. Near burned the lighthouse beacon with distinct splendor, and beyond stretched the ocean, dark and dim as the night. From my chamber window I looked out; long I drank the air, sweet as that which wooed Lorenzo and his Jessica. "The floor of heaven" was "thick inlaid with patines of bright gold," and the "smallest orb" looked as if "quiring to the young-eyed cherubins." "Such harmony is in immortal souls!" I exclaimed; "truly hath the poet spoken. This ecstasy is of the spirit,—no fleshly sense could so absorb it; and in spite of our poor 'muddy vesture,' we hear it if we do but listen. Let the world roll on through ages and through cycles; let it shower its poverty, its misery, and its gold; let riches come or go, health faint, disease wax strong; each heart can bear its share, each soul can lift its joy or sorrow, its fortune bright or dark, if it hear, through every test and trial, the song which angels sing to human ears."
               As I thus spoke my thoughts aloud, from below rose softly the sounds of a "Jubilate," played by my uncle. He had got back, and was thinking with me. His spirit answered to mine. O Music! divine expression of our spiritual nature, exponent of our woes, translator of our joys, language of our souls, symbol of the heaven within us! Thanks to the Creator of all things for the sense to hear, the taste to enjoy, thy thousand eloquent voices!
               Much to my surprise, the third day brought a letter from Honor. It was full of kindness and affection. The number of her scholars was increasing, and she had very few leisure hours; soon she should be obliged to take rest and refreshment by minutes. She was enjoying especially her evening practice of sacred music. Herr Stultz, as Conductor of the Society, had opportunities of being almost too kind; for he had selected her as first soprano, and had assigned to her the principal solos in the Oratorio they were then practising. Fortunately for her, it was the "Creation," which she knew and loved. She had practised its songs with her father, and had once taken the part of Eve to his Adam. She hoped I should be in C—— when the Society gave their concert, which would be towards the last of the week, probably on Thursday. She was beginning to enjoy her German music. If she could have me as a companion in these studies, how much pleasure and profit would come to us both. The letter ended thus:—"If we were together one half-hour, I could tell you many things which I have not time to write; but that cannot be, so my confidence must wait. You will be glad to know that I miss your scales. Our poor wall speaks only on this side, to send back the sound of my voice; beyond, it is dumb. It seems weeks instead of days since you left. Your exercises were my monitors when I flagged, particularly 'in the morning early.' I, like Philip the Falconer, find that my fortunate time. If I could hear your crescendos once a day, how happy I should be! Don't disappoint me on Thursday. Ever your HONOR."
               This was the conclusion of my letter, which I read with pride to all the household, beginning with my mother and ending with Miriam. The latter I interrogated with "Is n't that a kind letter?"
               "No more'n it ought to be. Calc'late she's got a heart somewhere";—then, in an under tone, "though I never see no signs of it."
               To this last remark I was prudently deaf. "She's coming down by and by, Miriam."
               "Humph! is she, though?"
               "Only to make a little visit. She won't be able to stay long."
               "Oh!" in a mollified tone, "I should rather like to see her. Don't you think she had better come the last of June? The roses 'll be blown and the strawberries 'll be ripe, and you can go off through the pastur' together and enjoy yourselves. And you'll have plenty of cream, and I'll make just as many strawberry-cakes as you want."
               
               "Thank you, Miriam; you are just as good as—Miriam; there's nobody better, search the wide world through."
               "I a'n't always pleasant, but sometimes I have things to worry me, and I get all riled up; but I don't mean to speak out so. You must n't ever mind me when I do."
               "You are always good to me; I don't care for a word or two. I don't believe I should be half as good-natured as you, if I had as much to trouble me."
               "Yes, you would,—there's everything in natur'; I'm quick and you're easy-going. Some people fret me as soon as they speak; they stir me all up with their ways and their airs. There's Miss Sawyer always talks to me as if I was in a court of justice and she was the judge. Sometimes I'm so mad, I feel as if I'd like to claw the cap right off her head. And she used to live in Squire Blake's kitchen, although she feels so grand now; she acts as if poor folks had n't hardly the same natur' as rich ones; and her daughter minces and talks one side her mouth, as if 't wa' n't genteel to speak plain. I'm glad you a'n't got no such notions."
               "I'm glad, too; but you would n't have let me grow up like Kate Sawyer, if I had tried,—would you, Miriam? Now, confess, would n't you have scolded me every day till you had cured me of my bad habits?"
               "Yes, I would, I declare; and you would have borne the scolding, too. You always was a mild little girl; there was something real comfortable about you. When you wa' n't more 'n five years old, you used to sit on that very cricket and show me your picter-books."
               "I remember all about it, just as if it was yesterday. I am glad I was a good child, Miriam, and did n't trouble you much. It is pleasant to think of. It seems to me as if Uncle Robert used to indulge me a great deal,—almost too much for my good."
               "La! he never could deny you nothing; it appeared as if you was his child. I don't know as he could love his own any better, if he had one."
               "I remember we both used to plague you, Miriam. He used to romp with me, and get things out of order in the kitchen."
               "I know it. Sometimes I got real put out; but I never could say nothing to him, he was always so good and so funny. If I ever tried to scold, he would laugh me out of it. I do wish your uncle was married to a real nice woman. He would be real happy to have a wife and three or four little children."
               
               "I wish he was; but you would n't fancy the one I should pick for him."
               "Tell me who is it. Somebody you've seen in C——?"
               "Yes, and somebody you've seen here,—Honor May."
               "She sha'n't have him,—he's too good for her. I wonder you can think so much of that girl. Your Uncle Robert's worth a dozen such pale-faces. I won't let him think nothing about her."
               "But how are you going to prevent it, Miriam?"
               "You don't tell me he's in earnest!" and she almost screamed. "I won't stand by and see him throw himself away. She won't love him, she can't love him,—and—and—O dear me!" Miriam threw herself into a chair, and burst into a violent fit of sobbing. "O dear, dear!" she moaned, "I knew nothing good would come of that shipwreck, that dreadful storm,—and the vessel almost wrecked before our eyes. She brought a—a witch on board, and threw her here to tempt us all. O Emily, you're bewitched, child, and so's your uncle." Then Miriam wiped her eyes and rose. Not another word did she speak. Round her forehead she bound a checked handkerchief, into her nostrils she forced bunches of bitter wormwood, and, like Atropos, went forth into the midst of worldly cares, prepared to cut the thread of circumstance. All that day she was a dragon. She scolded Sally, snapped at me, who did n't "mind a word or two," was sullen to my mother, and growled portentously at Uncle Robert.
               "I am afraid of her," said the latter. "She has adorned her head with red and her nose with green, and flies round like one of the Furies, anxious to pursue and punish her victim with flagellation and torments; though, as I popped my head in at the door, the only whip I saw was the frying-pan. Sally will have a nice day of it!"
               I did n't like to tell Uncle Robert the cause of Miriam's trouble, but I related to my mother the conversation which had wakened the tempest.
               "I rather think she's feeling bad for nothing, my dear. You are not at all certain that your uncle cares about Honor."
               "O mamma, I'm sure of that. He can't see anybody else when she is near. I am afraid she may not love him well enough, she is so absorbed in her art. But I think she'll marry him, and then she will be my aunt. Aunt Honor! how pretty it sounds. And you will be pleased,—I want to be sure of that before I rejoice."
               "Yes, I shall be pleased, Emmie. I have learned to love Honor very much. Miriam is mistaken in her. She has not an ardent temperament, but she is truly kind and affectionate."
               The storm had not abated at night. Miriam whirled the plates and chairs like a juggler; she jerked the table and flapped the cloth like a northeaster blowing a sail.
               "What's the matter, Miriam?" said Uncle Robert, venturing at last to attack her. "Has your sweetheart disappointed you? It's a pity, when you dressed up on purpose for him."
               A grim smile darted round Miriam's lips; but she repressed it, and slammed the door after her into the kitchen. Five minutes after, I went out and found her on a cricket before the kitchen fire in convulsions of laughter. Sally, trembling with fright, was holding a quart of water at a respectful distance. "Has she got a fit, Miss Emily?"
               "O you goose!" gasped Miriam, shaking her head, while the tears ran down her cheeks; then, tearing off her handkerchief, she threw that and the wormwood on to the hearth.
               I stood by in wonder, for I had never seen her quite so spasmodic before.
               Presently she got up. "O, your uncle did me so much good! If he a'n't a funny man! Now, I've got through my tantrum, and I am going to knock up a real nice supper. The minister's coming. I know all about it," and she chucked my chin kindly. "Dressed up for my sweetheart!"—and she stood against the wall and had another "fit."
               "I did n't know Mr. Maurice was coming to tea, Miriam."
               "Did n't you? Well, he is. What'll you have for him?"
               "I am sure I don't care what you get."
               "Well, I do, dear; I'll have some ham and toast, and some preserved cherries, and some fresh cake. Sally, get some eggs this minute, and we'll stir up sponge-drops and gingerbread before you can say Jack Robison."
               Miriam outdid herself. Sugar could n't be sweeter than her mood, nor snow-flakes lighter than her baking. Mr. Maurice came just as tea was ready.
               "This is better than C——," said my mother, as we sat down to table.
               "Yes, better than England or China either," replied my uncle.
               "You are not thinking about going away again, Robert."
               "I am thinking about it; but perhaps I may not go at present. I expect letters to-morrow, and they will decide the question."
               The next day I had a good talk with my dear mother about Philip. I told her everything,—his perseverance, my own changeable feelings, and the test proposed by him,—absence and time, which together would decide whether my preference were that of friendship or affection. "And now I am sure what I ought to say. The test has been applied, and I find that I am quite willing he should marry somebody else."
               "Notwithstanding this willingness, my dear, he might make you very happy. I feel sure he would."
               "But, mamma, I should be unwilling that he should marry me."
               "That is enough. If those are your sentiments, you know what to say."
               "I am sorry to disappoint you, and yet——"
               "And yet you can't gratify me. I comprehend, my darling, all you would say. It would be no gratification to me to see you unhappy, and unhappy you would certainly be if you married Philip with these feelings. It would be an untruth to yourself, to him, and to God. I am too well satisfied in keeping my child to find fault with that which spares her to me."
               With a feeling of lightness at my heart which it had not known for many a day, I wrote to Philip. I tried to make the tone of my note all that would satisfy the three concerned,—first himself, then my mother and uncle. And the latter was kind enough to commend it as being "just what he desired." My dear mother sighed. It gave me a pang; but the matter was well over, and my heart rejoiced that it was set at rest forever. Now that my letter would speed before me, I could think about going to C—— myself. Perhaps I might not see Philip at all; if I stayed only one night, to hear Honor sing, very likely we might not meet. If I should see him, he would be prepared for a continuance of our old friendliness. My mother hesitated about parting with me so soon, but Miriam was anxious to get me off, and she pleaded the cause so as to bring Mrs. Barberick to her side.
               "Now mind," she said, "don't you let that singing woman get hold of your uncle. Never leave them alone together one minute; if you do, she'll fasten him with a hook. In my opinion, you'll save him, if you keep with him all the time. That's the reason I'm so willing to have you go. Now, promise me, won't you, dear?"
               "Yes, I'll promise to keep with them,—I shall be very glad to do it. But I can't help Uncle Robert's questions. If he asks Honor to marry him, I shall be delighted, and that's the truth, Miriam. I believe it's the very thing that takes him up to C—— too; so of course he won't be balked by me."
               "Oh!" groaned Miriam, "if I could only be there, would n't I prevent it, and no mortal would ever know what the trouble was! O, I know such a plan!"
               
               "And make two people miserable! Why, Miriam, I am astonished at you! A'n't you willing that Uncle Robert should be happy?"
               "Yes, dear; but he won't be if he marries her."
               "Why do you want to destroy her prospects? She never harmed you. If she is attached to my uncle, she will be everything that a kind and affectionate companion ought to be. What could he ask more?"
               "Let her find other prospects; disappointment won't kill her."
               "I suppose you'll object now to making strawberry-cakes when she comes here."
               "No, I won't. I'll make everything just as pleasant as I can. I'll go down on my knees, if she won't marry Mr. Barberick!"
               Half amused and half indignant, I left Miriam, to talk seriously with my mother about the journey, and the result was, that in half an hour my trunk was ready for the next day's second train. I had something at my heart which drew me towards C——, — a shade of the same feeling which bound me to my home; and, in spite of my adoration of sea and shore, and my temporary forgetfulness of the social stimulus of the town, I found, now that I had drunk deeply of nature, I was willing to see my other love once more. Was it C——, or what made C——, that wooed me so strongly?
               The morning was propitious, enticing one away no matter where. Yet, like a perverse child, I saw the shore I wanted to leave recede with a sigh. Uncle Robert's letters had come, and had comforted him, and the voyage to China floated like a ship into distance; so he was free to enjoy for a space. He met in the cars a dozen persons he knew, and I had him only a few minutes at a time by my side. Part of the way he tended a baby whose mother was sick; the little creature preferred him very much to me, and cooed like a dove on his knee. Then a little rogue of three years would walk about the car, and my uncle had to keep him in order, much to the gratitude of his aunt, whose remonstrances were ignored by the young gentleman. Finally, after various experiences of a domestic character, we arrived in C——. We drove directly to Mrs. Miller's. Milly ran to the door, and absolutely shrieked with delight to see us.
               "Can we come in, Catharine?"
               "O yes, ma'am."
               It was afternoon, and Mrs. Miller had gone out; but we were made very comfortable. In about half an hour I heard Honor sing. It made the blood bound in my veins. Instantly I ran to Mrs Miller's piano and played a ponderous scale. One minute's silence followed, the door flew open, and I was locked in Honor's arms.
               
               "I am so glad, so glad you have come! Now I shall sing well. How is your mother, and Mr. Barberick?"
               "Here!" responded my uncle. He had been out, and had just come into the entry, and answered to his name, as if Honor were calling the roll. "You see we are punctual to our engagement, Miss Honor, and expect to be rewarded for our effort by the warblings of a nightingale. What time does the concert begin?"
               "At eight o'clock. I feel so happy now you and Emily have come."
               "I am sorry," said my uncle, "not to talk more with you now; but a gentleman is waiting at the corner. I shall see you by and by."
               Milly hung on my dress continually, and my conversation with Honor was carried on over and around her smooth little head.
               "I am getting along famously at the German Club, Emmie. It seems as if a new avenue of intelligence had been opened to me within the last week. Music which I could not comprehend at first has become significant, and, each time I sing it, something dawns which I had not seen before, or the old beauties shine in a new light. We sing some four-part songs which are really lovely. I want you to hear them."
               "Have you fine voices in your class?"
               "Not very. My enjoyment is of the compositions, not of the performers. I never had the same sort of pleasure before in so great a degree. It is so glorious to sing over and over these beautiful thoughts with appreciative minds. All the class are intelligent and interested in the practice; and though there is not one remarkable voice among them all, their thought and training enable them to give the music with effect. It is so different at the Society meetings. There are a dozen large, beautiful voices, and dozens of fine ones, but not much else beside; and they go through the magnificent choruses like machines; the mass of sound is grand, and often just what is needed; but the delicate passages are generally misinterpreted. But to-night you will hear an English tenor whom you will admire. I think I won't praise him to Mr. Barberick. I should like to see what his impartial impression will be. I shall sing well, I feel so happy; and I am fresh, too, for I have been resting all the morning. Herr Stultz forbade my giving a single lesson to-day. I shall sit with you a little longer, for I have no preparations to make."
               "How are the Shirleys, Honor?"
               "Very well."
               "The lovely Mary and Uncle George in particular?"
               "Mary is just engaged, I forgot to tell you. Do you remember a foreigner who used to escort her sometimes to concerts?"
               "Yes. Is he the individual?"
               "He is the favored suitor of the score she has had. He is a Frenchman, and will take her to Lyons to live."
               "That will be pleasant for her brother George!"
               "Uncle George is pleased, and says little Mary has caught a prize. Mr. Frome is wealthy and benevolent, and thinks Mary dropped down from the moon. I didn't tell you that your friend Uncle Phil is sick."
               "Why, no, Honor. What is the matter?"
               "A very bad cold. Mary says he is confined to his room. You'll be sorry not to see him."
               "Y-e-s. I am sorry he is sick."
               "Have you quite got over the little affair between you two, Emmie?"
               "O, entirely, Honor. I admire without loving him; and he confessed to nothing but a quiet preference for me,—as if that would satisfy any woman! You were cruel, and he thought your friend might be kinder."
               "Then it is quite decided that you follow my example, and are cruel too."
               "The question is settled, and I am as gay as a lark."
               "I am glad you are so happy, dear," and Honor leaned over and kissed me.
               "Me too,—me too," cried Milly.
               Who could refuse the chub? She pinched our cheeks, and we all had a loving time together.
               My uncle came home late. "I have been hearing criticisms, Emmie. People are beginning to find fault with Miss May. One man told me she didn't sing with feeling, and another pronounced her positively cold."
               "What sort of people were they, Uncle Robert?"
               "Common, my dear,—both of them."
               "I thought so!" I exclaimed in triumph. "Just the sort of creatures that can't see anything unless it is held one inch before their eyes."
               "Near-sighted?" interrogated my uncle, interrupting my eloquence.
               "That can't understand anything without it is explained," I continued. "A song acted out would be intelligible. One whose sentiment was suggested would fall on sterile soil. So people are cold who don't penetrate the obscurity of their minds, are they? Why don't they go to a circus for their amusement?"
               "Softly, Emmie. I don't believe them; but that is the direction in which the breakers lie for Miss May. I have faith that she will show feeling enough by and by; but the time has not yet come."
               "And you could not make those people understand it if you talked an hour."
               
               I went to the concert in rather a state of indignation; but the feeling calmed when I entered the hall. Its extent did not diffuse the same cool serenity now as when it was colored by parting day; gas instead of sunlight brightened its peach-bloom and its blue, and my pulses rose to the quicker grasp of the hour. I felt this evening as I felt when Honor first sang. Then, unknown and unjudged, I feared for her the future. Now, known and criticised, I trembled for the sentence which would be pronounced. Admiration for her positive gifts had given place to demands for those she did not possess.
               "What will Honor do if they condemn her?" I whispered in distress to my uncle.
               "Don't be troubled, my dear; they can't condemn her. She is only passing through her ordeal. You'll see her shine like the evening star. When the world's people hold tribunals, they are so afraid they sha'n't be just, that they end by being merciless; and the stronger their victims, the more they turn the thumbscrew. Honor won't flinch. Nobody is strong all over. The censors have found out her vulnerable point, and are probing it. If she can't bear the pain, let her faint; if she can, let her sing."
               "I can't see Honor at all," I whispered to my uncle, after a survey with my glass in the crowd of youthful faces on the stage.
               "Nor I," he replied.
               But it was not long before she rose in response to the prelude, which introduced "With verdure clad." What a slender figure she was in her black dress, with her fair hair drooping round like a veil. She had her old calm manner, but a new softness rayed from her countenance as she began, an admiring, innocent soul, to tell of the beauties of creation before her view.
               "Beautiful!" said my uncle to himself. "She sings as if music were a sea, and her voice the swimmer."
               Truly, she glided like a dolphin among charmed waters, slipping here over alluring rapids of sound, and there dashing the short foam of a trill into the waves of melody. Murmurs of delight rose throughout the song, and at the end it spoke out spontaneously. Afterwards individual remarks fell on my ears.
               "How sweet she is!" said a pretty girl near me.
               "Charming," replied her companion; "mild as the song itself."
               "What beautiful vocalization! Who is she? May,—May? Don't know the name."
               "But it will be known, if this girl sings at any more concerts. She'll set the public spinning like a teetotum."
               "She is better in sacred music than in secular. I did n't enjoy her so much the other time I heard her."
               
               "This is intolerably stupid. I wish we had n't come, my dear. I really believe I shall fall asleep. What time do you think it will be over? Let me see, does that pretty girl sing again? Catch me at another oratorio."
               These were the opinions of as many people. I looked at my uncle and smiled. He was severe in manly beauty. "They'll go by and by, after they're really tired out, and have disturbed the audience sufficiently," he said, "though, if they won't talk, I'll forgive them."
               "What do you think of Honor, Uncle Robert?"
               "Think of her! She is delightful. I long to tell her so. She deserves it."
               I remembered my promise to Miriam. "Must I be a third between them?" asked I of myself, "and spoil it all? Miriam, you are cruel, and I—am weak."
               I had not mentioned the English tenor, and did not know precisely what my uncle thought of him. He had exclaimed "Excellent!" at his first solo, and nothing had been said since. Now he gave the recitative, "And God said, Let there be light!"
               "Listen, Emmie," said my uncle. "He is a singer. I thought so before. Hear his voice. Now comes 'In splendor bright'; those are good tones, clear and manly, and he knows how to manage them. What criticisms do you think Gonflin would pass on him?"
               Before he had time to say more, the chorus voices began, "The heavens are telling the glory of God." As the voices ceased, Honor rose to sing "On mighty pens." I have wondered since if anything could give me the same pleasure again. The upper atmosphere in which Honor habitually dwelt, her mental poise, her serene power, the alertness of her tongue, made a felicitous combination for the eagle's flight. "To soar aloft to the blazing sun, to cleave the air, to bid to morn the merry lark!" How natural all this sounded from her lips! I could easily imagine that fair-haired creature floating on pinions through the ether, trilling to fellow-songsters till lost from sight in the far glory of the sun's great circuit. Suddenly, in the brilliant sweep of the measure, is heard the note of love: "And cooing, and cooing, calls the tender dove his mate." In short, velvet breaks came the sounds from Honor's throat, till one almost heard the gush of some listening bird in reply. Then were warbled the happy nightingale's "enchanting lays," ere grief had made her melancholy, and Honor carolled as if her own breast had no thorn. When the last trill of ecstasy had gone, I turned to Uncle Robert. He leaned his head upon his hand, as if lost in contemplation and bliss. I did not even whisper, and thus he listened while the music sounded. When the tenor sang "In native worth," he roused himself, and commended "voice and style."
               
               In Eve we were disappointed, and in Adam too. How perceptible, and yet almost indescribable, the differences between the first and Honor, between the latter and the Englishman. Eve's voice was fine and powerful,—an instrument from which melody could have been drawn, had the owner possessed the skill; occasional notes dropped their richness, and the rest died prematurely in the throat and breath. "The choruses are not well sung," said Uncle Robert. "O, what a waste of material! How Nature's physical gifts are lavished,—poured from the lungs and larynx without stint,—squandered, and to no purpose. This shouting makes noise, certainly, but by no means a penetrating sound. Eve's loudest tones would not reach so far as Honor's. They spread out cumbrously, and are gone; while the other pure notes journey on and on so long as they exist. However, it is a great pleasure to listen to such music, even when it is indifferently performed, and there is always something to redeem the general inadequacy of representation. It is the ideas, rather than the mediums, that one thinks of." All this was said after the concert, as we stood waiting for the crowd to disperse.
               I thought of one medium as much as of the ideas she uttered, I am free to say. How Honor sang "On mighty pens," was as much to me as the music itself; and that night it was more. Honor waited for her verdict, and I could not forget it. We were alone; the seats around were vacant; and the dark procession of humanity floated towards the portal. With an impulse, I turned and said, "Uncle Robert, why don't you marry Honor?"
               "My dear Emily!"
               "O, I am serious. It would delight me."
               "Emily, do you think—she—cares for me?"
               "O, I don't know. She never, of course, said so, or led me in any way to think such a thing. I only spoke because I should like it so much."
               "Don't think of it again, my dear. I should not presume to present any requests of such a nature. I admire Honor, but I should be very sorry to see her marry anybody. It would be wicked to interrupt her career by any selfishness like this. Her thoughts and her time are devoted to art. That is her destiny. Emily, I should feel inclined to insult the man who should venture to offer his heart in place of all that lies before her."
               "But could n't she marry and still sing?"
               "Not at all, Emily, not at all."
               "But I thought you did not approve this exclusive devotion to one thing. I certainly heard you argue with Honor about it, and tell her that, in climbing the hill of fame, she must rest, look around at the view, pick wild-flowers—"
               
               "Stop, child; I told her this, but with a different application. I wish her to cultivate her several tastes and her intellect, while pursuing this special study of music,—for general aids particular culture. This was my meaning. Honor is sufficiently lofty, but she needs the breadth which such a training would give. But from any development of the affections I trust she may be preserved at present. My conscience would reproach me if I should hasten it, even by a word. Emily, it must not be!" Then, with agitation, "Does anybody fancy her?"
               "Everybody fancies her. Several young men have almost persecuted her with their attentions."
               "I thought she would find it persecution! She does n't even think of such a thing as any special personal preference! She is absorbed in one idea. I knew it would be so. Why can't these idle young men carry their fancies where they will be better received? I do not choose to have her annoyed. You don't think she has listened to any of them, Emmie?"
               "Listened? not a moment. I assure you, Uncle Robert, she knows how to be an iceberg. One of her suitors told me that, if her affections could be touched, she would become more tender and ardent in song."
               "It may be, it may be," said Uncle Robert, half to himself; then aloud, "Not yet, not yet. She must not be disturbed. Emily, you must take care of her while I am gone."
               "If you would only marry her! Then she would have a protector indeed."
               "Don't ask me. I cannot; I don't wish to marry Honor."
               "When a gentleman declines the honor of such an Honor, of course there is no more to be said," I replied, somewhat piqued.
               "O, you don't understand," almost groaned my uncle, "and I cannot explain. I appreciate this young lady; I respect her many fine qualities; I admire her voice and talent. She must be a singer now, and not a wife; and I, you know," with a smile,—"I am not a marrying man."
               So saying, he led the way into one of the aisles. As we went, the lights were dying one by one, and darkness began to fill the hall. We reached a side entrance, and found the room where Honor was waiting for our escort. She was almost brilliant with excitement and pleasure; for numerous compliments had been showered upon her. Herr Stultz was enraptured: "I did nev-are hear any Fraulein sing better."
               It seemed to me that my uncle was particularly tender in his manner, as he approached and spoke to Honor. He wrapped her cloak about her with care, and gave her his arm to the carriage, leaving "Emmie" to take care of herself. I rejoiced at this neglect, seeing in it the sign of a secret affection for the one I loved, and then began my self-questioning:—Did Uncle Robert suspect a latent tenderness on the part of Honor towards him? or had my few plain words simply awakened him to the state of his own heart? Had they cast bold suspicions on Honor's affections? O no! her dignity forbade even the thought. Besides, my uncle was a hero; and no marble statue was more free from vanity than he. Very prettily had I fulfilled Miriam's injunctions! But had I not kept my promise to the letter? I had not left the two together, and I would not. If my words had hastened the crisis, were they not Fate's words issuing from my lips?
               All the way home Honor talked, asking about this solo and that chorus, and unconsciously drawing a dozen compliments from my uncle, which she as unconsciously received. "And how about the tenor, Mr. Barberick?"
               "I like him very much."
               "I thought you would. To-morrow night he will be at our German Club. I am so glad, for you will hear him to particular advantage there."
               "But we must go to-morrow, Honor."
               "O no, Emmie, don't say so,—stay till next day. Please, can't she, Mr. Barberick?"
               "Just as well as not; mother won't be worried, Emmie, for I told her we might not see her before Saturday."
               "Delightful!" exclaimed Honor. "I want you to stay so much. I have got I don't know how many things to tell you,—about my new scholars and my room. You must see it, Mr. Barberick and give me your opinion."
               If Uncle Robert had been an impressible man, he would have declared his admiration on the spot; for nothing pleased him quite so much as to be appealed to for advice. Besides, Honor, carried out of her usual reserve and tranquillity, was enchanting.
               "What is the matter, Emmie?" she asked; "you are so silent. I am afraid you did n't enjoy the concert; or perhaps you are tired, coming from Summerstown to-day."
               "Not at all; I did n't know I was silent. I like to hear you talk about the music. I am very glad to know that I listened once in my life. Those choruses, too, enchain me; they are sounding in my brain now, only they get mixed a little. But I shall never forget 'On mighty pens,' Honor,—never!"
               "Do you like that better than 'With verdure clad'?"
               "For you, I do. Which would you rather sing?"
               "'On mighty pens.'"
               The carriage stopped; and with good nights we parted at our separate doors,—parted to dream the concert over; though Honor, as I afterwards drew from her, had but scanty sleep.
               
               The next day, at eleven o'clock, we all went together to the rooms, where Miss May received her class. They were in the next street to ours, and Honor could reach them in less than five minutes. Large, lofty, and airy, they were apparently built for some fine pleasure, and behold the pleasure had come! The back room belonged especially to Honor. This looked into a fruit garden, just bursting into leaf. Uncountable birds flitted to and from the branches, preparing their summer habitation in goodly places. Pear and cherry trees were in bud, and the wind softly moved, as if beseeching them into blossom. Currants half covered the fence, lilacs and snowballs nodded at each other from opposite corners, grapes climbed an arbor, tufts of tansy showed their beautiful leaves, yellow violets bloomed as if in their old field-home, and strong, red roses shot up in robust growth all about the place. It was a fine old-fashioned garden, such as delights the heart to think of.
               "O Honor, how beautiful!"
               "Is n't it? You see I did n't want to be upon the street, amusing passers-by with my pupils' efforts; so Herr Stultz kindly took the front room for his piano scholars, and I retired here to my garden. In a month's time it will be cool and shady. I think I shall practise here sometimes myself, it is so inviting."
               "I shall almost envy you this solitude, Miss Honor," said Uncle Robert. "This green spot, with its birds and zephyrs, will be full of beautiful suggestions."
               "A very nice place for 'O welcome, fair Wood,' Mr. Barberick."
               "Appropriate!"
               "Then all the wrong notes will float out into the green and be absorbed by the cool air."
               "Wrong notes?" asked my uncle. "O, your pupils' notes! I thought for a moment that you were maligning yourself."
               "I was telling the truth," said Honor, quietly. "I sing wrong notes sometimes."
               "What a confession, Miss May! But pray don't do it again, for the birds may be led to imitate your example. They are very near, and might copy a false tone. I beg you to be careful."
               Just then the door opened and four young girls entered the room. They had come for instruction. Very neatly dressed were they, of modest demeanor, and apparently eager and grateful for the opportunity offered them of learning what they loved.
               Honor greeted them pleasantly, and immediately began the lesson. First she called for the scale. Each one sang it separately. It was interesting to hear the several voices and compare their differences: the mezzo sounding rich on the medium notes, and somewhat labored above; the treble, failing on the rich lower tones, and approaching purity as it ascended the scale; and one voice of reedy quality, which sounded like two and one together, singing clear above and vigorous in the chest-tones; and still another, giving out a hard, woody, powerful alto. These were the four materials for Honor to mould and knead and develop and subdue. As the reedy voice sang a full, round C above the staff, Honor looked at us with a smile. After the scale practice was over, one of the trebles and the hard alto sang together; then the other treble and the reed repeated the duet. Then each alone read a new exercise, and, as Uncle Robert said, "with credit to themselves and their teacher"; and afterwards they all sang together. As a finishing practice; each one sang the scales separately five minutes.
               When they had gone, Honor turned to Uncle Robert, "Tell me, were you pleased?"
               "Very much."
               "Am I doing well?"
               "Nobly, my dear young lady."
               "And you like the plan,—the arrangement,—the division of time? You understand the idea? Each one must read alone and sing alone; this quickens the musical talent to ready perception, and requires the voice to seize the notes. Then two sing together; this demands perfect intonation, and a certain power of adaptation which is to be learned only in this way. Then when all four join, there is the union of interests as well as of voices. It seems to me that I shall succeed in this way; if I do not, I shall try some other. I usually have more scale practice, but this was a show lesson."
               "How many times have they been, Honor?"
               "This is the fifth lesson. I have another class of four on alternate days. The others are not quite so interesting as these, though one of them has as rich a contralto as I ever heard. I was just forming the classes when you went away."
               "How often is the drill?" asked Uncle Robert.
               "Twice a week," answered Honor, with a smile.
               "Were you obliged to reject many?"
               "More than I wanted to reject. It really pained me to see some of them, they were so disappointed. It required all my resolution to speak the words which took away their hope. But it was my duty."
               "And duty is above all things with you, Honor." So said my uncle, while he looked at her admiringly.
               "It ought to be, if I can only see it clearly. Here right was unmistakable. How could these girls sing if they had no voices? Art can develop wonderfully Nature's gifts, but cannot supply her deficiencies. I could not draw forth a voice from nothing, and they would have expected it. I was obliged to reject two, as possessing no positive musical ability; five I sent to Herr Stultz as piano pupils."
               "I did not know there were so many, Honor. Was n't it and is n't it a great care?"
               "Yes; but so pleasant that it does not weigh heavily."
               "And you give your time," said my uncle, "without recompense!"
               "I have the sweetest return,—their improvement. It takes only six hours a week out of my time."
               "But, to do this, you must give up other scholars who would remunerate you."
               "Perhaps not so much as these will. If I can succeed, I shall consider myself richly rewarded. I cannot tell you how much I enjoy it. They are quick and tractable. Not one has any acquired habit to change, nothing to unlearn. My other pupils have all taken lessons before, and it does not seem to me that a single one of their teachers has been really faithful; though perhaps I ought not to say it,—they might all condemn me."
               "They could not!" said my uncle, in an ardent voice.
               I looked at Honor. She only smiled and said,—"What a good friend I have. You would not hear me abused, I know. Somebody was kind enough to send me a newspaper this morning, containing a notice of last night's concert. I was specially mentioned and criticised. I don't think the judgment a just one. I should like to know your opinion, Mr. Barberick. When we get home I will show you the article."
               "Impertinent scamp!" muttered Uncle Robert.
               "It may not be a scamp at all," said Honor; "I should n't be surprised if it was some young lady, who did it out of a good motive,—perhaps one of my pupils."
               "It is probably some one who wishes to rival you," said my uncle,—"as if anybody could hope to do it; some dear friend, who thinks you ought to know every envious remark that is cast at you; in other words, some vixen, who vents her evil spirit in this way."
               "If you think the criticism is just, I shall abide by it; if you think it unjust, I will forget it."
               My uncle colored, half with indignation at the thought that this rare creature might be the subject of ignorant blame, and half with pleasure to know he was so often appointed her arbiter, and by herself. I could read every feeling of his heart.
               Honor reached her hat and shawl; we all took a look into the fresh, budding garden, and then turned from it, half regrettingly, into the dusty street.
               I could see that Uncle Robert fumed internally all the way home; and when we reached Mrs. Frost's he said, "If you will allow me, Miss Honor, I will go in with you and get that valiant paper."
               "You are quite indignant, Mr. Barberick. Don't feel so; it really does not trouble me in the least."
               "You are sure, Miss Honor?"
               "Perfectly; do I look grieved? And the reason why is, that I don't agree with the writer!" and Honor gave a bright little laugh. "If I thought it were true, I should feel anxious enough to make you so. Just wait one moment and I will find the paper."
               Honor ran up stairs, and in three seconds was with us again, waving the "Rising Sun" like a banner. In a moment, my uncle had the criticism under his thumb and eye. "Let us all go into Mrs. Miller's," he said, "and there I will give you my honest opinion."
               Quietly seated, my uncle read and pronounced,—"It is unjust in every particular! Listen, Emmie, and say what you think:—'The concert last night was attended by a large and respectable audience, among whom were the élite of C——.' (Fiddlestick!" ejaculated Uncle Robert, "what has that to do with Handel?) 'The solo singers all did themselves great credit, particularly'—(What discrimination! all did themselves credit, particularly!—now for the especial compliment!)—'particularly the fine English tenor, who made his début among us on this occasion.' (Among us. Who is us? How gratified the English lish tenor must feel to be told that all the others did so very well and he a little better than the rest; than the bass, for example, who sang out of tune constantly!) 'Miss Lane, as Eve, won all hearts.' (Nonsense!) 'Her personal beauty'—(I did not see that she had any; inappropriate mention, if she has!)—'and rich voice admirably fit her for the part which she so well sustained.' (This fellow has n't common sense!) 'Raphael added fresh laurels to his well-earned reputation. Miss May, as first soprano, was as correct as usual. If we should dare criticise, we would suggest a little more warmth of feeling. This, added to her brilliant execution, would make her first soprano indeed.' (Indeed, and indeed, I shall have to chastise this fellow.) 'The choruses were magnificently performed.' (Were they? I thought most of them were indifferently sung; but perhaps you know better.) 'We trust the Society will be induced to give this glorious production of the immortal Handel again, and that an indulgent and appreciative public will greet their efforts with an overflowing house.' Now, Emmie, give me your opinion of this rigmarole, and then I'll tell you what I think about it."
               "You have already told us, and more than once, Uncle Robert."
               "Have I, my dear? O, I interspersed a few ejaculations. The fellow's absurdity is so great, I could not help a word or two. But give us your impression of this critique."
               "It is so silly that it has n't made any."
               "Excellent, my dear. If it was n't sheer nonsense, I could find it in my heart to be angry with the man that wrote it; but it is not worth temper or answer. Now, my dear Miss Honor, I am not astonished that it does n't trouble you. The whole article is vague and rambling, praising just what was poor, and ignoring the gold. It makes an attempt to say something good about the tenor, and spoils it. It can't quite pass over the soprano's excellence, though it would like to, but endeavors to make the want of warmth the principal feature, and the brilliant execution a fact just worthy mention. Don't say this was written or sent by a friend. If there was a single good thing in the article I would own it; but, upon my word, I can't find a phrase which deserves the adjective. Now I have demolished your critic, Miss Honor, I will turn critic myself; that is, if you will permit."
               "I want you to criticise me!" exclaimed Honor. "I shall never improve, if somebody does n't point out my defects; and it must be somebody who knows what the defects are!" she added.
               My uncle smiled, and continued:—"Last evening you charmed me. I did not hear a tone I would change or a phrase I would alter. Your vocalization was faultless,—by that I don't mean perfect, for I can conceive of one higher degree of finish, and only one. Your expression of sentiment was pure and clear and elevating, full of meaning, suiting the descriptive character of the music. I was not only charmed, but satisfied."
               Honor glowed with pleasure. If indifferent to one critic she certainly was not to the other. "How kind you are!" she murmured. "I ought to sing well after such words as these."
               "And now comes the other side," resumed Uncle Robert. "Perhaps I may give you pain, though I think you are too sensible to suffer at the sound of truth. I have only spoken of your exposition of sacred music, which is higher than all other. I want very much to hear you interpret secular writers, and that pleasure I hope I shall have to-night. When I went away, I feared that your reserve, your reticence, your dignity, might prevent you from expressing freely in song your emotional nature. And you know, if you sing ballads, you must make them mean what the composer intended. Giving the notes in a beautiful manner is not enough: the words and music must penetrate the hearts of the people; and, after all, where expression and feeling are concerned, the people are good judges. If you can make a gray-haired man or a young woman weep, you may know that you are not cold."
               
               Honor began to look distressed. "I am afraid I shall never be able to draw tears," she said.
               "I will tell you how you can do it," said my uncle.
               Honor looked at him as if he had been a juggler ready with a complex coffee-pot to pour out lachrymæ to order.
               "Feel your song so much, if it is a sad one, that you can hardly keep from crying yourself. That is the secret. If it is joyous, be so glad that you cannot keep back the smiles. Then all will go well, and nobody will ever think of daring to mention coldness or want of warmth in your singing again. I don't want you to give anybody the opportunity of fastening any fault upon you; for the reputation may live after the tendency to the fault has taken an opposite direction. This is why I want you to live beyond yourself a little more if possible, so that your sympathies may crop out and fasten everywhere they touch. But you are doing it. I see a decided change in your manner and your singing these last few months. A larger life and two years more will develop you almost into perfection; and, when I come home, you may make me cry in return for my lecture."
               "Are you going away again?" exclaimed Honor.
               "Before long; not for a week or two. I shall have time to scold you again."
               "I am so sorry. I have nobody to criticise me when you are gone,—nobody to tell me the truth as you tell it. It always does me so much good. I shall sing a great deal better for this. I should like to have a scolding once a week."
               "I will try and gratify you while I stay. But now I must be off to see how Philip is. I found some fine grapes in the market for him. Emmie, can't you borrow a basket for me to put them in? I will treat you two before I go."
               Uncle Robert tempted Honor and myself to the enjoyment of Delaware clusters, and prepared for his kind errand. "I shall dine down town. You girls had better have a cosey dinner together. I shall be here in season to escort you to the German Club."
               "Did anybody ever have such a nice uncle as mine, Honor?"
               "I never saw one like him. How handsome and how kind he always is, and so manly!"
               "Ah, Honor, you know very well what I wish."
               "Do I? I remember that you once declared you would like me for a relative; but if Uncle Robert is n't of the same mind, what can I do? Ask him to take me?"
               "O no. Only let him see how much you admire him. He is not at all vain, Honor, and may think perhaps that you don't care in the least for him. Besides, he considers you absorbed in music."
               
               "And so I am, Emily. Very strong must be the feeling which comes between me and my art. I love it better than anything in the world."
               "But true affection ought n't to come between you and your art. It should make your love for all things and all people stronger and purer. You would sing better if you loved truly. By the way, Honor, have you ever discovered your benefactor, the invisible and unknown hero of your project?"
               "No, not yet."
               "And how is the instinct? Doesn't it point to somebody?"
               "Not strongly enough to allow me to trust it."
               I thought I saw a blush on Honor's cheek as she spoke, but it had faded at my second glance, if it had ever existed.
               Uncle Robert came just in season for us to present ourselves punctually at the Club meeting. The English tenor was there, and filled my ear and heart with music. After the regular programme had been carried out, he sat down to the piano, and, playing his own accompaniments, enchained all assembled till nearly midnight. Into many simple songs he poured a depth of feeling which made my eyes overflow. "The Harp that once through Tara's Halls" was a regret for departed glory and vanished joys; "Sound an Alarm," a thrilling call; and "The Bloom is on the Rye," an appeal so captivating, that one wished a real lover, if he would sing like that. I longed and yet dreaded to hear Honor in contrast to these soft, persuasive accents. I looked at her while the tenor sang. Formerly Honor would have been an indifferent listener,—that is, indifferent to the sentiment, though sensitive to the music of the song. Now, how changed was her demeanor! delight beamed in her countenance, mingled with a look of sadness. When Herr Stultz called upon her, I half expected she would decline; but I should have known better. It was her duty to sing, and she did. As this Club was German, no florid Italian melodies were brought forward, though no really good music was strictly excluded. So Honor's particular and brilliant cavatinas were not in accordance with the spirit of the union. She had told me this before, and I troubled my memory with the question, "What can she sing?" I was soon answered. She gave a song of Sterndale Bennett's, "To Chloe in Sickness." I could not understand Honor. Here was the inexpressive, the cold singer, speaking in notes of woe,—nay, more, almost of despair. "Can I cease to languish?" she asked in pathetic tones. "Can I cease to mourn, can I cease to languish, while my darling fair is on her couch of anguish?" She stood with calm countenance, lamenting. No muscular movements ever distorted the tranquillity quillity of Honor's face. She sang as she spoke,—in beautiful serenity. In the lovely four-part "May Song," in "Ein feste Burg," she had been her brilliant self. Now another and new creature stood before us. No weeping maid, whose tears could be chased by a smile,—no fervent songstress uttering the language of passion,—but a woman into whose soul had crept a sorrow. As she finished, there was a quiet and general uprising.
               By common, though unspoken consent, this was the last song,—the end of the evening had come. Few words were said; it was as though a hush had fallen upon those there gathered together. My uncle looked at me expressively. "Did I not tell you it would come?" he whispered.
               As we walked home Herr Stultz overtook us. "You like de tenor, Mees? Goot sing-er. I hope he stay here dis vinter." Then, in lower voice, "And Fraulein! She sing with sooch feeling dis night,—I not understand!" And the Professor shook his head, as if he did not like the symptoms. Neither could I understand; but it was enough to rejoice. I walked at my uncle's right hand, Honor at his left. He was our mutual prop,—a tower of support and defence. He certainly talked more to Honor than to me, or looked at her more,—I am not sure which, for his curls were in view all the time I did not see Herr Stultz, and his eyes were turned in the quarter where I was not. It was a fine moonlight night.
               "Let us go through Hill Street and have a look at the garden," said my uncle,—"unless you are afraid of taking cold," he added, turning to Honor.
               "Not in the least. I should like the walk."
               Herr Stultz said, "Good night," and left us.
               How changed was the view since we had looked at it together ten days before. Then, with Philip by my side, I had seen the unfolding of summer life. Now nature below was one green expansion. The lamps of the street twinkled red under the colder, clearer light of the heavens; and beneath this glimmering splendor lay the thick, soft greensward, the bending trees, the tufted shrubs, rejoicing in their renewal of life and the beauty of the world. The pond shone in steely curvings amid the dark, rich green. At its shore lay a little pinnace, with gay flags flying, inviting us away—O where? "Where, Honor?" I asked, pointing to the white vessel.
               "To a star filled with music."
               "Yes, Honor. Music perpetually sounding."
               "What visionary creatures!" said Uncle Robert, smiling at us both. "I shall hold fast to keep you from flying away."
               "O, Uncle Robert, you have n't yet told me about Philip. Will he get out to-morrow?"
               
               "Not quite so soon as that; but probably in a few days. He took a bad cold last week, and it has given him some fever. But he is doing very well."
               "Poor Uncle Phil! How I wish I could do something for him! Is there anything I could send him, Uncle Robert?"
               "Your heart," he whispered, so low, that I hardly caught the words.
               Could we have read Philip's feelings, could he himself have interpreted them rightly, we should have found there another trouble, one not caused by me.
               At seven o'clock the next morning we were away. Honor said good by, and promised to come to Summerstown in a few weeks. Indefinite phrase. But she could not be more explicit. Her scholars in general, and her class in particular, might keep her in town more than a month, perhaps less.
               "I shall certainly see you soon," said my uncle gayly. "If I go to China you shall be the last to say good by. If I don't go, I shall be in C—— again next week."
               My dear mother was so glad to see us that it was a pleasure to get home, just for her welcome. I found Miriam in the kitchen. She received me half grimly. "You did n't let him do it?" she said, with a menacing look in her eyes.
               "No, indeed. I have found out something, Miriam."
               "What? What?"
               "He does n't want to do it."
               Miriam sprang into the air, struck her feet together before alighting, and then cut a caper which took her half-way across the kitchen-floor. She snapped her fingers several times like castanets, executed a kind of rigadoon, then sat down by the fire.
               "How did you manage it?" she asked.
               "I did n't manage at all; I blundered into it. I did something which you won't like when I tell you."
               "No matter, no matter. If he don't want her, I am so glad! Just think of it! And what made you think he did want her?" she asked, turning upon me defiantly.
               I actually shrank from the look in Miriam's eye.
               "You don't know what you made me suffer," she continued. "I've worried ever since you've been gone about it. Worry, worry! I've led the life of a toad under a harrow these two days, and all for her."
               I was not sorry to have Miriam's anger diverted from me, although it did fall upon Honor.
               "You see, dear, I was afraid you would n't be a match for her," continued my monitor.
               "No cunning is needed to match her candor, Miriam."
               "Ah, you're taken in by her. But you was naughty. Tell me what you did."
               
               "I actually asked Uncle Robert why he did n't marry Honor, and told him how much I should delight in it——"
               "Nonsense. When I told you——"
               "I know it, Miriam. I did n't mean to do it; but, for a moment, I forgot myself, and he said,—he said——"
               "What did he say?" asked my Argus sharply.
               "He said he did n't want to marry Honor."
               "O joyful!"
               "But he does n't want her to marry anybody,—anybody else, that is; for he did n't say he should never want to marry her himself. He does n't think she ought to set her heart on anything but music now, Miriam. I am not at all sure that he does n't love her, and by and by, when he comes home from China, perhaps he'll marry her, if she'll have him."
               "If she'll have him," repeated Miriam in disdain. "She'll never have him, dear, and he'll never have her. So set your mind easy about that. He said he did n't want to marry her,—that's enough. What man in love would be willing to wait, and go away, and wait agin, and leave a woman to be snapped up by anybody that come along. I'm satisfied; and, on the whole, I'm glad you did ask him the question plump, dear; 'cause, you see, he told you his real mind. If you had n't said nothing, we should ha' been in a quandary still. I'm proper glad, dear. The minister ha' n't been here since you went away, Emily; but I guess he'll be along to-night. I'll make something nice for supper. I rather think he'll find out who's got home."
               "Are you going to C—— to-morrow?" I asked, as Uncle Robert opened the door.
               "Yes, Emmie. I must go in the morning."
               "Must go? I thought you decided last week to make the journey on purpose to hear Honor sing again. There is another concert to-morrow evening, I believe."
               "Yes, and it is advertised. I brought a C—— paper up for you to see how your friend looks in print. I think this does not belong to the regular series of concerts. They were not advertised. This is a general announcement in approved form."
               "Herr Stultz!" I exclaimed, as I read the heading.
               
                  'Carl Stultz has the honor to announce a Grand Concert at Halcyon Hall, on Thursday evening, June 3d, on which occasion he will be assisted by the following talent:—Miss May, Soprano; William Scheid, Violinist; Gustave Budd, Flutist. Concert to commence at eight o'clock. Tickets fifty cents. To be had at Shandon's, 60 Broad Street, and at the door on the evening of the Concert.'
               
               "How will Honor like this publicity, Uncle Robert?"
               
               "I don't think she will care. She has a mind above trifles. This is one of the necessities of the profession she has chosen, and she probably looks at it in its true light."
               "I know she will so look at it if she does not now. But this is the first time her name has been given to the public in this way, and her reserve may be wounded a little."
               "What becomes of her reserve when she sings to the public?"
               "O, that is such a different thing. She dispenses her talent in an hour of inspiration. Then she is a queen, a siren, a sibyl. But this is a deliberate, cold-blooded parade of the very thing which is so dazzling when it comes. However, as you say, it is necessary. Concerts are not spontaneous entertainments. And nobody knows how to submit to the inevitable with more grace than Honor. She will be very sensible about it, Uncle Robert. Do you notice the simple modesty of the card. If that were not Herr Stultz, it would be Honor. I see them both in it. Almost anybody else would have had a list of adjectives,—accomplished soprano, eminent flutist, distinguished violinist, or something after that fashion. Honor once told me how much she disliked all pretence in matters of this sort. I remember she criticised severely a programme which mentioned true artists in this obtrusive way. I am sure she would never consent to be heralded to the public. She wants no trumpet to blow her merits to the winds."
               "She needs none, Emmie. Her voice is a trumpet of silver."
               "I am afraid Philip won't like this notice."
               "And why should he dislike it, pray? Is it anything to him?" asked Uncle Robert quickly.
               "O no, of course not."
               "I did n't know before that he was Miss May's guardian?"
               "O no; but he was always so much interested in Honor, and so very kind."
               I did not venture to say more. Could I tell him that Philip had loved Honor, and unsuccessfully? No. I had no right to repeat this history of his heart. Could I divulge that Philip was the invisible prince-hero whose liberality had given life to Honor's project? No. I had no liberty to reveal his private generosity. As if taking up my thoughts, Uncle Robert spoke.
               "I want very much to see how Miss May is getting on with her classes. The one we saw is very interesting. I hope the other proves equally so. I want her to prosper in this undertaking. She must prosper. How I wish I knew the noble fellow whose munificence enabled her to put her plan in execution tion. He has a royal soul, although he does n't wear a crown."
               "You would have done the same if you had been here, Uncle Robert."
               "Well, Emmie, perhaps so; but there seems to be nothing left for me now but to offer Miss May my best wishes. All the wind is taken out of my sails by this magnanimous fellow, whom I want to know, and can't catch. Emmie, dear, it is just possible that I sha'n't come back to Summerstown this time. Everything depends on my letters from Liverpool, and they will be waiting for me to-morrow. You need n't mention it to your mother, for I may return to say good by. But, if I am summoned, I must away."
               "O Uncle Robert!"
               "I sha'n't stay forever, dear. If Firman and I agree to a partnership, there will be a branch house in C——, and we will all live here in the old house together. We can spend the winters with Mrs. Miller, and the summer in the prettiest spot in the world."
               "When shall you sail?"
               "Perhaps on Saturday. If I conclude to take the next steamer I will write you on Friday, and you can tell your mother by degrees. Poor Sue! She misses me I know."
               But Miriam had already made my mother suspicious.
               "A'n't Mr. Barberick going away to-morrow?"
               "Not that I know of, Miriam."
               "Well, he told me to have that buff vest of his starched and ironed real nice; so I guess he's off again. Look, Mrs. Barberick; can't you 'most see your face in it? I dropped some spermaceti in the starch, and it has put a polish on that'll make this waistcoat look putty toler'ble alongside the C—— ones";—and Miriam gave her glossy vest a look of admiration.
               My mother hardly stayed to hear the encomiums, but came in directly to see Robert. "Miriam says you are going away to-morrow. How sorry I am! I heard you say something to Mr. Maurice about Thursday, but did not know you were serious. Are you really going, Robert?"
               "Really going, Sue, but only for two days; that is, I don't think I shall stay longer. If I do, I shall write you. If you get a letter from me to-morrow night, you may know before you open it that I shall tarry in C—— another day."
               "It is so comforting to think that this is to be one of your flying trips, Robert. You'll come back and stay with us a while, there's a good boy!" And my mother went up to her Robert and fondled his dark curls in a sweet, motherly way. In her heart was a dull fear that he was ready to escape again from the dear home-cage.
               
               My uncle looked up seriously. "If I really think it for the interests of all to go, you'll let me, won't you, Sue? The voyage is a short one, and I sha'n't stay in England more than three months. Why, you'll hardly know I am gone before I'm at home again."
               My dear mother wiped the tears, for she saw her fears confirmed; but as Uncle Robert spoke of the branch house in C—— and a life for us all together, she coaxed a faint smile to her lips.
               Mr. Maurice came in just as it was settled, and announced himself ready for his day's vacation. "I am really under obligations to you, Mr. Barberick, for this suggestion; the thought of a journey makes me better. I shall be a Samson after twenty-four hours' relaxation. You may think of us to-morrow evening, Miss Emily, as recipients of sweet sounds, though I doubt if we enjoy anything more than we enjoyed the music the other night."
               Uncle Robert walked home with the minister, after half an hour's conversation; then we sat up together, as if keeping a vigil, till my mother exclaimed at the lateness of the hour, and sent Uncle Robert to bed, but not to sleep, for I heard him pacing the floor as long as my eyes were open, and when I waked at three o'clock he was pacing it still.
               When we said good by to my uncle, the next morning, we felt that his absence stretched away into infinite finite distance. Miriam shared our fears; and although she scorned any display of emotion, she could not altogether repress suspicious-sounding sniffs, as she stood ready to say good by. "Good by, all!" called my uncle, in an off-hand, cheerful way. "Don't be down-hearted, Sue, for the sake of little Emily. Emmie, mind and practise every day. Miriam, I leave her in your charge; don't let her flag in any of her duties. I shall write very soon and let you know all about the voyage, if I should happen to go." The carriage rattled to the door, my uncle sprang in, and hurried the driver on his way.
               "Now, you and your mother 'd better go right into the house; 't a'n't a good sign to watch folks out o' sight." Thus said our general, in an authoritative, good-natured way. But nobody paid any attention to her commands. We watched the whirl of the wheels along the road. I remember, even now, how the dust rose in clouds and settled on the thistle and mullein plants by the wayside. Then the driver stopped at Mrs. Cram's; Mr. Maurice stepped out, sprang into the carriage, and shook hands with my uncle; so said Miriam, who did not follow her own precepts, but watched as long as anybody or anything could be seen. At the bend of the road, driver, horses, carriage, and occupants were lost to view,—no longer a part of the street which bordered the shore, but a detached portion tion of our little world, rolling and hurrying to a larger world, itself hurrying, alas! one knows not whither.
               We went in truly out of the sunshine. Miriam slammed the door, I went vigorously to work on exercises, and my mother inspected her flowers.
               Forms and colors and textures, in their beautiful expansion, were her panacea for loneliness and grief. Sounds, not always sweet certainly, but sounds of infinite power and combination, dropped a coolness like refreshing dew on my quick-beating pulses, and mixed their concords into balm for all my woes; while Miriam, moving quickly, now up stairs, then down, into the parlor with duster and broom, into the kitchen with knife and spoon, into the garden with rake, and into the woodshed with axe, found her sedative in decisive and continued action.
               Sally washed the cups and sang "Yankee Doodle,"—the only rational, contented creature in the house. But Miriam cut short her humming,—"You naughty child! to sing when Mr. Barberick's gone away; and dear knows as he'll ever come back!" and Miriam plied her broom vigorously, pretty near Sally's heels. "I never did see such an unfeeling girl."
               "La sakes! I never meant no harm!"
               "Don't you know Mr. Barberick's going off to England agin,—'way 'cross the ocean?"
               "Well, he's been many a time, a'n't he? and come back, too, a'n't he?"
               Having delivered this unanswerable logic, Sally wiped a spoon and audaciously began to hum again, though this time she took a more serious strain. It was somewhat of a jump from "Yankee Doodle" to "Old Hundred"; but Miriam took no notice of the juvenile, unless shorter and very vigorous strokes of the broom might be translated into marks of displeasure.
               We soon settled to our own old life, and, by night, were somewhat accustomed to what we could not help. The next morning I awoke, asking whether Uncle Robert would write,—not in the spirit of the Post-Horn Maiden, who laments, "Alas! no letter comes for me to-day, I know!" but with the feeling, "O, if a letter comes for me to-day!" Scales, vocal and instrumental, dragged heavily; my walk brought me little freshness; and when with my mother, her anxiety doubled my own. The well-known rap of Mr. Twinkle came as something quite expected, and only made my feelings heavier. I darted to intercept Sally, took the letter, tore it open, and saw that our fears were confirmed.
               "A fine day," said Mr. Twinkle.
               "Very fine."
               "Glad to see you at home again, Miss Emily."
               "Thank you Mr. Twinkle."
               And, trembling with anxiety to read my letter through, I answered a few more of Mr. Twinkle's remarks, how, I hardly knew, and thankfully bade him good morning.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "DEAR EMMIE:—
                           
                           "I sail to-morrow because I must,—and who do you think goes with me? Only Uncle Phil! Now open your eyes. I wish it were not for his health that he takes this voyage; but the truth is, he is far from well. He makes light of this chest difficulty; but his physician has assured me that, unless he is specially careful of himself, it will grow into a serious trouble. He is very cheerful; more so than I ever saw him. Formerly there was a sadness underneath his constantly polite demeanor, now he is spontaneously happy.
                           "I hail this as a good symptom, for it is no nervous gayety. I hope to bring him home well. And now a word about the concert, although you will have a nice account of it from Mr. Maurice. Honor May never looked or sang better. She is much improved since we first knew her. Now there is occasionally an effusion of manner which makes her very attractive, and in song really captivating. She is getting along admirably with her classes, and has now three instead of two, with the prospect of a fourth. Herr Stultz is inclined to exalt her to a very elevated place among artists, and I agree with him. You must watch her, Emily.
                           "Don't let anything come between her and her art. It would be a cruel interruption to her career. Could we foresee that this something would be the true thing, I should not look upon it as a peril; but the human heart is deceitful, and why should she be wiser than scores of women who have wrecked their treasure on the sand? Take the best care of your mother, laugh at Miriam when she scolds, and be as happy as you can. I shall write as soon as I reach Liverpool, giving an account of the voyage and the way in which Philip bears it.
                           
                              "Practise every day and please your
                              "UNCLE ROBERT."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Mr. Maurice came into the house forty-eight hours after leaving Summerstown, very much as a west wind tempers the drooping shrubs of a garden on a summer's day. It was reviving to see one who had said the last word to Uncle Robert, who had looked into his state-room and Philip's, who had pressed their hands and waved a farewell, as they steamed westward, over the broad Atlantic. He gave such cheering accounts of how they looked and talked, that it seemed as if I had seen them on the vessel's deck and had bade them God speed. For my mother, the prospect did not brighten; the weeks stretched out dark and dim before her, till Robert should come home. Yet she listened eagerly to everything Mr. Maurice told. He stayed at her solicitation, and occupied Uncle Robert's seat at the table and fireside. He gave us in detail descriptions of the journey, of C—— in general and particular, of Honor's classes, and of Honor herself. "I wish you could have heard her Thursday night, Mrs. Barberick, you would have enjoyed her I am sure; for in addition to Italian arias she gave two simple songs which are in your style. O Miss Emily, I forgot to say that she sung 'Ah non giunge!' in a manner not to be surpassed. Your uncle was enchanted. I really cannot conceive of a finer rendering. The audience was almost in a frenzy of delight."
               "How did Honor look, Mr. Maurice?"
               "I can hardly describe her to you, who know her so well. When she sings, it is to somebody besides the visible audience."
               "What do you mean, Mr. Maurice?" asked my mother.
               "I hardly know myself, my dear Madam; it is something I feel, more than I can tell. Miss May's spiritual nature is in such ascendency, that she exerts, unconsciously to herself, an influence which few can resist. Some persons would call it magnetism, I suppose, and some would name her a spiritual medium."
               "What simple songs did she sing?"
               "'Beautiful Erin,' and 'Mary's Dream,' and I must tell you that charges of want of expression cannot be brought against Miss May after this, for I never heard anything so pathetic from human lips as this latter song. A young girl near me sobbed throughout the verses, and I saw tears in many eyes among the audience."
               "I cannot understand this, Mr. Maurice, for Honor is not a person to touch her hearer's sensibilities. She delights their ear and taste, and excites serious feeling, but I never knew her to draw tears."
               "I was astonished myself, and could hardly credit that I was listening to the same person who sang to us in this very room, six months ago, and who seemed then a wonderful vocalizer, rather than a singer in the large acceptation of the term. Miss Emily, individual experiences are wonderful unfolders of the mind and heart. A few months' residence in C—— have almost transformed your friend from a reserved, cold person to a glorious artist, singer, and woman."
               "None of your fears for Honor have been realized!" I exclaimed with a shade of triumph in my tone.
               
               "Not one. I was mistaken, and feel as much pleased as you to know it."
               "Did she send my message?—any word about her visit,—when she should come?"
               "Nothing special. I confess myself delinquent in these things, usually; but I can't recall anything that I ought to repeat to you";—and the minister pondered a few moments, to find if his conscience accused him of any neglect of trust.
               "How were the violinist and flutist at this concert?"
               "The flutist was admirable, warbling such smooth variations on his themes that I thought the instrument might possibly enclose a bird; and the violin,—how it moaned, as if a soul, and not wood and strings, replied to the caressing touches of the bow,—words cannot describe its voice awakened by a master hand. A young man stood before the audience, and, with head inclined over his instrument, whispering to it, as it were, words of appeal or encouragement, smote it with his wand. As water flowed from the rock at the touch of Moses's rod, so gushed from the wood a stream of music;—three times he smote, three times came the answer, rich and strong, like a chorus of tenor and alto voices, then an airy sprite danced up the strings and played upon a lyre of glass; suddenly the chorus of voices replied, and all up and down the gamut chimed clarinet, flageolet, and flute. Again the sprite struck the lyre of glass, and down, down, amid the chorus of voices, a soul cried out in pain and a hideous goblin mocked. Still the wanderer mourned, like one vexed with the torments of life, and the demon called to lure him deeper into sin and woe. But a seraph's melody flowed from soft harp strings, and the imp howled—once—twice—and shrunk into silence. Then celestial harmonies filled the air, there was a fluttering as of angel wings, fainter and fainter it grew, then one note rose above the soft quivering and sank away,—away,—away,—like a fond farewell, and one knew not when it was gone.
               "I was glad when the good spirit rose and gained the ascendency. Half unconsciously, I drew a parallel between the young man's soul and the spirit in the violin. The gibes and taunts of a fallen angel strove on one side for conquering utterance, on the other the whispering of celestials wooed his heavenly nature; and when these prevailed over discords and jeers, I felt that seraphs had won the victory. It was all a fancy, and yet I could not help the feeling of happiness that rose within me, or rather I did n't try to help it. The youth looked so calm, so strong! and when he had finished, a light came into his dark eye. He had won the good fight."
               
               "You have not left off drawing pictures with sounds, Mr. Maurice. I like it. But what would Honor say at these imaginings? You remember she has no sympathy with such fine fancies."
               "I know she had not four months ago, but I should not be surprised if she were entirely to understand and agree with them now. She has lived an important part of her life since she left us. My own absence of twenty-four hours has renewed me more than I can tell you. The plunge into other scenes has been like taking a wave-bath. I have come out invigorated for my work, to which I must return this very night."
               "If Uncle Robert were here, he would not let you work at night; he would tell you to keep your freshness and strength as a matter of duty."
               "I know he would say so. I suppose it is truth. Admit that it is so. Now for the other side. Here in my parish are two women and one man sick in bed, waiting for their minister to offer the consolations which the Christian religion affords. Now what shall he do,—think of his own weakness, or perform his duty, remembering that the night cometh when no man can work? Ought not I, ought not every minister of the Gospel, to follow the example of his Master?"
               I could not find any prudential words with which to answer these lofty precepts of duty. My dear mother said quietly, "I think you ought to go, Mr. Maurice."
               "I think so too, Mrs. Barberick, and without delay. I bid you both good night."
               There was now no Uncle Robert to take his hat and stroll out to the street with his guest, no Uncle Robert to sit up for at home, whose voice and step were welcome as music, for whom vigils even would be a privilege; no,—we were two lone women trying to cheat each other with the belief that each was careless and happy, yet knowing that in our memories was the picture of Uncle Robert treading the deck of a vessel, which sailed away into the west.
               Every little while my dear mother would say, "It is a beautiful night. How fine it must be on the water!" or, "I wonder where Robert is by this time!" And I, as if it had just occurred to me, "Uncle Robert is a few hours farther on his journey now," or, "I hope Philip wont be sea-sick, it might exhaust him."
               When we went up stairs we missed something, when we came down in the morning there was a sense of loss. Thus the week ended and a new one came.
               Monday rose clear, and I went out to watch the coming on of splendor. I longed to see how the alders had leaved into fulness in my lane; and when there, the glory of all the green moved me to see the glory of the blue,—true, it was above me, but dashed with strips of thin white haze. I wanted it in the rolling waves and the far-off liquid floor spangled with yellow diamonds. I left behind the green in its rich and soft gradations, and faced the ocean which was tossing in billows on towards me. Its grandeur awed and its power caused me to shrink. With bold advance it struck the sands and leaped high up the rocks, as if to kiss my feet,—not as a suppliant, but with the audacity of a conqueror. It clutched at the sharp rocks as if it would carry them to the ocean,—it hurried the little shells from the beach into its arms, only to bring them roughly back. It struck everything it could reach as if in anger,—it roared and sent strong surf to the shore, which at other times it met with a foaming kiss. The very ground seemed to tremble, and in chasms of the rocks sharp reverberations were heard. The blue I could not find, nor my far-off floor covered with diamond light,—dark grew the waves beneath the dim sky,—clouds were flying,—the sun was lost in a murky pile, and sombre purple wrinkles curled the lines where I had looked for celestial color. Was the sea calling me with its hoarse voice? Did it want me? I shuddered as the dark waves hissed again beneath the cliff. Where was the glory I had sought? Away,—and not so far. Behind the darkening sky was the hue of heaven. I could not see it, but I knew it was beyond. If I had not found the beauty for which I looked, had I not seen a magnificence and power which half recalled their Creator?
               I walked home musingly and with a feeling of security that the waters were behind me. Never before had I been appalled at the coming in of the sea, and regret arose that any thought of the ocean should be mingled with fear.
               Notwithstanding my meditations, the sky grew darker, the atmosphere more cheerless, and the sea was black as far as I could see. I found my mother at the breakfast-table, wearing an anxious look. "This will be a dreadful storm, Emily. Do you suppose the steamer has got beyond it?"
               "To be sure, Miss Barberick," interrupted Miriam. "They're sailed far enough by this time, I warrant you. They don't know nothing about this storm. If we could only see Mr. Barberick, we should see sunshine, depend upon that." With such authority did she speak, that my mother, who was all ready to be comforted, looked up and smiled. She wanted to be cheered, and Miriam cheered her.
               
               The day after the storm Mr. Twinkle handed me a letter.
               "Not from Honor!" I exclaimed, as I looked at the handwriting, "and yet it is postmarked 'C——.'" I opened it hastily, and read at the bottom of the sheet Mary Shirley, and at the top Dear Emily, and then the following:—
               "Will you come up Thursday and see me married? I want you, and Mr. Frome hopes you will be with us. I would like to have you at our house, but Honor says you are to stay with her. If she does n't insist upon this, you will come directly to High Street, and oblige your true friend."
               "How kind!" said my mother; "you must go, dear, but it is better that you should stay with Honor."
               "But I can't leave you, there is so much to be done."
               "You can go just as well as not!" interposed Miriam. "You had better get ready to-day and go to-morrow."
               "But Honor has not written me."
               "She will write," said my mother. "You'll hear from her to-day, probably."
               And the next mail at two o'clock brought me a few lines from Honor, begging me to come as early and stay as long as possible with her in her nice room at Mrs. Frost's. Miriam got into my closet directly after dinner, and began to fold over my things.
               "Shall you take your trunk, Miss Emily?"
               "No, nothing but a hat-box; two dresses and some muslins are enough. I shall wear my new bonnet and shawl; they will do for a wedding, I think. You'll see me back on Friday."
               "Don't come Friday, it's a real unlucky day."
               "Is it?"
               "Don't laugh, something dreadful always happens when folks begin anything of a Friday."
               "Well, I'll think about it. Please put in these gloves and that pretty handkerchief."
               "I'm going to fold your lilac gown, it's so becoming."
               "Well, anything you like, Miriam, only not too many dresses, I sha'n't wear them."
               "O, you'll stay till Saturday."
               At one o'clock the next day, I was with Honor. Her life of constant labor had worn a little on the roundness of her flesh, but she was well, and looking forward to her rest in Summerstown with almost the delight of a child.
               "To-night there is a meeting of musical people at the house of one of my pupils, and I have promised to go; but if you don't care to hear it, Emmie, I can give an excuse and stay at home with you."
               "No, no,—I should enjoy the music."
               
               And I did enjoy it, for although it was little more than practice on the part of the young ladies, it was intelligent practice, and revealed the excellence of Honor's system of teaching. At the close of the scholars' performance, Honor sang several beautiful German songs; songs of deep, inner sense, which leave far-away longings in the soul of the listener.
               "I cannot describe to you, Emily," said Honor to me, that night, "how this music has grown and expanded to my ear and love. I begin to comprehend the affection which Germans feel for the music of their country. Many of the songs that I used to sing now seem so trivial that I almost regret it, and yet I ought not, if I am growing into something better. If I could only have had you at some of the orchestral concerts that have been given while you were away! You can form no idea of their beauty."
               I was surprised to hear Honor speak so enthusiastically, and about instruments too. It was true what Mr. Maurice told me. A change had been wrought within her, and by what? one thing or everything?
               We talked of Uncle Robert and Philip, imagined their course on the ocean, calculated the time of their arrival, and so, with visions of sea and sail, fell asleep.
               Although the bridal was the event of the morning, Honor attended to her duties, as if they alone had occupied her thoughts. I walked with her to the Park, where we separated, with the agreement to meet at the Painting Gallery, and to go thence to the church.
               Is it from the best or from a poor feeling that crowds assemble to look at a bride whom they don't know? or is it a mixture of both good and mean impulses that leads them to witness the most solemn of all compacts? Perhaps not one in all that assembly could rightly answer the question; certainly not for a neighbor. Honor and I sat in a pew behind the one containing Mr. and Mrs. Shirley, with Cordelia and Jane. Mr. Frome's family was not represented on the occasion; a few friends occupied several seats farther back, and the rest of the space was filled with acquaintances and strangers.
               There was solemnity in the gathering, for the place was holy. Flowers filled the air with fragrance, and as the bride and groom entered the door the organ sent out a welcome that made the heart-throbs quicken. In like an angel floated the bride, borne on clouds of white to the altar; orange-blossoms shed perfume on her golden curls, and roses rested their petals on her shoulders. The minister prayed, he gave a ring, she vowed to love and obey the man, he promised to protect the woman, and they twain were one flesh. Now the loud voices of the organ spoke in jubilee, and the husband and wife walked to the sounds into their paradise of wedded life.
               I looked at Honor. She was dissolved in tears. "Don't mind me," she whispered; "speak to Aunt Shirley, and I'll follow." And in three minutes she was smiling with Delia and Jane. "I was so sorry there were no bridemaids," said the former. "I had depended on being one; and Mary had said from the first that you and Honor should stand up with her, but Mr. Frome did n't wish it. If you could see how she obeys him now! I only hope he won't turn out a tyrant; but I never saw a man who did n't, when he held the reins so entirely."
               "How soon will she go to Lyons?"
               "Next week. She has invited me to spend the winter with her, won't it be delightful?"
               By this time we had reached the door where the carriage waited. Uncle George insisted that Honor and I should take his place and let him walk. "We shall be so squeezed," said Delia, with the polite frankness of a fashionable woman.
               "I can't go, Delia," said Honor. "I must hurry to give a lesson, so don't think of me."
               I was compelled to take Mr. Shirley's place while he walked smilingly by the side of the carriage. But soon we left him behind, and in a few minutes were at High Street. Mary stood between the folding-doors doors like a white seraph. Around and above her were flowers,—flowers of art were beneath her feet, and on a table before her, flowers the rarest that nature in New England can show. A few friends came in to offer their congratulations. As for Mr. Frome, I doubt if he really saw anybody but Mary. Courteous he was to all; but after each conventional requirement had been fulfilled, he would turn to the beautiful creature at his side with a look which said,— 
                     
                        "O wert thou in the cauld blast
                        On yonder lea,
                        My plaidie to the angry airt,
                        I'd shelter thee.
                        Or were I monarch of the globe,
                        With thee to reign,
                        The brightest jewel in my crown
                        Wad be my queen!"
                     
                  
               
               We spent the day at Mrs. Shirley's,—or, rather, I did, for Honor was away in the afternoon, teaching. At tea, Mr. Frome was very pleasant, telling stories of French life. Mary was no longer enveloped in white clouds, but sat by her husband in a dress the color of a violet. This pleased him evidently no less than the wedding garment. Everybody was filled with glad anticipations. Uncle George was supremely happy. He joked bride and groom, Delia, Jane, Honor, myself, and, lastly, his wife.
               
               Uncle George would go home with us, and as it was a fine warm night we did not resist very strongly. He talked to me of Mary all the way, while Honor and Mr. Pry walked on before. It was late when we reached home, yet Honor must do a little practising and look at the evening paper.
               "I am so tired, Honor, and you are more so. Let the practising go to-night, and come up stairs with me."
               "Emily tempting me away from duty! What would Uncle Robert say? I must sing my scales. So, little traitor, begone! Truly I am not tired; hear my voice as you sink off to sleep, and see if that shows any signs of fatigue."
               "If there is anything special in the paper tell me when you come up."
               Truly the scales were no feeble representatives of Honor's condition. She sang so vigorously that I stretched my eyes open, hoping to take in the sounds a little longer; but the effort failed in two minutes, in ten more I was sound asleep. Immediately I turned to a renowned cantatrice and everybody in the hall was offering me orange-blossoms and white roses. My dreams became somewhat mixed after this. Lyons silk, Mr. Frome, and sea-spray mingled in confusion, when suddenly I waked,—waked entirely in a second, and became conscious that Honor was not in bed. The room was filled with moonlight; and in a broad bar of its whiteness knelt Honor. Her hands were lifted to heaven, her fair hair floated over her neck. She looked a pure penitent seeking forgiveness for errors that a child might have committed. Suddenly she rose and paced the room, moaning as if in agony, "Spare them, good Lord; O spare them!" She wrung her hands and walked faster and faster, yet with no noise. Again she knelt, and amid broken sobs she murmured the same petition, "Spare them, good Lord!"
               A restraining power kept me from disturbing these devotions, not meant for mortal eye. Quietly I lay, watching Honor in her sorrow. The clock struck twelve. She started, walked to the window, and looked far out into the moonlight,—then, turning into the shadow of the room, a prolonged Oh! burst from her lips, like a lament for something that could never come back. She seized a roll of paper in her hands, and twisted it with nervous strength, till it burst beneath the pressure,—then she tore it almost fiercely, till the sheet was in shreds. Then she threw herself recklessly down into the moonlight, and, with her handkerchief pressed upon her mouth, moaned softly to herself. There was no sleep for me now. What could it mean? Should I get up and comfort her? But could I? Gradually the moans ceased; the clock struck one, and then I heard another moan. Soon my eyes grew heavy again, and I became unconscious of all except that the clock was striking and Honor suffering alone. Six strokes of the timepiece waked me, and I turned suddenly for Honor. She was not there, but instantly from below sounded her voice in the never failing scales. "Did this really happen?" was my question, as I recalled the last night's vision, "or did I dream it? I must have dreamed it!. And no, I did not. I remember it all now. But why was she so troubled? Can she love Uncle Robert? Yes, that must be it; and he left her without speaking. He does not know that she is attached to him. In three months, when he comes back, I will make it all right between them; and Miriam shall not disturb the happiness of Uncle Robert and my beautiful Honor." Very soon I was dressed and down stairs.
               "Good morning, Emmie; how did you rest?" inquired Honor between her notes.
               "Very well; how was it with you? It seems to me that you were up very late; I don't remember your coming to bed at all."
               "I sat up very late, practising; then I read a little, and soon after a violent headache came on. I could not sleep, the pain was so severe; so I threw myself on the floor, and courted repose there."
               "O Honor, how wrong to do so; you will make yourself sick. And you are sick!" I exclaimed, noticing for the first time her extreme paleness.
               "Not at all. I only feel that I have n't slept. You know what that is."
               All through breakfast she eat nothing; her management of knife and fork was simply manœuvring. "Honor, you are not well; go home with me tomorrow."
               "I should like to go, but that is impossible. I'll try and steal a nap at noon,—then I shall feel better."
               Very early she went to her lessons, and I ran into Mrs. Miller's, whom I had neglected to see before. The little rogue, Milly, was n't up; her mother was sitting by her bedside reading the morning's paper. "O, my dear, what sad news; but don't be discouraged; it will come out better than you fear."
               "What news, Mrs. Miller."
               "Don't you know, my child? you ought to hear of it. The steamer has met with an accident."
               "The steamer? Uncle Robert!"
               "But not fatal. It ran on some shoals and knocked a hole in her timbers; but the passengers were taken off, dear. Hear me, Emily,"—for I was exclaiming in my distress,—"the passengers are saved, and they'll go to England in a packet instead of a steamer. That'll be the only difference. They won't get to Liverpool quite so soon, that's all. Cheer up, dear, and give thanks that it's no worse."
               "Read me all about it, Mrs. Miller." And the kind-hearted little woman read (I forgive her now her many omissions) the account of "accident to steamer Algernon, the morning of the 12th."
               "The very day of that dreadful storm, Mrs. Miller. The wind blew so at home that it frightened me; and the sea actually boiled round the crags. I was afraid to look at it. O, my mother must not hear of this. I shall start for home to-day, and get there before the tidings. It will make her sick if she knows it.
               "Does n't Miss May know about it?"
               "She must, for she was restless last night, and looked pale this morning; but she did n't say a word to me about it. She thought I shouldn't hear it, perhaps."
               "I went to Mrs. Shirley's and found Uncle George at home. He was full of encouragement. "Don't feel cast down, my dear: the passengers are safe. We shall soon have accounts of them. I think you had better go home though and comfort your mother."
               I went back to Mrs. Frost's and packed my hat-box. The seconds seemed minutes, and each minute like five. At length Honor came, and I met her with a reproach, "O Honor, why did n't you tell me?"
               "I thought I should have a word of hope by noon. I did n't dream of your hearing about it. You said you should sit with Mrs. Miller all the morning, and I supposed she would keep silent as a matter of course. She ought n't to have mentioned it. But it is all bright now, Emmie, and you have suffered for nothing."
               "And did n't you suffer too, Honor? You lay awake all night and mourned alone."
               "Why should I have disturbed you, Emmie? would it have given me any comfort to see you grieve?"
               "Never mind, Honor, if the good ship brings Uncle Robert back again, we will all be happy together. Poor Philip! I long to hear how he bore it."
               Honor took off her bonnet and went to her interminable scales, with the words, "I have no doubt he bore it very well."
               "I wish you could go with me," was my parting wish, at the carriage door, "but I suppose that can't be yet."
               "You may expect me very soon, Emmie. I shall announce the day," and she smiled brightly, as I drove away.
               I found everything quiet at home. The night paper had not reached Summerstown, consequently, nothing was known of accident to steamer Algernon. I immediately took Miriam into confidential council, the result of which was that my mother was n't to see a newspaper for the next two or three days. Accordingly, that very evening's "Courier" was confiscated, and owing to her pleasure at welcoming me, my mother did not miss it. She had so much to ask and so much to tell, that the evening was too short for the relation of experiences. Miriam undertook, on her own responsibility, to forewarn everybody who came to the house not to speak of the steamer. She caught Mr. Twinkle by the coat skirt as he trotted up the yard, and gave him her orders; then the butcher was charged imperatively not to speak of it; and the milk boy had a scolding, in advance, for fear he might say steamer in Mrs. Barberick's hearing. Lastly, Mr. Maurice was greeted with a halt, who-goes-there manner, and to him Miriam impressively discoursed on my anxiety lest my mother should hear the tidings. "And it seems as if everybody's mouth and all the papers were full of it," said Miriam. "We do n't let Miss Barberick have the 'Courier' at all, sir. She has n't seen one for three days."
               "How do you explain the matter to her?"
               "I tell her somebody takes 'em,—and so they do,—but its me. I burn every one just as soon as it comes. Miss Barberick thinks its mighty queer that somebody's set out all on a sudden to steal her newspaper."
               And Miriam indulged in noiseless laughter, then capered forward and back, like the first lady in a cotillon.
               Mr. Maurice smiled. "You won't have to plan long, Miriam; I have a C—— paper in my pocket which gives a correct account of the matter."
               "Gracious! and is Mr. Barberick safe, sir?"
               "Safe and sound, and so is Dr. Lee. But some poor men were lost.
               "Poor souls! O, such a load as you've taken off my heart, sir! I've told, I do n't know how many fibs to Miss Barberick and Miss Emily, but I hope the Lord 'll forgive me. I could n't bear that they should have the heartache. One day it was reported that many of the passengers were lost. Tongue can't tell what I suffered. I was wicked that day. I had to hide my trouble and I let the smart all come out in temper. I was cross as a wild cat, Mr. Maurice. Now I'll make up for it," and Miriam darted into the house like a greyhound. Mr. Maurice walked slowly, rejoicing that one who had borne so much should have the reward of telling the joyful news.
               "Dear, good Miss Barberick, they're all safe," screamed Miriam.
               "Safe!" echoed my mother, growing pale.
               "Yes, the steamer had an accident and stove a hole in her timbers, but the passengers were taken off,—every single one on 'em,—every single one on 'em," reiterated Miriam, forgetting the unfortunates who had perished in the waves. It's true, Miss Emmie, the minister says so."
               "And you never told me anything about it!" said my mother.
               "Why, it was only three days ago that I knew it, mamma, and then there was great hope that the next account would be more cheering. So we thought it would be better for you to hear that first."
               Thus it all came upon my mother at once. But so grotesquely, in Miriam's original way, that she was spared real pain, and could laugh at the pas seul which Miriam executed on her way to the kitchen. Mr. Maurice came in and read the whole account of the steamer's accident.
               "If that very vessel had not sailed the same track, who would have lived to tell the tale?" asked my mother solemnly.
               A shudder came over me, as I remembered the stormy day and the insatiate sea. How it had flung itself at the highest rocks and run to my very feet, with hissing whispers, as if it longed to lure me to its depths. And this same sea had nearly engulfed my uncle and Philip.
               Miriam did not twitch Mr. Twinkle's coat when he trotted up the yard the next day, for he flourished a letter aloft like a flag of truce, exclaiming "It's in Mr. Barberick's handwriting."
               Miriam snatched it without ceremony and flew into the parlor to my mother. I entered in the midst of their rejoicing. "Read it my child," said my mother, and I, catching breath, began:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MY DEAR ONES:—I hardly thought that Neptune would treat me cruelly when we parted. But he has been unkind indeed. Through the goodness of God, Philip, myself and many others were rescued from death by the bark Susan, (sweetest of names,) and are now crowded in her narrow quarters. The steamer has gone down. When we think of that palace under the waves, we are grateful for every discomfort here. Philip is a hero. I hope the excitement and exposure have not harmed him. I am in full health, for which I pray to be thankful. The Elizabeth waits for letters. How fortunate that we met her. She will carry you comfort. From Liverpool you will hear again of Dr. Lee and
                           
                              "UNCLE ROBERT."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Truly we were a happy household that night, calling the Elizabeth a messenger of mercy, and thanking a Higher Power for many blessings.
               June was wearing away and Honor had not come. At length one day of heat and dryness ushered Mr. Twinkle to the door. As the punctual postman approached the steps, I felt that he brought the news for which I had patiently waited. He was warm and tired and dusty, and walked more slowly than usual. In the gratitude of my heart for Honor's letter, I remembered Miriam's excellent spruce beer, and insisted that Mr. Twinkle should come in and rest. He accepted the invitation with alacrity, and Miriam's glass with gratitude. The latter was not sorry to show her powers of brewing to all Summerstown, and Mr. Twinkle was—a widower. Leaving him to compliment, I ran with Honor's letter to find my mother.
               "I see, dear!" she exclaimed, "how glad I am she is coming, but you have n 't read the letter yet."
               In another half minute I had possessed myself of its contents and was ready to jump for joy, or execute with Miriam a pas de deux, but the presence of Mr. Twinkle was an objection to that proceeding, so I fled to the piano and told it all my joy. After a few extravagant capriccios, impromptu and of exceeding brevity, my dear mother and I talked the matter over in a comfortable, cosey way.
               "I am so glad Honor is coming to-morrow."
               "Have the blue chamber ready for her, Emily. She must be cosseted a little poor child. How hard she has worked all winter, without a day's rest. We must keep her just as long as we can make her stay. Everything must be made pleasant for her. I wish Robert were at home, so you could take some excursions together."
               "I would give almost anything if Uncle Robert were here!" I exclaimed, remembering Honor's great trouble the night she knew of his peril. "Everything could be settled so nicely,"—and I thought of twilight walks and sea-shore rambles, and music by moonlight, and Uncle Robert, won by the knowledge of Honor's affection, her companion in all, and her declared companion for life. My mother's voice waked me from my dreams, saying, "Everything settled! what do you mean, Emily?" And then—for I could conceal nothing from my mother—followed an account of the sad night, when Honor had shown the state of her heart. Perhaps I ought not to have revealed it,—and yet in a higher sense I ought,—for this knowledge would perhaps dispose my mother in favor of what "nature's laws decreed," and two people's happiness might be the result of my confidence.
               "I always thought she was attached to Uncle Robert."
               "She must not be disappointed if she is; but are you sure of your uncle?"
               
               "Why, mamma, he can't help loving Honor,—only he has some artistic scruples,—thinks music should be everything in her life now, and that no emotion, passion, feeling, fancy, should be listened to, unless it is a musical one. Uncle Robert seems just like a boy in some things; to think of going contrary to nature,—rowing against the stream! He ought to know better. How I shall laugh at him when he gets back!"
               "If he ever gets back!" murmured my mother.
               "Don't feel discouraged. Think what cause we have for gratitude and happiness. I am full of hope and gayety."
               "You are young, Emily, and I 'on the downhill of life, declining.'"
               I was thankful that Miriam came in to have a talk about chickens, for her very practical tone dispelled the despondency which had begun to gather in our atmosphere. I ran to the blue chamber and opened the windows to let the breath of sea and land combined search its corners.
               Everything was inviting. Honor's own color, all within and all without, made an atmosphere cool and calm as that which rested round her.
               Miriam was unfeignedly glad that Miss Honor was coming, and volunteered to "make everything look just as pretty as she knew how."
               Honor took the early train, and arrived at the brightest time of day. The weather was not oppressive. I rejoiced at every favoring circumstance, for I wanted Honor to love Summerstown. I hoped that it might eclipse C——, and this day its charms were irresistibly convincing, even to the town-born, town-bred, town-loving mortal. And to Honor, who loved all pure, simple, and beautiful things, would they not be alluring? and should we not keep her weeks and weeks among them and us? Miriam greeted her most cordially. Sally was delighted at the sight of her face, and my mother received her as a child. After a few words she was commanded to the blue chamber, from which she was not allowed to issue till dinner.
               "She must rest," said my mother, with gentle authority.
               Her looks showed the wisdom of obedience to this behest. When she first came a little pensiveness shaded her features; now that had disappeared, and happiness beamed from her face. "It is so pleasant to be at home again," she said, smiling. "I have been lying on the couch and looking at the sea, and it brought me back the past.
               "Would you like to go to the shore this afternoon, Honor?"
               "Not so soon, Emmie, she is tired," interposed my mother.
               
               "O, I am quite rested, and should enjoy it very much."
               My mother walked out with Honor and myself as far as Alder Lane; there we rested, and Miriam came to escort the former back. Honor and I went on to the knolls, and from thence to the very sands. Below the crags it was cool and shady, and we watched the reflection of the sunset against the opposite shore, and in the calm waters, long and silently. Beyond, on the peak of the cape, stood a dark stone house; its one square tower rose against the skyey background, like the turret of some ancestral mansion.
               "How like a baron's stronghold it rises!" said Honor. 
                     
                        "Hast thou seen that lordly castle,
                        That castle by the sea?
                        Golden and red above it
                        The clouds float gorgeously,—"
                     
                  
               
               "If you will set that ballad to music, Emily, I will sing it from my heart. I can, for it has crept into one of its secret corners. I always loved it,—the picture of the sunset, the sea, the castle, the parents, the maiden,—and then no maiden."
               "If I could write it, I would, Honor, but woe's me, I have not the gift!"
               "The gift may be slumbering."
               "Yes, it slumbers, or else it would wake and utter what the winds, and the waves, and the pines, are telling me now,—what they have told me since I could lisp their names. It is one thing to feel, Honor, and another to create. The former I can do sometimes too well; the latter is beyond, above me. What a power it is,—almost godlike; for the thoughts that live and burn after the soul that uttered them has left its earthly temple are immortal."
               "And are not the thoughts we utter from our lips immortal too?"
               I turned at the sound of this question, and saw Mr. Maurice standing behind us.
               "Do you not think so?" he continued. I made no reply, but Honor answered,—
               "Yes, Mr. Maurice. I believe the effects of our words live forever. When we have passed away they sway the souls of future generations."
               "Honor, it is fearful," was my exclamation.
               "I believe it," replied Honor, calmly. "Something tells me that every thought spoken by me is echoed on waves of air to distant spheres,—echoed and re-echoed, repeated and re-repeated,—that every word of mine shall be carried from adult to child, from one child to other children; from these children, become men and women, to their descendants, till distant climes and remote time shall possess the thoughts uttered by me, carelessly perhaps to-day."
               "Do you think this?" I asked, turning to Mr. Maurice.
               "I believe that the results of our speech live forever. Ought not such a conviction to draw me ever upward?"
               "That is the reason of your goodness and Honor's charity?"
               "I hope not the only or the highest motive, Miss Emily!"
               "Excuse me. I mean it is the practical illustration of the desire to do and speak no evil. I know, Mr. Maurice, that your days are spent in imitating the Divine example. You do not wait to know what such a person will think of this or that action. You do right for right's sake, and win the reward of conscience. As for Honor, duty is her motto. She never says anything which one would wish to forget, and she strives constantly to make her talent ten talents. I believe every thought of her's might float on the waves of time without sullying their purity."
               We talked thus freely, for Honor had strayed a little farther on, and was picking up some shells that the waves had washed ashore.
               "She merits all you say," replied Mr. Maurice, "but that makes your affection for her none the less admirable. There is such a difference between you! I wonder that your ardor was not at once quenched by the calm indifference of her manner."
               "You have given the reason yourself, Mr. Maurice. Just because it is indifference of manner, I was not repelled. Under this calm exterior Honor conceals the warmest feelings, and I soon found them out. If you only knew her as I do, how you would admire her!"
               "I could not admire her more, Miss Emily. She attracts me strongly."
               Honor approached us, showing the smooth, white shells she had gathered.
               "Honor, do you think your singing has as permanent effect as your speaking?"
               "Yes, Emily, as permanent, though not as important perhaps. Ideas produce more serious results than sounds; and as I often sing in words unknown to many of my audience, the song is rather a pleasure to the ear than a stimulus to the mind. Still the song might be remembered when words I had spoken had passed away. And sometimes, Emily, it might produce lasting effect. If the melody sung by me should awaken that slumbering germ in the soul which makes the cares of life march in rhythm, and the joys of each day echo into the next, what thoughts expressed in words could be greater? If one spirit could be launched on the eternal waves of music by this voice which God has lent me, would it not be a victory at which angels might smile? Could I ever speak such bliss and such good? I think perhaps I might sing it!"
               "She is speaking now such pearls of thought," said Mr. Maurice to me in a low voice, "that I could wish the currents of centuries might bear them on and on as fair as they shine at this moment."
               Honor did not hear us. She was looking with calm, fixed gaze beyond the woods and waves. What did she see with her far-searching eyes, and where was her spirit roving?
               We strolled home in the early twilight, before the dews fell, through sweet, short grass, where leafy shrubs and golden-rod and mullein-stalks guarded and adorned the way. The sky was tender, the shadows cool, the air hushed to silence. Busy insects slumbered, birds had gone to rest, spicy smells stole on the breeze. Slowly we approach the house. All was quiet without, except an occasional word or laugh from Miriam, who was entertaining Mr. Twinkle on the greensward, near the porch-door. In the parlor a neighbor sat with my mother. It delighted my heart that she had a companion. Both modulated their voices to the twilight.
               "My dear Honor, you are tired!" said my mother, as we entered.
               "O, Honor!" I exclaimed, "we walked too far for you."
               "No, indeed, Emily, it has been so delightful! If I could only dream about it all!"
               "I shall advise what I counselled this morning," said my mother, "and that is rest."
               "I suppose I ought to say good night," replied Honor,—"I will in a minute."
               The minute stole into another, and another, and the night winds sighed, and the moonlight glimmered, and the leaves whispered untranslatable things, and the church clock struck nine. The last reverberation died and Honor spoke, breaking a long silence.
               "Good night! and good night!"
               And with these words she faded into the twilight, and was gone. I looked where she had been and fancied her flowing hair and floating garments, but the tree branches lifted and let in a yellow flood of light, and there was no Honor. The neighbor and my mother began their soft talk in the corner, Mr. Maurice kept silence.
               The moon looked in again and called to my soul in its splendor. I stood in the door to watch her voyage in the blue ocean above our heads; fleecy clouds softened her brightness and stars burned in their wake. Mr. Maurice came and stood beside me.
               "How glorious!" he murmured. "The moon looks like a golden pinnace, the clouds are snowy sails fanning her through a sapphire sea. What lonely travels through circled space are hers. Distant, beautiful, lonely orb!"
               "O Mr. Maurice, I cannot help thinking of Uncle Robert and Philip to-night,—do they admire what we gaze at and adore? We have the celestial blue and the verdant earth, while with them the zenith and the deep are the same. Blue and brightness above, blue and reflected brightness below."
               We had walked to the gate, and from there looked up at the solemn wide-stretched firmament.
               "They may worship the glory of the heavens and think of us while we remember them," answered Mr. Maurice. "Absent in body, yet present in spirit, they may be really with us to-night. Life is short and full of separations. Love and friendship soften absence and make reunion rapture. Emily, I have never told you how much I missed you last winter, nor how your return gladdened my heart. O, if Summerstown could ever be your home. I wish that and I wish something else. Cannot you divine that something, Emily?"
               I had turned from the moonlight towards him, for at first I had not comprehended his words. On his face fell a pale brightness from the skies, making his complexion of marble fairness, and filling his eyes with deep color and light.
               "Mr. Maurice!" escaped my lips.
               "Emily, can you make my home yours, and fill it with the sunshine of your presence? Will you walk with me through this life to the next?"
               "I, Mr. Maurice? I thought it might—be—Honor!"
               "Honor? I admire her; true and noble woman that she is; but it is to you that I put this question. If you cannot grant me what I ask, say good night, and I leave you with the consciousness that one discipline more is laid upon my spirit." And the minister leaned toward me to hear my voice.
               But I did not say good night. Beneath the light of moon and stars I listened to the confessions of a true and tender soul, and to every tone which fell on that soft summer air my heart beat a response. Beneath the shadowy trees, beneath the moon's smile, beneath the honeysuckle's breath, those tones told me again and again that one heart was mine, next to God's. Again and again did the young minister picture the image that had tarried with him since our first meeting. Immediately pleasant, afterward more and more clear, till it assumed the position of friend, esteemed and best beloved. I drank in the words as bees sip honey. Could I help it? But it was growing late. Half an hour before, had the neighbor left my mother; then Miriam had dismissed Mr. Twinkle, and now she lurked near the doorway, watching my movements. The night was filled with light, and her tall figure cast a prominent shadow across the grass.
               "Come in and see my mother, Mr. Maurice."
               "She suspects, Emily. I made my confession to her some time ago, and to Uncle Robert too. They will not persecute us, Emily. No obstacles will make our love romantic, but we can be content with a prosaic wooing. Can we not?"
               And yet that night and that garden were filled with a poetry never written. Wooing breezes wafted on my golden pinnace; white clouds floated, and red spheres burned; branches whispered, lilies sent their secrets out, lad's love breathed a tale to heart and sense, lavender gave its essence, and myrtles their spice,—all—all for us. Up the alley we walked; I, listening to the low tones at my side; and while our world rolled on, and distant planets shone, and around us white bells blossomed, and moonlight illumined the roses, and odors gave their life, and all the delights of earth were exhaling, two beings awaked to rapture.
               My dear mother was prepared and received us with open arms. "My children," she said,—and at these words Miriam's grim sentinel shadow stalked away into darkness. My mother wiped away a few tears, but smiled in doing it, and, in her own bright, sweet way, told Mr. Maurice how happy she was. The thought that we both should be always with her gave such a joy, that she looked upon our love as a gain to her; and then she planned a happy future; a future so filled with spiritual, simple life, a future of such earnest thought and large charities and pure aspirations, that I was overpowered, and could only press her hand in sympathy. As Mr. Maurice spoke to thank her, his voice trembled with emotion. Truly I felt that there was not a woman in the world so lovely as my own dear mother.
               How to tell Honor! This was my thought, as I stole up stairs. Her door was wide open; the azure of curtains and chairs, lighted by the moon, made a blue and silver lustre that brought to mind the chamber of fair Madeline on St. Agnes's Eve. I crept in and heard no sound, then noiselessly to the bed; there a pale face with blue eyes and bright flowing hair repeated humanly the night's sweet splendor.
               A smile stole over the countenance. "I am awake, so you need not creep. It is glorious to be here once more, where I can see the sky."
               "How long since you waked, Honor?"
               "I have n't been asleep at all, Emmie. How could I on such a night? I heard steps down stairs. Did you come in with Mr. Maurice at ten o'clock?"
               "Yes, dear."
               "Was it beautiful at the shore, when you left?"
               "I did n't get so far,—only into the garden. Honor—I—I want to tell you something."
               "I know, Emmie. It's a sweet story."
               "But Honor!"
               "I am so glad you are happy. You have accepted Mr. Maurice, of course."
               "How could you tell, Honor?"
               "Ah, Emmie, don't you think I see with my eyes? I knew it as soon as he spoke to us on the sands. I suspected it long ago, but could not tell how you felt towards him. And then after we went to C—— I thought you preferred Uncle Phil.
               "No, never."
               "I am glad to hear you say that earnestly. A woman is so much happier when she is sure of her own heart."
               "I was pretty sure of it when Uncle Phil tried to fancy me while admiring you,—and now,—now Honor, since Mr. Maurice has spoken,—well I am quite sure of my heart now."
               "Tell me all about it, Emily."
               Thus conjured, I dropped my head on the pillow beside Honor, and while the branches and breezes danced together, I told her more than half my joy and grief and bliss,—indeed they all came out at last,—all—but part of the garden scene.
               "How it rejoices me, Emmie! and I will tell you why. First, because you are happy, and next,—next,—come closer and let me tell you." I bent my ear and heard the whisper, "Poor Uncle Phil! I love him, Emmie!"
               "Honor, Honor, it cannot be! Is it possible? Are you in earnest? Is it really so? I had n't the least idea that you cared for him."
               "Nor I, Emmie, till after he went, and then I knew it. I did wrong to grieve him, but I believed I loved art better than I could love any person. I found no room in my heart for a particular human love. I was full of affection for people generally; and, Emily, I cannot tell how much I loved you, your mother, and Uncle Robert. After these, my being, my life, were laid on the altar of my art,—altar I may say, for I was like a Pagan devotee, ready to sacrifice almost everything to this one instinct of my nature. I suffered no sympathies to come between it and me. Here was my mistake. No true sympathy would have severed us. And—so—" here she sighed deeply, "I rejected poor Philip."
               "But you had not the slightest fancy for him, Honor; so it was a comparatively easy thing to do."
               "Ah, Emmie, it was a very hard thing to do. Some magnetic force drew me towards him from the first. I tried to kill it, and thought I had succeeded. How victorious I felt when he left me that night, a disappointed man. I had triumphed over myself. The artist had conquered the woman."
               "When did you find out your mistake?"
               "I can hardly tell, the feeling was so insidious. I saw Philip constantly and could not forget him; besides his conduct to you was so noble and sincere that it inspired me with new respect. Do you remember when we first knew him, I suspected he had a preference for you? His avowal to me dispelled this delusion, and afterwards I saw, that, while thinking he loved you, he was simply trying to forget me. At last, however, I began to think he had succeeded, and, forgive me, Emmie, it was then, when I thought I had lost, that I began to regret him. In vain, I reproached myself for the feeling; I found that my incipient fancy had grown while slumbering to strong affection. I was miserable,—fearing that Philip was not giving the feeling which was your due, and fearing, too, that you might become his wife, without truly loving him,—and fearing all the while lest I should betray myself and make you unhappy! I suffered every waking hour."
               "And yet I never suspected it, Honor. How could you conceal it?"
               "I watched my words and guarded my eyes without ceasing."
               "Honor, if I had married Philip how wretched three people would have been. He did not love me,—I did not love him,—yet you and he loved each other. O Honor, you should have spoken and saved us!"
               "I might have done so, but in my heart I felt that it would end as it has; it was better that it should take care of itself. Only a little while did I tremble for the crisis. When I thought of your warm heart and Philip's good sense, I felt that neither could be satisfied with what the other offered."
               "Honor, we were all on the verge of a precipice. It makes me shudder to think of it."
               "But we are all safe now, Emily."
               "Yes, through the goodness of God. Honor, how is it about art? Have your ideas changed?"
               "My opinions have changed, but not my devotion. I am afraid I have led others into my own narrow way, but it must be my care now to point out the broader road. I see to-day the meaning of all your uncle told me about general culture, although I could not follow out his advice with benefit to myself. But it is a great deal to comprehend charitably the position of an opponent. Now I can stop and gaze around while climbing my mount."
               "And not neglect art, Honor?"
               "No, Emily, not neglect, but promote it. I have found out too the secret of sympathy, about which your uncle tried to tell me, though he did not intend I should discover it in this way. But I must tell you about it. My enlightenment came from Uncle George. You remember how much he approved my course of life; how proper he thought it that I should receive no gentlemen visitors, nor accept of any escort but his or Uncle Robert's, when he was in town." ('Poor Uncle Robert!' was my silent exclamation.) "I was self-exultant at his good opinion of my views and conduct, and kept on in my own way as long as you stayed in C——. A short time after, my dear uncle came over to Mrs. Frost's to spend the evening, as he said,—and an important evening it was to me. It seems that poor Tom Ranger, just before sailing, had told him all his griefs, and had hinted at Philip's besides, though how he found out the latter I cannot conceive. My dear uncle believed I was making a mistake and felt it his duty to tell me so. He said that I might be faithful to my studies and true to my nature at the same time; that I might lead a larger life and sing better in my new sphere than in my old. That if I truly loved, I should encourage, not deny the feeling, and that I should then be a nobler woman and a greater singer than if I remained unconscious of this pure affection which God had ordained between man and woman. He did not wish me to imagine a feeling of this nature,—he knew I would not do that,—but if such a feeling arose, he begged me not to thrust it from me. If I could cherish a lofty, individual affection, it would give to me as singer what my diligent study had bestowed on me as artist.
               "I told him that I thought differently,—that I could make no place in my soul for a love of this nature,—that I loved the whole human race, and next the songs of angels, which I believed we could all learn to sing.
               "'Yes, dear,' he said, 'but the more we love, the more celestial will be the songs.'
               "He feared I was starving my heart of that which would give it growth.
               "I asked him if he wished me to marry unless I felt that it was best.
               
               "And then he said that, if I loved truly, it was best that I should marry,—'And don't you love truly, my dear?' This was his very question. I felt that he approached Philip, and shrank into corners, for he touched my pulses with his questions. How he suspected my secret I know not, but he did suspect and surprise it. It was very hard for me to tell him that I loved one who might not a second time make me his choice, but he persevered; and after binding him to secrecy never to let Philip know that we had talked of him together, I confessed that I regretted my no. I cannot explain to you how it was that my dear uncle changed my mind; perhaps my heart helped his logic, for I feel there, where my love for Philip lives and grows, that I am a new and better woman. Ever since that night my old opinions have seemed to me like narrow prejudices, and his views the true ones. O Emily, how I shall sing! With this love assuming its true position in my mind as aid and exalter, with this love in my heart, diffusing itself on every living creature, I shall be elevated to a level beyond anything I have ever imagined. I shall perform every duty with fidelity, and my song will be glorious. For all this happiness my heart overflows with gratitude to God. Uncle Robert will never talk of want of warmth in my singing again. My voice will tell him everything he wants to hear. I feel the difference myself when I sing. It is not because I try, but because I cannot help it. But, Emmie, I am talking long and selfishly. I want to hear you now."
               "O Honor, talk longer, I have no future like yours to anticipate. You, with voice and talent and skill, have compelled admiration; now, with inspiration added to these, you can inthrall a world; and O Honor, how delightful to think and speak it! Philip will be made happy! He deserves it. Can I say more? I shall walk by Mr. Maurice's side in our own quiet sphere, and try to dispense some little good. He, as minister of the Gospel, will repeat the words of our Divine Master. If we can but follow in His footsteps, and show an example worthy imitation, our lives will be well spent. Our dear mother will be with us; we will love and cherish her to the end of her earthly pilgrimage. And good, grim Miriam, she shall stand director, adviser, trusted friend, as long as Mr. Twinkle will permit; and Honor and Uncle Phil will spend all their summers with us, and we will see together many an evening bright and beautiful as this."
               "Thank you, Emily, for such a prophecy."
               "But Honor," said I, as a sudden fear entered my mind, "will Philip let you sing and give lessons?"
               "Yes, he will," and she nodded her head smilingly.
               "He will think teaching too fatiguing for you."
               
               "O no, he will enjoy my pet classes almost as much as I. He used to indulge some conventional prejudices on the score of public singing; and, although too delicate to tell me his opinions, he contrived to let me know them, I believe this knowledge helped me to steel my heart against him. I think these views will all take flight, Emmie, when I talk to him," and she nodded her head again with an arch smile.
               "Ah, Honor, who could resist you? But tell me, does he know what is in store for him?"
               "Poor boy, no,—he went away half sick with cold and sad at heart. You gave the last wound, Emmie. But I will reward him when he comes back."
               A fear rose up before me that Philip might not take the reward.
               "O Honor, if he should be too proud to forgive you!"
               "He loves me, Emily. I knew it when I saw him at my uncle's. He pressed my hand and said good by with a look which penetrated my heart. It has haunted me ever since. All through that dreadful night when I thought the steamer was lost, his eyes were upon me."
               "O Honor, I see it all; at the time I could not understand you, but solved the mystery in a way delightful to myself. I saw your agony, Honor. Your moans waked me, and I watched you prostrate and pale in the moonlight. O Honor, I thought it was all for love of Uncle Robert. What a mistake. Poor Uncle Robert! How are you going to console him for this conduct on your part?"
               "Do you think he will need consolation?"
               "I shall and do hereby demand satisfaction for the overturn of all my plans. Do you realize how you have disappointed me? You were to be my beautiful and famous aunt, and I cannot give up my hope in this way. In all my castle building you have always been Uncle Robert's wife. You were a heroine, almost a princess, emerging from her tower to wander through the world; Uncle Robert was the hero, who guarded and delivered you from peril. Far away you journeyed, followed by your protector, and at length, like some beautiful Hildegardis, bestowed upon him your fair hand, as guerdon for his devotion."
               "Romantic Emily,—and what would you do with Philip? He is the knight, waiting for the princess to look upon him, while the guardian and protector, having guided her on her way, stalks off alone into the impenetrable forest. What can the princess do, thus deserted, Emmie? The young knight loves her, while the bold baron does not care for any woman."
               "But the baron will return, and if the princess continues true——"
               
               "He will condescend to wed her. That's not a pretty story, Emmie."
               "O Honor, you don't know and I can't tell. I believe my uncle loves you, and I believe he is bewitched. The idea of carrying out, to this extent, his foolish notions of art versus love! Yet you used to entertain the same, Honor; but it was noble in you and weak in him. You were the inspired actor, in the glow of youth; he the observer, in mature years. I do believe he has been doing violence to his affections ever since he knew you. How could he imagine that you would wait for what he never told you?"
               "That would make no difference, Emily. I could wait for anything worth the waiting, provided it had an existence."
               "You are faithless, and I am not surprised that you cannot believe in what he never expressed."
               "I know that Uncle Robert admires me, Emmie, and I admire him. I could not ask for a better friend. He is a splendid specimen of manhood. If a certain young Philip had not stepped between us, I might have learned to love him as much as you could desire. But I was in that condition which required that somebody should ask my heart. I could not give it without, you understand."
               "Yes, I understand that one can do nothing with a wilful man. If he could have been the sunbeam to wake the voice of your soul, before you ever saw this young Philip. And he could have been, if he had not paid such blind devotion to art. Don't misunderstand me, Honor. I like the most devoted devotion, but it must be poured, not from mind alone, but from spirit and heart. The whole being must yield itself as you are now yielding yourself, brain and sympathy, to a true life, holding true art. Uncle Robert is peering like an eagle from one mountain peak to another, and don't want anything to obstruct his view."
               Honor laughed at my indignation. "He wouldn't agree to this, Emmie."
               "O no, he talks finely about climbing up to the peak and seeing everything about him, but I call that theory and life the practice; and, according to my notions, the practice has been a failure. But I won't pain you, Honor; my castle has been a failure, and I must see it fall without selfish complaints. I am delighted that you are happy, but I am just now provoked with Uncle Robert. He must shift for himself."
               "And Uncle Phil?" asked Honor in a low voice.
               "I love him, next to Uncle Robert and somebody else. Won't that satisfy you, Honor? I rejoice in his happiness. Let me write one word that will bring him home?"
               
               "No, no, Emily; he must bide his time. If he really regrets me, he will return. If I were a man and loved truly, I would ask twice. I could not stay away. I cannot invite him home. But when he does come, I will receive him as you would have me. He shall know the truth at our first meeting."
               "I should like to see you enlighten fastidious Uncle Phil. How refined and dignified and self-possessed you both would be!"
               "Was it refinement in the garden, Emmie,—and dignity and self-possession? Give me a lesson in wooing, so that I may be prepared for my knight."
               I pinched her cheek, and then kissed it while she continued.
               "I wanted to tell you all this, Emily, and resolved that I would make my confession this very evening, not knowing that you were as happy as I. But when I heard you come in with the minister, something within me whispered the probable results of your walk together on such a night as this. And it happened in the garden, Emmie?"
               "I shall punish you for this, and to begin, decline to stay any longer. Shall I wish you pleasant dreams or no sleep at all?"
               "No sleep at all, Emmie."
               As I said good night, I heard her sigh, as if breast full of happiness.
               And now I understood the tenderness which had come upon Honor. This new love had stolen into her heart, it had crept out of her voice. "To Chloe in Sickness" had been sung to Philip in sickness, and "Mary's Dream" was her own. Unconsciously had she minded Uncle Robert's behests to feel what she wished to make others feel. The sobs of her hearers were but echoes of those tones into which distilled the fear of a lover lost at sea.
               "Honor looks better than I ever saw her," said my dear mother, suddenly, the next morning at breakfast. Honor smiled, and a faint color stole into her cheeks. She was lovely that day, and Mr. Maurice, who came in early, acknowledged it, in reply to my questionings. There was dew in her eye, softness round her mouth, and a consciousness of manner that made her seem confiding as a child.
               "He must know it," I murmured; and drawing Mr. Maurice one side, I conveyed to him that I half suspected—that—if Philip were here—that—he and Honor would be almost as happy as we were! "And don't you think he ought to know it? sick and away, and not dreaming of such bliss in store for him, poor fellow! a little petrel shall fly round the vessel and give him a hint."
               "Can it be so, Emmie? perhaps a kindred feeling leads you to suspect Honor of a tenderness which I am not quite ready to grant to her susceptibilities."
               "I don't believe I have made any mistake, Mr. Maurice. My perceptions are wonderfully sharp just now; and, supposing I am right, don't you think Philip ought to know it? or at least have one ray of hope given him?"
               "It seems a pity that he should be sad and unconscious of the prize awaiting him," said Mr. Maurice, glancing back at Honor, who had taken her place at the piano to practise. "But I can't advise in the matter, Emmie, it must be left to your own judgment and conscience."
               We had stepped into the garden and were pacing a gravelled walk hedged with fragrant box. Mr. Maurice plucked a rose for my hair, and drew me towards an old apple-tree, against whose trunk leaned a rustic seat, shaded from the beams of the morning sun. There we listened to Honor singing. Her voice, softened by the interval of branches and blowing breeze, gushed like the carollings of a bird, and a little brown songster on a stone wall, not far away, answered her calls. As we sat and listened, the splendor brightened all around, and suddenly Mr. Maurice called, "The sea! it is just the day for the shore, Emmie, let us go!" And then he planned,—my mother must consent and Honor of course,—he was n't quite sure that he should ask me. Thereupon I, being seriously offended, ran to the house,—only however to mature the plan proposed.
               Everybody accepted it pleasantly. My dear mother did not say no. Honor was delighted at the idea, and even Miriam approved the scheme. What a day it was! Such a combination of fresh winds and wild-flowers and bounding waves! How the hours chased each other! When Mr. Maurice proposed a return, I could not in my heart assent. But my mother was ready, and we left the sea. Honor sang softly to herself most of the way, and when we reached home said tenderly, "Emily, what a day!"
               Miriam received us with smiles. So alluring was her manner that Mr. Maurice opened his eyes in astonishment.
               "Has any one been here?" inquired my mother.
               "Yes-m, Mr.—Mr. Twinkle, and he brought a letter for you."
               It was from my uncle, and my mother handed it to me to read. "For all the dear ones at home I have sad tidings. I am well, thank God, but poor Philip"—here I stopped. "Go on, go on," cried several voices, and among them I heard Honor's distinct and almost stern. "You will never see the dear fellow again. He was one of the best, one of the noblest creatures, and God has taken him to his rest."
               
               Honor fainted and fell to the floor. I flew to her side and Mr. Maurice finished the letter. Soon Honor unclosed her eyes and made a movement to rise, but fell back insensible. She was taken up stairs and Mr. Maurice hurried for the doctor.
               Miriam assumed command, and put the poor girl's head on the pillow, as if she had been an infant. Pale and inanimate she lay while Miriam applied restoratives and I chafed her cold hands. Suddenly she moved, and Miriam ran to get a stimulant for her to swallow. She opened her eyes, and asked, in a thrilling whisper, "Do they know I love him?"
               Such anguish, such supplication, were in her tones, that I sobbed out, "No, my darling."
               "How was it?—tell me all, Emily,—did—did dear Philip go suddenly?"
               Then, as gently as I could speak, did I repeat Uncle Robert's account of the great debility which had crept upon Philip after the accident at sea. How he had grown more feeble every day, and how every day he had shown a braver heart. How the fearful hemorrhage which he had tried to conceal had repeated itself so often that concealment became impossible, until one day, in the presence of the physician, and in the arms of Uncle Robert, that noble heart had yielded life, in the flow of its crimson tide.
               "How merciful it was, Honor, that he did not suffer more,—that there was no protracted pain,—that he was taken in a moment, and now knows Paradise."
               "His Father called him," she murmured, "called him,—and he never knew I loved him,"—and with one long, low wail, she burst into a fit of weeping. The fountains of tender grief were unsealed and the streams flowed long; flowed as if they would never exhaust their source. I began to fear they would not stop. But when I said "Honor," she calmed a little, and after a few moments began to talk brokenly of him she had lost. Poor prattler, she pained my heart as she accused herself of coldness and obstinacy.
               "And yet, Emmie, I was conscientious,—believe me, I thought it right to give him pain and crucify myself. O, ignorance and cruelty then entered into me. I should have known better. Will God pardon me for his sufferings,—for his life,—his life, Emily? Am I not guilty of his blood?"
               The moon shone on her in full splendor; the light of the nurse-lamp in the corner twinkled only in its narrow space; and the floods of white light descended solemnly upon her bed. So few hours before, in the same beams, had the poor girl told me in sweet words the history of her heart; now it was the history of her heart continued,—her heart older by a day, and in gloom.
               "O Emily, I ought not to have given my love to anything but art,—that was my first resolution, and I should have kept it,—but I could not resist him. I thought I could not. He was so winning,—you know that, Emmie. What a voice! what speech! what a smile! Sunshine is not brighter. What grace of manner! and, Emmie, what goodness of heart! Gone,—gone,—gone,—but Thou, O Father, called him,—gone,—gone,—gone!"—and she fell into convulsive weeping.
               At that moment the door opened, and the doctor entered, followed by my mother. Honor, by a sharp effort, ceased her wails and lay quiet. The doctor was decisive. He was glad to find consciousness restored, but he did not look at ease. He gave out remedies to be taken frequently, and gave particular directions, in a manner calling for implicit obedience. "Miss Emily," with his hand on the door, "you are to sit up to-night, I suppose," and he gave me a look of intelligence which called me to him. "Is she very sick, doctor?" was my anxious question in the entry. "Not now, but she may be." I stole down stairs behind his creaking boots, with a weight at my heart. At the front door he stopped to put on his gloves, and said, in a low voice, "Miss May's trouble is mental. Persuade her to confide in you. Share her sorrow, if possible."
               That night as I sat alone by her bedside I heard my name, "Emily! Emily!" and a clear whisper, thrilling my veins, fell on the air. It was Honor, speaking strangely. "What did Uncle Robert say?" As I began to frame some tender reply, a fearful smile spread over her face, and with a shriek she raved of storm and shipwreck. Her features worked ceaselessly, her slender hands grasped at what they could not reach, and with moans she tried continually to save herself from some pursuing fate; she twisted, turned, and cried, but ever the enemy followed. There was no violence of voice or manner, only a half-suppressed agony. I alone heard her supplications for aid. Her answers to all my words of endearment were sobs and moans for help. O what weary, weary hours made up that night of suffering,—every minute dragged like an hour,—each hour seemed a night. No eye waked but mine, silence proclaimed that all senses were lapped in slumber. At intervals the wind, hollow and cold, tolled dully at the windows, and bars of moonlight shimmered through the panes like fleeting spectres; alone I saw, alone I heard what was torture to my soul. The poor wounded creature bled where her heart was pierced, and yet, in delirium, she kept her secret. No word of Philip escaped her lips. With instinctive delicacy she guarded what lay within her heart. For a moment, as I leaned over her, reason came and she knew me. Again I heard the thrilling whisper, "Do they know I love him?" but waiting no more for my answer, she moaned, and cried again of storm and waves and shipwreck. "Wrecked and lost! wrecked and lost!" she called, in a voice that penetrated my heart. Memory wandered to the first danger which had threatened the travellers, and lived over the anguish of that night when she had wept her tears prostrate on the floor, and I had wakened from slumber to wonder and to fear. Midnight was past, and I waited, with senses sharpened by my vigils, for the morning. Gradually the moans subsided, but the poor girl's eyes were wide open and fixed on vacancy. Suddenly she grasped my arm and whispered, "Did I kill him, Emily? tell me truly, did I kill him?"
               "You did him no harm, Honor, his lungs were diseased; you did not make his sickness."
               "Say it again. I did him no harm. What blessed relief. I did him no harm,—him for whom I would have laid down my life,—my darling, darling Philip!" And with these words her head sank on one side and she fell asleep.
               My heart lifted as if a burden had been swept away out of its depths. Her breathing was low, but regular, and it grew more and more peaceful. On my knees I thanked God for his abounding mercy. Morning came and Honor was calm,—calm and rational. How I watched her through the day. Yes, she was better, the doctor had said it. The worst was over. Her calm temperament, the healthy condition of her system, her power of self-command, all helped to strengthen and restore. Each day she seemed more like herself, and the fourth morning I found her down stairs. How bright had been her countenance that last day, when she sang songs in the carriage! Now it looked pale and fixed, as on the night she came to Summerstown. To my mother she had confided her grief, and many an hour did they spend together, talking of Philip. His ways, his looks, his tones, his kindness, were their themes. Little by little, Honor found her way to the garden. Like some beautiful, wounded creature, she crept first to the door-step, afterwards under the lilac-bush, and then as far as the old apple-tree. There the birds twittered new songs, and she—poor child—she did not sing! But the hard look in her face softened a shade. Soon under the apple-boughs she carried her Bible. Sometimes I heard her reading a psalm of David, sometimes a holy hymn. In a few days she began to pace the garden-walk and to touch the flowers. One morning I came upon her suddenly. She stood with eyes fixed on the blue sky, her white hands crossed upon her bosom, repeating in solemn, yet joyful tones, 
                     
                        "In the cross of Christ I glory,
                        Towering o'er the wrecks of time."
                     
                   She was clothed in white, her hair gleamed with golden rays, and she seemed an angel, speaking to celestial spheres. She glided forward, uttering the last line of the hymn, and I passed near her unobserved.
               Would Honor sing again? This question I had asked myself repeatedly. She had listened to all my music in silence. I began to fear that she did not hear it, when one evening, as I gave out a "Venite exultemus Domino," she looked, rose, and began to sing. From that moment I had no fear for her happiness. Had she not found new tones of praise in her beautiful voice? Now, as night came on, she often joined with me in religious hymns; and when Mr. Maurice sang, I felt sure she listened. Before long, she sat at the piano and sang quietly to herself. Every day this communion became longer. Only a few weeks elapsed before she had recovered her old composure,—it was a new composure too; for into it had penetrated a sensibility which made her dearer than ever. But even in the midst of sorrow duty was not neglected. Honor's vacation had expired, and she resolutely fixed the time of her return. No temptation alluring her to stay was heeded.
               "I must go," was her reply, one day, to affectionate urging on my part. "Emmie, let me tell you my dream. After singing 'Venite exultemus Deo,' that night, something glowed within me and followed into sleep. Then appeared such a radiant country! fields of a verdure no eye hath seen, tree-branches that pierced the clouds, foaming waters from which fell music clear as the clash of crystals,—Emily, I have never conceived such melody. While I asked myself if this were heaven, Philip came near and looked upon me with a smile more winning even than his earthly smile. 'Dost thou hear it, beloved Honor?' he asked, in tones of rapture. 'Thou shalt sing this song on earth. I know now that thy way is right. Thou shalt pursue it to the end. I will watch over thee.' And then I waked to know that I had been visited by an angel. O Emily, I will pursue my course to the end, watched, guarded, and guided by his love."
               The last night came and we had hours of music together. Mr. Maurice and Honor sang to each other. They had become true and tender friends. He had given her inexpressible comfort; half suspecting pecting the force of the blow which had fallen, his fine nature had divined her needs, and from his heart to hers had flowed untold sympathy. Again we sang "Venite exultemus Domino." O how pure were Honor's looks and tones! Into her voice had filtered a golden vein. She seemed a seraph praising God. Not as before did she stand, with resolute, forward look, seeing and eager to grasp an invisible prize. Now those earnest, pathetic yet happy eyes saw something afar, but it was not the laurel.
               "Good night, Mr. Maurice. I shall go to-morrow, as you know. If I am to do any good in the world, I must begin without delay. Time is flowing like the current of a river. A few weeks ago I distrusted myself. I was not sure even of the Divine goodness. But you rescued me from darkness, and I thank you from my heart. Mr. Maurice, there is much to do, and life is fleeting. O for the tongue of an angel to sing truth to the world!"
               The next day we said good by to our dear Honor. As she disappeared in the distance her blue ribbon waved like a pennon of truth. I felt no fear, but a glow of courage, as I thought of her lone journey through the world. Poor child! her earthly prospects were clouded, while over mine shone the light of love. Everything about me looked auspicious. My mother was filled with content; Mr. Maurice was happy and hopeful. And now we only waited to know the time of Uncle Robert's return, to name our wedding-day. We longed, yet dreaded to meet him. He would not be, as formerly, radiant and debonair, but, as I foresaw, oppressed with sadness. Before a week was over, we knew which steamer he had taken. Immediately my interest with Mr. Maurice was arranged. I began some simple preparations for our marriage, and looked forward to Uncle Robert's coming. Miriam decided to give him a tangible welcome.
               "You must n't make it gay, Miriam; remember he has lost a friend, and will not be in spirits for an entertainment."
               "O, I don't forget. I only want to have things look cheerful when he comes. It would n't be right to meet him with gloom, because his friend is happy."
               When I repeated this to Mr. Maurice, he was surprised, not expecting so sweet a revealing of Miriam's nature. "I wish all my people felt like this, Emily, it would then seem as if I had not preached in vain."
               We all tried to be cheerful when Uncle Robert came, but he was sad; in vain did he try to shake off his depression; it settled like a cloud on his usual gayety. We drew nearer together and I spoke Philip's name. Then Uncle Robert's dejection lifted, and fervor took its place. It was a melancholy satisfaction to him to speak, and to us to hear. He went back to the hour of their departure together; he told us of the voyage and accident, dwelling on details, as if loving to linger over every circumstance of their friendship.
               "We had a glorious embarkation, Sue,—there never was a finer day or a more hopeful company. The first night fulfilled our expectations. The second day was glorious too; but the second night,—that was the time of the accident. A fog rose at twilight, but this did not make me uneasy, I had seen so many and passed through so many in safety. Poor Philip, who was walking the deck by my side, said it was the one thing he did n't like at sea, he would rather face a storm than a thick, dark calm. It grew chilly and he went below stairs. Most of the passengers were asleep when the steamer struck. I was just dropping off into a doze, but in a second I felt our danger. Such a scene of confusion as ensued! I cannot describe it. Most of the women and children were so terrified that they ran here and there with piercing screams, falling in the way of those who were trying to help the crew. Most of the men behaved nobly,—a few were feeble,—but noblest among the noble was Philip. He appeared almost superhuman. His form dilated, his face put on a lofty expression, his voice a commanding tone; women and children flocked to him for protection, men asked his advice; he seemed another being from the sick man who had embarked with me. In the moment of our greatest trouble I saw a sail, and called to the man at the wheel. Yes, he saw it too; there was no mistake. Signals of distress were hung out, and the bark came towards us. I thought of you, Sue, when I read her name. She was doing what you had so often done for me. Bark Susan! I blessed her name and gave thanks to the Power who sent her to our relief. Philip counselled, planned, and encouraged; by his serenity he gave calmness and strength to others, and, thanks to him and the captain, every soul was put safely into the boats. The sea was smooth and the change did not take a long time. After we got into the bark, I could see in Philip's failing strength the effects of his over-exertions. He declined from that time, and rapidly. We had an uncomfortable passage. Thankful was I to see the coast of England. Dungeness and Dover were music to my ears. I hoped, when we reached the shore, that poor Philip would revive, but he was past reviving. I never saw such fortitude as his; it was tested on board the bark. The disaster called for magnanimity, and he gave it; but those weary days in the bark exacted patience,—long enduring patience,—and he gave that. Then Philip proved himself a hero. All a woman's sweetness shone in his life. He caressed the children, talked kindly to the sailors, and made the best of every discomfort. All this when he should have been in bed himself. I do not understand how his strength held out to do it. As soon as we reached London, I called a physician, but art failed to do what nature could not. You know the rest. He lasted only a week. Never, never can I forget the example he gave me."
               "Did he seem sad on the voyage, Uncle Robert?"
               "No, dear. He understood you perfectly, Emmie. He was convinced that you did right, and was satisfied with your decision. Your conscience may rest easy, child. He was ill before we left home. The doctor told me that his trouble had been progressing for months; it was physical, not mental."
               "It was not on my own account that I spoke, Uncle Robert. I can tell you, now he is gone, of his preference for Honor."
               "For Honor? Philip?"
               "Yes; she refused him. I always thought it a bitter disappointment."
               "Did n't he ask you to marry him?"
               "He did, thinking that he loved me. He was sincere and told me his heart. I could see, though he did not, that his first affection was the true one. He always loved her, loved her all his life."
               "Poor, poor Philip! poor Philip!" and my uncle heaved a deep sigh. Then my mother told him of Honor's illness. "I believe she had an affection for him without knowing it; and now, poor girl, she knows it too well."
               Miriam was in a state of delight at the prospect of a wedding, and took occasion to anticipate everybody else in telling Uncle Robert all about it.
               "You've come just in the right time, Mr. Barberick."
               "Don't I always come in the right time, Miriam?"
               "Yes, sir, but Miss Emily 'll be partiklar pleased to see you now, and Mr. Maurice, too; you did n't know there was to be a change in the family, sir."
               "Change! what change?"
               "A wedding, sir!" and Miriam, with a simper, circled round the room as if attempting the Spanish dance.
               "O, I understand. Mr. Twinkle has n't been here for nothing, so many fine summer nights."
               "La sakes, Mr. Barberick!" and Miriam actually blushed; the only operation of the kind she was ever known to attempt. "Why, Miss Emily's going to be married, right away, in three weeks." Then, without farther preamble, she launched into an account of all that had transpired during his absence. No detail was passed over, no circumstance forgotten. Strange looks, frequent signs, Mr. Maurice's early evening visits, her own penetration, all were brought before him.
               "So you're surprised, Mr. Barberick. Why, I saw it before you went away."
               "I am surprised to hear of the wedding, certainly. I had forgotten how smart you were here, Miriam, doing things up in telegraph style. And what did you say about Mr. Twinkle?"
               At that moment my mother entered from the garden. Uncle Robert's mischief was forgotten. He placed the invalid's arm within his own and supported her to the parlor, thus ridding Miriam of his presence. A few days went quickly by, and the third morning my uncle started for C——. He left, promising to see Honor. The next night brought him back, and we gathered about him to hear accounts of the dear absentee.
               "I am so glad you saw her, Uncle Robert. Tell us all about it,—where and when?"
               "Yesterday, at her uncle's. Sue, did I tell you of a letter given me by poor Philip for Mr. Shirley? That letter was his will, and in that will he bequeathes one half his property to Charlie Lee and the other half to Honor May. You were right about his heart, Emmie."
               "But did you know that the envelop contained the poor boy's will, Robert?"
               "Yes, he told me what it was, but I knew not its import. I left it with Mr. Shirley when I landed; yesterday I saw him and learned what I have told you."
               "And you saw Honor there, Uncle Robert?"
               "Yes, poor girl, she was overcome at this proof of Philip's love for her. She had just learned, too, (what I had suspected,) that he was the unknown hero whose noble generosity had assisted her in carrying out her plan; unknown no longer. It melted her very soul to hear this. I saw her just after the conversation with her uncle."
               "Did she talk with you, Uncle Robert?"
               "As freely as we speak together now. She mentioned Philip without reserve. In short, Emily, she told me all her heart; and she bade me say to you that now there need be no concealment of her feelings. She feels sure of his love, from this proof of it, and she is proud to acknowledge hers. She accepts this memorial of his feelings openly, and says to the world that the affection of two hearts sanctifies the gift. Her spirit is subdued to the sweetest humility, yet she is as transparent as a child. She was never ambiguous, only reserved."
               
               "How much did the poor boy leave, Robert?"
               "Two hundred thousand, my dear sister, which makes one hundred thousand to Charlie and the same to Honor."
               "I am so glad, Uncle Robert. How much good she will do with it. O, Philip knew her spirit";—and as I said this I recalled her dream, in which he promised to watch and guard and guide her to the end.
               "I think Honor should give up teaching now," said my mother. "Surely there is no more need of this daily toil."
               "But mamma, this sum is just what she wants in her profession. With this she can disseminate her views."
               "She will accomplish a reform," said Mr. Maurice. "Formerly I dreaded this sort of life for her. You remember, Emmie, that I tried to dissuade her from it. I represented the world as filled with disappointment for her ambitious hopes, and I truly thought it. But her courage has proved superior to all obstacles. She will never faint by the way."
               "I hope she won't sing in public, just yet, Robert."
               "She will not; unless she conceives it her duty. Her ideas of propriety would forbid it, if her feelings did not. She is an incomparable woman, Sue. After my own dear sister, I know of no one who possesses such delicacy, dignity, candor, and sweetness combined. She is teaching her classes with the most earnest enthusiasm. I forgot to tell you, Emmie, that she has engaged two additional rooms in the same building, and these are to be entirely for piano pupils, the others are for her own scholars; and now she will be enabled to add to their number. A dozen could sing at once in the double room. She has ceased to receive applications for private pupils. She must either give them up or discontinue the classes, and she prefers to do the greatest good to the greatest number."
               "I always knew she would succeed, Uncle Robert. How I long to see her!"
               "Perhaps she will come here if you ask her," said my uncle, with a significant glance. Of course I asked her, and, in a few days she sent a note full of loving words.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I cannot be with you, dear Emily, for absence is inconsistent with my duties. How happy it makes me to think of you as bearing the minister's name, lightening his labors, receiving his love. Your dear mother will be blessed by the presence of two, instead of one. One thing I promise, to be near you in spirit the day and hour of your vows.
                           
                              "Ever your
                              "HONOR."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               With this I was forced to content myself. If classes had been the only obstacle to my pleasure, I would have applied to each scholar for the loan of their teacher during the day; but I remembered what visions of the past would haunt Honor's brain, what throbbing pangs would trouble her heart, as she saw me in my new life, and I could not urge my wish.
               "She cannot come," said Mr. Maurice. "We will go to her."
               In a few days Miriam sounded the war note of preparation. The whole responsibility of cake devolved upon her. She would not permit my mother to give any assistance, and I was almost forbidden to look into the kitchen. Clamorous demands were made for citron, currants, plums, almonds, and spices of all kinds. Uncle Robert thought he might as well take another voyage across the Atlantic, just to get out of the way. However, he was obedient to all Miriam's demands. I had said that she was a better confectioner than any in C——, and she, unfortunately, had not forgotten the compliment. Uncle Robert declared that the rule of the house was an absolute monarchy.
               "I shouldn't mind so much, Sue, if the rightful sovereign were on the throne."
               "But the rightful sovereign has virtually abdicated, Robert."
               "There is the difficulty. But when Emmie changes her name, she will of course take the sceptre. Madam of the parish should be mistress of her own house."
               Uncle Robert tried to be happy; and this for him, who had always been happy without trying, was a strange thing. He was nervous and restless. He kept going out and coming in again, without any apparent object. It pained me to see him. Mr. Maurice had consulted him about all his plans, and he had approved every arrangement. The ceremony was to take place in church. This was in harmony with Mr. Maurice's feelings, who thought it the proper place for all sacred rites; it was in harmony too with his ideas of duty to the congregation. He wished to invite them all to his wedding.
               Miriam was troubled that no additions were made to my wardrobe. "What shall you be married in?"
               "My gray dress."
               "Your gray dress? Why you 've worn it considerable."
               "But it is fresh and pretty, and Mr. Maurice likes it. It would not be modest in me to make a display in church; that is no place for show. Besides, I ought not to be dressed, even on such an occasion, better than any of the parishioners could afford."
               "I don't know; a wedding does n't come but once in a lifetime."
               
               "Some lives have two or three weddings, Miriam. However, I must remember that whatever I do will be an example to Mr. Maurice's parishioners. Don't you hope I shall set a good one? I think modesty and good sense dictate, not a mean, but a very plain dress."
               Miriam growled a little and gave up the argument. I can hardly tell how the next fortnight passed; but it did pass, and most speedily. Before I realized it, the latter end of the last week approached. Miriam's baking had been a triumph; nothing of the kind could be handsomer than the rich, dark rounds of fruit and flour so cunningly combined. Miriam was entirely satisfied with her efforts. One day I found Sally standing before them in mute admiration. "This is what I've heard tell so much about," soliloquized the child, "loaves of wedding cake!"
               Poor Sally! It was bliss to contemplate the size! it was rapture to anticipate the flavor! Her eyes dilated, her mouth watered as she gazed, and I heard the ejaculation, "What lots!"
               Later in the day I looked into the pantry, in passing, to see that all was right; the door was ajar, and I felt a faint fear that something might have happened to Miriam's last efforts. But behold! there she was herself,—evidently passing judgment on the skill of her hands. She inclined her head first on one side, then on the other, apparently criticising the form and proportions of her fruity mounds. She was apparently as pleased as Sally at the view; and as I left the latter, so did I leave Miriam to her meditations.
               The wedding-day came very much as other days come,—it was even a little more quiet than usual. I could not realize the approaching event, and occupied myself in the ordinary way. I sewed with my mother, and then we went into the garden and sat a long time under the apple-tree.
               Uncle Robert was out all the morning, and Mr. Maurice had been called to visit a sick person several miles distant. Poor Uncle Robert did not know what to do with himself. After dinner he walked round the house continually without any apparent object. Once he came up behind me, kissed my neck, and left the house without a word. Five o'clock and no Mr. Maurice. It wanted only an hour to the appointed time. Quarter past five,—I saw Miriam go to the gate and look down the road. I sat up stairs clad in my gray dress; my straw bonnet with its plain white ribbon lay on the bed with my gray mantle and gloves. My mother was all ready, even to her bonnet, and was waiting for Uncle Robert, who was to take her to church in his chaise. Half past five, Miriam came into the house and slammed the door. I heard her sniff of indignation as she went into the kitchen. She called sharply to Sally to get ready for church, and not take so much time to fix. In three minutes they both went out to the gate. After a long look down the road, Miriam turned to Sally, gave her some directions, and started off alone. This movement was explained by the almost immediate appearance of Mr. Maurice, for whom Sally had been ordered to wait. The child ushered him into the parlor, spoke to me, and disappeared like a weasel, in Miriam's footsteps. In another moment, Uncle Robert drove up to the door. He greeted Mr. Maurice, and told him, laughingly, that it was time for him to go. We all left the house, my uncle locked the door, helped my mother into the chaise, and drove off. Mr. Maurice and I walked quietly after, through an illumined way. The sun was setting, and all the fields were filled with glory, the trees swung golden branches, and the birds sang vespers. Nature was calm; in her stillness, I felt the promises of God's peace.
               Within the church, the pastor's people were gathered. A hush was diffused through the holy place as we entered, and then came voices of music, as if seraphic choirs were swelling. I heard not Gonflin, Eliza, nor Simon,—only a sweet spirit in the sounds. Dear Old Joe made the organ speak his soul, and the anthem seemed celestial. At the altar stood the minister ister, pale and silver-haired. As the voices ceased, his voice called to us in prayer; and after a trembling petition, he joined in solemn bonds our hands and lives. The sun shone through the window, as if raying its benediction; for the old man it made a crown of silver,—it turned the hair of the young man to shining gold. We passed through the quiet congregation to the sound of triumphant music. Dear Old Joe made a jubilee with his fingers, as if all sorrow on earth were over and the millennium had come in its glorious power.
               As we walked home, the sun sank, leaving the west of innumerable dyes. Where golden light had covered the grass and bushes, was now red lustre; every tree and shrub glowed as if its juices ran liquid ruby. "Nature is smiling upon us," said Mr. Maurice. I felt that it was so, and the peace that passeth all understanding took possession of my heart.
               We were all happy but Uncle Robert. I thought my marriage pleased him; but something did not. He was restless, and, on pretence of pressing business, found his way to C—— the next day. From there he wrote us about Honor. She was very busy, but promised to take a vacation whenever Mr. Maurice and I went to C——. Cordelia Shirley and Tom Ranger were in Lyons with Mr. and Mrs. Frome. Uncle George was hale and happy. And thus I had good reports to give whenever questions were asked about Miss May. One evening Eliza came with several friends, all eager to know "her romantic history." I found that a cousin of our contralto had filled a letter with rumor, and despatched it to Summerstown. Eliza detailed the usual variations played on truth by society in a positive manner.
               "Why, Mrs. Maurice, she was brought up with Mr. Lee. Their parents lived side by side, and they knew each other from childhood. This was only the renewal of an early attachment. He has left her half a million of dollars. What a show she will make."
               "Mr. Lee left only two hundred thousand, and Miss May has half of that; the other half goes to his little cousin."
               "Oh!" with a look of mingled disappointment and relief, "then she's not so very rich after all!"—and Eliza gave a comfortable sigh.
               "Mr. Lee was very musical. I suppose he fell in love with her singing."
               "He was extremely fond of music. I think he fell in love with Honor and her singing. It is impossible to separate them."
               "Oh!" and Eliza's visage lengthened, "but it's all true about the early attachment; they fancied each other as children; and I suppose Mr. Lee had n't mixed much in society, he was too young."
               "They never knew each other in childhood. Dr. Lee saw Honor for the first time in C——. You know, Eliza, what strange reports get about, particularly when a lady's affections are the theme."
               "Yes, it is very singular. It is really not safe to believe more than half what one hears." But, with the frank words, a look of envy stole into her face. This was the bitter drop in our conversation. I did not add it, and could not but pity her who had mixed her own drink.
               Mr. Maurice's duties grew arduous; for sickness had crept into the parish, and he spent days and sometimes nights in attending to his people's spiritual needs. Often I insisted that he should take rest, but in answer to my expostulations he would say, "Change is rest, Emily,"—and I believe he found it so, for he gained instead of losing, and seemed as well as he was happy. My own hands were insufficient for all I desired to do.
               In every moment of dejection, my dear mother encouraged our failing hopes. There were days when the power to relieve brought its own reward; yet the reflection was, not how much, but how little we had done. When Mr. Maurice drooped, I gave him courage; if I fainted by the way, he supported me; while my dear mother aided and cheered us both. As refreshment, we had our music; to us it was power, support, balm. Morning and evening song was our religious praise and benediction.
               Weeks passed in this way; at length the epidemic ceased its fevered work and we had a respite from anxious days. As hope began to dawn, and leisure slipped into the hours, a letter came from Uncle Robert summoning us to C——. He wanted us; and Honor wanted us particularly, for she was to sing at a charity concert, and desired us among her hearers. My dear mother expedited our visit, and begged to be left behind with Miriam. So we forewarned Mrs. Miller, and descended upon her the same afternoon.
               Milly was in ecstasy. She put both arms around my neck, hugged me tight, then peeped out at Mr. Maurice, who smiled to see her pretty shyness. "Milly so glad," she whispered, and then, with an asking glance, "Charlie was glad too."
               A pang shot through my heart at her innocent words. In this very room had Charlie often been. Here had Philip passed uncounted hours, here had he talked and sung, here had he brought the choicest flowers, here had he diffused an influence which filled every heart with happiness.
               "Mrs. Miller, do you know anything about the little boy? We heard that one of his aunts had put him to school."
               "I saw one of the ladies only last week. She told me they heard very often from Charlie. He is well and happy. He mourned sadly for his uncle, at first, and that was why they sent him to school. He is only three miles from C——, and comes home every month."
               "I saw Charlie," said Milly, looking up.
               "Yes, dear, I remember now. We met him some time ago, walking in King Street. He is grown quite a lad. He and Milly had a nice time together."
               "Honor had moved weeks before from Mrs. Frost's. This I had known, but now I realized it, as I stood before the silent wall. No more jubilees would she sing to me beyond that thin partition.
               "Do you see much of Miss May?"
               "Very little; only when I go to Golden Lane; and I run away from my own church sometimes, just to hear her sing. Her voice is more beautiful than ever. I really believe people go there on purpose to hear the music. I don't know how angels sing in another world, but Miss May seems to me like an angel. I can't help crying when I listen to her voice."
               I went out to breathe the air in the Park, and as Milly insisted on being my companion, my promenade occupied some time, for the little legs, though sturdy, took short steps; and what exercise I got was chiefly in the region of the back. It was almost dark when I reached home with my magpie,—how she did chatter every minute, having recovered entirely from her fit of shyness. We opened the door suddenly and found that Honor and Uncle Robert were in waiting. The latter instantly seized on Milly, and after a series of circus performances, tossed her "seventy times as high as the moon," holding her aloft to an accompaniment of screams and laughter.
               At last, I had Honor again. I scanned her countenance to see if I could find there an expression of melancholy, but I could not discover it. A half-regret looked out from the soft blue of her eyes,—a regret veiled by the sweetness of her smile. How strangely like Philip's smile it was! Formerly I had thought Honor his opposite in all things, but now, more than once, did the parting of her lips recall him to me. Had he left her as legacy, that beaming look, by which she might, like him, draw all hearts towards her? She told me her occupations, and I found she was teaching constantly; not only every day, but several evenings during the week.
               "This is too much, Honor; give up the evenings."
               "You wish me to give these up, Emmie, when I tell you that the class is composed of poor girls who cannot come at any other time?"
               "I can't say a word then, but—"
               "I have said a word this morning, Emmie," exclaimed claimed my uncle, "and with good effect. I went to this young lady's room and disbanded her pupils. I told them she was tired and would give them a vacation of three days."
               I looked at Honor to confirm this statement. She nodded her head in assent I was amazed, but she only smiled at Uncle Robert's good-natured audacity. The evening came for the concert, and I was once more one of Honor's audience. O, it seemed so long ago that I had waited for her with Philip by my side!
               "Can you see your friend?" asked Mr. Maurice. "She sits yonder near the evergreen, like a wood nymph, listening to secret strains. She pays no heed to what is passing around her. She is absorbed in contemplation."
               I turned to Uncle Robert on my other side and his eyes were looking in the same direction. His expression I cannot attempt to describe. For the first time, I felt that he had not spoken the truth about his own heart and Honor. All that tender love and respectful admiration could speak, through fleshly lineaments, shone in his dark eyes and curved round the corners of his half-smiling mouth. Unconscious of my observation he gave me the key to his heart and I unlocked it. Deliberately I perused his countenance, as I would have read the pages of a book; and as I grasped his secret, I breathed an involuntary sigh. He turned quickly.
               "What is the matter, little wife? Tired already? Never mind, you will soon hear something from the Messiah that will make you forget weariness."
               Even as he spoke, a rich contralto uttered the words, "O thou that tellest good tidings."
               "This is one of Honor's scholars!" whispered my uncle. "You remember the young girl we heard at her room."
               I did remember her, then a beginner, now developing under the influence of her teacher into something rare. Her voice was pure; her nature had evidently a nobility which uttered itself in free declamation. With uncommon dignity she gave the concluding bars of the melody. Then, quickly as sunlight kisses the hill-top, the soprano voices, and clear among them Honor's, took up the theme, "O thou." In rolled the bass, "O thou," the alto uttered with accent "O thou," the tenor cried "O thou," and a mass of voices called, "Arise, arise." With gathering swing, like wrinkled waves, the voices grew and grew into might, till a tide of sound filled the hall, and glory was indeed upon us. Suddenly a voice rose and soothed the sorrowful. "Come unto him, all ye that labor and are heavy laden." It was Honor, singing from her own heart to the hearts of others! How piteous was her voice, calling on stricken humanity to find rest unto their souls! I had seen those calm eyes in that place only a few months before. But how much had the interval given to face and voice! No longer gleamed that cold, starry beauty, which had dazzled beholders. From the pale features beamed new fervor. There was no rosy bloom, but a light raying from within shone over her countenance. As I gazed, her voice ceased, and the sympathy was gone,—gone from the ear, to sink deep in my heart.
               "Uncle Robert, she is changed since I heard her."
               "I knew you would notice it; is she not very nearly perfect? I never saw such a teacher. I have watched her course, and can truly say that it has continually astonished me. She is a mother to those young girls. She counsels them with regard to their health and, to that end, talks wisely about dress and diet. She elevates them morally and intellectually, and teaches their tongues intelligent and tuneful speech. I could not have believed such instruction possible."
               My uncle ceased, for Honor appeared, to sing "Rejoice greatly." My mind went quickly back to that evening, when, emerging from her bedroom, a pale sea nymph, she had surprised us all with her voice and style. That night formed the epoch from which I dated my love for this admirable creature; it had swelled, expanded, into something I could not measure. Still was she a slender nymph, but now dryad rather than naiad. As she sang, I heard the same brilliancy ring out of her shining voice. Then it was unequal, now constant and harmonious. Her groups of notes were pearls now, as then, but they were larger, smoother, whiter.
               "Delicatissimimento!" murmured Uncle Robert, as the beads of sound slipped from her lips on golden threads,—all the ripplings of summer waves could not be more tender on the ear than were her soft cadenzas. And when the call for joy was uttered, it poured in broad shouts, blowing gladness like plenty into the air—away, away—beyond walls, over hills, into north, west, south, and east, on to the billows of the ocean.
               The contralto sang again, but this time with different effect, "He was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief." The voice was deep, rich, reedy, emotional in quality, but the young life of the singer could not touch the profound pathos of that lament.
               "She has a beautiful voice, Uncle Robert."
               "Very fine."
               "Which do you prefer, contralto or soprano voice?"
               "O Emmie, Emmie, don't you know? Sometimes one, sometimes the other; only the other, little wife, the contralto, I prefer but rarely."
               A grand chorus broke upon the air, "The Lord gave the word, great was the company of the preachers!" Great indeed! as the voices swelled and rose and preached to all who listened. Mr. Maurice pressed my hand, "O Emily, if I could speak as these voices speak, I might realize my ideas of the preacher's mission."
               Uncle Robert said "Glorious!" and looked expectant. I knew why. In contrast to this tide of glorified sound rose Honor's voice, asserting her faith, "I know that my Redeemer liveth." As a wave beat to the ocean swell, so sounded her single tones after the mingled pulsations of many voices. Strangely I felt what I had so often felt before, that while with, she was beyond us. With religious fervor, she uttered the words, "I know that my Redeemer liveth." She sang from lips and spirit. With sublime force her tones rang out; filled with conviction, they pierced to the dome.
               As I listened, I thought of the Mount of Transfiguration, where the fashion of Jesus's countenance was altered, and where the two appeared in glory with him. And as the song of faith swelled higher, I remembered the Lord in Calvary, with wounded side and bleeding hands and feet. "I know that my Redeemer liveth." In a voice of prophecy came the words. Quietly stood the slender figure in its sombre garments,—the pale face uplifted, the eyes filled with devotion, the parted lips speaking the belief of her soul. Far away she seemed to be. She too saw Calvary and the Mount of Transfiguration,—the passion, the agony, the death, and then—the glory! Silence followed. Then quietly the audience left the hall.
               Mr. Maurice thanked Honor, with enthusiasm, for what she had given him. "I take back all I once said to you,—the world's discouragements are your incentives. I am not much given to verbal praise, but your singing is better than some sermons."
               Honor smiled faintly, but not indifferently, as of old. "I am glad to know. I speak truly. I feel it all here," and she laid her hand on her heart. Taking my arm, she drew me into a side room.
               "O Emmie, I have had so many doubts about singing at this concert; but now I am satisfied. The last time I sang to an audience, he made one of them. O it seems so long, so long since then! When the request came, I shrank, and could not consent; but I reflected that it was made in the name of charity, and it seemed as if he asked me to give my voice for the poor. Last night he smiled upon me in my dream. Now he has heard me and approves. I feel it."
               Uncle Robert looked in, saying, "Not ready yet?" Honor quietly put on her things, and we all went out into the night together; she lived close by; we walked her way and left her, and Uncle Robert kept on with us. My husband talked magnanimously of my friend that night. He had at length seen her. What had been known to me so long, had now translated itself to the world. Sorrow had partly drawn the veil from her shy, interior sense, and she was giving its wealth to all ready to receive it.
               Uncle Robert chimed in with Mr. Maurice, and talked as if Honor were his own child. "She has been right, all along, Emmie, and I have been wrong. She has bloomed in her own way and to perfection. Poor child! months of trial have done for her what years of prosperity would not have developed. I quarrelled with her single purpose. See what it has made her,—one of the first of living vocalists. I repeat it, Emmie,—one of the first of artists, one of the first of singers. I expected everything at once. What an exacting tyrant I must have appeared. Why should I have asked anything besides her beautiful vocalization then? I was foolish and impatient. I demanded dramatic power and was disappointed. Simply because the best Italian singers who have visited us have personated with power, was I to look for the same intensity from a New England girl, reared near icebound brooks and snow-covered hills? I did look for it, and, too late, I see my folly."
               "What does he mean by too late?" was the silent question I put to myself.
               "And yet so inconsistently did I argue, that I required the warmest sympathy from her singing while I denied sustenance to her emotions. I barred each avenue to her heart, and prayed that no accident might reveal to her the nature of love. I tried to plant the garden of her mind, and covered it from the rays of the sun. But I was not suffered to proceed. During my absence, the sun looked down, and the storm swept over; but there is radiance,—no wreck. Oh!"—and Uncle Robert almost groaned,—"how I tried to deceive myself! What miserable sophistry I used! But Nature has taken her revenge. She has given the fire which I hoped Honor would not see. That fire has been dimmed, not quenched, in tears. Dimmed for a season, only to burn higher, purer, in the future. Honor's affections have once spoken, and they will speak forever through all channels into which love and sympathy can enter."
               The next morning Mr. and Mrs. Shirley and Jane called to see us. Very affable they were. Jane appeared less frigid than usual, and detailed the contents of several letters, written by Cordelia, from "La belle France." She described, with a generous sprinkling of French phrases, what her sister had related, and confided to me her plan of going out the next winter, when Delia would have to come home.
               
               "I think it's mean in her to stay so long. She was invited only for six months; and now she's made it pretty evident how much she likes it, and so Molly has asked her for another while. I am to go whenever she comes,—that's all arranged. Mr. Frome asked me himself, in the politest way. I must show you his note, it is so pretty and so Frenchy."
               "How does the bride like Lyons?"
               "Bride! rather an old bride. She likes it,—Molly always likes everything and everybody,—so, of course, she's happy. I must say, I never could understand how she fancied Mr. Frome; but Cordelia writes that he makes an excellent husband, and is more devoted to 'Ma Mignonne,' as he calls Molly, every day."
               "Where was Tom Ranger, when you heard?"
               "O, he had gone to Italy, with the promise of paying another visit in Lyons next year. He intends to wander in the East, he says. I shall see him, probably, when I go out."
               I was ready to exchange places with Mr. Shirley, who came to sit by my husband, while I talked with his wife. She was an amiable woman, and felt glad to tell me about Honor, and to express her gratification that Philip's remembrance had been so noble and so delicate.
               "I think there has been a great change in Honor, the last few months. I used to consider her too quiet, Mrs. Maurice; now she is charming. Everybody who meets her speaks of her kindness and cordiality. My husband always called her perfection, and now he says people believe him."
               Uncle George heard his name, and smiled across to me, and in a few minutes made a pretext to get his wife over by Mr. Maurice. Then, with the adroitness of a young beau, he ensconced himself in an arm-chair near, and began about his darling Honor.
               "She is so much happier than I could have believed would be possible, my dear,—that was a sad affliction,—and I was so blind not to see which way her heart inclined. However, I should be just as blind again, if she should draw the veil over my eyes, as she did then. What deceitful changelings maidens are! You come in for a share of this. To think you should belong to Mr. Maurice all the time, while I was giving you to poor Philip, and Honor to your uncle!"
               "But I did n't belong to him then!"
               "Tut, tut, my dear, I am not to be hoodwinked any longer. I don't know as I shall ever pick out a husband again for anybody. Yet I can't help turning to my old plan for Honor. Your uncle is a splendid fellow. I don't see why the girls are not all in love with him. Handsome and good, of stately bearing and fine manners,—there is no reason why he should n't take his pick from them all; the woman whom he chooses ought to be proud. But things are so contrary! He doesn't seem inclined to pick anybody, and Honor does n't want to be chosen. Of course, I expect this of her now. An interest in any one but her poor dead Philip would be unseemly. Yet, after all, I can't understand her loving him without showing it a little."
               Uncle George was in his practical vein, and I listened without reply. This latter was not in the least necessary, for he liked my silence, taking it for assent;—besides, I agreed with a good many things he said. As he rose to go he whispered, "I do really hope, my dear, that, after all, Honor may one day consent to toil a little less and make some man happy; and by some man, I mean Uncle Robert, of course; for" (and he lowered his voice) "I am convinced he loves her. She works too hard, but she is doing gloriously; and I am proud of my niece. Good by, my dear."
               
               When Saturday came, Uncle Robert and Honor could not let me go. I could have resisted the former perhaps, but the calm creature, who seldom urged, and who believed every word she uttered, prevailed. And Mr. Maurice went home to preach, leaving me in C——.
               At seven o'clock that evening, we set off for Golden Lane. Honor to sing at the rehearsal, Uncle Robert and I to listen. On entering the church, I caught a glimpse of Herr Stultz. Very decided was his pleasure at seeing me. By his side stood Mr. Pry, ready with a smiling greeting. Everything had changed at Golden Lane since I was last within its walls. Repairs and alterations had been made on pulpit and pews, and walls and ceiling had been retouched. A new organist had replaced the old one, and not a member of the choir but Honor did I know. "Bass is goot," said Herr Stultz, as the rehearsal of a chant progressed, "tenor ziemlich, organist ver fine,—hear dat." And I listened to dat, which consisted of strange progressive harmonies on the key-board, with incessant and rapid pedal accompaniment, so rapid that I wondered how feet, clad in leather, could move so fast. Before I could reply, an anthem burst on the air; it gave scope to Honor's voice and capabilities. Scale passages, in quick succession, poured from her throat, like the brilliant gamuts of some downy chanter; and among the calls, broke short shakes, like the gushes of that same feathered elf, when he hops from branch to branch of his leafy dwelling. And now I noticed the growth of Honor's voice. Formerly its unvarying characteristic had been brilliancy. Time had liquefied that brilliancy; the upper register had gained a broader splendor, and the medium voice, though slender, had folded into itself a pathos indescribable. It was flexible lustre turned into sound.
               "Those upper tones are electrifying, Herr Stultz."
               "Schön, schön,—not volume, but power,—ver clear, sound far, far avay. Chest tones goot, meedle tones not so strong, but pure. She could make fortune in opera."
               "Magnificent!" exclaimed Mr. Pry. "She would carry people by storm. She is a much finer vocalist than anybody on the stage in this country!"
               As he ceased, Honor sang these words:— 
                     
                        "To songs of praise and joy
                        Be every Sabbath given;
                        That such may be our blest employ
                        Eternally in heaven."
                     
                  
               
               I caught the look of rapture on her face, and thought she sang to Philip in heaven. "O, she could never sing in opera, Mr. Pry."
               
               "She would be superb on the stage, Mrs. Maurice; but I shouldn't like to ask such a thing of her."
               "Fraulein vill sing classic music, dat is best; sacred, English and German,—all dat is for her,—and de cavatinas, too, sometime. And how is it vith die, Frau Maurice? Does she play every day,—hours?"
               Herr Professor shook his head over my delinquencies,—for I could not but own the truth. However, he rewarded me with a smile when I avowed that I loved music better every day.
               Sunday was filled with potent recollections. The preacher, the congregation, Philip's vacant place, each spoke tearfully of the months that had flown. Honor, unfading, aspiring Honor, looked from out her flaxen hair like one of the seraphs painted above her head.
               "Ah, Emmie," whispered my uncle, "she is transcendent. We were not mistaken,—you and I. It was a nightingale that came to us, that night. The stormy east blew a bulbul to our shore."
               Honor came to tea, and we filled the evening with music,—it was an offering from our hearts to God, a farewell to each other. On the morrow we were to separate, and who could tell for how long? Honor had re-entered the world, armed with strength to subdue the evil and exalt the good. There she must struggle and achieve success without human help. She would be a beacon amid the false lights of C——, I a glowworm in my native village. How it saddened me to leave her! Then came the thought of Uncle Robert. Did he love her or did he not? for I was again in doubt. His admiration, his watchful care, inclined me to answer yes to the first. His gay hilarity, his freedom of speech, led me to say no to the last. And while I asked my questions alternately, they played with each other and their answers like will-o'-the-wisps on a distant meadow.
               At this period of time I look back to the day I bade farewell to Honor and to C——. A year has flown. My mother sits before me, no older apparently than on that Monday morning. We satisfy her every desire, she encourages us on our way. My husband fulfils his round of duties with a diligence and faith that truly earn the title, given him by the children, of "Good Mr. Maurice." My mother gives me credit for the energy I show in house and parish affairs; and as I never knew I possessed a particle of this quality, the commendation is delightful. Need I say that our home is more than happy?
               Miriam has left us,—dear, good, grim, uncompromising Miriam. One fine evening Mr. Twinkle carried her off, though not against her will. She was married at home, quietly, in the morning; and ten minutes after Mr. Twinkle trotted away with his post-bag. But he came back to the wedding dinner, which my mother, Sally, and I had prepared with great care. Then, in the twilight, Miriam said, "Good by," and went to her own home,—a pretty house, not more than a quarter of a mile from our gate. Whenever I need her assistance, Miriam comes and stays as long as she thinks there is anything for her to do,—disregarding every blandishment of Mr. Twinkle, who looks in every few hours, and confesses how much he misses his wife. She makes a kind mother to his daughters, and they bid fair, under their excellent teaching, to rival her in the mysteries of delicate cooking.
               I have never been in C—— since I bade it and Honor farewell. She writes me regularly, and Uncle Robert comes home every few weeks, bringing accounts of the people I love. He is often vague. Sometimes he says "the Shirleys are well, and that Delia or Jane has gone to Lyons; he is not sure which." Last week he varied this formula, by informing me that "the Shirleys had sailed for Havre, Uncle George and all. Tom Ranger had not returned, and Mr. Pry had gone to the West." Once, when my mother asked if Honor performed her duties as faithfully as ever, Uncle Robert replied, "O yes, duty is her motto. She performs it by me, I know. Never had any one a nicer sense of propriety. She doesn't allow me to walk with her at all. She permits me to call on her once in three months, averring that she has no time for visitors. Don't you think this is rather hard, Sue, on a steady old fellow like me?"
               My dear mother shook her head as she contemplated her handsome younger brother,—thinking, evidently, that he might prove a dangerous fellow, if treated too kindly.
               My uncle is busy and prosperous. He has established his branch house of Firman & Co., and this keeps him most of the time in C——, though he still persists in calling Summerstown his home. He makes money and he spends it, perhaps not always judiciously, but always in a benevolent spirit.
               Of Mrs. Miller and Milly I have recent personal knowledge, for they spent three weeks of summer with us. The little woman was happy as a bird all the time, and Milly had grown such a treasure that we were not quite sure we could let her go home with mamma. Honor, poor child, gave us only a week. We could not be satisfied with this. Happily, Sunday came during her visit, and she sat with the choir. How gloriously she sang! Dear old Joe Haydn Schmidt was entranced, and bound himself, by voluntary untary promise, to go to C—— the first time she appeared in concert. Gonflin was amazed, and Simon uttered hearty approval. Eliza absented herself from church. I could not tell the reason why; for though I heard something about a very bad cold, with fever symptoms, I met her walking at an early hour the next morning. It was a pity she could not have listened to true devotional singing. Surely she would have gained some good, even against her will. In one hymn tune I sang treble, and Honor took Eliza's part. Gonflin looked amazed at the ease with which soprano of Golden Lane became, in a minute, contralto of our little church. Dear old Joe praised the firmness of her chest tones. He left his organ after church, came up to Honor, took her hand, pressed it, and said, "You are a wonderful creature, my dear."
               Honor is indeed wonderful. Every day is her noble plan unfolding towards great results. Scores of young girls, born into narrow circumstances, owe to her genius and goodness the developments of their physical and mental gifts. How many true singers may she not be rearing for the future! The week she gave me was made up of felicity. She filled my heart with love and my brain with enthusiasm.
               "O Emmie, I want you to know the spirit of these German songs," she said, one evening, and she instantly warbled "Expand thy Wing."
               "Charming!" exclaimed Mr. Maurice, who listened in the intervals of finishing his sermon. Then came "Good night," not a song for high soprano, yet I could not but give testimony to her perseverance in study, when I heard how beautiful she made it. In a moment she began, "O welcome, fair Wood!" What freshness she gave the melody! It was as if a thrush had piped out tidings of his wild, secluded home.
               "Would Uncle Robert be satisfied?" she asked, with a smile.
               "I am more than satisfied," said Mr. Maurice. "I will be as exacting as Uncle Robert, and still return a verdict in your favor. While you sang I felt all the influences of summer breezes and mossy dell."
               "And they were summer breezes,—you are sure?" she asked, a little anxiously.
               "Sure; I felt their warmth."
               My beautiful Honor remembered the very words of censorious Uncle Robert. And where was he? Why did he not come to greet us this week of weeks? Either he could not, or would not come. I hardly knew whether to pity him most, if coming were impossible, or to praise or blame him, if prudence overcame his valor. I longed to see the two I loved together, and judge if Miriam's old fears and my former wishes had the shadow of foundation. Dear Uncle Robert! In my heart I felt that he loved my friend, and my instinct told me that he had never offended her by putting this love into language. He had gained possession of himself! Honor had conquered her heart's grief! Who could help them nearer each other?
               And who can help them? Time vanishes, and they travel, with the rest, along life's way. After the sharpness of Honor's sorrow had passed, she lived awhile in its memory. For Philip she studied and toiled and taught. To him she sent her song. But it is no more the same. Not that he is forgotten. Only God is remembered more. Emancipated from suffering she tries to grasp and hold the motive of high and harmonious life; and while she recollects the friend she has lost from sight, she recalls the love of Him who gives and who taketh away.
               During her last visit, she sang many hymns to Mr. Maurice. One evening she repeated them for more than two hours. Very clearly came to my mind the rehearsal at Golden Lane, when she had poured the fervor of her feelings into the verse:— 
                     
                        "To songs of praise and joy
                        Be every Sabbath given;
                        That such may be our blest employ
                        Eternally in heaven."
                     
                  
               
               I recalled her attitude and expression; her calm, blue eyes, uplifted to the skies, her smile of rapture, her look of communion, which told that she sang to the loved far away, and yet so near. On this evening, with the same fervor, she poured out her voice; her tones were developed to a noble splendor, and sounded a majestic quality, which I had not known in them before. 
                     
                        "A charge to keep I have,
                        A God to glorify;
                        A never-dying soul to save,
                        And fit it for the sky;
                        To serve the present age,
                        My calling to fulfil,
                        O may it all my powers engage
                        
                           To do my Master's will."
                     
                  
               
               And this, I believe, is the aim of Honor's pure existence; daily tasks swelling to daily and evening toil, turned into pleasures, and performed in the love with which a saintly soul invests its duties. These are her service; she looks to no reward but that of an approving conscience. Human love is to her a transient thing, beautiful so far as it leads to love of God. Can it be that my uncle will ever possess the treasure of this heart? I do not ask it: I dare not desire it. Uncle Robert and Honor are both happy. I leave them willingly to the decision which affection and conscience shall pass. I believe they are bound to-day, each to the other, in spiritual union. Would the sanction of the priest make earthly union more blessed? Time and their own hearts will reply.
               THE END.
               Cambridge: Stereotyped and Printed by Welch, Bigelow, & Co.
            
         
      
   
