
    ----CITATION----
        Bates, Lizzie.. Had You Been in His Place .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5755 wright2-0236
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
            
         
         
            
               HAD YOU BEEN IN HIS PLACE.
            
            BY LIZZIE BATES.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               ROBERT CARTER AND BROTHERS, 
                     530 BROADWAY.
                  
               
            
            1873.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872, by ROBERT CARTER & BROTHERS, In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
               ST. JOHNLAND STEREOTYPE FOUNDRY, SUFFOLK COUNTY, N. Y.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               I. LEAVING COLLEGE. 7
               
               II. AT SEA. 32
               
               III. HOFNELS. 54
               
               IV. HOME LIFE. 76
               
               V. A DREAM OF LURA. 88
               
               VI. GEBHARD AND HIS VIOLIN. 96
               
               VII. CAPTAIN EIDERMANN AT HOME. 104
               
               VIII. FAIRFAX'S JOURNAL. 133
               
               IX. BY THE WAY. 154
               
               X. NEW FRIENDS. 172
               
               XI. CHANGE OF PURPOSE. 183
               
               XII. THUSNELDA. 203
               
               XIII. THE MOUNTAIN HOME. 221
               
               XIV. PASTOR NIELANDER. 240
               
               XV. THE SAW-MILL. 251
               
               XVI. THE SCHOOLMASTER. 266
               
               XVII. DIRICHLET. 278
               
               XVIII. INTO THE VALLEY. 292
               
               
               XIX. CHRISTMAS. 308
               
               XX. SPRING AND WHAT IT BROUGHT. 321
               
               XXI. THE STAR. 332
               
               XXII. THE DEAD TO THE LIVING. 342
               
               XXIII. UNEXPECTED INTELLIGENCE. 352
               
               XXIV. THE SUBSTITUTE. 360
               
               XXV. JOINING THE TROOPS. 369
               
               XXVI. BEFORE THE BATTLE. 379
               
               XXVII. THE PASS OF ST. HUBERT. 393
               
               XXVIII. IN THE HOSPITAL. 405
               
               XXIX. CONCLUSION. 414
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Had you been in his place
            
               HAD YOU BEEN IN HIS PLACE.
               I. Leaving College.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "PRESIDENT RAFFLES presents his compliments, and presumes to ask if Bertol Fairfax will do him the favor of a call this (Thursday,) evening, at nine o'clock, in the study, to discuss a question of interest, as well as of vital importance, with reference to the future.
                           
                              "ROSE HILL, Aug. 16."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Humph! a question of interest and of vital importance!" muttered the young graduate; "a wise suggestion with regard to the profession I shall follow, or the way in which I spend my time, ten to one. I don't go. I have had enough of it, and now, I am to indulge myself a little."
               
               "A wager on that!" answered Harvey, who happened to be in Fairfax's room, as the note came in. "You'll go, if for no other reason, than to get a glimpse of Alice. To tell the truth, I wouldn't mind calling on old Raffles myself, if I thought there was any chance of speaking to Alice on the sly."
               "Tush! what are you talking about! Alice has gone, everybody has gone. We ought to have gone. If it were not for Simms we might have gone."
               And Fairfax jumped from his chair, kicked over his boot-jack, and walked up and down as much of the floor as he could find, for the books and trunks.
               "It is provoking, just as one is getting out of the way, to rake up some old score!" exclaimed the irritated youth.
               "I don't see the need of such a muss. It is not every fellow that gets a note from the president so soon after he graduates. I should think you would consider it an honor—I should!" observed Harvey, who was one of those rare spirits who have the power to quiet excitement, rather than to stir it into a flame.
               "So should I, were I in your place," growled Fairfax. "But old Raffles happens to be one of my mother's dearest friends. And, after going safely through all these four years, for him to get hold of anything now."
               "You seem to think it must be evil. Why, isn't it just as easy to consider it some added honor to be conferred? That is the way I should take it!" and Harvey fell to packing with a will, that said as plainly as words, that he was to make up for lost time.
               Up and down the narrow flooring; the soft light falling on a face delicately chiselled: the high white forehead, straight nose, and well-cut lips, denoting spirits that could not brook the shadow of a stain upon his honor: and still, a face that could light up with sympathy, and warm into new life at the slightest touch of affection.
               "Hurry up, old boy! There's Hal and Redford; don't let them catch you in this plight," said Harvey, glancing out of the window.
               
               "How now, Bert! I had no idea of finding you still in your den. What's up! what keeps you?" cried Halbert, as he grasped Fairfax by the hand.
               A sudden smile crossed the student's lips, and his face was radiant, as it had been in term-time, with the full class crowding into his small room.
               "One of Simms' freaks; he took it into his head that I was spending altogether too much, and so he sent just enough to put me through—and that last little supper, you know;" and a quizzical look shot out of the gray eyes.
               "I see! I see! that same petit affair was just a feather's weight too much for some of the rest of us, not quite as fortunate as you are, in having a Simms to make it all straight," laughed the new comer.
               "To stay behind all the others makes it decidedly unpleasant, you see, if any of them get wind of it. Why, the fellows here are the ones to bear the blame; and it's all over, and what's the use." And Fairfax pointed to the note still lying on the table. "Read that, and see if you scent anything. Harvey don't!"
               "There's no backing out! You are nabbed! Ha! ha! after all the four years dodging!" and Halbert broke out into a fit of uproarious laughter.
               "All nonsense!" said Harvey, as he pressed his knee on the crowded trunk lid, and pulling hard the catch slipped into the lock. The last strap was fastened. "Making a bugbear of a harmless note; for my part I should consider it a happy omen;" and straightening himself, the young graduate looked around with an air of relief. "Believe I've got nothing more than my own, Bert."
               "If the old fellow knows, somebody has told," said Fairfax, unable to throw off the idea of something unpleasant connected with the call. "I shouldn't think Redford would do it: but, after taunting me as he did"—
               "I thought something was up. I knew you and Redford were such friends," interposed Halbert. "I wanted to say good-by, and I supposed he did. But when he came to the door he passed into Henderson's room. He said he did not imagine you cared to see him."
               "And all because I took the prize. I didn't care for it. Was it to do over again I would not have it. And then to taunt me as he did, with this inherent thirst for drink." Then dropping his voice to a lower key, "Was it not enough to battle with the demon, the consuming fire eating into my heart, without having heaped upon me the misdeeds of my father?"
               A wild light shot from Fairfax's eyes; great beads of perspiration stood upon his brow, his broad chest heaved, and clasping his hands convulsively, he staggered to a seat. "If Raffles gets hold of this!"
               "What do you care, if he does? You are no longer a college student," said Halbert, with an attempt to laugh.
               "If he has it, and my mother gets hold of it, and Sibil. I tell you, you know nothing of it. I would die first!"
               "Well, I must say, I never dreamed you could be stirred to such a pitch by a scrap of paper like this," said Halbert, picking up the note and tossing it across the table. "But time's up. Partings are nasty things, and stick in the throat. I like better to think of meeting, so here's to your health, old boy. Write me now and then. And let us think, that somewhere in the future, when we are both more than we are now, we shall again meet."
               The tears were in Halbert's eyes in spite of himself. But he had gone, and Harvey with him. Resting his elbows on the table, Fairfax buried his face in his hands, and the past, like a troubled dream, swept up before him. Taunted as he was by Redford, he could not deny but it was in part true. And still, he had not thought to do it. With a slight constitution he had endeavored to carry more than most students. With means sufficient to live without a thought of care, he determined to excel; not only in class, but in society. To go out as he did and not fall behind in his studies, taxed his strength. Health gave way, tonics were resorted to; then something stronger. All the while he was conscious that he had an appetite; the same, as he had a tendency for pulmonary disease. True, he might not die with consumption. But it was in his family, his father died of it, his brother, and two elder sisters. His mother had always warned him against colds, against excesses. What if she should know that he could not study without a stimulant—that he never spoke without it. And Sibil. He was all they had, they leaned upon him, they looked forward with so much hope, such sweet expectancy. Could they do this when they knew his habit? The fires of the destroyer already kindled—the chains forged, the fetters strong, the will to resist frailer than a spider's web. A fearful experience had been theirs. What had his mother not endured? And now——
               Steps were heard in the hall. Fairfax raised his head. But no, they passed his door. It was Henderson and Redford, arm in arm. As they disappeared through the gate, Fairfax followed them with eager, hungry eyes. Redford was an only son. His mother was a widow, separated from her friends by a waste of waters. In the old school-boy life how had he listened as Mrs. Redford told stories of her old home! How plainly it stood out before him! The ruins, the cathedrals, the manners and customs differing so widely. Above all, when she told him of the universities. Of course, when he finished his college course, he must go to Heidelberg with Terence. This was the old programme, to which Sibil had listened, as well. Mrs. Redford loved Sibil, and so did Terence love her, as he loved a star, bright, pure, beautiful; but so far above him. And what if Sibil loved Terence? He dare not ask himself the question.
               With a sigh, Fairfax turned from the window. The soft rosy flush was melting into pearl, and this deepening into gray. A few silvery stars looked down. Nine o'clock on a summer's night comes quickly. Once more his eye was caught by the note. After all, it might be, as Harvey said, a request that meant nothing. Whatever it was, he must go.
               Fairfax straightened himself and looked around; everything was packed. But no, he could not go so. His travelling case was on the table. Removing his brushes, he hung the small glass on its accustomed nail, and proceeded to smooth his collar, and brush out the tangled locks. A cool breeze swept in at the open window. It had stolen the perfume of flowers sweet with the dew of night. He felt better—the cords on the temples relaxed—his eyes were not as burning. It was no doubt foolish to feel as he did. But Redford had spoken words to him that no one else ever dared. And it was not impossible but he had been to one, or all of the Faculty. If he was not inimical, why did he pass, as he had just now, without a word? And the two, fast friends for years! Fairfax forgot that he had forbidden his friend to come.
               But now he goes out alone. How strangely quiet the campus lies in the moonlight. He stops and looks back at the college buildings. Grand and imposing—but solitary. Still, it is nothing new. Every year her sons go forth, some to remain, and others to return; with a new brood sure to come in at the time appointed. One or two dazzling lights shoot upward, and then settle to a level flame. Some friendless tutor, or careful student, that must study at a certain rate, before he can sleep; otherwise it is still, quiet, almost sepulchral, as the moon and the stars look down upon it. The paths, lately full to jostling, are silent—not a footfall, beside his own. Farther on there is the noise and bustle of town life, coming and going like the heaving of a great sea.
               So, occupied with his own thoughts, Fairfax passed the house where he was intending to stop, and was only recalled by the familiar sound of the clock on the steeple. "Nine o'clock." And with this he retraced his steps and entered the private study of President Raffles.
               Two hours later the good president dismissed his guest. There was a tear in his eye, and a tender tone, as he stood for a moment in the moonlight, with the hand of the youth pressed in his own. "I have said all there is for me to say, Bertol. For your own, for your mother's sake, you will remember."
               Bertol Fairfax could not suffer himself to speak. Raising the president's hand he pressed it to his lips, and flew down the steps into the night.
               Late as it was, it was not too late for saloons and fashionable places of amusement. The music sounded strangely sweet, and there was a look of cheerful life, as though the evening had just begun. A feeling of lassitude crept over him. He could hardly walk. The place was inviting. Why not go in and rest for a few minutes? The music would enliven him, and an ice, perhaps, would restore him. Too weak to resist the force of inclination, Bertol Fairfax entered the place where ices and creams and flavored drinks awaken with their cool, delicious breath the sleeping demons. Dazzling with light, and beautified with all of modern art, it was a place well calculated to impose upon poor human nature. A marble palace, festooned and carved with mouldings of thistles and alanthus leaves; paintings and statuary and mosaics. Everywhere the jubilant flow of silvery voices and merry laughter.
               As the light fell on the face of the new comer, a dozen eyes shot out a welcome, and a dozen hands were extended. A few hours before, Fairfax had thought himself alone. Looking over the rooms he recognized several of the fellows, and not a few of the undergraduates. The last surrounded him. With no thought of the promise he had just made, and borne on by the tide of joy and merriment, he took a seat. Ices were temptingly arranged, and wine toned up his thoughts and banished the sense of desolation. Before he left words were whispered that incensed him still more against his friend. Redford was not there. But, as Fairfax once more found himself in the street, he encountered his boyhood's friend, waiting, it would seem, with no other purpose than to see him safely home. Stung by the memory of what had been, the calm, gentle face of Redford roused his passion into fury. Words followed. Blind with anger, frenzied with wine, Fairfax drew a revolver and fired. A groan, a stifled cry, and Redford fell!
               The next—and how the night was passed—Fairfax never knew. Only a vague, indefinite idea of giving himself up to the law. Then, hurrying along the streets, stopping on the long bridge to look down into the water, taking off his hat and thinking how a touch of it would cool the fiery throbbing of his temples. Longing, and still held back, through fear of some poor wretch as wild and wretched as himself, morning found him wandering along the docks, watching the steamers outward bound. His strength was well nigh spent. The fumes of coffee from an old blackwoman's stand came appetizingly. With his hand he wiped the perspiration from his forehead and made his way to the table. The pale, wretched look on the young face awoke the sympathy of the blackwoman. She made her customer take the most comfortable place at table, and brought him coffee and rolls, the best she had. Without questioning, she talked while he drank of the black muddy mixture, and felt better.
               One by one others came to the stand. It was a motley group—old men and young men—but each in rags, blear-eyed and quarrellous.
               "The Petrel" was not to sail until evening. No object to go on board until she was ready to clear the harbor. Wandering into a saloon, frequented by the cleverest of tars, the wretched man flung himself upon a low wooden settle, and looked around with an air of carelessness. Near him was a table, around which several sailors were ranged, drinking whiskey and playing cards. The fumes of alcohol stifled him. A quaint, sickly sensation crept over him. Making a pillow of his hat, he tried to sleep.
               The voices of the men waxed louder. More bottles were uncorked—other tables were brought forth, cards were produced, and games went on. The small hump-backed man behind the counter grew jubilant. His fingers pressed over the gold pieces in his palm, his black eyes sparkled and danced as he saw the piles on the different tables. Soon it would all be his. It was safe to count upon it. Rubbing his hands, he smiled up to the cut decanters standing in rows on the polished shelves. "You are handsome. You do your work well. It is impossible for these men to resist you."
               It seemed to Fairfax that he heard the words. He ventured a look from under his hat. He saw the sparkle of the fiery fluid. There was a fascination that held him spell bound. Gradually the bottles enlarged, flames wrapped them in. Demons leaped from shelf to shelf, and from cork to cork. With airy sprightliness they filled tiny goblets with choice liquor. With charming grace one of these approached him. He looked at the sparkling creature, bewitchingly beautiful. A gossamer veil enveloped her, but did not obscure her inimitable loveliness. Reaching forth her snowy hand, she held the jewelled cup. The fluid glowed and sparkled. "Drink!" said the beauty, in her most honeyed tones, "Drink, and grow strong. What is life without strength and enjoyment?"
               True, and he was sick, and faint, and needed it. There was but a drop, so little it could not possibly injure him. The resolve was taken, or rather, there was no will to resist the fascinating tempter. Fairfax started up and put forth his hand.
               "What will you have?" asked the barkeeper, "you look faint. A hot julep will do you good, and after that, something iced and flavored, to make you sleep. Wait a bit, I have it," and the man took down a decanter that sparkled and danced like a thing of life.
               "What now, Lura? What now? Can't find papa?" said the man to a little girl who had just entered. The vision of the child passed before Fairfax's eyes. A small, halfclad figure, with a sweet, oval face, eyes of the deepest blue, and hair that rippled away from the torn gypsy hat in waves of soft, flossy brightness. A lovely face, but unmistakably takably sad; nothing of the child-face, but rather, the face of an angel fettered and hedged around with the sins of another, for whom she was to do penance all her life.
               "Out of the way, little one! out of the way! Papa is not here," continued the barkeeper, with evident kindness; but still, with a touch of impatience, that betrayed itself to the child's heart. Her breast heaved, tears filled the blue eyes; the sweet child-voice trembled.
               "Has he been here this morning?"
               "He comes every morning, but he don't stay. He never does, now."
               "I can't find him anywhere," continued the child.
               "Come, come," returned the man, with growing impatience. "He is not here. Go. But stop. You are tired—hungry, perhaps."
               "I am not hungry; but mother is worse, and I want to find father."
               "Here, take this. You wont feel half as badly," and the bar-keeper held out the glass.
               "Hold, man!" exclaimed Fairfax, springing to his feet. "Not a drop for that child!" and the speaker clasped the brown hand and looked into the blue eyes. There was trust and confidence in the face, and instinctively Lura nestled to Fairfax's side.
               "What is that child to you? Her father is here frequently, will be here again, a poor drunken devil that always manages to have enough for a drink; though I suspect his wife and child suffer for the want of it. Let her drink—it will do her good. And you too; let me fill a glass."
               "Not a drop for either of us!"
               The words had lost their power. Fairfax no longer saw fascination in the cup, the cut-glass decanters no longer dazzled, he did not see the demons; the hand of the child was in his own, the soft blue eyes were raised to his trustingly.
               "Let us go into the fresh air," he said to Lura.
               The barkeeper growled in rage. He had lost a customer. There was a furious curse, mingled with a click of glasses and uproarious laughter. Fairfax was walking the street with Lura's hand grasping his tightly. Without knowing him, she was confident.
               "Will you really go home with me?" asked the child. "Do you mean it? Mamma will be very glad."
               "Tell me of your mamma. Has she been long ill?"
               "Almost ever since we came over. But then it wasn't so bad."
               "What wasn't so bad? You mean she was not so ill?"
               "Mamma used to be pretty, papa was good, and we had nice times; but now"—and here she hesitated a moment—"it makes mamma sick. And last night she woke me up and whispered that she might die."
               "Die!" gasped Fairfax. "And if she dies, what will become of you?"
               "Mamma said, if I could find papa in time he would be sorry, and if he was really sorry he would not drink any more. And when she was dead he would take me home. And God would care for us by the way."
               "Drink—drink! your father drinks, child!"
               "He didn't always, mamma says, that is, he didn't take too much. You don't take too much, do you, sir?"
               The small oval face was full of enthusiasm; the blue eyes misty.
               "One glass is too much, little one. But where are we going. Where do you live?" stammered Fairfax.
               "Are you afraid?" continued the child. "God is down here, and bad as the people are they never trouble us, only father sometimes."
               "Do you often come down here for your papa?"
               "Most every night, mamma and me used to come. But since she is so weak, I have to come alone; and not alone, mamma says God comes with me. Maybe I couldn't come all by myself. God never lets anything hurt me."
               "Are you never afraid, Lura?"
               "When I am, I just look up and ask God, and after that I don't mind. Mamma says she has His promise, and he never forgets."
               
               "Does not the noise trouble your mother, now she is so ill?"
               "Nothing troubles her, only she wants papa to stop so bad. If he could just stop once, mamma says, he would not do it. But she tries, and so do I try to help papa. There is nothing I wouldn't do for him. God knows all about it, sir, mamma and me both tell him, and it comforts us."
               Fairfax could not answer, and the child grew silent. Farther away—past haunts filthier than the student had ever dreamed of; the air was pestilent; men and women looked like infuriated beings, with little children hardly human; broken pavements, slippery with filth; piles of garbage; scurvy-looking dogs, and top-heavy sailors, through which they picked their way slowly.
               "Are we almost there?" gasped Fairfax, overcome by the stench and the violence of his exertion.
               "Here we are," said the child. "The stairs are not so bad as they look. Will you be afraid to come up? No, not quite yet. Please stay where you are. Let me run up and see if papa has come."
               The sun was dropping near the horizon. Fairfax began to feel that his walk with the child had been too long. Judging from the sun, the Petrel would sail very soon. He was afraid to stay longer, and was turning in his mind how he could escape, when Lura came down the rickety stairs. Her face was colorless, and her blue eyes full of tears.
               "Papa has come, and this is one of his bad days. Mamma says she is very much obliged to you for bringing me home, but you must not meet papa to-day. Will you come some other time to see mamma?" and drawing herself up, the child stood on the stair and held forth her brown hand. "Good-by, sir, for mamma and me."
               "I would be glad to come and see your mamma some other day, but I am to go away on a long journey, and may never again return to the city," stammered Fairfax.
               "We are not to be here always. When God takes mamma, papa will be sure to stop drinking, and then we shall go home in a ship."
               Fairfax did not dare to hear more; slipping a small gold piece into Lura's hand, he said: "I shall remember Lura. May God guard thee and keep thee, child."
               A blush crept up to the white brow of the child, as she glanced down to the gold piece; then raising her eyes, she said, naively:
               "I cannot thank you half enough for this. May I kiss you, please?"
               Taking the child in his arms, Fairfax received the proffered kiss. Whatever it was, drink was the cause, and misery and degradation was the inevitable result. Looking into the deep earnest eyes of the child, the old life with its withering anguish came up before him. When no larger than Lura the cup was held to his lips. To what had it not led him, through what depths of misery had he already passed? What was reserved for him in the future?
               The child was standing on the stairs. Fairfax walked away without once daring to look back. At present there was no desire to drink—the little clinging fingers, the tender look of the child, the kiss had saved him. With renewed strength he was walking in the direction of the sea. The "Petrel" was making preparations to sail. Borne along with the crowd he crossed the gunwale. One look at the city he had left, and the terrible secret had well-nigh escaped him. Hiding away in his room he tried to crush it down, tried to thrust out the memory of what he had done. Like Cain, there was a brand upon his forehead; henceforth his name would be linked with those who could meditate deeds of blood and do them.
            
            
               
               II. At Sea.
               MORNING dawned; the glory of the heavens was over him; the grandeur of the sea round about him; there was no longer tumult in his heart. All through the long hours he had tried to think calmly, and now there was no tremor, no restlessness. A deep calm had settled over his spirits, but it was the fixed calm of despair.
               Leaving his state-room, Fairfax walked along the deck. Already several passengers had gathered in the forecastle; but not a face that he knew. Without recognition there was friendliness. Representatives from almost every country. The isolation, the danger consequent to a long voyage, was for the time a strong cord to unite them in a common brotherhood.
               Leaning against the ship's side, Fairfax could not help contrasting the rosy flush of the morning with the day preceding. How long ago! and still how painfully near. Once more he sees it all; the calm look on Redford's face he now interprets differently; the gentle words, seen in the light of the morning, have a different significancy. Could he only undo it! Could he recall the hours. Could he have the privilege of saying that he was wrong. Could he only thank his generous friend. But, no! he saw him fall, heard the groan. Saw the white face grow still whiter in its agony! It will haunt him till his dying day.
               "You are ill!" said a gentleman, rising and offering Fairfax a chair.
               With an effort the young man reached it.
               "Not ill. And still, I feel a little heady," was the answer.
               "We shall all, very soon, be on the same list," said a white-haired man, whom they addressed as "Professor." "As many times as I have crossed the ocean, I never fail to feel a spasm of sea-sickness; just enough to keep me in fresh sympathy with those who have never before been on the sea."
               "Is it that, or is it attributable to mental phases?" asked a lady, whose countenance betokened a near relationship to the Professor, and whom he called Amelia.
               "I have got to learn that sea-sickness is affected by mental or moral change," said Captain Benson; "it is a sort of tariff Neptune lays upon all who pass through his territory."
               "I have observed," continued Amelia, "that when my eyes are raised and my heart fixed on a worthy object, that I am less liable to sea-sickness than when my thoughts are roving from one thing to another, with no particular attraction."
               "That is very possible," returned the professor. "The mind has power to raise the body to a certain level, that is, the mind concentrated upon an object that completely absorbs it, is for the time oblivious to physical pain. But such flights are of short duration. Earth is the proper abode of mortals, and culture and thought cannot exempt the body from suffering."
               The splendor of a newly risen sun was before them: arrows of light crimsoned the sea and faded into golden lustre on the distant land.
               "And still, with all of this matchless splendor, man ignores the author and upholder; freighting ships and seeing them go down, he fails to recognize a higher power, asking nothing and giving nothing," said one, whom there was no mistaking for a clergyman.
               There was music in the voice. Insensibly Fairfax was attracted. Silence took the place of speech. The glory of the invisible, the grandeur of this ocean mirror, the vastness,—still held in the hollow of His hand, forbid utterance. At length the professor said:
               "I have never been able to harmonize with those who speak of the sea as a vast waste. To me it is a thing of life, with passion and emotion like a sentient being. Lashed into fury by the winds, it is a demon floating upon ruin; opening its huge jaws, and drawing in the ships; and still, with all this display of power, obedient to His will whose slightest whisper is a command, "Peace, be still."
               Amelia was looking over the sea. Lifting her blue eyes, she said, simply:
               "I am like you, father, in this respect. The sea is to me like a human being swayed by passion, with this difference: there is no regret, no sorrow after the ruin made. Grandly still and majestic we look upon the great display of waters, and we are filled with awe and reverence. Not so a human heart stirred with passion and led on to evil deeds. With such there remains a scar, to bear witness to the wrong. Never again can it be as it has been."
               A shudder passed over Fairfax's face. A cold chill caused him to tremble; faintness crept over him. 'Never again can it be, as it has been.' Thrusting his fingers through his hair, he swept back the heavy mass, feeling the wind play lightly in the tangled mesh; but losing nothing of the depression, the almost despair that threatened him. 'Was it possible the professor knew? Did Amelia imagine? Did she see the brand upon his forehead?' 'Never again.' Not a culprit flying from justice; but a lost soul swayed by passion and led to do what he could not undo.
               Resting his head against the chair, Fairfax watched the play of the sun rays upon the water; glancing up at the faces of father and child, and reading the peace, the trust, in strange contrast to the dull, cold throbbing of his own heart.
               By degrees conversation became more general. Problems were stated, and new theories shot upward. Questions of state policy were discussed and the peculiarities and excellences of each form of government duly conversed.
               After breakfast, the discourse turned upon the evidence of God's providential care, as seen in the experiences of those present; and in order to give life and animation each one was to give a brief account, in which he or she was a personal actor.
               
               The clergyman commenced.
               "I do not know that I can do better than to relate an incident connected with my visit to San Francisco. It is several years since. Worn down with ministerial labor, my people were so thoughtful as to allow me a vacation of six months, proposing generously a trip to Europe. Having heard much of the health-inspiring climate of California, and inclined to see my own country before I went abroad, I decided to go there. A few weeks in the Yosemite, exploring the wonders that met me at every step, the giant trees, and colossal mountains; the wondrous floral kingdom; fauna, and myriad insect life, gave tone to my system, and strength and mental force, such as I had not known for years.
               "At length my vacation was wearing to a close. With renewed strength I was eager to stand once more in my place. My people were anxious. Letters reached me full of love and Christian sympathy, and still, with an underlying note, urging my return at the earliest moment. I grew impatient—the valley of the Yosemite no longer satisfied me. My work was calling—I must go. The "Golden Gate" was about to leave port. Letters were forwarded—my passage was secured. The day arrived; the good-by was said, with friends to see me aboard. I stood upon the shore, when a note was handed me. It was but a line, hardly that, but of an import that bore hard upon duty. There was a quick, fierce struggle. My inclination urged me to step aboard—principle held me back. I re-read the note, and decided to remain."
               There was a pause. The clergyman raised his handkerchief to his eyes.
               "It may show a weakness that you cannot possibly excuse; but to this day, the remembrance causes a thrill of fear and awe. My heart was like a child crying for that his father knew would be to his ruin. Yet, I did not see it in this light. My work was calling me, my people would be disappointed. As I saw the steamer move off, I was torn with anguish. Reaching out my arm, I longed to detain her. Had she turned back, I verily believe lieve I should have jumped aboard. But, no, she did not return, neither did she enter port.
               I need not repeat what befel the "Golden Gate." But when, not a week later, a few of the large company I had seen standing on her deck were brought back, I felt as I had never before, how inscrutable are His ways, how past finding out. Rash and impetuous as I had been, His watchful tenderness had held me back. My work was not yet done. But I was to reach my people in a manner different from what I had planned out."
               Amelia looked to her father, with a face full of enthusiasm. It was the professor's turn.
               "The story that I have to tell concerns my father more than myself, as he was the principal actor in what I am about to relate. The son of Catholic parents, he was sent from Mantua to Germany to school. The consequence was that he returned so far given to Protestantism that he could not abide the confessional, neither could he be induced to pay the least attention to the prescribed rules of the Church. To bring him to terms he was threatened with confinement in a convent; and seeing no alternative, he ran away, pursuing his journey northward through Lombardy, up the lake of Como, and across the Septimer over the stile that separated Austrian Italy from Switzerland. The Canton Grisons was the largest in the confederation, or rather it was made up of twenty-six independent republics, having each a complete legislative, executive, and judiciary department. But I am wandering. My father's desire was to reach some friends in St. Gall, and he had chosen this route, not alone because he had little money, but it would take him into the wildest Alpine region and among vast glaciers. As for a road, as we now see it, there was none; streams and ravines crossed and re-crossed, and at times with not a vestige of a path. Picking his way through the snow and frozen gravel; sliding down rocks, polished by ice, rain and snow, landing in a snow-bank, or a briery thicket, was in itself no ordinary hardship. Still, he did not repent. The thought of convent life made it all easy. And at night, as he came to some Alpine hut, glad of a crust and a bundle of straw on which to stretch his weary limbs, his sleep was sweet and restful.
               "At length, mistaking the path, and losing himself in a large wood, he came upon a solitary house made of logs pinned together and placed lengthwise. The interstices between the logs were filled in with fine cut straw and mud, which, when dry, made them wind and water tight. The roof was formed of logs pinned together and covered with thick wooden slabs, and for further protection, enormous stones were laid upon the slabs, and kept from falling by rows of wooden pins. The lower floor was divided into two sections, one of which served as a stable, the other as a cellar, in which milk and cheese were kept. The second floor was reached by a succession of steps. The door, if such it could be called, having neither latch, locks nor hinges, was ajar, and the first object that caught the traveller's eye was a child tottering over the floor. Making his way in, he found the mother, a young woman, in an almost dying condition, depriving herself of the least morsel of food, for the sake of the boy.
               "Word by word her story was told. Her husband had been set apart for the priesthood. During his studies he became a protestant, and married. Such an outrage upon the Mother Church, was not to be forgiven. Spies followed him everywhere, and to the fastnesses of the mountains he had come for protection. More than a week had gone by since he went forth for food, and the young wife felt sure some evil had befallen him. Too weak to carry her child, and unwilling to leave him, she had asked and trusted, that God would send a deliverer.
               "When the traveller pursued his journey to St. Gall, the little Bertrand went with him. The Alpine hut was tenantless."
               "Thy father!" sobbed Amelia. "If the poor mother could have known."
               The professor caressed the bright head and drew it to his shoulder.
               
               "What became of the child. Of Bertrand?" asked a lady.
               "My father adopted the child, and educated him as his own son. In the speaker you see the once little Bertrand."
               All had not spoken; but the audience had materially changed. Some had gone below and others were beginning to feel the terrible torture of sea-sickness. Fairfax had never been on shipboard, and as the breeze sprang up, he wrapped his cloak around him and walked up and down the deck, eliciting from Captain Benson the remark that he must be an old sailor.
               "On the contrary, I have never been to sea before," was the answer.
               "That accounts for your confidence; either an old sailor or a new one," returned the captain, with a good-humored laugh.
               "Is there nothing in temperament, or in habit? Are there no exceptions?" asked Fairfax.
               "Wait till we have a full swell, and then decide."
               Captain Benson was an intelligent man, well read, and at home on all questions of the day. Interested in the young voyager, conversation was directed in such a manner that it was next to impossible for Fairfax to refrain from speaking of himself and of the journey he had undertaken. At present he did not know where it might end, and as he thought of it the color faded from his cheeks, the light from his eyes; making it plain to the understanding of the practical captain, that there was a page in his history on which it was painful for him to look, and on account of which this voyage was undertaken.
               The "Petrel" was a staunch ship, wellmanned, and before night they were steaming away with everything favorable for a prosperous voyage.
               "We have lost the land breeze. Look out," said Captain Benson, as he left Fairfax.
               "A good time to test the theory of concentration of ideas," was the reply.
               "A fallacy, you may be sure. In any event, I advise you to fortify with a glass of brandy and water," rejoined the captain.
               "Then you consider brandy an essential?"
               "In pharmacy—given and taken like other poisons."
               Had Captain Benson fully understood the constitution and habits of his listener, he would not have spoken in this manner. As it was, Fairfax was induced to take a glass, and this was followed by another, and still another, that confined him, under the name of seasickness, to his berth for several days. With his brain on fire, he could not keep from crying out, putting forth his hands to thrust back the hideous fiends that came to torture him, taunting him with the crime he had committed, and urging him to drink, as the only surcease from anguish.
               Then came the sweet, sad faces of his mother and sister, begging him in tones of tenderest love and pity, not to drink. Lying on his narrow pallet he pictured the rooms, the windows, the very chairs, and with them the occupants bowed and broken-hearted. Then he thought of his boyhood's friends, sharing the same room, sleeping on the same pillow. Could he in some way expiate his crime! Could he only undo it! How was it accomplished? By what agency effected? Sobs and cries were of no avail. Could he call the dead to life. Gladly would he lie down in the grave, could he but undo what he had deliberately done.
               Then came a change; he was at home. Lura's hand was in his own, and the blue upturned eyes were full of trust and confidence. Strange, he had not before remarked it. Lura and Amelia's faces were extremely alike: the same blue eyes and gold-brown hair, the same pearly cheeks, with the slightest tinge of carmine, and each with a voice, low, musical, vibratory, haunting in its tone, and inciting to worthy service and noble deeds.
               Fairfax was asleep; his breath was healthful. With a face of agony Captain Benson bent over him. His hand was on the shoulder of the sleeper.
               "Rouse up, Fairfax, the storm is upon us!"
               
               There was no time for words; the captain was once more in his place.
               Calm as he had not been since he came on board, the traveller arose, dressed, and stepped resolutely forth. A terrific spectacle met his gaze. The sea was lashed into fury, the white wrath of passion curling and wreathing the mad leap of the waves, while the sailors run up and down the ropes. Overhead thick masses of angry clouds rolled in tumult. The captain with his trumpet shouting to the men; the "aye, aye" of the sailors; the groans of the laboring vessel, the shriek of the timbers, the shrill grating of the cordage.
               Fairfax had prayed for death; now it drew near, a terrible fascination seized him, he realized the danger and it strengthened him. Approaching Captain Benson, he asked:
               "Is there anything that I can do, captain?"
               "Calm the passengers. Say to them the safety of the vessel depends in a great measure upon their self-control."
               The clouds grew darker; settling down over the reeling ship with a fearful weight. Thunder crashed along the beams, and the black mass disgorged liquid fire. Another furious blast with a crash of thunder that rent the heavens, and the mast went rattling through the rigging, carrying more than one poor soul into eternity.
               It was pitiful; some wild with fright, others with clasped hands and eyes uplifted in supplication—with still others doing what they could to calm and give peace. Everywhere Fairfax was seen, inspiring by his presence. The look of despair on his face had given place to one of confidence: there was no tremor in his voice, his bearing was free from even a shadow of fear. Now was his desire to be gratified. Nerved with strength he would do what he could to save life. For himself, he was only too glad if his life were soon to pay the forfeit of his crime.
               Side by side with Fairfax was the professor and Amelia. The light of a noble soul was on each face, the confidence of those who trust in God sustained them. With more intensity, if possible, the storm swept on; faces grew white with terror. Lower trailed the clouds; the heavens seemed one sheet of flame. A consultation was held, and then issued the command:
               "To the boats with the women and children! Not a man step in till they are all safe!"
               With difficulty the long boat was lowered. Hardly had the women and children taken their places when word came to move off. The professor with Amelia were the last.
               "We part here, my child!" was said convulsively.
               "Step in!" cried Fairfax. "Not a moment to be lost."
               The first boat was underway; the second was filled and swamped instantly. Captain Benson's face was of ashy pallor. Still his energy did not abate.
               "If we can hold on for half an hour," he said to Fairfax.
               Moments seemed ages. The tempest was not yet spent, and the ship was unmanageable. Sullenly the guns went booming over the water. Was there any to answer? Could man or ship live in such a storm?
               "Lash yourselves to whatever you can find!" came through the trumpet, and the next instant Captain Benson with the second officer was washed into the sea.
               With firm hands Fairfax assisted the remaining seamen, binding the ropes, and urging them to put forth every effort.
               "Now for yourself; it can't be long," was said firmly.
               "I am ready," was the response. Fairfax bowed his head. A life he had taken, and now he was to yield his own. A life for a life. Would God accept it? Would it atone?
               Slow and solemn, as a funeral knell, another gun. The survivors scarcely heard it. Hope died in their hearts: rolling and tumbling, without a mast, and with none to guide her, still the men clung to the wreck. A sail had been seen to the leeward, before the storm; there was a possibility that she might not be now far away.
               Dark and terrible as it was, memory was awake. Once again the face of his murdered friend rose up before him, grandly calm and beautiful. His boyhood's friend, one whom he had loved, whose confidence had been his, one with whom he had conversed freely, laying bare the inmost chambers of his heart—and when taunted, raising his hand with a murderous blow.
               Lifting his eyes to the storm, the wretched man saw a black ungainly bird following in the wake of the dismantled vessel. With eyes strained to bursting, he saw the terrible thing rise and flap his wings defiantly. The eyes shot out sparks of flame, the huge, ferocious beak was beating about for a human heart. A cold tremor passed over him, his knees trembled, his hands fell powerless. With frightful cries the bird spread his wings and soared up through the black mass of angry cloud. Maddened with rage it screeched and hissed, and flapped its wings, the fiery eyes darting out jets of flame, and the devouring beak still searching for a human heart. Was it an avenger to mock his agony? To show him that there was no escape from his doom?
               The wind and the sea were sweeping over them. The thunder bellowed, and the red lightning flashes made the darkness still more terrible. Some were washed off, and others, insane with terror, leaped into the boiling flood. While the huge bird flapped his monstrous wings, and laughed, and hissed, and jeered, coming nearer and nearer, then darting away only to return with more hideous torture.
               There was a groan. It recalled Fairfax. Crawling over the deck, he found the sufferer.
               "How long can this last, comrade?"
               It was a human voice—it roused him.
               "God only knows," was the answer.
               Again the rattling, crashing thunder, the terrible glare, while the wind swept them at a furious rate. The men started to their feet; there was a shock as though each timber in the ship had parted. A sudden rocking, a strange rolling, and the doomed men felt themselves going down, down into the depths of the sea.
            
            
               
               III. Hofnels.
               THE bells on the cathedral were ringing for vespers; clear, distinct; now swelling into deep full tones, then dying away into a low, tender minor that thrilled the heart. Far along the neighboring villages the silvery sound of the vesper bell; while noise and traffic ceased. The seller paused, and the buyer fingered his beads; the water-carriers stood with urns gracefully poised; the herd boy and the muleteer bowed their heads and muttered an ave; while the fisherman in his shell, and the boatman drawing his skiff into shore, crossed himself and said a prayer.
               In a sick-room a maiden stood watching the quiet breath of her sleeping charge. Sweet and clear the vesper bell did not waken him. A smile parted the red lips of the young girl, and noiselessly crossing the floor she knelt by the open window, her blue eyes turned to the heavens, and wholly unmindful of the cathedral. All are at prayer; the flowers on the wall bow their heads, the pinks and the scarlet-creeper burn incense. Through all the air there is a vibratory sound, and the white lids fall, so that Eudora can better see the real cross, can better listen to the benediction, the noiseless chant of evening choristers.
               Down the church steps come the crowd of eager, anxious worshippers. Ulrica stops to speak with the reverend father. Her countenance is bright and hopeful—the blessing of the Virgin is upon her. Eudora looks down in time to see the father's hand placed caressingly on the brown head of her sister; then she runs to open the door; both have prayed, and each has the sweet assurance in her heart that the prayer was heard and answered.
               "How is he?" questioned Ulrica.
               "He is asleep, and very quiet," was Eudora's reply.
               
               "I felt sure of it. The Virgin has heard us!'
               "Hush! Ulrica, our prayers are always heard."
               "I know, but"—
               "But what?" asked Eudora.
               "The Virgin has a heart of pity; she knows just how we have felt about this stranger. You know, the people at the stone cottage said it was a miracle the way he was saved, and, if it had not been that our father knows so much about these things, he never would have breathed. I believe and shall always believe it was the Virgin. She knew that he had a mother, and perhaps he has a sister."
               "Hush! sister. He wakens."
               Gliding to the bedside, Eudora laid her hand upon the white forehead.
               "You are better, Herr Fairfax. We are very glad."
               The sick man made an effort to speak, but could not. His eyes wandered. He could not so much as think. Eudora observed this, and added, soothingly:
               "Do not try to think—do not question where you are. You are with friends, is not that enough?"
               A look out of the wondering eyes was the only answer.
               "For more than two hours you have slept quietly. And now you must eat, and then sleep again, and to-morrow I am quite sure you will feel strong, and then you can ask all the questions, and we shall answer with pleasure."
               All the while Eudora was soothing the temples with her soft fingers, playing with the rings of hair, and smiling down into the worn face.
               "Just as I expected!" was said in a pleasant voice, and Eudora turned to see Doctor Kaufmann standing in the door, with Ulrica directly behind him and laughing mischievously. "Just as I expected! talking with my patient, Fräulein Eudora."
               "I said to him that he must eat and sleep, and to-morrow he should ask questions, and it would be a pleasure for us to answer them. Is that not better than to be lying here trying to think of everything that he can't possibly know until somebody shall tell him?"
               And Eudora's face was turned to the doctor's with so much gravity that the little man laughed outright.
               "No great harm done; but my patient must not laugh, neither must he cry. Above all, he must not talk;" and lifting the hand of the invalid, the doctor looked questioningly into the thin face.
               The sick man's lip trembled.
               "All right!" exclaimed the doctor, moved by the expression of the upturned face, "pulse is good; no headache—weak, that is all. No pains?" continued the doctor, asking and answering so as to win the shortest possible replies.
               The invalid made an effort to raise his right arm. A twinge of pain passed over his face.
               "I see the arm is not yet well, and the bandages trouble you. Perhaps I can loosen them a trifle, provided you will not attempt to use it. And mind, Eudora, you must feed him and wait on him, and tell him stories, and sing to him. Can you bear to make yourself very tyrannical and disagreeable for a few days, Fräulein?"
               "I will do quite as you tell me, Doctor Kaufmann. I would have this man become strong again."
               "I know you would, child. We all would. And there is no reason why he will not. And now he must eat and sleep, and tomorrow he can talk."
               The broth was brought, and while Eudora took the bowl and prepared to feed the invalid with her own hand, Doctor Kaufmann followed Ulrica into the next room.
               "A letter from Professor Edelstein tells me that he is quite recovered. My wife expects him, with Amelia, to stop with her a month, perhaps."
               "When will he arrive?" asked Ulrica.
               "Before the month is up."
               "Will Herr Fairfax be strong by that time?"
               "I hope so. He has nothing to do but eat and sleep, and be petted by you and Eudora."
               "Frau Hatzfeld gives him the most care."
               "Frau Hatzfeld! Nonsense! Eudora does little else but look at him. She could not see a worm suffer without a feeling of pity."
               "That is because"—
               "Because what?"
               "Because Herr Fairfax is from America."
               "How do you know that?"
               "The professor said as much."
               "What more do you know of him?"
               "We know that his name is Bertol."
               "Anything else?"
               "That he has a mother, and we imagine a sister, of whom he is very fond."
               "Still more?"
               "You are teasing me, Doctor Kaufmann," and Ulrica's cheeks were scarlet.
               "Trust women to find out anything, especially if the object is a young man, handsome, and an invalid," said the doctor, without seeming to notice the young girl's embarrassment.
               "Knowing little or nothing of him, it was impossible for us not to listen to what he said in his delirium, and putting this and that together"—said Ulrica, with a little spirit.
               "I know, I know, you could not," said the doctor, now just beginning to see that Ulrica really felt hurt.
               "Karl is in America," said Ulrica, showing her thoughts.
               "And you have done by Herr Fairfax, as you would like one in America to do by Karl, under the like circumstances?"
               "That is all."
               "I hope Karl will never be found in like circumstances. If he is, I feel sure this service of yours will be remembered."
               Doctor Kaufmann had gone. Eudora set aside the bowl from which she had fed the invalid. Then she looped up the muslin curtains. The windows were open; the soft evening breeze stirred the rings of brown hair on the sick man's forehead; the roses and carnations breathed their sweetness into his face. He sighed heavily.
               
               "Do you wish for anything? Would you like me to drop the curtain?"
               "The air is sweet. I like it. And the clouds," the invalid made out to answer.
               "The clouds are beautiful as they are tonight; so full of blessing, and bending low, as if to drop it on our heads," replied Eudora.
               "A pretty thought," and the invalid drew in his breath, and with it the life-giving influence of the pinks and the roses.
               "Everything is beautiful, and everything is thankful," murmured Eudora.
               "I am not thankful," said the sick man, and he turned his face so that his eyes saw nothing but the wall.
               Eudora left the window and went and sat down by the side of the invalid. Not before had she hesitated to lift the rings of dark hair and soothe with her cool fingers the broad forehead. Now, she trembled, and her fingers played awkwardly with the counterpane. She felt a burning blush on her cheeks. The words were gone.
               "You have been good to me," said the in valid, not turning his eyes from the wall. "I am thankful for this."
               A golden gleam shot over the room. It gilded the wall and the pillows, and rested like a crown on the head of the invalid. Eudora felt new strength from the sudden brightness. She dared to speak.
               "Only Doctor Kaufmann will not be thankful, if I permit you to talk, or even to think. If you should, I must dare to make myself very disagreeable," and the face was dimpled with smiles.
               "That would not become you," said the invalid.
               "Then you must not compel me to attempt it. So please drink in the sweet influences, and let me sing you to sleep."
               "If you will not go away, and make yourself disagreeable," said the invalid, fixing his eyes on the young girl's face.
               "Do you mind if it is a German song? I cannot sing quite as well in any other language."
               "Just as you please."
               
               "And as I sing, you must go to sleep."
               There was the shadow of a smile, but no words. 
                     
                        "Ich denke dein,
                        Wenn durch den Hain
                        Der Nachtigallen
                        Accorde Schallen.
                        Wann denkst du mein?
                     
                     
                        "Ich denke dein
                        Im Dammerschein
                        Der Abendhelle
                        Am Schattenquelle.
                        Wo denkst du mein?
                     
                     
                        "Ich denke dein
                        Mit susser Pein,
                        Mit bangem Sehnen
                        Und heissen Thrönen
                        Wie denkest du mein?
                     
                     
                        "O denke mein
                        Bis zum Verein
                        Auf bessern Sterne!
                        In jener Ferne
                        Denk' ich mir dein."
                     
                  
               
               The voice was sweet and clear, and the melody soothed the breast of the invalid. A peaceful expression rested on his countenance. His sleep was free and easy as a child's.
               "Eudora," whispered Ulrica, "Father Auberthal desires to see him."
               "He sleeps. The Father may not see him," was answered instantly.
               "Father Auberthal is a good man. Herr Fairfax is better, and the Father feels that it is right to see him."
               "If he will step very lightly and only look at him," returned Eudora.
               Father Auberthal crossed the hall on tiptoe. Gently he bent over the prostrate youth. Then he clasped his hands and breathed three times on his eyes, his cheeks, his lips, making the sign of the cross three several times. This done, he drew up his tall spare form, and looked into the pure calm face of the Virgin.
               "Holy mother, we thank thee!" and falling on his knees he murmured a prayer and went out.
               "He is now quite safe," whispered Ulrica, dusting her chin with a blush rose. "I cannot tell why, and still, when I look at him, I see only Karl, and what I do for him seems to be done for Karl."
               "I think of Karl and of Paul. For aught we know, Ulrica, Paul may have fallen still lower. I cannot forget how proud we all were of him. And to think that this must not be, to know that his appetite has destroyed him."
               "Let us hope Karl will find him. And if he does, I feel sure he will stop."
               "I hope he will; but until Karl comes, we cannot be sure." Eudora's voice was full of sadness.
               "It would kill father to have him come and not find Paul. And what if he can't stop? They say there is a time when they cannot. It is like nearing the falls. Too late, they realize their danger. They hear the roar, they see the precipice, they cry out; but it is too late. Faster and faster the rapid whirl of the waters; there is a momentary pause, and the leap is made."
               "This is a frightful picture. I cannot think of it," said Eudora.
               A sigh broke over Ulrica's lips. She turned to look at the invalid. He was sleeping quietly.
               "Come into the porch; the air is healthful, it will do you good," was gently whispered.
               Arm in arm the two girls went out. The golden glow had turned to purple. Frau Hatzfeld was humming a song, and the smell of savory dishes told that supper was being prepared.
               "Father Auberthal is a good man—he means well; but I wish he had not done it," said Eudora. "Herr Fairfax comes from America, and Karl writes that they do not worship in this manner."
               "A great many do!" returned Ulrica.
               "But not all. And who can tell if the sick man would desire it?"
               "It cannot harm him."
               "But, he may not like it. He may think that we desire to win him to this faith."
               "You are too easily troubled about little things. Father Auberthal is a good man, he would not do anything wrong. The man was ill in our house. It was our duty to surround him with good influences. Too weak to think for himself, we have acted for him. I can see no wrong in it," responded Ulrica.
               "So far as kindness and attention, this is as it should be. But in the matter of faith, Karl thinks"—
               "I know, Karl thinks," continued Ulrica, with a little more warmth than usual, "that we have too many forms. I only hope that he will not be an apostate when he returns. If he is, somebody else will be sure to join him. And, if I am not mistaken, Father Auberthal thinks as much."
               A soft blush suffused Eudora's cheeks. She understood the allusion; more than once had she been accused of a leaning to apostacy. Still, there was neither coldness nor severity used. "We must watch closely," said Father Auberthal. And thus it was, that the sign of the cross made over the invalid sleeper was not satisfactory to Eudora.
               For a time the two walked silently. Confined as they had been to the sick-room, it was joy to breathe in the air coming fresh from the sea; every step taking them farther away from the town. Children were playing about with a few old women, in short bright-colored petticoats, with white towering caps, to watch their gambols and keep them from straying too far away. Near the water, fishermen's huts were scattered; in one place clustering into a hamlet with a round tower standing on a promontory that overlooked the sea. The soft dreamy twilight threw a veil of beauty over these humble homes; over the fishing-smacks, and the bent, twisted men, spreading their nets along the shore. Others were just coming in with the day's haul; while others still, smoked their pipes at leisure outside the cabin door. To each and all the young girl nodded, not at all disconcerted by the strong fishy odor, mingled with smoke and garlic. At the foot of the round tower sat an old seaman. He had taken off his long blue coat and spread it over the crisp, red grass, and on it were seated a boy and girl, each with faces of marked loveliness. The boy had a violin on which he had been playing, while the girl sat curled up into a ball, her blue eyes fixed intently on the player's face, mutely waiting for more. The weather-beaten face of the man was turned to the sea, and in his hand he held an old field glass with which he was trying to make out a distant sail.
               "Your eyes must be good, if you can see at this hour," said Ulrica, as she stood by the old seaman.
               "See if yours are better," was answered gruffly, and still with no ill-humor.
               Ulrica raised the glass in her hand, and sent her gaze steadily over the water.
               "The sea line is too indistinct and shadowy. I cannot make out anything," came at length.
               "Neither can I, although I am sure an hour ago I saw a three-master."
               "Had you any idea who she was?" asked Ulrica.
               "The "Hope" has been out a good deal over time. I was thinking it might be her," and the old man wiped his glass and again put it to his eye.
               It was useless. "It is possible we may hear from her before morning," and with this the old man laid down his glass, and moved farther back, leaving his blue coat for the two girls to rest upon.
               All of this time Eudora had been talking with Gebhard and his sister Nannette. The little musician was standing proudly erect, his shapely head thrown back, his violin in one hand and his bow in the other, ready to begin.
               "Music is the only thing we can carry with us," said the old man. "Give us some of your best, Gebhard."
               The dark eyes grew brighter, the boy's bare bosom heaved, and his right arm moved up and down with wonderful precision.
               "You have improved greatly; pray whose composition is that?" asked Eudora, as the right arm relaxed and the boy sank silently to the ground.
               "It is mine," was answered sadly.
               Instantly Nannette's plump arms were around the lad's neck, his head was pressed to the small bosom, her kisses were on his lips, his eyes, his hair. It is beautiful, Gebhard; it has soul in it; everybody thinks so, you must think so."
               As if ashamed of his emotion, the boy put his sister from him, and looked up with a blush. Nannette and grandfather are not such good judges, they like everything I play. This was a new one, and I thought I would try it. Did you like it very much?"
               The look was so ingenuous, the question so frank and free, that both girls answered in a breath:
               "We are much pleased with it. We must hear it again."
               "Not to-night. I could not do it again so quick, but I can play something else, something that I have learned from Christian. Again the little instrument brought forth sounds of such incomparable sweetness, that Eudora and Ulrica looked to see if the lad had in reality nothing but the bow with which to call out such tones.
               At the close he was not sad and overcome as at first; but cheerful and light-hearted.
               "It is only when he plays something that is his own," said Nannette in a whisper. "It is because that he never can play anything just as he hears it."
               "Do you mean, child, that he hears everything that he plays? If he does, how is it that he calls it his own?"
               "I mean just as he himself hears it," and the girl tapped her forehead. "None of the rest hear it, only Gebhard."
               A smile lit up the young girl's face, and she held out her hand to Gebhard. "We must hear you again. And now I think of it, we have a sick stranger in the house. He is fond of music, and when he is able to sit up and enjoy it, will you bring Nannette and play for him?"
               "Indeed I will. I like to play for anybody; but he must love it, mind."
               "There is no danger but he loves music. I have sung him to sleep sometimes, and I cannot be mistaken."
               The shadows were deepening. "We must not stay another minute. Good-by, Nannette, good-by, Gebhard. When we send for you, you are to come."
               "With pleasure," said Gebhard. "Grandfather and Nannette?"
               "Yes, Gebhard, grandfather and Nannette."
               Slowly the old man rose, and drawing very near Eudora, whispered:
               "Have you heard from Paul lately?"
               "Not since Karl left us."
               "Then Karl has not found him yet?"
               "We hope he has. We feel very sure he has before this time. But we have no tidings of it."
               "That sick stranger is from America?"
               "We judged him to be that at first, and Professor Edelstein confirmed it."
               "Coming from the cities, it wouldn't be strange if he had met Paul," and the old man's eye kindled.
               "It is hardly possible," answered Eudora.
               "I fear he has missed us," whispered Ulrica to Eudora. "We must return as fast as we can."
               Little children no longer played on the sands. The women in short petticoats and high caps had disappeared; only the murmuring of the waves, and the far-off voices of fishermen tending their nets.
               Frau Hatzfeld was looking for them.
               "You will be under the necessity of taking supper by yourselves," she said, with a goodhumored laugh.
               "We have been to the Round Tower, and we have listened to Gebhard;" and Eudora flung her arms around the good woman's neck and kissed her on the lips. "And now, can you tell me if Herr Fairfax has slept?"
               "He has slept, and he sleeps still," was the answer.
            
            
               
               IV. Home Life.
               HOFNELS was an ancestral place, and of a certain architectural beauty; but bygone and quaint in its appearance, owing to its being built at different periods, by different architects, and of different style. Notwithstanding the miscellaneous gathering from Grecian temples, Italian villas, Eastern mosques, and Saracenic palaces, the place did not suffer in comparison with the châteaux of the nobility, and the costly and more modern residences of the merchant princes.
               It was built with a small chapel, unique and beautifully finished, and had come down to Captain Eidermann through his maternal grandmother, with this clause: "That the chapel is to be open every saint's day, and that a priest is to perform (either morning or night) the service of the Church."
               This accounts for the interest manifested by Father Auberthal. And the chapel was open every saint's day, and every saint's day only.
               An ancestral home, still Captain Eidermann had not always resided there. His family had lived at Bonn, and there were his children taught. Frau Hatzfeld was a Catholic by birth, and there was no denying that she was much attached to her creed. Ulrica was conscientious and tried to maintain her faith, but Eudora, as we have seen, had broken away from the old moorings, although not so far away, it was hoped, but that she could be brought back by judicious aiming. Hence there were no occasions lost, no kind attention missed, no wily word unuttered. Had it not been for Karl, it might have been, perhaps; but his letters, few and far between as they had been, kept her mind awake; once disturbed, she could no longer walk in the old paths.
               
               Hofnels was near the sea coast, and for this Captain Eidermann had taken up his residence there. And as his ship was always in northern waters, he was most frequently at home. And when Captain Eidermann was at home his neighbors and friends were invariably at Hofnels. The storm which we have noticed proved disastrous to him, inasmuch as he lost all of his cargo and two of his best men. But his near proximity to the distressed "Petrel" enabled him to pick up the passengers that put off in the small boat, among which was his old friend, Professor Eidelmann, and his only child Amelia; likewise two others, one of them the sick youth whom we have already seen under Ulrica's care at Hofnels.
               Under the gentle nursing that was given him, for Paul's sake, as also, owing to the medical skill of Doctor Kaufmann, the invalid was better; and as the days continued mild and pleasant he was treated to a ride over the grounds in a chair, coming back pleased with all that he had seen, but still sad and dreary, and more than ever inclined to gaze out of the window silently.
               On one of these occasions, Ulrica proposed a row on the river.
               "Agreed," laughed Eudora, "provided that Herr Fairfax can accompany us."
               "That he must not do to-night. But he may sit by the window and watch you, as you leave the shore," answered Frau Hatzfeld.
               "You promise not to consider that we neglect you?" Eudora asked, archly.
               "On the contrary, I shall accept it as a personal favor," returned the invalid, with a brighter look than he had worn during his stay at Hofnels.
               "Let me bring your knitting," Eudora said to Frau Hatzfeld, and with smiles and kind words the young girl flew down the avenue to the boat-house. Ulrica stood ready to push off.
               "Step in!" she said to Eudora; "by the time the sun reaches yonder point I will be there."
               "I am to take an oar!" laughed Eudora.
               
               "I invited you to a sail, and I expect you to enjoy it," returned Ulrica.
               Eudora sat in the stern, with her arms folded; her hat was on her knee, and the long, flowing curls were stirred lightly by the breeze. A delicate pink suffused her cheeks, and her blue eyes reflected the calm of her spirit.
               Accustomed to the oar, Ulrica had lost nothing of her old enthusiasm, and putting forth her strength, the light shallop flew over the water. The fishermen's huts were passed, and the Round Tower. The reflections in the water were perfect—a world above and a world below, with a delicate water line between them.
               "Smiling as it looks, there is strength as well as beauty. Do you never think, Eudora, of the forces held in abeyance, the silent power in earth, and air, and water?"
               "And not the less in human forms. We boast of what we can do. But oftentimes the power lies in not doing, rather than in doing," was the reply.
               
                  
               
               
               "The restraining force is not so palpable; people see what we do, they do not always see what we refrain from doing."
               "Which is the stronger, the fire that belches out of the crater, or the deep, everliving flame within? The spent fire can be relit; deep down in the bowels of the earth the power lies hid, ready at any moment to burst forth. With us the feelings are the fires that issue from the mental crater; while deep down in our very being is hid the power that feeds and nourishes. It needs a strong hand to guide and direct it," Eudora answered.
               "For that reason we should be careful not to break over old barriers," returned Ulrica, (not willing to lose an opportunity to touch upon a change of faith). "Especially should the restraining influence be exerted to the full when change of plan or practice is meditated. The temptation may be only a device of the adversary, and if repelled, we grow stronger."
               "If upon examination, one finds that he has been in error, or through conviction of the truth he comes to see that he has been in the wrong, would you not consider it wise for him to change? Would you not consider him a coward if he did not?" asked Eudora.
               "Most assuredly, if he knew. But to set up his own opinion, and that, too, when he is surrounded by those amply able to investigate the truth, and who assure him that what he believes is not an error, but a truth that has come down through the ages," answered Ulrica, while her cheeks were scarlet.
               "If one accustomed to drink water from a rusty pipe should by any chance find his way to the fountain, it would be consistent only with a perverted taste should he go back to the brackish water."
               "This comes of reading your Bible!" said Ulrica, pettishly. "I have cautioned you to no profit. Whoever reads the Bible is unsettled. He knows not what to believe,—he is driven by all winds, and it will be a miracle almost if he is not lost."
               "In order to understand what light is, one must look to the source. In order to know and apprehend the truth, one must seek for truth. The Bible shows us where we may find both light and truth," said Eudora, in a low, tender voice.
               Silence followed, such as had never fallen over the sisters. Neither had thought to say as much, and both trembled in view of the future. To Ulrica it was plain that Eudora had gone too far to ever return. And to Eudora the thought that Ulrica would go to Father Auberthal with the recital of what she had said; more, that Ulrica herself would grow cold and stern, now that she knew how much the Bible had done to win her from the mother Church.
               The golden glow had melted into pearl. Night put on her tiara of stars.
               "We have gone too far," said Ulrica, with a strange, tremulous movement in her voice.
               A village sat perched on a shelf above them. Lights were gleaming, and from the gardens they could hear the sound of mirth and laughter.
               "You will let me row back," said Eudora, moved by the mournful cadence in Ulrica's voice.
               "The tide has set in; it will be hard rowing," was the reply.
               "Then we will both try it," said Eudora, cheerfully.
               Down the path came several of the villagers; one of them had a cloak and another a satchel; they were evidently looking for a boat. There was none to be found.
               "If you can wait till morning," was said to the traveller.
               "I must, if possible, go to-night," was the answer.
               The small boat with the two maidens was brought out distinctly in the light of the new moon.
               A bold thought struck the traveller.
               "That's a light sailor, and plenty of room. Where bound?" cried the man, in a voice not too loud.
               Eudora listened, Ulrica turned her head. The tall lithe form could not be mistaken; the thick mass of silvery hair was the same.
               It must be Professor Edelstein. But wherefore alone? Silently the boat shot nearer the shore.
               "I felt sure, or I had not lingered," said Ulrica, as the professor advanced. "But how are you here, and why alone?"
               "Then you knew I was expected?"
               "Doctor Kaufmann said as much."
               "Well, you have not answered me. Do I go home with you?" asked the professor, jocosely.
               "If you will," was the laughing reply.
               "In that case I can answer you on the way, and you can tell me of Herr Fairfax. I trust he is far recovered by this time."
               The professor stowed his valise and cloak into the boat, and then leaped in himself.
               "I used to carry the stroke oar in my college days. Let me see if I have lost anything." And taking his place, the professor sent the boat smoothly over the water. Conversation took a light airy turn, and before they were seriously missed, they were at home, cheerful and chattering as only such a row could make them.
               The meeting between the professor and the invalid was not without tears. Once more they lived over that terrible storm. The decisive command of Fairfax, "Step in! there's not a moment to lose," was the means in God's hand, of their ultimate safety.
               "Since I have been permitted to walk around my room I have thought of it in connection with the conversation on shipboard, when the care of a watchful Providence was spoken of, as seen in the experience of those present," said Fairfax. "At that time, I thought, if there was a Providence that watched over and directed, it was not every person that was favored by it."
               "And what do you think now?" asked the professor.
               "A useless life was saved. More than this, I cannot say."
               It was well that the professor saw his emotion, and turned with a light banter to Eudora and Ulrica. As it was, Fairfax could hardly suppress a groan. Was it that he was providentially saved—an act of mercy on the part of God as a kind heavenly Father? Or was it as an avenger? Taking a life, he had been willing to give his own in return. His offering was not accepted. Renouncing life, existence was still his. What was in reserve for him?
               "I shall not let you make a long evening," Frau Hatzfeld said to Professor Edelstein. "Our invalid is very far from being strong. He must not think, the doctor says. I am afraid he will have occasion to chide us, if his patient is not as well to-morrow."
               "You are a wise woman," said the professor. "I shall not readily forgive myself, if our young friend suffers from this interview."
               Fairfax tried to be calm; he could not help thinking; the past clung to him. But it was a past farther back than the storm.
               Slowly the shadows gathered over the room; the starlings on the roof were asleep; the moonlight crept over the casement; the flowers nodded drowsily; the invalid was, for the time, oblivious.
            
            
               
               V. A Dream of Lura.
               HOW long he had slept he did know; but when he awoke the lamp had burned out. The dim half light, caused by the moonlight sifting through the muslin curtains, suited his thought. A weight lay upon his brain, a shadow upon his heart. He had gone to sleep with but one thought. Why was he spared? Taking a life, why had not God been willing to accept of his own in return? or, why, if he must survive the terrible death that seemed inevitable, why was he not cast upon some desert island, there to linger out a wretched existence, or washed in to shore, to be robbed of the few rags that were spared to him, and then left, uncared for and alone?
               The moonbeams fell upon his temples like the pressure of a hand. Slowly he raised his own and brushed back the damp locks. The brand of Cain was upon his forehead. He could feel it tightening by slow degrees, the pain pressing inward and threatening to destroy reason. Years ago he remembered to have read of 'The Maiden,' and how the poor wretch was pressed in the long iron arms—but death came quickly. It was hideous, as he thought of it—the blood curdled in his veins. His punishment was to live with the iron wearing into his brain, gnawing by degrees, like some vile, hideous monster. How much better to end it at once! And again he thinks of the moment when he sunk down into the bosom of the deep. With an electric flush the past came over him. He saw it all—he was sorry for it; but then he was to atone. The happiness of that one thought made it all easy. He was to give his life. The water closed over him; he thought it was over.
               Frau Hatzfeld had made several changes in the sick-room. She hung up new pictures and removed old ones. "They will harmonize nize better with his taste," she said to Eudora. He had given them only a casual glance during the day, but with the moonbeams creeping over them, there was new beauty. A sweet child face was hanging on the wall. The calm pure forehead and blue eyes reminded him of Lura; the long golden curls had the same unstudied fall. This child was beautiful. She was beyond doubt kindly cared for. Lura was just as beautiful; but her father loved drink, he followed it closely every day; other love was absorbed in this love. His brain was crazed by it, his heart was hardened, his judgment was obscured, his passions were excited. Henceforth he was no more a husband, no more a father, no more a man.
               A groan escaped the invalid; he turned wearily. The air was stifling—his breath was labored. Would it were over! and covering his face, the poor youth tried to shut out the haunting memory. Not so; the more effort he made to escape, the more it followed him. He was again in the saloon, the players were throwing dice, and the piles of bright coin were changing owners. Rows of decanters looked down invitingly; the man behind the counter was complacent. He had questioned and battled with the demon, he was about to stretch forth his hand for the glass, when Lura entered; there was a look—he did not stop to define it; but it made him think of Sibil, and of his mother. There was a sweet appealing innocence, as of an angel strayed away, and longing to return; the blue eyes were full of tears; the golden hair was tangled; the face brown with exposure. Her little bare feet were bleeding and her hands were torn; bleak winds lash her thin shoulders, and the storm pelts her bright head. Cold and hunger are hers. Up and down the streets she hurries, sighing to herself:
               "Mother is sick, and father does not know what we suffer. He does not know how it kills mother. I must find him. When he drinks he does not know what he is doing. And what if he should do wrong? What if he should"—
               
               The sun is scorching—the bare feet are blistered. Down the street is a saloon. Lura has often been there, she hurries along—she almost flies. She reaches the place; she hesitates, and hardly dares to enter. A thought of her mother emboldens her.
               "Is father here?" she makes out to say.
               "Father is not here. He has been here, and gone."
               The man intends to speak kindly. He has no idea how the words burn into the child's brain. His heart is thirsting for gold. He does not pause to think of the way and manner he wins it. What is Lura's father to him? His gold was good; it was true coin. He asked for drink—he had a right to ask for it. And the man, smiling back from behind the counter, gave it to him. What was it to him that the brain was set on fire with the hellish draught? This was his legitimate calling—he fed his children with it, dressed his wife, and furnished his house with what he made from the sale of souls.
               This man, so callous, wetting his fingers in the fumes of hell, joining hands with the prince of fiends to decoy and entangle his victims; this man quailed before the uplifted eye of the child; his limbs trembled, his hand dropped the glass.
               "I do so want to find father—can you tell me?"
               "No, child; he is not here."
               The innocence of the child roused the fiend in his heart. She stood there in her simplicity, like an accusing spirit. The man could not bear it—he was not in any sense her father's keeper. A sudden thought stirred his brain. It was a lost spirit that devised it, but it was for a human form to carry out. Raised above him by reason of her innocence, he would drag her down to his level; then she would no more stand there the accuser. He would tempt her with an offer that would stain the purity of her soul, the white garment of her innocence should be marred and blackened by a poisonous draught.
               "Come, come," said the man, "your father will come back—but you are tired. Take this—you wont feel half as badly."
               The man's tone was flippant; but the expression frightened the child. She hesitated. He came nearer.
               "Taste—you will like it—it will do you good."
               It is so vivid—the sick youth starts up, only to fall back upon his couch. He remembers the angel in his own nature was stirred, he could not see the sweet innocence of the child trampled upon—the purity of her soul dimmed, the sensibilities of her nature deadened with drink.
               There was a contest of words—and he was again in the street with the child's hand firmly grasped in his own. A cloud settled over the picture, and out of it he saw the child standing on the ricketty stairs. Reaching down her hands, he had again clasped them. The soft blue eyes were full of tears.
               "You will come some other time?" was said, pleadingly. The pure lips touched his. Would he drink again? Had he kept his promise?
               A groan escaped the sufferer. He sat up and looked around his room.
               Suddenly the lamp was relighted.
               "You are in pain—you suffer. What can I do to relieve you?"
               It was Father Auberthal, and he leaned over the couch and clasped the long thin hand in his own.
               "I have been asleep. It was but a dream," returned the invalid.
               "The night is long, my son. Make no effort to think. Sleep is the great restorer. Let everything sleep—brain, and heart, and feeling."
               Father Auberthal turned away, but not until he had made the sign of the cross over the sick man's pillow.
            
            
               
               VI. Bebbard and his Violin.
               IT was the evening of a beautiful day. The larches and firs were fringed with gold; the plane trees were ablaze, and the lime walk was paved with golden bars. A large arm-chair sat in the door of the white pavilion, and in it was a young man in apparently feeble health. His face was oval, with a high white forehead, and his chin was hid in a long silken beard. The expression of the face showed spirit united to quick, sensitive feeling; the atmosphere of the man spoke of culture—a certain refinement showing itself in all of his movements—while his eyes were full of a deep-seated sadness—a far reaching expression, as though searching for something that never came.
               Not far from him, Frau Hatzfeld sat with her knitting. With her soft silvery hair, her white cap, and dress of gray glittering silk, a more fitting representation of peace and quiet could not be found. And still, Frau Hatzfeld had passed a busy morning, looking after the wants of her household, superintending her servants, and ministering to her guests with her own hands. When the days were bright, coffee was taken on the terrace, and after that, Frau Hatzfeld took out her knitting, and in whatever enjoyment the young people had she was sure to mingle, and to draw from it sensible happiness, that kept her young, and fresh, and vigorous, and always companionable.
               On a low seat by the side of the arm-chair sat a lad whose bright eyes and face would have been strikingly handsome, but for a deathly pallor, only relieved by color when under intense excitement. In his hand he held a violin in graceful poise, letting the bow rest on it lovingly; but bringing forth no sound.
               "You are undecided what to play, or have you played all that you know, Gebhard?" asked the occupant of the arm-chair.
               "I was thinking of something that I played yesterday to Nannette, and I was wondering if you would like it;" and a winning smile lit up the lad's face.
               "To judge, I must hear it," was said, playfully.
               Without more words the lad straightened himself. His left hand grasped the violin, while the right held the bow so lightly that only the most delicate sound was heard. With the first note a young girl, simply clad in white, with blue boots and blue ribbon, and bright, rosy cheeks, dropped her hoop and ball, and leaning over the small musician, whispered into his ear.
               A nod of the wonderful head, and a glance of the bright eyes, and the music began.
               To describe it would be to describe the manifestation of soul in an instrument through the action of a wand held by another soul, whose every movement showed a power to which the other was obedient. Now low, sad, tender, swaying here and there with infinite grace and expression. Then louder, faster, meeting and mingling and running onward in a strain of angelic sweetness. All the while Nannette stood by the arm-chair, her blue ribbons keeping time and her blue feet doing their best to keep from running away with her delight.
               As it closed, the right arm of the lad fell nerveless; his head fell forward, his cheeks were brightly red, and the tears dropped from his downcast eyes.
               In an instant Nannette's arms were around his neck. "Do not feel so, Gebhard. It was fine—you did not play it better yesterday. They cannot help but like it—I know they do. Hold up your head and hear them say so."
               With a gasp the child lifted his head. His eyes shone like stars—the tears had quenched the flame in his cheeks.
               The young man in the arm-chair put his arms around the musician and drew the brown head to his bosom. "Nannette is right. It was fine—I never heard Gluck, but I cannot imagine that he would do better."
               "Gluck! he is a maestro. Now you are teazing me, Herr Fairfax. I would not have thought it of you;" and the lad made an effort to disengage himself from the loving arms.
               "No Gebhard, I am not teazing. I have never heard anything finer on your instrument. True, Gluck is a maestro, and so, my heart tells me, that you will one day be."
               "That is what I often tell him, but he says I do not know how a maestro plays—that it sounds well to me, because I love him. So far this is true; but the music is good."
               And Nannette showered kisses upon the upturned face. Then glancing up to the face in the arm-chair:
               "Herr Fairfax is not given to flatteries. He would not say so, if it were not true."
               "No, Nannette, I would not. And every time that Gebhard feels in this manner you may tell him that I believe he will one day become a maestro, and go to America for no other purpose than to give the people some wonderful music on his violin."
               "Oh! I shall be so glad to tell him, for Gebhard is sure to feel so every time he plays anything that is all his own. And this he will only more frequently do, as he grows older. And then I will tell him, and it will comfort him to think"—
               "You forget that before one can become a maestro he must have a good deal of teaching," said Gebhard, with something of playfulness in his voice.
               "But these beautiful pieces come to you without teaching. Don't you know sometimes you say, 'Let us sit quite still and listen. I hear the sweetest, most wonderful music. If I can get it just as it is.' And then we sit very still and listen, only I cannot hear anything, until Gebhard begins to play, and then it is lovely—it seems to me that my heart will burst if I sit still, and I have to jump about, very lightly, as the music goes, or I should lose myself. And when he has finished, then his head drops and he feels so badly, just because cause he could not play the music just as he hears it."
               "Hush, Nannette! You should not say these things."
               "But it is true, and I want him to know, that, beautiful as it is, it is not as beautiful as you hear it." And once more the plump arms encircled the lad's neck. "You do not mind, Gebhard?"
               "No. But we must not stay any longer. Grandfather will miss us. "And slipping the green case over his violin, the boy stood up to kiss his new friend good-by. Nannette followed. And then Frau Hatzfeld gave each a motherly embrace.
               Before the children left the grounds they were met by their grandfather. Anticipating the probability of meeting strangers, Gottfried had put on his Sunday suit—green pants, scarlet vest, high hat, and the long blue coat, of which he was not a little proud.
               As soon as she saw him, Nannette ran forward to clasp him round the neck and to tell him how much the sick man had enjoyed Gebhard's music, and what he said of being one day a great maestro and going to play on his Violin to the people in America.
               "Did he really say so? and is he a man who knows what good music is?" asked Gottfried, lifting Gebhard in his arms, and embracing him tenderly.
               "He certainly said some very good things about music, and he can distinguish sounds," answered Gebhard.
               "And because of Gebhard's music we are to go to Hofnels often. And by and by, we are to have a grand concert, and I am to dance," said Nannette.
            
            
               
               VII. Captain Cidermann at Home.
               CAPTAIN EIDERMANN was at home, and Professor Edelstein and Amelia were at Hofnels, and everything was bright and cheerful, only Herr Fairfax was not strong. The arm-chair still sat in the door of the white pavilion, a nucleus around which all gathered, laughing over their coffee, telling stories, and listening to good music.
               Frau Hatzfeld had her knitting. A little removed, but where he could be distinctly seen, Professor Edelstein sat playing with his meerschaum: the amber mouth-piece caught the sun-rays and sent it in rippling waves over the head of a maiden, as she plied her pencil.
               "Look, father! the shading is too heavy. I despair of finishing it. There is too much beauty around me—my eyes are continually wandering. Where nature has done so much, imitation is a caricature. I am quite ashamed of it." And Amelia held up her drawing.
               The professor examined it carefully. It was a picture of Hofnels, and although unfinished, exhibited unmistakable taste in execution.
               "Possibly the shading is too heavy, but not more so than we see at times, when the sun is hot and the rays fall obliquely," was said slowly.
               Amelia looked up with a grateful smile.
               "You are very kind. You have the goodness to look upon my work favorably."
               The professor's fingers were laid caressingly on the fair head. His eyes were full of tenderness.
               "Here comes Captain Eidermann. Let him decide," was said, playfully.
               Captain Eidermann was a short, stout man, with a well formed head, covered with an abundance of crisp gray hair, and a face browned by exposure. A seaman, he was rarely at home; and his house, beautiful as it was in all of its appointments, knew him as a visitor, rather than a master.
               The captain took the drawing in his hand, examined it closely, and then looked away.
               "A very good representation. I made several sketches from the same point. I flattered myself that I could sketch pretty well. But the finishing, that was the trouble. I could never quite satisfy myself—it required too much time. Exactly—that is what you need here. Time and patience will make it beautiful. But what is the use of drawing when one has the original? Call Franz to put up your easel, and come down to the water. Come, it is absolutely lost time to draw at such an hour as this."
               "Herr Fairfax must first give me his opinion. Do you think with Captain Eidermann that time will improve it?" And Amelia laid the drawing in the invalid's hand.
               "That will depend upon the use you make of the time." A smile lighted up the invalid's face, as he examined the drawing. "I cannot judge by the rules of art, but I know when a picture is according to nature, and this is very like."
               Frau Hatzfeld dropped her knitting. Whatever interested another interested her: not curiously, but in a motherly fashion, sure to give pleasure.
               "Your eyes must be searching after the ideal," said the little woman. "One who has seen Hofnels would know this at a glance. Take care of your cherry-tree, however. I remember when it was as straight as a pine. That terrible storm that swept over the dikes loosened its roots; it has leaned to the water ever since, but the cherries are just as good."
               Fairfax still held the drawing. Amelia had nestled into a low seat beside Frau Hatzfeld: one hand lay on the invalid's chair. The face was calm, but the gray eyes were full of enthusiasm.
               "If one could do just as one thinks to do. The canvas is stretched, the colors mixed, the pencils at hand. But when the fingers come to interpret what is in the mind, the work is bungling. I never attempt anything and feel quite satisfied when it is accomplished."
               "Is this true with reference to drawing in particular, or with everything?" asked the invalid.
               "It makes little difference—however common the work, in everything it is quite the same."
               "The unsatisfied feeling of the heart, however it may be censured, is in reality the incentive that leads on to a fuller development of the power, let it be what it will. Whoever is easily satisfied with his own effort is one who never makes any great advancement," observed the professor, still dallying with his meerschaum.
               "This feeling is inimical to that grand calm of which we were speaking," returned Amelia. "Self-satisfaction, or rather dissatisfaction, and that grand calm that enables us to do our best work, have very little in common, certainly. We are dissatisfied with our own work; it does not equal the ideal picture we have before us. We chip and chisel, write and rewrite write: the one has a grace and beauty that vanishes the moment we attempt to make it tangible. This species of dissatisfaction dwells in the heart, it seldom reaches the surface; and if it does, it is but to ripple to catch the light and reflect it back again. A murmuring spirit is forever crying out against the barriers of circumstance. Unseemly in itself, it is likewise fatal to a full, free development. One leads to re-doubled diligence; the other to folding the hands," answered the professor.
               "Is it the same then with one's course of life? Dissatisfied with it, he aims to do better, and although the change is by degrees, still, he attains it, providing he perseveres?" asked Fairfax.
               "Precisely. It is in every branch the same, reaching onward, upward. The scholar desires to know more; the artizan longs for more skill; the poet to equal what he knows and feels in his own being; the sculptor to lead others to see the vision that is constantly plain to him; the painter touches and retouches touches, blots out and begins again. All actuated by the same worthy motive to do their best work. So with the life, the man of principle aims for more purity; a higher standard, firmer integrity. The man of aimless life and dissolute habits, becomes dissatisfied, questions, and turns to the light; joyful to think that his feet are in the way. But still, unsatisfied, and therefore pressing onward."
               "Every step farther and farther from his old life?" questioned Fairfax, with an earnestness that seemed incomprehensible to the small group.
               "Every step farther and farther from the old life, and higher and higher in the scale of excellence," answered the professor.
               From the veranda stepped a short, thick-set man; his eyes had a peculiar brilliancy, and the thick curls of light brown hair looked more golden in the sunlight. His step was quick, and firm, and his manner peculiarly winning.
               "My dear Fairfax, this is the very thing for you. And, my captain, it is a pleasure to catch you on land again."
               The short thick man was Doctor Kaufmann, and everybody turned to welcome him, as one to whom they owed much, and on whom they were more or less dependent.
               Conversation took a broader turn. All was laughter and merriment. Other guests began to arrive; among them Frau Kaufmann, or Frau Stephanie, as she was called, a middleaged French woman whom Doctor Kaufmann, when a student in Paris, had beguiled to follow him to the German side of the Rhine: a sprightly little body, exceedingly clever and always well dressed.
               The company were now scattered through the grounds. Frau Stephanie seated herself by the side of Fairfax, her jewelled fingers resting on the arm of his chair.
               "Our American friend is learning something of German life. I trust that he enjoys it."
               "It could hardly be otherwise," was the brief, but polite answer.
               "I have sometimes felt that to an American we seem really to be idle people, sitting at ease in our gardens, or dancing the day away in evident enjoyment."
               "Whenever I think of America, it is under the figure of a youth, strong, manly, courageous, full of life and energy, eager to do, and doing with all his might; but, lacking the poise, the calm, the self-reliance that is sure to come when the fire of youth has burned to a steady heat," said Deputy Schierholz, a tall, dignified-looking man, who had taken a seat near the pavilion.
               "Take from the youth his enthusiasm, and he would no longer bound along new paths, striking out for himself, regardless of the intricacies and obstacles in his way," returned Frau Stephanie.
               "Precisely here that the change is to be felt; prudence and discretion united with persistent effort, is rather to be sought, than a wild goaheadativeness, often more for the sake of rushing onward than from having a definite knowledge of where the track may lead," continued the deputy.
               "The sun sends his rays flashing over the distant mountains; not the less does he concentrate heat and warmth and power; these traits of enthusiasm are like the sun-rays flashing along and gilding with brightness. Like the light on the mountains, already the nations are beginning to feel the glow, the revivifying influence of this great onward movement. Everywhere we see the breaking up of old customs; the world is being emancipated, the principles of unity and a common brotherhood are everywhere springing up; hereditary rights and privileges are being fused into the crucible of truth and equality."
               "I readily rejoice with you in the matter," returned Deputy Schierholz, "and still, sudden changes are not favorable for the perpetuity of government. Principles are not to be thrown aside lightly: convictions are needful, and this takes time and a severe questioning."
               "Our American neighbors have shown in their late struggle, that enthusiasm is only a safety-valve to throw off a superabundance of vitality, leaving a strata of pure, deep persistency tency to first principles; united in the main, but diverse in the operation, and all finally meeting on the basis of a union of humanity, strengthened by the very effort to pull it asunder," answered Frau Stephanie.
               There was a diversion. Captain Eidermann came up the walk with Frau Schierholz on his arm.
               Frau Schierholz was a small woman, with a full, compact figure, blue eyes, fair complexion and exceedingly beautiful hair, of that rich golden tint seldom seen, save in portraits of the old masters. She was simply dressed in a light-colored summer fabric, with a knot of blue ribbon at her throat and a spray of forget-me-nots in her hair. Her hands were well shaped, and the ring on her forefinger glistened like a mountain of light. Frau Schierholz was all smiles—the coquetry of her nature cropping out as she tossed compliment and witticism with every one whom she had the good fortune to meet: while her manner towards the invalid was as frank and charming as though she had known him for years.
               The bailiff Elmendorf and his wife were in their best humor.
               "This is as it should be," said the bailiff. "I could never see why people go to sea when they can just as well stay on land. To judge by our captain, we must admit a fascination at once irresistible to tempt him from such a home, to run the risk of storms and peril on the deep."
               "Some wish to go out in ships, and some to remain on land. And to each, God has given a corresponding taste and inclination," said Captain Eidermann, with a rare smile.
               Night began to distil perfume from the few remaining roses. Doctor Kaufmann was an enthusiast with regard to flowers; and quite forgetful of everything else, he was expatiating upon the rival beauties of the lily and the rose; the sweetness of the one excelled by the purity and perfectness of the other.
               "Frau Stephanie always has a lily in her room," he continued; "and I confess that it gives an air of beauty to the surroundings. A perpetual sanctity envelops it. Under its influence thought comes to be holier, and purpose more unselfish. The rose has sweetness, but it lacks the ethereal presence, the symbol of something holier and purer, after which we are to strive. Drinking in its sweetness there is a sensuous delight, a physical enjoyment, asking nothing, and all unknowing of the heights beyond, the brightness and the purity from which it is forever debarred."
               "The doctor looks like another man. I did not imagine that he was one to dissect the rose, or to look for the ethereal presence in the lily. To what are we to attribute this change?" Fairfax asked of Eudora, who stood at his side.
               "Doctor Kaufmann is a good man. He is a physician, and when he is called to visit a patient, he studies the case carefully, so that he may not fail in his remedies. To throw his patient off his guard, to enable him to describe his symptoms and his feelings frankly, the doctor laughs and chats, discovering in this manner the tendencies of disease as well as the progress made. As a physician you have met him; to-night you are favored with a glimpse of his personality."
               The players threw aside their mallets. "A sail!" was the universal cry.
               "I am to stay with you," Eudora whispered to the invalid. "We cannot count upon many evenings like this, all this season."
               It was the very thought that had been troubling Fairfax's brain, and he made no reply; looking, but still thinking what he was to do and where he was to go, conscious that for him there could not be many evenings as beautiful as this.
               Frau Hatzfeld put up her knitting. Another guest arrived—it was Father Auberthal.
               "Let me congratulate you, my young friend, on this emancipation from the sick-room. Of all the marked escapes that I have ever known, yours is the most wonderful—a miracle, indeed! Nothing but the intervention of the Holy Mother could have brought it to pass. I trust that you are truly grateful, my son."
               "I am truly thankful to be able to leave my room. As to the intervention of the Virgin, I cannot say; I have never thought of her as having power to work miracles, or to heal diseases."
               "It is no doubt to bring you to recognize this power that she has so successfully exerted her influence in your behalf. I trust, that whatever your former views may have been, you will no longer slight the Mother of our Lord."
               Eudora bit her lips. Father Auberthal had the privilege of dropping in at any time, and he had the wisdom to know just when his words would have the most weight.
               The boats were gliding over the rubycolored waves; the band played charmingly.
               "The view is obstructed. Take my arm and let us walk under the lindens," Father Auberthal said to the invalid.
               Sitting under the lindens, Fairfax talked of himself; but his words went no farther than the present. The Father had been with him, however. He knew there was a heaviness, a burden; hence his words always tended to that point.
               "The Church is the true source of consolation; to weak and worn she comes with sympathy. Is any tired, she offers strength; any tempted, she provides a bulwark; and, if overcome, she has a ready pardon. Above all, it is to those who have suffered through wrong-doing that she offers most. In the fostering care of the Church, the penitent can expiate his fault. Faithfully to carry out her precepts, is to rise above the world, no longer condemned, but purified through self-abnegation, and the working out of pious thought and feeling."
               A smile illuminated Fairfax's face. Did he hear rightly? The Church a place where the penitent could expiate his fault? Was not this the very thing he had longed for? A penance laid upon him, something that he could work out. He did not mind how heavy it was—nothing could be too heavy to atone for what he had done. Willingly would he have given his life. God would not accept it. A new light dawned upon the penitent. It was for the visible Church to offer the first benediction; in and through the appointed way the work was to be accomplished. Another must intercede for him; on the wings of incense his prayers must ascend. It was not for guilt to rush into the Divine presence without an interpreter.
               Father Auberthal was an experienced diplomat.
               "I have desired to speak to you of this. I know by sad experience what it is to stand aloof, wrapping myself in with my grief, and blindly determining to bear silently. Only yield to the persuasive voice that calls. You will never be sorry. You will never regret it. It is but a reasonable service, and the only service that binds without a fetter.
               "But, is it for all to avail themselves of the benefit of the Church? Are there not some who are shut out by reason of high-handed crime? Some sins that cannot be forgiven, neither expiated by years of penitence and self-abnegation?"
               "I perceive that you know little of the power invested in the true Church. However great the sin, there is pardon. Neither does she impose a penance that cannot readily be met. All that she exacts is obedience. Absolution lies with her ministers; the penitential tear is wiped by those who consider it their highest privilege to officiate at her altars."
               Love and sympathy beamed in the face of Father Auberthal. His voice was musical, and his words were winged with strange power. An indescribable expression of sadness lingered on the face of the invalid. He had listened to the words, and so long as Father Auberthal was speaking, there was comfort. But he could not perceive—he did not understand how it was that an external purgation could wipe away the guilt of an unholy act. True, it was the thing he wanted, but, as yet, he saw through a misty atmosphere.
               "The boats are coming into shore. Had we not better return to the pavilion?" asked Eudora.
               
               Fairfax was on his feet. This time he did not accept of Father Auberthal's arm. He walked slowly. Eudora was by his side. As they neared the pavilion, crowds of ladies and gentlemen were entering the gardens. The ladies wore gay dresses—feathers, and flowers, and jewels floating in and out of the shrubbery.
               "We are to have tea on the terrace, and a good many people. Do you feel like seeing a good many people?" whispered Eudora. "When father is in port we are sure to have more or less. And this evening I do believe there are some of them to see you. Are you glad, Herr Fairfax?"
               "I am glad to see so many of your friends; but confined to my arm-chair, I shall make but a sad picture where everything is so bright around me."
               "You need not see a bit more than will be quite pleasing to you. At all events, Doctor Kaufmann is here, and he will look to it that you are not greatly fatigued."
               Frau Stephanie and Frau Schierholz came at once to the pavilion. The deputy brought up his two pretty daughters. Dressed in pink silk, with a profusion of soft flowing lace and pearls, they, looked so much alike that Fairfax could not tell one from the other a moment after the introduction.
               "I hope you are not tired," whispered Ulrica, as she bent over the arm-chair. "Doctor Kaufmann says, as soon as you are, you must go directly to your room. You are not much tired, are you, Herr Fairfax? Shall I tell him that you are not much?"
               There was such a grave look on the young face, that the invalid smiled. "Tell Doctor Kaufmann that I quite enjoy seeing so many people."
               Frau Stephanie came nearer.
               "English people know how to make tea and enjoy drinking it. But, I am told, that in America it is a social custom very generally adhered to," was said pleasantly.
               "An every-day custom, but unfortunately never in the open air, unless on especial occasions," returned Fairfax.
               
               "Is not the climate sufficiently agreeable?" asked the lady.
               "In many parts of the country this might be done for a good portion of the year, provided it was the custom."
               "They consider that it takes too much time. Is that it? It is certainly a pretty custom."
               "It is certainly a pretty custom, and favorable to health. But, as yet, few people have learned to combine business and pleasure, so that one shall not suffer by reason of indulgence," answered Fairfax.
               All was jubilant—happy voices everywhere, and badinage, and raillery sparkling with wit and humor.
               Suddenly a hundred colored lights flashed from the highest branches. At the same time small tables were set in every conceivable place, on which were placed delicate viands, with fruit temptingly arranged.
               The deputy drew his chair nearer Frau Stephanie.
               "You must teach my wife to make tea. When quite a young man, I spent some months in Paris. The evenings were social, especially the tea drinking. I have never seen anything like it since. Each person was supplied with a cup, in which he placed a certain quantity of tea; the cup was then filled with boiling water, and, after waiting a few moments, the leaves gradually unrolled, and the strength was diffused through the water, producing a favorite drink and an agreeable stimulant."
               "You have gone through with the process with such precision, that I wonder that you have never attempted to make tea after this fashion," Frau Stephanie said.
               "My wife says that it is not the way. She puts all into a large earthen pot, and when up to the boiling point, pours it out. She argues that my taste is at fault when I tell her that the flavor of her beverage is not the same."
               By this time the cups were placed, and the deputy was agreeably surprised to find that the process of tea-making was quite the same as that he remembered with so much accuracy.
               "Is it not exhilarating?" he whispered to his wife. "Now you will see for yourself, and after this I shall be sure of a cup that can stimulate without the penalty of a headache."
               Father Auberthal excused himself; he was not partial to tea, and, besides, he had his duties.
               "The truth is, Father Auberthal prefers wine," said the pretty daughter of the burgomaster.
               "That is not the right thing to say of Father Auberthal," quickly answered Ulrica. "It is very rare that he takes wine to excess."
               "It is possible that we may not agree on the last clause—excess," returned the blushing girl. With all her care for others, Eudora found it possible to make tea for her father and for Fairfax.
               "Do not let us forget anything that will add to your comfort," was said in a low voice.
               "You see how really strong I am. I shall soon be perfectly well," rejoined the invalid.
               "God grant it!" was the brief reply.
               The professor and Doctor Kaufmann were everywhere. The air of perfect abandon was charming; while over all, the lights flashed, and the flowers sent forth delicious perfume.
               Amelia brought a bunch of grapes to Fairfax.
               "To-morrow—next week, at farthest, you will be able to go to the nearest village with us. There is a small temple, not quite to be seen from the pavilion, where my father goes to church when he is here."
               "I thought Father Auberthal officiated."
               "So he does. The place of which I speak is not of the same faith."
               "How does it differ?"
               "We depend upon the work of the Spirit in the heart. Outward libations cannot remove guilt from the soul."
               There was a visible change on the face of Fairfax. His lips trembled—he could not proceed.
               "Our dissipation is too much for you. Let me call Doctor Kaufmann?" said Amelia.
               
               "I assure you it is nothing. Go on. What were you saying about the Spirit's work in the heart?"
               "That it is the work of the Spirit to renew and sanctify the heart, enabling one to leave the old life, and to enter the new, with new desires, new hopes, new anticipations for the future."
               "Can this be done?"
               "Do you doubt it?"
               "That a change in life and character can be effected, I do not doubt. As to the means, I am not as sure."
               "Have you never changed an opinion?"
               "Oh yes, many a one!" returned Fairfax, with a smile.
               "How was this accomplished?"
               "By coming to see that I was in error."
               "Thus it is with the Spirit's influence in the heart, bringing one to see that he has been in error, given to doctrine that subverts the truth; or to evil practices that have a deleterious effect upon one's own life, and afford a melancholy example for others to imitate. Convinced of this, he turns, rejoiced to find there is a better way."
               "But turning will not change the old life—that must stand against him."
               "For the sake of another who has willingly borne the penalty, the penitent may be forgiven; ready to start upon the new life without the burden of deliberate wrongdoing."
               "Such faith is comforting, and noble as comforting," returned Fairfax.
               "To be convinced, and to accept it, is all we need."
               "What are you talking about?" asked the deputy, balancing his spoon upon the edge of his cup. "The election is to come off within the week, and I am more than half inclined to think that you are plotting for the opposition. What say you Fräulein Amelia? For whom will you vote?"
               "I have yet to learn that my vote will have any weight in the diet."
               "And you think it of too much importance to throw away?"
               
               "To cast a vote involves all the rights flowing down through the centuries. It is the concentration of all that goes to make one free—a being capable of drawing conclusions, forming opinions, and projecting good and noble deeds. It is the crowning of manhood—a privilege not permitted until the years of childhood and youth are past. It is the turning point in a human life. When one has cast his first free, unbiased vote, then can he look up and say, "I am a man. I rejoice in the first great privilege of manhood. I can vote. I am a freeman! Henceforth I have to do in making the laws; for this purpose I must keep my judgment clear, my reason unobscured, my integrity untarnished. Ah, Herr Deputy, it is a privilege—a great privilege to cast a vote."
               The cups were drained. Fairfax leaned back in his chair. The whole scene was so new and charming. Youth and beauty, with age, and orders, and decorations, radiant in the lamplight. Suddenly the colored lamps died away. Moonlight silvered the terrace and threw broad waves of light over the water. A minor chord was struck—soft, low, melodious, and to the invalid it seemed to say, "Leaving the old life and entering the new."
               Low and sweet the music sounded—one of Beethoven's rarest melodies, lifting the soul into regions where all is pure, glorious, radiant. A cry escaped the invalid, but not loud enough to be heard in the whirl and excitement that followed. With a prolonged echo from the shore, a thousand rockets ascended into the air. The terrace was ablaze—the river looked like a sea of flames. A brilliant array of fireworks followed in quick succession. Cathedrals, towers, steeples—and at last, the national colors, twined with the stripes and stars, and printed on the sky.
               Speeches and congratulations followed. Fairfax bowed his thanks, but without words.
               "You have almost cheated me into the belief that I am a young man," the deputy said to Eudora, as he took his leave.
               
               "I trust we shall quite be able to do that at another time," was the reply.
               The terrace was asleep in the moonlight; the waves beat against the shore with a dull, weary thud. Hid away in an inner room, a human heart beat wearily; burning eyes would not rest under the heavy lids. To sleep was impossible.
            
            
               VIII. Fairfax's Journal.
               
                  HOW long it seems! and still, as men count time, it is not long. Centuries, if counted by suffering, would not be longer. So plainly it comes up before, me, the night of the m——, shall I say it? How can I? To taunt me as he did, with this inherent thirst, was nothing like the torture that I have since endured. Then, I could not bear it. It stung me to madness—it goaded me on to take a life. But for drink I should not have done it. Set on fire of hell, I could not see where it was to end. Oh God! if there be a God! be pleased to take my life in return. Is it to punish me that I am spared? Are there tortures in reserve more keen and fierce than I now endure? My heart is turned to stone: the blood in my veins has an icy chilliness. Hoping to expiate my crime, I exerted all my strength to save the lives of those in the ship. I have seen two of the rescued. Two noble lives saved! it is the one drop of comfort in my cup. I did what I could for the others. I was willing to be lost—I gladly looked upon the boiling waves, raging like so many living monsters. It was but just—I had taken a life—I was cursed with a love for strong drink. I was forever debarred from a home of my own. Loved ones could never be mine! The appetite that I had inherited, I could not transmit to another.
                  "Oh God! could'st thou not take this poor wretched life? Could'st thou not permit me to atone for my sin? With a strange calm in my heart, I went down into the bosom of the great deep—I felt the waves roll over me—I was satisfied. Then the awaking. Angels were around me; music was in the air: I questioned. They told me that I had been ill. I grew stronger—I knew that I was spared. But wherefore? With the mark of Cain upon my brow, must I go up and down exclaiming that my punishment is greater than I can bear? "Oh God! Be pleased to hear me. Do not deny my request; but now, lest I commit greater sin, take this poor wretched life. If it be true, that I received it of thee, with this appetite over which I have no control, be pleased to accept it. Be pleased to hear the prayer of the most wretched of thy creatures. With one quick blow destroy what thou hast made! Or, if heavier torture is to be mine, concentrate, I beseech thee, the force of all thy wrath and crush me into nothingness, rather than let me spin out a miserable existence, liable in my best moments to sin against thee."
               
               
                  
                     "Sept. 18.
                  
                  "What a glory above! What ever varying loveliness upon the earth! How much to admire and to fascinate the eye and the heart! Is it that punishment is meted out through the senses, that I find beauty, where I had not dreamed to see it? The clouds of soft fleecy whiteness; the blue vault—vast, wondrous. I cannot look up without a desire that my heart was as spotless as the cloud, as pure as the blue beyond it. The flowers are perfect—the air is full of sweetness. Look where I will, I can but contrast the blackness of my own heart with the purity, the beauty above and around me. Strange, that I did not think more of this when I was comparatively free from guilt!
                  "Every day it looks plainer to me. God could not accept of my life. Written over in characters of guilt, he could not set this against the life of my friend.
                  "Last night I dreamed of Redford. He was an only son, and his mother is a widow and poor. In my dream I went to this lone widow, whom I had deprived of a son, and telling her how I had endeavored to atone for the crime by the voluntary yielding of my own life, begged to know would she accept of my service? As God had seen fit to permit me to live, would she allow me to work for her? Gladly would I do it, and she should live without a care. With angry words she spurned me from her, taunting me with doing the mad deed after a night of revel, and urging me to drink. My very being was engendered in drink; the fires of the destroyer were woven into each nerve and fibre of my heart; there was nothing for me, but to drink and die.
                  "I awoke; great beads of perspiration stood on my forehead—my temples throbbed with agony—I could not help but cry out. Father Auberthal was with me instantly. He is very kind. How is it, that I, who have committed an unpardonable sin, am still treated as one every way worthy? At times I feel like confessing it all. They would spurn me, of course. But would it not be better to be treated as a vile wrong-doer, than to receive kindness from those who are themselves too noble to consider me other than equally high-minded? As I grow strong my old appetite comes back to me. I felt it to-day, as I pledged the lady next to me in a glass of wine. Captain Eidermann saw it, and so did Eudora. I thought of Lura. There are times when Eudora has the same appealing look. Drink ruined Lura's father; drink broke her mother's heart. I have a mother and a sister, and but for drink"—
               
               
                  
                     Sept. 20.
                  
                  "To-day Eudora came in to sit with me. She brought a tasteful bit of needle-work, with colored wool, in which her white fingers tangled themselves readily. A strange atmospheric quiet surrounded her. She was dressed in a simple costume of light blue muslin; her beautiful blond hair rippled away from her pure brow and fell in golden waves over her plump shoulders. With easy, pliant grace she worked and chatted.
                  "I now understand who Karl is, and why they manifest so much consideration for an American. Karl is there, and Karl is the brother of Eudora and Ulrica. Through his letters his sisters know almost as much of America as they do of their own land. Karl is not the only son; there is another, Paul. Eudora's voice trembled on the word. Hiding her face, I saw it all. Paul was a young man of culture; he was a graduate of Heidelberg; he was possessed of rare talent. Eudora did not say more; but I saw how drink had defiled him. The beautiful temple was shattered, the idol broken. Paul had a wife and child. Karl had gone out to them; there was a ray of hope. Karl's intercession may bring Paul back again.
                  "What a history! Turning my face to the wall, I wept for myself, for Paul. The fires of unrest eat into my soul, my tears were burning. This terrible thirst for drink! Do the spirits of the lost know anything of this everburning fire, scorching the brain, withering the heart, sapping the energies, and still doomed to live and to suffer? The picture on the wall was before me, the child picture that reminded me of Lura. The sweet blue eyes were upon me; the red lips parted, I could not look away. I tried to speak; Eudora saw my excitement—the soft colored wool fell from her fingers.
                  "'That is Lottchen—that is Paul's child; she has the look of her father. We are very fond of the picture.'
                  
                  "It was not Lura. It was Lottchen. How my heart rebounded! Still, it was impossible to compose myself. Beautiful as they were, each had suffered. Drink ruined their home, drink was the curse of mine!
               
               
                  
                     Sept. 23.
                  
                  "Father Auberthal was with me several hours to-day. He is singularly free and artless in manner, with a heart of love for everybody. I observe that he is here often, and his visits always happen when the professor and Amelia are engaged. To-day he again spoke comfortingly of the expiatory service of the Church, the efficiency of confession, and the penance performed. I was half inclined to tell him of the crime that weighs upon my soul, and ask him to lay upon me a penance meet for such an offence. He thinks I ought to show my gratitude by a public ceremony. He says it would have a good effect, and the Virgin would thenceforth have me under her immediate care. It is, perhaps, owing to education; but I cannot consider it right to extol the mother above the Son. And if she really knows, does she approve of what I have done?
                  "There is to be a festival in honor of the Virgin, and great preparations are being made. On this account, I see less of Ulrica, less of Frau Hatzfeld. Eudora does not appear in the least interested. And I have observed of late that Father Auberthal is extremely cautious when he addresses her. Eudora has a Bible, and I feel sure that she reads it. If I could know where Father Auberthal gets his atonement. If I could look forward to a time when my sins would not stare me in the face. As it is, what can I do? Conscious of wrong-doing, the kindness that I receive is torture. If I knew the penalty, I could bear it. If I could only make a sacrifice that God would accept.
                  "Captain Eidermann has gone to his ship. He is a noble specimen of a man. The professor and Amelia are to go to the baths; they propose for me to join them. I cannot. As soon as I am able, I must find employment. My only hope is in work. I must be fully occupied, or I am lost. Amelia spoke of an acquaintance who was asking for an American tutor. I cannot say—it is possible."
               
               
                  
                     Oct. 4.
                  
                  "To-day the Father showed me the chapel. I was never before so sensibly impressed with the religious feeling inspired by church architecture. The sombre half light falling upon the pictures of saints, the groined roof and royal arches, with stained glass windows, and altars strangely imposing. A sunbeam struggling through, broke into fragments, and hung in a beautiful halo over the head of Guido's Madonna. In her arms she clasped the child. A serene calm enveloped her. The atmosphere of the place was elevating. I paused to look at the sweet human face of the young mother. Father Auberthal drew near.
                  "'It is the beauty of religion that we can embody so much of the essential element. We look at the mother and the child, and we realize that they were, that they had a being like our own, subject to the same needs, the same desires, save, without sin. The beauty and the purity wins upon us. Our sympathy is awakened, our love kindled. As the mother of our Lord, Mary is lifted above every other human nature.'
                  "While Father Auberthal was speaking, a penitent kneeled at the altar. With so much in my heart to confess, I could but envy her the soul-inspiring faith that looked beyond. She had erred; the Father had power to absolve her—he would impose a penalty, and in time the blemish on the white scroll of her heart would fade into nothingness. If I could hope that such would be my case! The penitent still kneeled; the music thrilled with heavenly sweetness. It was the first time that I had listened to the Kyrie. My heart for once forgot everything else, transported with the heaven-born gift of song. As the mass advanced, the more marvellous became the harmony. The 'Agnus' was plaintive, the very pleading of a pure spirit at the gate of heaven. Then followed the 'Sanctus,' one triumphant peal after the other, requiring but little imagination to believe that the Cherubim and Seraphim were present singing their song of praise, 'Holy, holy is the Lord of Sabaoth!'
                  "Coming out, we encountered Eudora. She gave me a quick glance, and hastily disappeared. Afterwards she told me that Father Auberthal was preparing for the festival, and that was the reason the chapel was open. The poor child seemed greatly excited, and asked if the Father had said anything to me of joining in the procession.
                  "'Not a word,' I answered.
                  "'He expects it, and likewise that I will make a more formal expression than I have yet done,' rejoined Eudora.
                  "Once more the twilight of doubt and uncertainty hedged me in. On one hand I am inclined to confess and receive the penalty which the Church sees fit to bestow; on the other, I am troubled to know how the heart is to be cleansed by outward form and ceremony. And still, I long for something to accomplish, something to take the burden from my heart and from my brain."
               
               
                  
                     Oct. 5.
                  
                  "As I grow stronger, I see less of Ulrica and Eudora. It is best, no doubt. And still, I feel the want of something that I have had. Eudora knows how to go in and out of a sickroom. The look of her blue eyes tranquillize, and the magic of her fingers soothes pain. There is a timid movement about her now. She hesitates, and the color in her cheeks comes and goes like a frightened bird. I trust nothing troubles her. Captain Eidermann has been heard from—all in good condition. Father Auberthal is always amiable. He has abundance of time. Wherever I go, he accompanies me.
                  "I have tried to think where I shall go? and what I am to do? Doctor Kaufmann is not to give me up for several days. Frau Stephanie is like a mother. She has a friend, a countess with two sons. They are in search of a tutor; but they are rich, and I fear the temptation. Eudora looked at me, as we were talking of it, in a way that made me feel she knew my secret. Is it possible that in those days of delirium I exposed myself? Is it possible?"
               
               
                  
                     Oct. 7.
                  
                  "Oh God! that I should have to write it! Yesterday I went with Father Auberthal to see some of the principal sights in town. The streets are much finer than I expected, and the buildings, although of a different fashion from any that I have before seen, are still marvels of art in painting and sculpture. Passing the gardens, we at once found ourselves on the quay.
                  "A large boat was preparing to go out. We were invited to go on board; the day was warm; the officers were at lunch. Without formality we sit down. Conversation was lively and spirited. Wine was offered. My brain reeled, my lips were white and trembled. I could not articulate a word. I laid my hand over the glass.
                  "'No refusal,' said the officer, politely. 'You have just been ill. You tremble, and your face is colorless. A glass of tokay is just the thing to put you on your feet.'
                  "My glass was filled. I drank it off, and felt better. Again it was filled, and again I drained it. Father Auberthal drank freely. I forgot where I was. I forgot the temptation, and the result was that I was brought home exhausted. The Father said, presuming upon my newly recovered strength, he had taken me too far. 'A little sleep, and he will recover,' was said to Eudora. It was well that Doctor Kaufmann had gone to Darmstadt. Father Auberthal was not one to show the number of his cups. Shutting the door of my room, he flung himself upon the sofa and slept.
                  "Oh! the long hours of that wretched night. The gaping mouths of so many devils craving more and more, the gnawing, eating death rending my vitals. At one time they were tearing the flesh from my bones. Then, with horrid oaths and terrible grimace, they opened all my veins, and poured into the quivering flesh boiling pitch. Morning found me a prisoner, chained to my bed. A double chain around my heart. At an early hour Eudora came. The touch of her fingers on my temples quieted me. The hot flush on my cheeks vanished, the burning blood in my veins run quietly. Father Auberthal took occasion of her presence to go to his room.
                  "'We must take better care of you,' was said, naively. 'Doctor Kaufmann will not like to hear that you have suffered from this imprudence.'
                  "A groan escaped me. I had well nigh told the secret. But, no, it would grieve the child. What she has done for me, she has done for Karl's sake. She has already suffered on Paul's account. I cannot bear that she should learn that I have the same habit."
               
               
                  
                     Oct. 9.
                  
                  "This morning I made my way into the chapel through the small door by which I had seen Ulrica enter. The dim twilight of the place was suited to my frame of mind. I approached the altar. A cloud of sweet perfume enveloped me. I fell upon my knees, my hands were clasped, and my head rested on the railing. The cry of my heart was strong, but there were no words. Where now the hopes of my boyhood, the bright anticipations of my youth? In school and college I studied to excel; the praise of my teachers was music to my heart. My mother was proud of my effort. Not satisfied with what I could readily undertake, stimulants were resorted to; praise was accorded me, and thus my natural thirst was fed, and habit confirmed. Merciful God, spare me! Deny me what thou wilt, but permit not to yield to this terrible tempter, this devourer of soul and body.
                  "The images at the altar—all that my mother had ever taught me, came back at that hour. I was calm, but it was the calm that is the sure forerunner of a tempest. A hand rested on my shoulder. I looked up. It was the professor. Never had I seen such an expression on his face. His voice was tender.
                  
                  "'There is no better place to learn to live worthily. I never feel the invisible Presence to be so near as when I kneel at the altar. It is a place for good resolves to grow and strengthen.'
                  "I arose to my feet. I could not suffer myself to speak. Arm-in-arm we walked up and down the shadowy aisles. Then I made known my resolve to find employment. I had thought, I still thought to study; but I wanted something for my hands to do. The professor approved of my design; he even went so far as to make suggestions. Once more the Countess Von Amburg was mentioned. She wants a tutor. 'It will be an excellent place; and she has a great admiration for your country,' whispered the professor.
                  "I listened like one in a dream. I could not tell him of what I longed to have him know. A slave hating the chain, and all the time hiding it.
                  "I have been with the professor and Amelia to the small sanctuary where they worship. A Sabbath stillness was in the air; the flowers swung their censers, and the river gleamed and sparkled like liquid silver. Eudora was with us. I half suspect that Eudora is looked upon as an apostate. She says little. Father Auberthal is not as frequently with us. There is evident antagonism—still, all is concealed under a garb of politeness. Father Auberthal is never off his guard, and the professor is so wise and withal so amiable, that it is impossible for any one not to admire him.
                  "As we walked to the boat-house, everything seemed to whisper 'It is the Sabbath. It is the day to ask for gifts. There were other boats. All was cheerful, but without levity. The water rippled around our prow, the oars flashed back the light, thought grew purer, holier. The professor removed his hat. I was obliged to draw mine down in order to protect my eyes. Amelia and Eudora were silent.
                  "'As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is round about His people from henceforth even forever,' repeated the professor, slowly. A radiant light shot over Amelia's face. She has such sweet trust and confidence, I am reminded of Sibil. Shutting my eyes, I dared not think. Could I only blot it out!
                  "We reached the pier. Eudora was the last to leave the boat. I gave her my hand; in doing so our eyes met. Hers were full of tears.
                  "'I have been thinking of Paul,' she whispered; "he is truly noble—you would admire him. I cannot endure to have him a slave to drink.'
                  "We followed the professor and Amelia into a pew near the chancel. There were not the pictures, the candles, and the incense to be seen in the chapel, but holiness seemed written on the walls, purity and truth sat above the altar. Eudora's face lost the troubled expression. To her it was the place for communion with the Invisible. I longed to kneel by her side. How could I! My soul was guilty of crime, I was defiled with sin, 'a slave to drink'—alas! I was a slave to drink. I cannot remember. I know, that in keeping with the service, we got up and sat down. I had but one thought—'the slave of drink.' How could I free myself? how could I atone for my sin?
                  "As we went out, the pastor took us each by the hand. His words were few, but aptly chosen. There was a touching earnestness in his face, a yearning look, as though afraid there would be one who would turn aside from the truth. At the pier we parted. Once we looked behind us; the pastor was still standing on the shore. The visible was before him, the voice of the invisible was in his soul. Father Auberthal met us as we left the boat. His manner was courteous, but constrained. The remainder of the day was spent upon the terrace.
                  "It is settled I am to go to the Countess Von Amburg. I shall leave the professor and Amelia at Wesel, then up the Lippe and across to Detmold."
               
            
            
               
               IX. By the Way.
               IT was harvest-time: the men in caps and loose white overshirts, with boots reaching to the knee; the women with black head-dress, bodice and neat scarlet petticoat. These tints of white, scarlet, and black blended beautifully with the sheaves. It was something out of the usual round to see a traveller alone in a postchaise, and the laborers relaxed a little; some straightening themselves and looking directly at the passer-by, others holding the corn in one hand, sending out sly glances, wondering and making comments; and then back to the full measure of their work.
               Up to the last moment, Father Auberthal had sought a pretext by which he could accompany Fairfax. It was ordered otherwise. The very morning Fairfax left Hofnels, Father Auberthal started for Rome.
               "Let me beg you to accept a few small books, they will save you from ennui. Above all, they will anchor your thoughts when distracted by the monotony of the way, and the weariness that inevitably follows the traveller. Books are safeguards. I never journey without them."
               It was a kindness on the part of Father Auberthal, that Fairfax fully appreciated. Nevertheless the books were not opened; his thoughts would not be curbed to the track another had taken. The past swept up before him, and the future—where would it lead? Besides, he could not deny the unrest in leaving Hofnels. Frau Hatzfeld had been like a mother, and Eudora and Ulrica like dear young sisters. In one sense it was the awakening to new life, and still, the very kindness he had received, added to the burden of his unrest. Differing in nationality, custom and manner of life, there was still a greater difference in the inner consciousness. Never can he forget the sweet love, and trust, and confidence, that sat on the face of the worshippers in the small sanctuary—unlike, and still, not more soul-sustaining than that exhibited by Father Auberthal when he spoke of the expiatory service of the Church. Both had been kind to him, and both were disappointed in him. He had inclined to both, and decided for neither. Could they have known his guilt, would they have urged him? With such a gulf between them, how could he but hesitate? The stain of crime was upon him—the spectre of his friend came between him and the uplifted cross. The incense reminded him of the delights from which he was forever debarred. Is there any anguish like that of losing by a fault? any pain like that slow bitterness which comes upon the heart when the certainty of its eternal loss becomes fully perceptible to it? Leading out on this thought, the traveller was glad to catch a glimpse of the laborers. With faces brown with exposure, and hands hardened with toil, he envied their simple, uneventful life. Is it possible that they are subject to temptation? Do they know anything of this gnawing, eating thirst? Do they know the misery of ruined hopes, changed plans? A shadow menacing them wherever they go? With no ambition, and fewer responsibilities, gladly would he share the labors of the field, could he but win back the innocence, the hope of his youth.
               Hot tears coursed down the thin cheeks and were lost in the brown beard. Leaning back in the carriage he tried to shut it out; tried to compose himself and think of nothing beyond the landscape, with every step growing still more lovely, with groves and brooks and alder thickets.
               Coming to the bulwarks of mountains that surround Detmold, they found a diligence with one wheel broken, and the driver in the greatest consternation. "I could have remedied it, had I been able to go to a shop not far distant, but the ladies would not remain by themselves and I could not take them," said the driver of the diligence.
               
               "What ladies? I do not see any," said Fairfax, who had by this time left the postchaise; "an ugly accident and an ugly place for an accident. How did it all happen?"
               "You see that off horse is not any too good, the best way. I had to take her, and as the load was uncommonly light, I did not think of any trouble. She's as pretty a beast as you want to see, but she wont pull. I snapped her up a little, and we were only saved from running over the precipice."
               "But the ladies?" continued Fairfax, smiling in spite of himself.
               Hearing voices, two ladies approached; one an elderly woman with a style and bearing at once simple and dignified; the other with the bloom of youth and beauty.
               "I sincerely regret an accident of this kind. If you are going to Detmold, and will accept of seats in my conveyance, there need be no delay in your journey," said Fairfax, frankly and courteously.
               "I do not need to be told that you are a gentleman, and I shall gladly accept your courtesy. To tell the truth, we were not a little frightened; and then to be left in this wild place, while the postillion went on, was more than we were courageous enough to do;" and a peculiar smile beautified the face of the elder woman.
               "It certainly was frightful, auntie. At one time it did look as though nothing would save us."
               "At all events you will be quite as comfortable here," said Fairfax, motioning the driver of the post-chaise to advance.
               "We were seriously thinking of mounting the leaders, had you not come up at the precise moment," laughed the young girl.
               "Infinitely better than staying here," answered the lady. "I never could have permitted Nugent to go without us. But come, Frederica, will you help me with the packages?"
               "Permit me," said Fairfax, gayly.
               A couple of valises, and a hamper of delicacies, were taken from the crippled diligence.
               
               "Have you dined?" asked the elder of the ladies, of Fairfax.
               "I was told that I should dine in Detmold."
               "That will be late. Here is a full basket, it will not hurt your horses to rest. Suppose we make a party of three, taking our lunch in the shadow of the Grotenburg."
               "That will be splendid," cried the younger lady. "A little adventure, just to spice the really weary day that we have had."
               "You will not object to my now going, Madam Von Sieberg?" asked Nugent respectfully; "you see, if I do not go on, I cannot get the wheel mended in time to return."
               "That is true; but, you must stop for lunch. I must say, that under the circumstances, you behaved very well. You must eat something; and here, Frederica; a glass of wine for Nugent. Thanks to him there's a broken wheel instead of a broken neck."
               "I have not time: I must not stay another minute," said the man, politely touching his peaked hat.
               "The wine, Frederica," gasped the elder lady.
               A faint, sickly feeling crept over Fairfax, as Nugent drained the cup Frederica poured for him. Then mounting a wheel horse, he rode away at a furious rate, in the direction of the shop.
               The driver of the post-chaise had already placed the cushions on a velvet knoll, sufficiently screened from the sun by a towering oak, having its roots half-way down the precipice. A damask table-cloth with a white ground, sprinkled with scarlet roses, was spread on the soft green grass, and viands temptingly arranged. The elder lady presided with the grace of one accustomed to court-life, and with the simple frankness of an old and valued acquaintance. Wine was passed. A shadow crossed Fairfax's lips, a tremor came over him that he could not control.
               "This is no vile, brackish stuff. Taste; I am sure you will like it," said Madam Von Sieberg, with charming grace.
               
               Frederica held her glass and laughed till her cheeks were crimson.
               "Your pardon," said Fairfax, with a smile. "I once made a vow not to touch wine, but an occasion like this will justify me, no doubt."
               The glass was drained and another was in Fairfax's hand. Frederica's spirits rose perceptibly.
               "It was really so perplexing, auntie; and to think how it has turned out, that we have lunch in one of the wildest places, under the very oak against which, we expected to be dashed in pieces, and in the shadow of the Grotenburg."
               "And who knows but the followers of Hermann and Wittekind may have built up this knoll? Let us drink to their names, at least."
               And again the glasses were drained; while a grave look touched Madam Von Sieberg's face.
               "If only the mountains could tell us of what they have seen," said Frederica. "It is impossible not to think of the two great representatives of our people in their struggle against Roman and Christian civilization, as often as we look upon this chain of hills; and the fact that our country was led to adopt both the one and the other, and through them developed into its present glory, does not tarnish the lustre of their names."
               "It is a pity that the monument is not complete," said Fairfax, looking away to the summit of the Grotenburg.
               "There has been an impression that the strength of the winds sweeping from the Rhine and from Norway across the Northern Sea, is so great that the statue would be thrown down, if finished," answered Madam Von Sieberg.
               "It is also said, that whenever Germany is united, then will the monument on the Grotenburg be duly finished," added Frederica.
               "God grant that we see Germany united before many years!" exclaimed Madam Von Sieberg. "It is the great desire of my heart to see my country what it was in the old days: these divisions and subdivisions, to say nothing of territory wrenched from us, must be brought back."
               There was warmth and energy that showed a spirit thoroughly stirred.
               "Then you think the day will come when Germany will be indemnified for the wrongs she has suffered?" asked Fairfax.
               "That day will come, or there is no justice in heaven! Do you forget that our good queen's heart was broken? and do you imagine that God will allow her memory to fade from the hearts of the people before her wrongs are avenged?"
               "Ah! now you are thinking of Napoleon," said Fairfax, fixing his bright eyes upon the lady's face; "whatever wrong he committed as Emperor, surely, if personal suffering can atone, he paid a fearful penalty."
               "In one sense he suffered. His wings were clipped, cut short. He could break hearts, but I doubt, if he had one himself."
               "His towering ambition was his ruin. I cannot doubt his heart—it was tender and sensitive, warm and affectionate; but it was crushed, as everything else was, by the strength of his will, the grasp of his ambition," answered Fairfax.
               "As for his genius, I honor it. There were many admirable traits in his composition: but his kindness was like the play of the tiger before the fatal spring is given. So long as he was recognized, it was well; but confront him," said Madam Von Sieberg, with flashing eyes.
               "With such sentiments towards Napoleon, you cannot be expected to think too highly of the present emperor," said Fairfax, with the least perceptible smile.
               "Had he not been blessed with the name, he would never have occupied the high position. A man without the shadow of greatness; only capable of intrigue and pretension, a regular plotter—but perfectly transparent to one who has the patience to disjoint his sophistry."
               "If you go on in this way, auntie, I shall be afraid to go to Berlin," thrust in Frederica. "After all, it was this Grotenburg. I thought it would be so nice to take our lunch in this wild place; but it has made you think of everything wrong, and all this talk makes my head ache. Shall I have to listen to everything that happened so very long ago, if I am presented at court?" and there was an innocent, appealing look on the fair face, that caused Madam Von Sieberg to laugh, in spite of herself.
               "Really! have I been talking too much, child? And will you have to listen to all that happened so very long ago? Certainly not, if you are not interested. But Frederica, it is not every one who goes to Berlin that is presented at court. What put that into your charming little head?"
               "But, auntie, you are there, and my uncle"—
               "Tut, tut, child! You did well to remind me that this is lunch, and that I have talked you into a headache. I am sorry; and, for the gentleman, I fear that I have troubled his appetite," and a bright smile illuminated the handsome face.
               "On the contrary, my appetite has had full and free indulgence; and enthusiasm for one's country is at all times, and under all circumstances, praiseworthy," returned Fairfax, politely.
               Once more the glasses were filled.
               "Let us anticipate," said Madam Von Sieberg. And once more her face was flushed with enthusiasm. "Let us drink to United Germany."
               Instantly they were on their feet. A look to the Grotenburg, and the click of glasses, and the subtle draught disappeared.
               "Did you drink to United Germany? Was your glass replenished?" asked Madam Von Sieberg, turning to the postilion.
               "Not yet, your grace."
               "Fill the glass, Frederica. It is for the Fatherland."
               "I will drink, and when the time comes, I will fight for the Fatherland," answered the man respectfully, at the same time emptying his glass.
               "Amen! that time will soon come," murmured the lady, under her breath.
               
               The hamper was repacked, the cushions replaced, and the travellers were once more en route for Detmold. They had made some distance, when they met Nugent. He had a new wheel, and likewise a workman to assist him in fitting it.
               "True, it is not painted, but it is a good wheel, and will run just as fast as the old one," was said, naively.
               Rattling over the fine road, the talk was no longer confined. Shifting from one continent to another, there was hardly a question that was not touched upon, commented upon, and then set aside. The groves dividing the bright meadows, the golden slopes of harvest, the lingering beauty of the season, called for observation, fresh and sparkling.
               As they entered the town, the streets were full of people. All was cheerful, even happy; and still, everywhere the strong distinction between rich and poor, painful to an eye accustomed to look upon all men as equal; the path of honor and distinction open to the poorest, if he has the energy to enter upon it.
               Winding through the park, carriages were seen, with ladies reclining at their ease. Mounted cavaliers rode beside them; the cheerful abandon and gay conversation adding enjoyment to the sweet out-door life.
               "There is the Countess Von Amburg," said Madam Von Sieberg to Frederica, as she caught the bow and the smile of a rarely beautiful woman.
               Fairfax raised his head unconsciously.
               "The ladies in the black and green carriage," continued Madam Von Sieberg. "A most estimable woman, with some terribly wild sons. She has seen trouble, but this evening she looks fresh and composed, and exceedingly young, withal."
               "I heard that her sons had promised to give her no farther uneasiness, provided she would dismiss Carncross, and employ a tutor, and that she had actually written to that famous professor, Edelstein, with regard to it," observed Frederica.
               "In that case she will be sure of a worthy man; but I shall pity him. I do not think they care a straw for books."
               "Indeed, auntie, if Countess Von Amburg would not allow of quite so much freedom at table. They spend so much time over their wine, that they cannot study."
               "And if they are deprived of it they are full of wrath. Poor countess! I trust her new tutor will be a comfort to her," returned Madam Von Sieberg.
               A deathly sensation passed over Fairfax. He felt like fainting, and only by the force of will did he keep from crying out, "Countess Von Amburg's terribly wild sons—too much time over their wine!" Had he heard rightly? But there was no time to think. They were passing the castle—three sides environed by a moat that was fed by a branch of the Weser. Children were here, paddling paper boats, ducks were swimming on the water; cows were returning from the pastures, and men and women were carrying hay and vegetables. Suggestions of a quiet country village, rather than a capital, with a palace and government buildings inferior to those in Berlin, but just as important in the eyes of the people.
               "I am glad that we are in time for the fair," said Frederica. "I like fairs. One can see everybody and everything, and one does not have to be ceremonious. Can you bear to be ceremonious?" was said to Fairfax.
               "Just enough ceremony to be truthful," was the smiling rejoinder.
               "As much as we have had to-day," laughed Madam Von Sieberg.
               "I am sure I think it has been charming; only, you made my head ache, auntie, touching upon that old Napoleon."
               "Well, I must be more careful in the future," returned the elder lady. "Here we are."
               Fairfax had insisted upon being set down at the inn, leaving the postchaise to go on with the ladies, and thus saving them the immediate necessity of explanation with regard to the accident.
               "We shall see you to-morrow," said both ladies, as the chaise drove off.
               A bow from Fairfax was the only answer.
            
            
               
               X. New Friends.
               IT was in favor of the traveller that the innkeeper had seen him get out of the postchaise; he had seen the smile, and heard the kind words of the ladies. The young gentleman could be no other than a person of distinction. Not only this, the innkeeper's wife had seen him, and so had the maids, and the eldest daughter had climbed to the highest window, and followed the chaise. She was positive, quite positive that the postilion had taken the road to the castle. If not the castle, it was some place very near it. This news went with telegraphic speed. The innkeeper was in his best mood. Of course the traveller could have a bed, the very best bed in the house was quite at his service—and the ground parlor. Only, if gentlemen came —and of course they would come—his house was always full during the Fair—would the young gentleman be willing that other gentlemen should occupy the parlor? It was a grand room, a very grand room, with an excellent view of the Grotenburg. Would the young gentleman come and see it? And with a little wondering bluster, the innkeeper rolled along through a narrow hall, and up a flight of winding, dingy stairs, and opening the door of a good sized room, turned to his guest, with a flourish of his fat hand, and a bow, as low as his aldermanic proportions would permit. "A very grand room, the gentleman will allow. And, if the gentleman will have the goodness to order supper, fowl or fish, or anything that he may like, only, will he have the goodness to make himself quite free; there is everything in the house. The innkeeper always made it a point to keep it, and especially during the Fair."
               How much of this Fairfax heard, it was impossible to say. The wine that he had drank was beginning to make an impression. He only remembered, that, as the innkeeper went down, he flung himself into a leather-covered armchair, and looked around the large bare room, with blue walls, and narrow windows. A few pictures, bright with color, and tawdry yellow frames, caught his eye, and lying on the table were various maps and charts, with two books that bore the marks of being much read. One of these was a description of the Teutoberger Forest written by the Cantor Sauerländer of Detmold, a little book which no one but a pure-blooded Teuton could have written; minute to the last degree, and withal giving one to feel that he (the writer) was conscious in his belief that the sun did not shine upon a spot that had more to interest the traveller, the scholar, the man of science, than could be found in the history of Teut, the chief personage of the original Teutonic mythology. The other was a volume of poems by Freiligrath, likewise a native of Detmold.
               Ostensibly Fairfax was deeply absorbed in reading "The Dead to the Living," "Lion Ride," with others of the native poets, when the innkeeper bustled in, and directly behind him a party of three gentlemen.
               "You see it is a grand room, a very grand room," repeated the innkeeper to his new guests; "and the view is charming, really the finest that can be found. Have the goodness to come this way, gentlemen."
               And throwing open a broad door, there was a descent of a couple of steps leading into a porch, or open hall, with fresh scrubbed floor, broad wooden seats, and with a tolerably good view of the best part of the town, and also of the mountains beyond.
               "You see, I like to have my guests feel at home, and if they want anything that is not here, they must ask for it."
               Turning to Fairfax, he said, in the same self-conscious strain:
               "I see you enjoy Freiligrath, and no wonder. Freiligrath has written the best political poems in the language. Too good, perhaps, when we take into consideration the years of exile. But, you are impatient for your supper per. I will hasten it. I will have it forthcoming."
               There was no more quiet. The white floor was destitute of a carpet. Before the grate there was a rug. A large rug of divers colors was placed before each window, with a still larger one on the centre of the floor, and on which stood the table, and the armchair in which Fairfax had taken refuge. But the tramp of busy feet, the chatter of at least three languages made it impossible for Fairfax to interest himself even in the poet Freiligrath.
               With another flourish and opening of doors, supper was announced, and a very creditable one it was. Only to Fairfax, who had lunched plentifully, there was not much of an appetite, and more time, perhaps, to observe his neighbors, each with a nationality at once perceptible, and still, each so much of the cosmopolite as to mingle and harmonize upon all topics of general interest. Brought into so near relationship, and refreshed with good cheer and a plentiful supply of choice wines, it was not long till the countenances of the Frenchman, the Italian, and the German were familiar to Fairfax, while his own seemed to have made upon them a pleasurable impression, enhanced by the courtliness of his manner, and the easy flow of his conversation.
               Though older than him in years, Fairfax was not long in discovering that the gentlemen still considered themselves students—that they had been travelling on foot, during the summer in Switzerland, then up the Rhine, and in Detmold, for the purpose of becoming acquainted with the Teutoberg.
               The repast was ended; the dishes were removed. Only wine and cigars were brought, and still the gentlemen sat looking into each other's faces, their thoughts wandering away through the centuries. Now talking of Charlemagne, and the terrible revenge upon Wittekind in the execution of forty-five hundred Saxons whom he still retained as prisoners. Then the revolt of the tribes, and the compromise that followed.
               "Such butchery is intolerable!" exclaimed M. Parson, with a merry twinkle in his black eyes; "besides, it takes one too far back. Let us have something fresh, something that has come to our knowledge through our individual experience."
               "Agreed!" cried the Italian, his olive complexion growing bright with anticipation. "But mind, it must be brief. This is too lonely a night to be cooped here, like mice in a trap. What say you? Who has the word?"
               A quick glance round the table, and the good-humored Kleist answered, "We shall draw, and the one with the longest shall commence."
               "Very well," was the response.
               Kleist drew a letter from his pocket, turned several narrow folds, and then proceeded to divide them with his knife.
               "Four, yes, four;" and he raised his hand with four small papers pressed between his thumb and forefinger.
               "The longest! M. Pelagie has it," exclaimed Kleist.
               "I am heartily sorry; for I can assure you before I commence, that I am reduced to a passive condition."
               "I thought you always ready," shouted M. Parson, "or did that night on the Rhine spoil your humor for story-telling?"
               "There are exceptions to every rule, my old professor used to say," and a strong enthusiasm lit up the olive face.
               A small fire of sticks had been kindled on the hearth, and a ruddy glare stretched over the walls, twined around the decanters, and revealed a look of expectancy on the faces gathered around the table. At that instant the door was again flung open, and with still more of a flourish, the innkeeper ushered in a new-comer.
               "Gentlemen, I have no wish to intrude, but Kranzenbach"—
               Instantly the three friends were on their feet. Fairfax, also, was standing.
               "Kranzenbach, my dear fellow, when did you return?" exclaimed each in a breath.
               "But this instant I reached Detmold. To tell the truth, I had no thought of finding you here. Believe me, I am not the less glad. But what are you doing? Why are you cooped up like prisoners of state? Now I see you, I have a new thought. Will you come with me? To-morrow it will be too late."
               "Explain," said M. Parson, with a merry laugh. "You know we are not in visiting costume. To tell the truth, we are not in any sense presentable. M. Pelagie has just admitted that he is in a state of passivity, and Kleist"—
               "Kleist can answer for himself," laughed the amiable German, "and he will go. What do you say, M. Pelagie, will your story keep till we return?"
               "It has kept so long, that I fancy it will keep longer. You remember it was the main condition that it should be brief."
               Fairfax had been duly introduced. With charming frankness Kranzenbach turned and extended his hand.
               "I will not ask you to join me in an unknown adventure. Permit me to say that I have not been in Detmold since, as a boy, I left it for the university. I am to remain but one night, and I had determined to climb to one of my old haunts before I slept. The sight of my friends compelled me to ask them. Will you join us in going to the top of the Grotenburg?"
               It had not been in Fairfax's heart to go. Besides, what did he fear, or, rather, what did he not fear? He did not stop to question, however. The face of Kranzenbach had won his confidence from the first moment, and his frank honest smile was a guarantee of faithfulness.
               "A pleasure that I shall enjoy only the more for its not being anticipated," was Fairfax's reply.
               "We must break a bottle in the moonlight," said M. Pelagie, hiding one in his pocket.
               "Have you forgotten what the professor used to say?" asked Kranzenbach, with an arch smile.
               "He had so many old saws, it was hard to keep the run of them," was the laughing reply.
               
               "But this of wine?" persisted Kranzenbach.
               "Oh yes, I remember. It seems to me I can see his dear good face, even now, just as he looked when he said:
               "'Young gentlemen, remember wine is a worthy slave, but a tyrannical master.'"
               "How many of us know this by experience?" questioned Kranzenbach.
            
            
               XI. Change of Purpose.
               IT was late the next day before Fairfax awoke, and then with a dull heavy pain in his head, a deathly stupor that held him from rising. In vain he tried to think. He had resolved and re-resolved. He thought he was strong; besides, he had suffered already a fearful penalty. Was it possible that he could not trust himself? Had he fallen so low that his will was powerless to resist? True, it had been so; he had failed, miserably failed, but it had been through thoughtlessness. Had he not flattered himself that he was now entering upon a new life? He knew the effect of a glass, the very sight was enough to arouse his appetite, to weaken his resolve to abstain. Was there such a thing as fate? And if so, was it his fate to follow drink?
               
               In despair the wretched man covered his face with his hands. The picture only became more real, the accusing conscience more keen and torturing. Cold drops of perspiration stood upon his brow. He was faint, and a strange tremor thrilled him; the blue walls were coming closer and closer, the bright pictures in yellow frames danced up and down before him, the terrible anguish no longer wrung his heart. Was it sleep, or was it unconsciousness?
               How long he did not know—the next Fairfax could remember, the innkeeper stood rattling away at the door, anxious to be heard, and still fearful of disturbing his guest.
               Fairfax's brain was clearer. He started up, and as suddenly fell back upon the pillow.
               "I believe I have taken cold. My head aches strangely. This is the second time I have made an attempt to rise."
               "I thought as much, and I would not let them disturb you," was said in a tone of genuine kindness. "But here's a note for you. It came this morning; and here's another, and still another," and the innkeeper drew nearer the bed. "I would not let any of the others disturb you. I said that I would bring them myself."
               "It was kind, and I am obliged to you. For answer, you may say that I am ill; shall be well, no doubt, in the morning;" and Fairfax reached forth his hand for the notes.
               A glance showed him the Von Amburg arms, and in an instant he remembered his engagement to dine with Madame Von Sieberg, and another to join his student friends in exploring the Extemsteine.
               To the innkeeper these notes had a strange significance. Of course, his guest must be a distinguished person. Not only himself, but his wife and his daughter had examined the beautiful device. "What a pity that he should be ill. And ill he must be, or he would have appeared," was said by the good people. At last they could not bear it longer, and the innkeeper had ventured to come up.
               "I know what it is to have a cold. I have it myself, and as soon as I have it, I take medicine, and it leaves me quiet at once. If the gentleman would like, I can bring him something that is a sure remedy."
               The innkeeper was patiently waiting for an answer.
               "It may be the best," returned Fairfax, anxious only to be free from further interposition.
               "I will go down,—I will mix it myself,—I will have it forthcoming."
               The innkeeper bustled out and shut the door behind him. Fairfax once more looked at the small perfumed notes, the delicate chirography, the courtly device. What were they to him but reminders of his weakness. He left Hofnels with the determination never again to drink: he flattered himself that the old appetite had departed. With this consideration he had accepted the position of private tutor. Strong as he had thought himself, he was beguiled into taking wine with Madam Von Sieberg and Frederica. His appetite was awakened—he had given way to it.
               Once more the terrible agony was at his heart, the cry of demons was in his ears. The door opened—the innkeeper rushed in.
               "It was a long time coming, to have it right. I had to send out: but now you have it, it will do you good."
               Fairfax raised himself on his elbow. The man came nearer. He held a vessel in his hand in which was some hot liquor; the fumes sent a thrill over the sufferer.
               "What is it?" was asked in an eager voice.
               "You see it was bitter, slightly bitter, and I made it into a hot punch with lemon to flavor it. It is palatable, I am sure."
               The man spoke with confidence—he had taken the trouble to make it. But Fairfax turned away.
               "It is detestable! The smell of it makes me ill. Away with it!" shouted Fairfax.
               "The smell of it! I assure you it is good. I made it myself," returned the innkeeper, holding his nose over the steaming potion.
               "That all may be, but it sickens me—I will not have it," was the brief reply.
               
               "Does the young gentleman wish to have it kept for him?"
               "Set it to my account, and drink it yourself," added Fairfax, as he caught the meaning of the complacent innkeeper.
               "It's all the same to me, if the young gentleman thinks it will do him no good. Anything else that he will have?"
               "Nothing at all. Make out his bill, for as soon as he is quite well he will leave."
               The man bowed, and went to his wife with the news. "The young gentleman had received an invitation from the Countess Von Amburg. Of course he was to accept it, of course he was to go to the castle. Telling the news, the innkeeper and his wife drank the lemon-flavored liquor. "It is good—I cannot see why he refused it," said the woman, wiping her lips and then taking another draught.
               "Some folks have fancies. I wouldn't wonder if he had—he looks like such an one."
               "That may be, but had he tasted it, I am sure he would have found it good. It is the lemon, perhaps. You know I could never bear anything; but this is really very nice. It warms me—I can feel it all through me," the woman replied.
               As soon as Fairfax found himself alone, he began to think what was to be done. By his side were the notes. He had not opened them—he did not care to know their contents. The experience of the last twenty-four hours had shown him his weakness, and changed his plan. Still, he could not think clearly; and yet it was plain to him that he must not undertake the care of Countess Von Amburg's sons. Of course Professor Edelstein would feel wounded, but far better to break his engagement than to enter upon his duties only to fall into disgrace and ruin. Professor Edelstein did not know of his weakness, but he knew and had sufficient proof that it would not answer to trust in his promises. He had done so, and fallen. Again the terrible torture was in his heart—the grasp of a tiger was at his throat. The three friends were in the parlor: he could distinguish their voices. Had they returned, or had they delayed on his account? But he would not see them. Kranzenbach had gone. And he would go—and where? Alas! where? Anywhere, if possible he could escape temptation.
               Wearied with the struggle with despair, Fairfax slept. When he awoke the dawn was breaking. Making his way down to the entrance of the inn, he watched the glow deepen and flash over the summit of the Grotenburg, and then sallied forth as if to get an appetite for breakfast.
               Early as it was, the people engaged in the Fair were awake; women and girls, boys and men. Booths were festooned with evergreens interspersed with small sheaves of rye and wheat, and long full ears of yellow corn. A cheerful air pervaded the place. Fairfax had but one thought: "Away! away!" sounded in his ears. Halting at a stand for refreshment, he bought the half of a small black loaf. He was weak and faint, but he did not dare to stop and eat it. Outside the town the wanderer came upon what seemed to be a deserted serted dwelling. There were shady paths and open, sunny spaces. Not far from the gate were two magnolia trees, with a broad avenue of oaks and lindens. Dropping upon a broad stone step, Fairfax looked up to the mountains. How pure and beautiful they looked; how far above him. He tried to swallow his black bread, but the old life came up before him. Now it was President Raffles, and Terence Redford, then Professor Edelstein and Amelia. Once more he is in the small sanctuary, once more he listens as the professor breaks forth in rejoicing.
               "As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is round about his people, from henceforth even forever."
               Such thoughts, instead of clearing his brain, intensified his despair. A fear, a foreboding spirit rose up out of this tempest of sound, and taking form and shape, pressed upon him like some huge bird of prey, with fiery eyes and dark spreading wings. The talons struck, into his flesh—the terrible beak was in his heart. Added to this, the dwelling, with its solitary walks and stately avenues, was uninhabited. Gay, jubilant voices were around him, windows were thrown open, and the balconies were filled with ladies and gentlemen, come forth to inhale the freshness and beauty of the morning. Now a couple trip down the steps towards the magnolia trees. A glance, and the wretched man attempts to rise. They are nearing him; there is no mistake—it is Madam Von Sieberg. He must not see her. Borne down with anguish, he is so far conscious, as to feel that he is lost, if she comes to recognize him. The beastly bird is before him; hideous noises are in his ears; the lady is advancing. Starting to his feet, he flew in and out of the dewy shrubbery. He was in the highway. Everywhere he encountered people coming in to the Fair. He moderated his steps; but still he pressed onward. To avoid the crowd, he turned into the most unfrequented road—he had no thought but to flee, no desire but to hide himself away from the tempter. He did not question where, but rushed forward.
               The sun grew hot; the broad road dwindled into a mountain path—it became more intricate. Masses of rock towered above him; his hands were torn and bleeding, his feet lacerated. A strange, indefinite feeling urged him on. It was a race for life; if he turned back, all was lost. On, on,—his head reeled—he dared not look behind him; birds were startled from their nests—shrubs were uprooted, and an avalanche of stones went crashing into the valley.
               Still the mountains were farther on. Overcome with fatigue, the fugitive crouched down on a shelf of rock and covered his eyes. A terrible temptation was in his heart. Why not throw himself down? Why offer further resistance? He had tried, tried faithfully; it was his nature, he could not help it, he was not responsible; he had received this nature, the love for strong drink was inherent. Would God crush him for doing the very thing that was in his nature to do?
               The wind stirred the pines. Like a bear with the hunters upon him, the wanderer started. "To the heights!" was the cry of his soul. A terrible fire was in his veins, his nostrils dilated, and his eyes felt like bursting. "List!"—a child's voice. Grasping a twig, the wanderer listened. Nothing but the wind awaking weird voices in the pines. Again he rushed forward. The rocks were almost impassable—only a few tough shrubs hung from the crevices in their sides. But for the wild cry in his heart, he would have yielded in despair. A fox sat in the door of his den, and a mountain goat leaped from cliff to cliff.
               Suddenly a terrible darkness veiled the precipice, the winds roared, and thunder muttered—clouds grew black, and out of their inky folds lances of flame thrust outward. Birds flapped their wings and soared away. The pines bent themselves, and the cliffs echoed. A deluge of rain followed; then the sun flashed his splendor over the mountains, fringing the black clouds with gold and transmuting each rain drop into a jewel.
               Could the wretched wanderer have seen the brightness, he might have taken it as the harbinger of good; but the sudden darkness was appalling. Hanging to the rocks, he dare not stir. Not blacker than the terrible past; but the two combined overpowered him. Was it the voice of God denouncing him for the crime he had committed? Was it the wrath of a Judge, by whom justice is sure to be meted out? The strife of the elements, the rain beating upon his head, and the anguish in his heart were two much for the enfeebled frame. He was insensible.
               The day was done. A peasant was gathering in the few goats that had been beguiled by the beauty of the morning in going too far; the sudden storm left them no time to return. In the clefts of the rock they had taken shelter, and when the sun came out they were hungry—and missing them, Fritz came to bear them in his arms, if need be, up the steep and over chasms to the home-fold. He had gathered all but one, and already hope well-nigh failed. Ninnette was not accustomed to go from home. She was his pet, the softest fleece and the mildest of all the herd. She had been raised in the cottage, a companion and playmate for Hans. Talking to himself, and calling "Ninnette! Ninnette!" the peasant wandered farther and farther from the accustomed path. Of course she had not gone so far, and still, there was something in his heart urging him to follow on.
               The sun was nearly down—it would not do to remain longer. The peasant stopped and listened. He was not sure, but he thought he heard a cry; it might be a wild beast had followed the goats, and Ninnette already paid the penalty of straying from home. To make sure, he stopped and listened attentively. There was no mistake. A piteous bleat sounded downward. The peasant planted his staff and swung himself up to the ledge on which the wanderer lay insensible. The goat stood looking into the white face, then turned and bleated piteously. "Ninnette?" cried the peasant. The poor dumb creature leaped forward. "Ninnette, what does this mean? Why art thou here, and who is this wanderer?"
               The heart of the peasant was touched, and kneeling he lifted the poor bruised face to his knee, chafed the cold hands, and breathed into the half-open mouth.
               There was a sigh; a quick gasping for breath, and the eyes opened.
               "How camest thou? But, I see, thou wert lost in the mountains, and the rain came on, and thou art chilled through," said the peasant.
               The sufferer made an attempt to speak, but his tongue was stiff, he could not articulate a word.
               "Hast thou friends?" stammered Fritz.
               This time the traveller made out to answer.
               "No friends!" exclaimed Fritz. "Ah, that is the reason thou didst stray so far from the right track. Thou must not remain here. Wilt thou go with me to the farm?"
               The voice was frank, the face an honest face. Leaning on the shoulder of the peasant, the benumbed man tried to rise. He could not, he was weak and trembling.
               
               "I will call—Ludwig will hear me," said he, stepping a few yards beyond the rock. Fritz put the whistle to his lips. A thin sound, strangely shrill, echoed along the mountain passes. Ninnette pricked up her ears and started. Then turned and stood patiently, looking first to the stricken man on the rock, and then away to Fritz.
               There was a moment of intense anxiety, and then Fritz's face was all sunshine.
               "He is coming—he will know there is trouble."
               A sunbeam darted across the cliff and touched the faces of the two men, sitting on the narrow ledge. The one with a high, white brow, finely chiselled nose and chin, the expression of the mouth hid under a flowing beard that set off to great advantage the handsome face. The other roughened with toil, sunburnt, and coarsely clad; still, with bright eyes and a kind heart to light up his not uncomely face. A man rough-hewed, but with a spark of Divine essence that only needed opportunity to flash through the intellect lect, and kindle the torch of human reason and playful fancy. Not learned in books; but the lesson "to do unto another as he would that another do unto him" was deeply impressed upon the peasant's heart.
               "Have no care," continued Fritz, as he supported the exhausted man. "It is more a wonder that thou art here, than it is to see that thou canst not get away. "And Fritz laughed and showed his teeth, that were white and regular.
               There was a bounding step, and a quick, joyous cry. Ludwig came up, panting and amazed.
               "This man was in the mountains, and the storm came on. He is chilled through. We must take him to the farm," said Fritz.
               "Is it possible!" exclaimed Ludwig, hardly able to comprehend. "How did he find his way?"
               "Did I not tell thee he lost his way, and he is here," interrupted Fritz.
               "He cannot walk, how then is he to go to the farm?"
               
               "Do not make a fool of thyself. If the man cannot walk we must carry him!"
               "Ach!" grunted Ludwig.
               "It is not necessary to think of it," said Fritz, prompted to say a kind word to the stranger. Then unbuckling his leather belt, "Let me clasp this around thy waist, and then if a misstep is made it will not be as bad. Now look up; high as we are, the heavens are above us. To look up has steadied me many a time."
               Too weak to think, Fairfax had a sudden consciousness of his position. Up to this time his look and manner had been mechanical. He saw men—they spoke to him, and he answered. The allusion to the heavens set his thoughts in motion; he would look up. But for the moment his eyes were lifted no higher than Fritz's shoulder.
               "Here is an ugly place," muttered Ludwig.
               "It cannot be better," laughed Fritz.
               They stood on the edge of a cliff down which there was an almost perpendicular fall, reaching up on the other side to a rock of the same size; just as though some fearful concussion had rent the mountain, dividing the rock and leaving a fearful chasm.
               Independent of his peasant garb, Fritz had an honest face, and a figure straight and tall as a young pine. With no fear, no trepidation, his manner inspired confidence.
               "We must swing thee over. It is perfectly safe," was said merrily.
               It was inevitable. Fairfax shut his eyes. It was not fear, but exhaustion. How he reached the farm he did not know. When consciousness returned he was lying on a comfortable bed in a large room. A bright fire was on the hearth. Before it sat the man Fritz with a baby in his arms, while a comelyfaced young woman was busy preparing supper. As his eyes took in this picture a motherly face bent over the couch, and a motherly voice said:
               "Thou art better. God be praised. Come, Fritz, come and see if the sick man has not need of something to eat."
               Bringing the baby to the bedside, Hans put up his small hand and caressed the man's face, nestling his cheek down to the brown beard, and murmuring "Liebchen."
               "Ah, now thou art like thyself," exclaimed Fritz. "A few days will make thee strong again. Come, Madchen, with thy welcome; the kindlein is before thee, little woman."
            
            
               XII. Thusnelda.
               THUSNELDA sat spinning in the open door. The mountains were bathed in sunshine, and the slant rays crowned the distaff and fell across the threshold of the humble home. With eyes bent on the glittering flax, the woman wet her thumb and forefinger in the cup, then drew the slender thread, using her feet to turn the wheel and twist into strength. A smile was on her face, and her lips parted; but no words came. Spinning in the sunshine, Thusnelda was dreaming of the thread; so many skeins to hang upon the rafters. This she would put aside, and this she would weave into yards of linen. How proud she would be the day she cut it from the loom, and Madchen would help her bleach it, and the garments. Madchen's baby will walk by that time. And who knows; perhaps Leutzen will have a wife and a baby, and if he should—
               A bee settled on Thusnelda's hand. She stopped to lift it off and broke her thread. The chain of her thought parted. "There, go! while I mend my thread," and once more the wheel went round. From dreaming of what she was to do, Thusnelda now dreamed of all that she had done; the linen she had woven to make clothes for Fritz. To look at Fritz, it hardly seemed possible that he had been a baby. His father was a soldier, and the queen had honored him; but, Fritz—and a smile crept over Thusnelda's face. She was glad that he was not a soldier—it was better to have him at home—he had served, and that was enough.
               Down the narrow path Ninnette bounded. A garland of hardy wild flowers was around her neck.
               "Thou art here to tell me they are coming," said Thusnelda, as the tame creature pressed closely to the wheel.
               Madchen was Fritz's wife, and a healthier, fresher specimen of womanhood one would not care to see. Singing to her baby, Madchen came down the mountain path. 
                     
                        "Waves of gushing gladness;
                        Sunshine girdled days,
                        With not a thought of sadness
                        To quench the hymn of praise."
                     
                  
               
               "That's right, Madchen, singing is good for the stomach; thy father used to say, child, that it was as natural for a woman to sing, as it was for a bird to fly. Thy father understood many things—he knew by the flight of the birds, what weather we might expect, and he could tell by the sound of the pines when it was time to prepare for a storm."
               "Fritz can tell this, "said Madchen, sitting down within the door with her baby on her knee.
               "Fritz will never be quite as wise as his father—he has not the same chance."
               "So much the better for us," laughed Madchen, tossing the baby in her arms. "Now, Fritz will stay with us, and when there is a war they will not think of looking here for him. I would go back to the valley, if not for this.
               "But what makes thee think of war, child? Has Leutzen returned from the fair. Has he filled thy head with fancies?"
               "What has been may be again—but whatever is, Fritz will be with us," answered the young wife.
               "In thinking of Fritz, thou hast forgotten my question," laughed Thusnelda.
               "Is it possible that Fritz has some word from Leutzen? I hear the cow-bells—and yes, there's a smoke in Leutzen's house. It must be that he has come, and they are cooking him something good for supper," answered Madchen.
               Thusnelda put aside her wheel. Fritz was coming, and with him the stranger. Not once had he been out since he came, and so anxiously he sat at the door and the window and looked upon the mountains; to-day it was clear and beautiful, and she had begged him to go with Fritz.
               "Thou wilt walk slow," she said to Fritz. "Bertol is not strong, and it's the life he wants. Just to breathe the fresh air, and look upon the mountains will strengthen him."
               How long—and still, it is only three days, and Thusnelda thinks how kindly the baby took to the stranger, playing and gurgling quite as he did with his father, and how she had told the baby's name, (Hans,) and had asked by what name they might know him. "Bertol" was the answer. And since it had been Fritz and Bertol; and to Thusnelda it seemed that she had known and loved Bertol with something of the love she gave her own son.
               "Thou hast been too far, or thou hast been thinking," Thusnelda said, by way of greeting. "It is not good to be always thinking, especially if there is anything we cannot help. The trees drink in the sunshine and the rain, and each day they grow strong and vigorous, and this is all they have to do."
               "That's a wise word thou hast said, mother; but we are not trees," laughed Fritz.
               
               "The tree has its life and we have ours. God watches over each."
               "I would rather be a man than to be a tree," replied Fritz, laughing still more heartily.
               "Thou art grateful then that God made thee a man?"
               "Certainly, I like to be a man and to do a man's work."
               "God expects more of men than he does of trees. But, Bertol must not think—only breathe in the fresh air and grow strong. To be a man and to do a man's work, one must be strong," answered Thusnelda.
               Fritz had taken the boy and was tossing him in his arms.
               "The little one is growing fast. Look! how he laughs and crows. He is not the least afraid," said Fritz, as the child balanced on his hand. Madchen threw smiles and admiring glances, first to her husband and then to her child.
               "Afraid! how could he be, as long as his father holds him?" exclaimed Thusnelda. "Thou wilt not forget that Pastor Nielander says, 'We are children with a Father to hold us.' Hans has a father to hold him, he has no need to be afraid; neither have we."
               Bertol was sitting in the easy chair that Fritz had made for Madchen when she was ill. Thusnelda passed her cool fingers across the flushed forehead, and gently drew back the head till it rested against the white linen cover.
               "Now, shut thine eyes. And when thou openest them it will be as though everything was new. It is all the brighter when we have been in the dark for a while."
               "It is true that Leutzen has come," said Fritz, as he danced the boy around the room. "Leutzen has eyes, and he will bring news of the world."
               "And the linen," exclaimed Thusnelda. "I hope he sold it for a good price."
               "That's the way with women—they think more of gain than men do," laughed Fritz.
               "They think less of keeping it—they are more free. Thou knowest why I sent the linen, and why I desire a good return. It will not now be long till the winter, and money gets comforts."
               "Leutzen has a good head. I dare say it will be right," said Fritz, as he put the baby in his mother's arms. "He knows the ways of the buyer, and he deals with those only who are honest, and know when they see a piece of linen whether or no it is good."
               "They will not find better than mine."
               "And for that reason thou mayest expect Leutzen has done well with it."
               Thusnelda's words were like golden keys.
               Bertol sat in his chair looking toward the mountains, but seeing only inner chambers, curiously wrought, and in which were stowed all precious things, with memory of childhood's days, a mother and a sister's love. Bitter, burning thoughts followed; there were honest resolves—broken vows—and—Could he only expiate his sin, could he make some return, such as God would be pleased to accept. "It is not good to be always thinking." Of course Thusnelda was right; but how was he to send his thoughts into another channel? Besides, as he grew stronger he could not deny the same gnawing, eating thirst—a longing, growing more and more powerful, as he endeavored to stifle it. With all his good resolves, all the helps that he had had, all the kindness lavished upon him at Hofnels, he had fallen, miserably fallen. There was no good in him to resist temptation, no strength to battle with his appetite for strong drink. Was mortal ever held in such thraldom, and was his torture never to cease? Clear and distinct it passes before him, try as he will he cannot blot it out, it is branded upon his heart. And still his life was again spared, but for what purpose?
               Sitting in his chair with his face to the mountains, Bertol thinks and questions, until a cry is forced from his lips. Thusnelda hears it. Her hand is on his forehead. His eyes open, but he is weak as a child.
               "Thou hast had a good sleep, and now open thine eyes and look if everything is not new?"
               
               A gleam of gold rested on the mountaintops, while the spent edges were fringed with purple. The atmosphere was full of violet mist; the valleys were no longer to be discovered. The golden gleam was half an orb, and now a whole one. The moon was at her full.
               "The change is only outward, within 'tis all the same," answered Bertol, hardly conscious of his words.
               "The moon has her changes and her path, and we have ours."
               "And for this she is not responsible, while we are."
               "Not for life and set paths; but for the use we make of life."
               "The moon makes no mistakes."
               "Neither should we, if we were willing to be led."
               "Then you know nothing of the strength of evil in our nature," cried Bertol, almost fiercely; "with a heart thickset with evil, as with good, how is one to be led aright?"
               "The moon has but one path; the mountains rise where His hand placed them. Strong as they are, they will crumble and fall; the moon will lose her light. Man is immortal. God endowed him with noble qualities, and gave him to wield a power for good and for evil. For the use of this power he is responsible."
               "But, if the power is not balanced—if the evil preponderates?"
               "The richest soil is the most fertile in weeds: the only way is to uproot them."
               "Evil inclinations and appetites are not to be uprooted, like weeds."
               "Evil preponderates. We check it—it creeps out again, and is again checked; kept under, the good is strengthened and takes deeper root in the heart, just as the good seed does in the soul."
               "This can be done when the evil has not taken deep root in our very being. But, when it has, what hope?"
               "Trees can be uprooted; but the earth has to be rent. So with hearts, if the evil is strong within them."
               
               Fritz and Madchen came and sat on the step. Hans caught sight of the moon, and lifted his fat, dimpled hands to reach it.
               "Eager for something that we are not to have," said Fritz: "the child reaches up for the moon and cries because he cannot touch it—the man stretches forth his hand and clasps nothing."
               "As we cannot get the moon, I think we had best go to supper," said Madchen, gayly.
               By the time Hans had finished his bread and milk, the bowls were empty.
               "Give me the boy," said Fritz to Madchen, "while thou art putting everything in order. With such a relish he will soon be a big boy, and father can set him to tend the goats."
               Saying which, Fritz seated himself and took his pipe.
               Bertol twirled in his fingers a flower that Madchen had given him, and the moon threw long bars of silvery light across the room. The nights were beginning to be cold on the mountains, and kindling the fire, Thusnelda brought her work and sat beside it.
               The door was still open. Bertol, following the moon, as she sailed slowly up the sky, and Fritz with his pipe, and baby Hans asleep on his knee.
               Laughter resounded along the rocks, and a young girl sprang lightly up the path.
               "Leutzen is at home, and he is coming to greet thee."
               Seeing a stranger, she stopped, and was about to turn away.
               "Approach, Gretchen. Give thy hand to Bertol," said Thusnelda, looking up from her work.
               The flush deepened on the face of the maiden, and her step was timid; then she came very near. The stranger's hand was in her own, and "Welcome" came through the full round lips.
               "That is well. Now tell us of Leutzen, child?" and Thusnelda made Gretchen sit down on the step.
               "He comes to answer for himself," the young girl replied, with a sprightliness that led Bertol to look at her more closely. With the moonlight on her face, there was an expression that led him to think of the picture on the wall in his room at Hofnels. The pretty mountain dress of red and black set off her figure to good advantage. Her hair was parted and brushed smoothly from her forehead, falling over her neck in long loose ringlets. Her eyes were blue as the sky above her, and her laugh had all the freshness of a child's. But what amazed Bertol was a look of culture and womanly refinement far beyond what her surroundings would seem to warrant.
               Leutzen was introduced, and before he was seated Ludwig came, and with so many welcomes and so many questions, it took some time before Leutzen could get to the Fair.
               "And the linen?" asked Thusnelda.
               "The linen sold for a bargain, and all to one man. It was the Queen's tailor, they said; at least, he didn't haggle at all, but took it at the price. I have everything all right, only I haven't been home long enough to get them unpacked."
               A smile of satisfaction rested on Thusnelda's face, and a telegraphic expression shot over to Madchen. The linen sold well, and she was spinning for a new web. What a fine thing, to be sure, to have a wheel and flax. What would it not bring? And all the while she was happier for doing it.
               Leutzen had much to say of the Fair. Never had he seen so many people; and pictures he had of the King and Queen; and everybody was pleased, and all because the Queen's tailor fancied the linen, and the carving he carried, and especially the little moss cottages. There were travellers and ladies from Berlin, and they all bought of him, and one of them, a great doctor's wife, Von Sieberg, or such a name, a friend of the Countess, bought two cottages to take home. "And I will show them, and tell everybody who made them, and you will have orders, no doubt." And the lady had given him her picture, and here it is, and you shall see it for yourself.
               There was great talking and merriment over the pictures. And Thusnelda turned to show them to Bertol, but he was asleep in his chair. "Poor man, he does not gain strength as I would like. We must do better for him," was said to Madchen.
               "What better can we do? We have given our best," whispered Madchen.
               "Something troubles him. I see it, but I can't tell what; we must plan, we must"—
               Leutzen was telling something uncommonly interesting, for they all laughed, and Fritz laughed loudly, but Bertol did not waken. Only Thusnelda held up her finger. Leutzen lowered his voice and kept on.
               "These students came from Berne, and they were very clever, going everywhere, and being pleased, withal, till at last one of them fell sick, it was said, and they missed him. Such a bother it made, for he was a nephew, or something of the Countess Von Amburg; and for a time there was nothing else talked of but the unlucky student.
               "But what became of him?" asked Gretchen, her eyes misty with tears.
               "That's the thing of it. Thou wilt see they were a bit wild with wine, and they missed him, and they couldn't tell quite. Hadn't he been well related it wouldn't have made such a hubbub—but he was, and there was no end of the talk."
               And Leutzen stopped like a man who had said his say, and made an end of it.
               Hans was off to sleep. Madchen put him safely in bed, and then returned to find her guests about to leave. Bertol was awake.
               "I have to beg forgiveness for falling asleep, but I was tired," he said to Thusnelda.
               "It was a wise thing, and thou must do it at all times. Leutzen has told us of the Fair, but he will come again, won't you, Leutzen?"
               "Of course, and I will bring what you sent for, and by that time I shall think of something else," was said, in a pleasant voice.
               "I said Leutzen had eyes, and he would bring us news of the Fair," said Fritz, "and he can tell what he sees almost as well as Pastor Nielander himself."
               "That he can—Leutzen is one to be proud of, and when he goes into town he is one to be looked after. But not a word did he tell us of Caroline," Thusnelda said.
               "Not a word did we ask him," laughed Gretchen.
               "We will next time. She has said yes, and a woman should not keep a man like Leutzen waiting so long."
               "We have had enough for one evening," said Fritz. "Only this," was whispered to Madchen. "When thou dost tell Bertol what Leutzen said of the Fair, I would say nothing of the students."
               "We have thought of that already," whispered Thusnelda; "it was well for him to sleep, and thou mayest be sure he will not be the wiser."
            
            
               XIII. The Mountain Home.
               BERTOL was at home on the farm. Through books he had studied, flowers and ferns and grasses he knew by heart; and the goats and the two red cows he could lead almost as well as could Fritz.
               "There is so much of God up here on the mountains," Thusnelda had said to him one day; and after that, as he sat in the sheltered places and watched the wind and the storm, the flash of the lightning and the terrible thunder, his heart murmured. "So much of God up here on the mountains, His power, His majesty, His might." Then again the wondrous play of light and shade; the sunrise and the sunset awoke strange thoughts in his heart.
               How it was he hardly knew. It had not been in his heart to stay; but Thusnelda would not hear to his leaving until he was quite strong, and Madchen had a word to say, and Hans was such a playfellow. But what right had he to all this? He had forfeited the privilege of human sympathy and friendship. In spite of culture, Fritz was his superior. Fritz saw things clearly, he was upright, he would not wrong his neighbor; his conscience did not upbraid him, his heart was free from hidden memories rising up at any moment to torture him. Above all, Fritz knew nothing of this insatiable thirst. Outside of temptation, he had once thought, and there would be hope. Nestled in the lap of the mountains he was still haunted by it.
               Sitting on the cliff with the white cloud ships floating below; the gusty November winds rushing through the pines, and rattling the rocks one after the other into the valley, the hope of his youth passed before him, the dream of ambition crushed out through this one fault. Flying from temptation, and still carrying the tempter in his own bosom, his inclination weaker than his will, his passion leading him away through force of this ruinous habit. Then of the crime he had committed. Longing to pay the penalty with his life, and still spared. Was there no hope? Covering his face with his hands he wept piteously. At Hofnels he had felt himself strong; the journey to Detmold showed him how weak were his resolves. Why struggle longer? Why dream, as he sometimes did, that he could by any power overcome?
               Again the thought came flashing through his brain. "So much of God up here on the mountains." What am I, to rush thoughtlessly into his presence? Go where I will it is torture. Abide here, and my soul is scorched in the fiery flame of unsated desire. Should I take my life in my hand and go unbidden into the presence of my Maker? Is he not, as well, my judge? And will he not spurn me from him, as a fit punishment for my haste?
               The wind grew fierce, and the clouds were black and threatening. A shower of brightcolored leaves whirled and eddied, and went dancing down to the valley. The eagle screamed to her young, and the vulture sat dreamily waiting for her prey. There was a step, the quick breaking of a twig. Bertol looked up. It was Thusnelda. She had been to sit with a sick neighbor, and not finding Bertol on her return had traced his footsteps. Pity was in her eye, and the look of a mother on her face. Tenderly she clasped the wasted hand.
               "So much of God up here on the mountains."
               It was not the words, but the manner, the thoughtful care, coming out after one who had no claim upon her. Bertol was broken down, and hardly knowing it, he told her of the terrible struggle to overcome his inherent thirst for strong drink.
               "Man's power is frailer than the spangled dew, when sin and wrong are to be overcome. God pities us in our weakness, and he loves us with a yearning love," was Thusnelda's answer.
               "But some he casts off."
               "The mountains lift their heads proudly—they breathe the pure atmosphere of heaven. God's benediction is over them. Look at this tiny moss cup, so small one can hardly see it. Every morning it is lifted for a supply, and every night God sends an angel to fill it. The moss has its little life. God does not forget it. Caring for the mountains and the moss, is it possible that he will forget us?"
               "If there is a God, as I was taught to believe, and that there is, I am fully persuaded, he is a just God, and he cannot look upon sin with the least degree of allowance. So long as this devouring thirst is in my heart, I cannot go to him—he will turn a deaf ear to my prayers. If I could free myself and then go to him. Surely he knows how I hate this chain, and still, I cannot escape; the more I strive to repress the appetite the deeper it stings me. I awake and reach forth my hand for it, although I loathe myself for doing so. My brain is on fire. I must have it. Then comes the torture, the anguish; the earth seems a wilderness, the heavens above me as brass. To drown my agony, to hush the clamorous fiends, I drink, drink again—and then—oblivion."
               "My poor child!—I am Fritz's mother, and I must be a mother to thee. Did it never strike thee, that as a created being thou art privileged to go to God and talk with him just as thou art talking with me? He has a heart of pity, and he is able to gratify thy desire for a new life."
               "Do not imagine that I never go to him. I have prayed repeatedly. But it does no good."
               "Thy heart inclines thee to this habit."
               "Most certainly. I think I will resist, and I do for a time; just as one abstains from food. Then pressed by the loss and hurried on by appetite, will is powerless to resist, temptation is before me, and I fall—each time lower than the first. It is fearful, I cannot bear to think of it. You have dealt with me in kindness, but you cannot know the withering blight of this thirst for strong drink. Neither can you know my misery, my despair."
               "Thou hast need of a new heart, Bertol."
               "That is it! that is what I want," exclaimed Bertol, "new desires, new hopes, new ambitions."
               Ask for it, my son."
               Screened as they were by the rock, there was a chill in the air that warned them to return.
               "I desire to introduce thee to our pastor. He is thoroughly good, and he has plenty of books," said Thusnelda, as she pointed to the small church; "that is his house directly by it, and the next is the school-house."
               Ninnette met them, leaping and sporting and running back. As they entered the cottage, Madchen hastened to tell them that Pastor Nielander had returned. She had seen him, and he had asked her kindly after the others."
               After this, Bertol said little of going into the valley; but identified himself with the pursuits and home life of Thusnelda and her family—sometimes, going over the farm, as Fritz called the few strips of arable land; at other times playing with Hans, while Madchen made lace.
               Leutzen lived with his mother and Gretchen in one of the smallest and neatest of these upland cottages. Given to carving, it had been his delight to build a house for himself, quite after the fashion of the miniature dwellings he carried to the town; the chief difference being in size; the moss that embellished the small house giving place to flowering vines for the larger one.
               Near his dwelling Leutzen had his shop and his wood for carving. Bertol had never conceived of anything more beautiful in wood. His acorns and oak leaves, carved with exactness, and his pansies, as delicate as though made of the most pliant material. As the bleak days forbid his wandering over the cliffs, Bertol found his way to Leutzen's shop.
               "One helps another in all these little ways," Leutzen said, as Bertol suggested alteration, and pointed out the effect. "After all, the enjoyment is in the making. I design sign, I carve the wood, I go forth for the moss. I can choose what pleases me. This is more than they can do in town; they can only choose from the small stock before them. If they like they can buy; if not, they must go without. To be free one must live in the mountains."
               "Free! Is there such a thing as being free?"
               There was a thrill in the voice that struck to Leutzen's heart.
               "To be true to one's nature is to be free. The bird that can fly is free."
               "If our nature has to be curbed, and bent, and fettered. What then?"
               "Weeds grow beside the flowers. One is all sweetness, the other reeking with poison. One is free to choose. But, one cannot say that the soil is not true soil."
               "If one has a nature well-balanced and noble. But, if he has not, he may try, as he will, there are times when his old nature will crop out."
               "It is not the nature of the wood to take this particular form. I give it the shape. I can make of it a thing of beauty, or an object of deformity. Pastor Nielander says, it is thus with our lives. We chisel, and chip, and fashion, and the beauty or deformity of our work is seen in the life we lead."
               Bertol was seized with a passion for carving. It would fill up his time and act as an incentive. Each day, as he saw the wood take form and shape, he would think, that thus it was for his life to clothe itself with beauty. Not by the passive acceptance of whatever comes, but by faithfully using the means, as the carver uses the tools best suited to bring about the desired effect.
               Among Leutzen's carvings, Bertol came upon the pictures of the king and queen, each hanging in a frame delicately carved, and every way fitting. Narrow and meagre as was the life in the mountains, how did this man come into possession of his skill, his passion for carving, his taste in all æsthetic directions? Was it the teaching of nature, acting upon a heart singularly pliant and teachable? Had he studied the leaves and the flowers, and then tried simply to imitate, or had he divined the inward principle, the living power, through the created up to the Creator, and thus going to the source, the fountain head, asked and received?
               While Bertol was questioning, his eyes still fixed upon the pictures, Leutzen looked up.
               "I have more—they are not yet framed. If you like you can see them," was said in a ringing voice. With this, Leutzen opened a handsomely carved box and drew forth a small parcel, neatly folded in white paper.
               "One of them I've had a good time, the other I got at the Fair."
               The blush and the down look on Leutzen's face brought a smile to Bertol's lips, as he slowly unwrapped the paper, and disclosed two handsome faces. One bright and glad in youth and unmistakable health and spirits, the other the perfect outline of a beautiful, cultured woman—a face that Bertol too well remembered, and of which he could not think without the terrible conviction of his fall, the temptation, the remorse, the despair. A woman to command, to influence. And was she to be blamed, that she had led him on from one glass to another, until his brain was on fire and his judgment powerless, his acts no longer under control of his will? Was it for him to swing loose, liable to be blown hither and thither by every breath of feeling or companionship? Anchored to no faith, secure in no principle—thus far and no farther? A fine face, withal a little sated and disgusted with the luxury and every-day elegance in the summer gardens of her life.
               Once more Bertol's eyes rested on the young bright face, with infinite possibilities, hid away in a brain that only needed warmth, and light, and culture to blossom into beauty.
               "You have had this a good while," was said, carelessly.
               "I can't remember when I didn't have it," said Leutzen, under his breath. Then in a louder tone, "You have heard of Caroline. She lives in the valley with her father. He is blind—she is all the world to him."
               "She looks as though she could be all the world to somebody else," returned Bertol, with a laugh.
               "She is not a girl to think of herself—her father needs her; and I would not urge her to leave him, if I could."
               It was the same old story. The quiet peasant life fighting the battle between desire and duty, with a sweet forgetfulness of self, and a quiet looking forward.
               It was now plainer to Bertol. This man, who could take the dumb wood, and carve it into an object of beauty, had an idea in his soul, an idyl in his heart, chipping here a little and there a little, the beautiful device becoming clearer and clearer, a certain refinement of feeling and action corresponding with the ideal in his heart, and the delicate tracery of his work.
               With a feeling of respect, heightened by the story of his love, Bertol took a seat by the side of the young carver, and commenced to imitate some of the more delicate leaves. With culture, position, and advantages weighing ing heavily on his side, his hand had nothing of the cunning of the peasant, taught by nature, and perfect through practice.
               "When I first began, I made very poor work," said Leutzen. "It was a long time before I could make anything really fine."
               "And you was not discouraged?"
               "I knew that I must do it. It was all there was or me to do. It was dull work, you may believe, and there were times when I felt that I must give it up. I do believe I should, but for"—
               "Gretchen?" laughed Bertol.
               "No, Caroline. She lived in the valley, and she saw a great many people, and the carvings that I thought so poor, she managed to sell for me, and she had such a way of encouraging me to do better, that almost before I knew it, I was carving really beautiful things."
               "And all owing to Caroline's influence?"
               "I believe so."
               Leutzen also spoke of Pastor Nielander and the school, until it came to be clear to Bertol, how it was that this small community, shut in by the high mountains, had thoughts so much higher and nobler than many who enjoyed superior advantages in every respect.
               It was pleasant at night when they came together to talk of the day. Hans was beginning to walk, Madchen was all smiles, and Thusnelda knew so well what every one needed. Fritz made a whistle for the boy, and Bertol made letters out of block. Only Ludwig was heavy and stupid, and no one seemed to feel this as he did.
               "Leutzen and Fritz are wise, and Thusnelda is always saying wise things. I can think them, but when I go to say them, I make such a bungle," and the poor fellow dropped his head, and sat dumb and miserable.
               It was too cool to sit outside, and the fire gave such an air of cheerful comfort. The rafters, black as ebony, were hung with long twisted skeins of glittering flax. Thusnelda's wheel found a place in the chimney-corner. The winter was coming on, it would not do to be idle. Piling the pine knots, Bertol read, while Fritz played with Hans, and Madchen made lace.
               "How is it women do these things?" whispered Ludwig, drawing near the pillow on which Madchen had her pattern and her bobbins. "If I only knew how, there are so many things that I could make. Will you teach me, Madchen?"
               "Lace would be too troublesome. I'll teach thee to knit, and thee can make stockings for thyself," answered Madchen.
               "I wish you would. I wish you would begin to-night, Madchen."
               The pillow with its delicate tracery of lace was laid aside. Ludwig was learning to knit, his fingers tangling themselves awkwardly. Madchen laughed, and helped him.
               "I don't believe I can do it," was said, at length. "I can never do anything that is nice, and still, I am sure I want to learn."
               There was a sad, desolate look on Ludwig's face, that struck to Madchen's heart.
               "Thee must be patient and try again, Ludwig. I am quite sure thee will get it. I remember member the trouble it was for me to do many things that I do readily now, and quite neatly."
               It was charmingly said, and Ludwig brightened perceptibly. Bertol had closed his book, and sat before the fire with shaded eyes. Madchen's lesson touched him with strange power. She could remember many things that troubled her at first to do; but persevering, she had conquered. After all, was not this the secret of life, to try, and keep trying?
               "And when you failed it made you feel badly?" Ludwig said to Madchen.
               "So badly that I cried frequently, and then began again," laughed Madchen.
               With his eyes shaded by his hand, Bertol heard all this. He had tried and failed, tried again, and wept over broken promises and worthless resolves. Looking over the day, he saw that he had felt less of the gnawing, insatiable thirst; neither had he felt the stinging torture of memory holding up his misdeeds; seeing these and nothing else, until he longed for death to shut out the hateful picture. Even Madam Von Sieberg's picture had not the power to disturb him, as his memory had done before. Was it because he had been thinking of Thusnelda's words, feeling that as long as God reigned, he had a Father, as well as a Judge? He had known this before, but since he sat with Thusnelda on the rocks his heart was lighter; and still, he was not quite sure whether it was this, or whether he was not growing indifferent, giving up in despair, and yet without the sting.
               Thusnelda's wheel slackened. She could not bear the silence.
               "It is good to have thoughts. A good thought is like a gold thread. God holds it just above us, so that by reaching up, we may seize it with our hands, and thus follow. There are so many of these gold threads. Are thy thoughts like these, Bertol?"
               Bertol dropped his hand, and ventured a glance at Thusnelda's face.
               "I am afraid not."
               "Then do not think them."
               "Suppose I try to reach one of these gold threads?"
               "This is what I would have thee do."
               "I am resolved to try."
               The good motherly face was wrapt in smiles. "I have a thought—it is a thought that will not lose by keeping. I must see Pastor Nielander, and after that I will share it with thee," was said tenderly.
               Hans was asleep, and Ludwig had put up his knitting. A stream of moonlight fell across the floor, as he opened the door to go out.
               Fritz started.
               "Really, have I been asleep! You won't mind it, Ludwig? Between Hans and the red cow I hardly got a wink of sleep last night."
               Ludwig said something of Pastor Nielander and church to-morrow.
               "Yes, we shall have church, and we must all attend. Pastor Nielander would think it very strange, if one of us were absent," replied Thusnelda.
            
            
               
               XIV. Pastor Nielander.
               IN nothing was Bertol more surprised than in the way and manner the mountain dwellers kept the Sabbath. Simple and unpretending, there was still a reverence, a depth of feeling and devotion that had taken hold of their very being. Father Auberthal was not more exact than Fritz: and Leutzen laid aside his carving with a zest, that said plainly as words could say it, that the Sabbath and Sabbath rest were duly prized.
               Long before the hour for service, everything in and around the cottage was neat and well ordered. Madchen, in her black petticoat and red boddice, and Hans in a pair of green shoes Leutzen had brought from the Fair. Thusnelda's face was bright and cheerful ful. Her step was elastic—her voice was the voice of pure thought.
               A moment she stood on the door step, while her eyes drank in the wonderful picture, the grand display of mountain scenery, and her lips murmured audibly:
               "So much of God up here on the mountains!"
               Fritz, with Madchen and Hans, had gone on.
               Try as he would, Bertol could not keep his thoughts from going back to the Sabbath morning when he crossed the river in company with Professor Edelstein, Amelia and Eudora. He could not deny but he missed them. What did they think of him, suddenly and without a word of explanation to break an engagement that he had made, only through their favor? Under the circumstances, it was impossible for them to cherish his memory in the same spirit that he did theirs.
               Thusnelda saw the rising cloud. She knew by the silence of her companion that the past, not the present was flooding his soul. With an eye unskilled in all the rules of art, she had a quick appreciation of the beautiful; the limit of her narrow home did not deprive her of the privilege of looking upon some of the grandest pictures in God's great gallery, and she had a child's enthusiasm and a child's love. Studying his works, she drew still nearer to the Father's heart, awed and admiring, and still, with the freedom of a child.
               The church was perched upon the bluff edge of a mountain cape: there was a mellow atmosphere of age: ivy covered the walls, and the heavy porch was curtained in leaves, gold, and red, and brown, that gave an air of magnificence to the humble sanctuary.
               At the door Thusnelda paused and bowed her head, invoking a blessing before she entered.
               The congregation had already assembled. The pastor arose to pray. His manner was impressive, his words fitly chosen. Bertol had not expected to see a person of learning and refinement. Pastor Nielander was a man of intellectual vigor, united to a voice persuasive and eloquent. Deep-set, spiritual eyes shone under an expansive brow, over which fell a luxuriant mass of soft hair of almost milky whiteness; the nose was straight and fine, with delicate, sensitive nostrils, and there was a rare expression of sweetness and purity in the lines of the mouth. That he was good and wise and lovable, there was little doubt.
               The great work of the Gospel in the renovation and development of human character was clearly perceptible. To sit under the instruction of such a man without improvement would be an impossibility. Thusnelda's wisdom came from the guiding power of the pulpit. Leutzen's speech savored of the same spirit.
               The sermon was full of intellectual instruction, spiritual fervor, and practical adaptation. Breadth of view, clearness, liberality, earnestness of utterance, unction of appeal; these were its charms. On either side were men and women whose hands indicated the roughness of their daily toil. At first it seemed to Bertol that his thoughts and language were above the apparent intelligence of the mass of his hearers; but the close attention with which they followed left no doubt of their ability to comprehend the great truths of the Bible. Never was the story of Jesus set forth more touchingly, the simplicity of His character begirt with majesty. His divinity was made known in the touch of his hand, in the glance of his eye, in the sound of his voice. The closing words thrilled to the hearts of his listeners.
               "This man, so poor in friends, was himself friendly. He had a heart to be touched with our infirmities—his eye melted at the sight of pain, his soul went out in agony. Then it was that Divinity shone within him—his face grew radiant. He spoke—the dull ears opened, the palsied limbs were full of vigor, the dead awoke, and the graves opened. A man to be touched with our infirmities, loving us with a love tenderer than mothers know."
               Leaning over the desk, while a tear shone in the compassionate eye: "Is it possible there is one here who feels a load of guilt weighing him down to death?—struggling to free himself, and still conscious that the meshes of wrong-doing are tightening around him, the clasp of the fetters eating into the quivering flesh, the sting of despair festering in his heart? Behold the Lamb of God! the sinner's friend. Listen to his voice—sweeter than angel harpists ever knew. 'Come unto me,' 'Ask freely,' 'Lean heavily.' Draw near; this friend is willing, able, ready. Once more he speaks: 'Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.'"
               Not a word had Bertol Fairfax lost. And now a faint, sickly sensation crept over him. Had he heard aright? was it for every one? Whatever wrong they had done, however red their hands—could they be made white—was there any power? A mist gathered over his eyes—great drops of agony stood upon his forehead. Did the speaker know? Was it so evident, that even a stranger could read the terrible crime, the burden pressing him down and holding him there? With effort he could scarce suppress a cry. Then a prayer went up. He did not know that he was kneeling—kneeling by the side of Thusnelda, so near, and still so far removed. There was no doubt as to her prayers. God would hear and answer; but for him, the door of mercy was closed; with his own hand he had done it, and still he longed for mercy, pardon, succor.
               Thusnelda was on her feet before Bertol arose. His face was of ashy pallor, but his voice was firm. A stranger could hardly escape notice in that small gathering. Besides, Thusnelda was one of the leading women, and Fritz and Leutzen were men of consequence.
               Coming down from his pulpit, the pastor embraced each one, stopping to say a few affectionate words, lifting the children in his arms and kissing with a fatherly fondness their ruddy cheeks. His manner to Bertol Fairfax was as tender as it would have been to an own son. Tears were in the stranger's eyes, and he longed to fling himself on the neck of the venerable man and confess his sin, his sorrow, his despair.
               Already the people were passing out. Fritz with Madchen and Hans, and beside them the pastor. The sun had softened the crisp morning air; the white clouds drifted slowly. Thusnelda's way led through the place of graves. Rude head stones told of the sleepers, and here and there a hardy flower clung to the brown vines. Gathering a few of the brightest, Thusnelda drew Bertol's attention to the tiny cups delicately pencilled. For a moment the burden was forgotten—the hardy blossoms had won him from himself. Beautiful as a fairy dream they came to him to remind him of God's love, scattering flowers upon the mountain as well as in the valley, mindful of his creatures wherever they might be; and however far they had strayed, leading and guiding, if only they will be led.
               This was the lesson, but Bertol only read the half of it. The beauty he could see and understand; but to bring it to bear upon his own case, leaving a permanent impression that should be to him a sweet after thought, was baffled by the remembrance of the one sin for which mercy could not atone, neither blood efface. Had he committed this sin? And with a sigh he gave the flowers into Thusnelda's hand.
               "Yes, I will take them home to brighten up our little room," she said, unmindful that the first flush of their beauty had faded from the speaking face. "It is so late, we cannot hope for flowers until another spring shall brighten up the hills," was added, after a pause.
               "Strange that everything must die in order to live again," murmured Bertol.
               "Only the closing of their bright eyes to waken in a more favorable clime. A sweet lesson for us," returned Thusnelda.
               "To die and to live again. But where?" gasped Bertol.
               "In the light of God's love, if so we wish."
               "All must desire this; and still, we have the written word, that some shall be cast into outer darkness. Sinners more than others; perchance, sinners who have lifted their hands against their fellows. Have we any hope that there is pardon for such?"
               "The greatest sinner is as readily forgiven as the least, if he will but ask."
               "But stop! there is one sin," shrieked Bertol.
               "And what that sin may be, I cannot say. I only know that whosoever will, may come without money and without price," answered Thusnelda, not a little awed by the thrill of agony in the hitherto calm voice.
               They were now nearing home. Hans stood in the open door, the sun glancing across his green shoes, and his bright face lighting up with joy. Before the hearth sat Fritz and Madchen, singing one of the hymns that had struck Bertol's ear as being the very embodiment of worship. Ah, what a heavy burden seems lifted up, and borne away on the wings of melody. It is no longer the song—it is the singer's own plaint of suffering poured into the ear of the angel of music. Sitting there with his eyes half-closed, he dreamed a dream, as the bright light faded in the west, and the crisp winds rustled the leaves, like so many brown-birds outside the cottage door. The restless, unsatisfied longing has for the time passed away. What if it is only a dream—a dream that brings rest through the power of music? A moment of happiness that will stretch into the future, as the long yellow light glides across the mountains, brightening the dullness, and softening the rugged points into lines of beauty. And thus the Sabbath passed, a blessing in itself—with prayers and hymns of recreation that bring back freshness to the week-day life, and rest to the heavy heart, sweeping the sky clear, and giving glimpses of the deep blue heaven of the life beyond.
               "And thou hast enjoyed it?" Thusnelda said, as Bertol bid her good-night.
               "So much, that I hope to dream of it," was the quiet reply.
            
            
               XV. The Saw-mill.
               FOR a week there had been nothing but rain. The thread-like brooks were swollen into rushing torrents; the goats and the red cows kept near the dwellings. Then the clouds, emptied of their heaviness, rolled themselves into fantastic shapes, and the winds drove them upwards, and the sun fringed them with gold.
               "Thou hast not seen the mill?" Fritz said to Bertol, as he prepared to leave the cottage.
               "Not yet," was the quiet response.
               "There will be good times now, and, if thou art not afraid of the wind"—
               Hans saw his father buttoning up his great coat, and running across the floor, as fast as his short legs would permit, he held up his dimpled hands.
               "Liebchen, what is it?" said Fritz, reaching down his long arms, and lifting Hans till his lips met his own.
               "Ich liebe dich," murmured the little one, nestling his sunny head to the broad bosom. "Art thou to return soon?"
               "Ach, Kindlein, when thou art bigger, thou wilt go to the mill, and thou wilt laugh and leap right merrily."
               And Fritz tossed Hans to his shoulder, and strode away to where Madchen was at work, dropping his shaggy head, and letting the boy slip into his mother's arms. There was a murmur of caresses, like the soft cooing of doves, and Fritz straightened himself and turned back.
               "Wilt thou go, Bertol?"
               "The winds are cold," cried Thusnelda, leaving her wheel. "If Bertol goes forth, he must have a heavier coat—thy Sunday coat, Fritz."
               "Thou art right, thou art always right," answered swered Fritz, leaving the room, and returning with a heavy blue coat, that looked like so many capes falling one over the other. "Now thou wilt feel warm, and the walk will do thee good."
               With so much well put kindness, Bertol could only wrap himself in the warm coat, and nodding good-by to Thusnelda, the door of the cottage was shut.
               Taking advantage of the rains, several workmen had gathered at the mill, some to cut down trees, and others to bark the logs. Leutzen was already at work inspecting the cradle, and seeing that the saw was in good repair.
               "I judge that we shall have a few days," he said, as Fritz and Bertol came up. "And there is much to do."
               "We are here to do it," replied Fritz, with a laugh. "Bertol had no idea of the mill. Now he will see the help it is to the wood carving."
               It was a rude structure, and the saw worked clumsily; still, the wheels turned, and the heavy logs were gradually slit through and through.
               Leaving the men at their work, Bertol wandered along the bank of the swollen stream, hurriedly making its way to the Ems. The shrill piping of the wind was music—to walk against it was like battling with a tangible object. This outward courage rendered the internal lashing more endurable; the onward sweep of the clouds was restful; the pines bent themselves, and the mountains echoed down to the valleys that winter was coming.
               Reaching a bowl-shaped rock, and where the angry line of waters made a bold turn, leaping over the rocks, and falling noisily into a basin below, the wanderer stopped, and seating himself under the shelter of the cliff, watched the whirl of the white bubbles. Not this alone—he followed the stouter ones to the verge of the fall, saw them balance for an instant, then lost in the feathery sweep below. Watching them, the hard lines of his face softened, the dark eyes grew misty, and they seemed to look far away, to see something that had strange power to move him. The light in them flashed, now with a burning spark, and now seemed to pale and die, as though the tears of some great sorrow had fallen. Lifting his cap, and letting the wind play in the tangled meshes of his hair, he looks again. The green sward is covered with boys; a great migrating flock has settled upon it, whistling, leaping, dancing, and still with a purpose before them. Here is one more thoughtful than the rest—his high, well-shaped forehead shows a mine of intellectual wealth, that needs only to be quarried. His cap is thrown aside—he has a pretty fly-hook, and he is fastening it to his line.
               "Halloa, Redford! You don't think to fool trout with that bit of fancy?"
               A gust of wind rattled the rocks above him, and sent the brown leaves dancing over the water. Now, they settle and fall, and, with irresistible force, are slowly balancing over the fall. Again he is at college. There's a prize to be won, and he studies, as he has not before studied. His head reels, he grows faint; it will not be long, and he braces himself with stimulants. He has done so before; now it requires more—he trembles as he drains the cup; but it is too late. Then it is President Raffles and Alice. Alas!
               With a cry the wretched man started to his feet. Was it real? Did he see the picture? Was it?—
               "Christmas is coming, and we must make preparations in time," was said, in a mellow, girlish voice. And Bertol became conscious of the near proximity of two young girls, followed by a troop of small boys, scuffling through the dry leaves, and climbing the rocks for tangled vines, with here and there a clump of scarlet berries.
               At sight of the stranger, they stopped short, and were about to fly. A second thought, and one of the young girls turned. It was Gretchen.
               "Be pleased to pardon us, Herr Bertol. We knew not until we saw you that any one was here."
               The blush and the timid expression of the girl caused a quick revulsion of Bertol's thoughts.
               "There is no need of apology," was said, pleasantly. "I came out with Fritz to the mill, and followed down the brook to see the fall."
               By this time, Gretchen was free to introduce her friends. Louise, Mina, and Linda, each courtesying as she did so, while the pink cheeks grew rosy, and their eyes flashed timidly and were downcast. But the boys had gone.
               "You will permit me to help you," said, Bertol, catching the rustle of flying feet. "I know something of climbing rocks, and my head is not in the least dizzy."
               "There are a few bright-hued leaves, just on the verge of the cliff, but I will not trouble thee," said Gretchen; "the torrent is too black and swift; they will possibly be here by the time the water falls, and then"—
               "We may quite as well have them now," returned Bertol, glancing up at the beetling crag.
               
               "I would not have thee attempt it. Nay, we shall not enjoy them, if they cost too much!"
               This part of the speech, Bertol did not hear. He was already climbing up by a circuitous path, the capes of his great coat lifted by the wind, and flapping around his ears, but his eyes intent upon the leaves, red and gold and crimson. Now his hand is outreached to pluck them, but the wind is too strong, and his foot has slipped. There's a scramble and a crash, and the next moment he has slid down to the verge of the fall. Still, the leaves are in his hand, and the heavy capes have saved him from bruises.
               "Gott sei dank!" exclaimed Gretchen, stooping over him. "Art thou much hurt?"
               "Not at all. It was an awkward pass, and my foot slipped. Here are the leaves, and one of them is crushed."
               "Mein kind, what is it?" was asked in a voice, that Bertol at once recognized as Pastor Nielander's.
               "Only this," said the young man, starting to his feet. "I did not judge of the distance wisely, and leaned a little too far; the result was a slide, with just enough force to stop before I reached the water."
               "Let us be thankful it was not worse," said the pastor, and sitting down on the brown slope, the girls clustered around him, while his eyes wandered away to the purple hills, and up to the gold-fringed clouds.
               "Thou art with us for the first time?" he said to Bertol.
               "For the first time," answered the young man, almost inaudibly. And then the conversation drifted away to the summer that had passed and the Christmas that was to come. Pastor Nielander had a quick eye, as well as a tender heart, and the flush on the pale face, as he put the question, as well as the trembling, stammering answer, told him plainly there was a secret connected with the stranger's presence among them.
               It was past mid-day. The winds swept the fringes of the white clouds till they hung in festoons above the mountains.
               
               "We cannot hope for many days like this," said the pastor, "and for this reason we may be excused for loitering full long."
               "But, uncle, thou art forgetful that this is a holiday. The Herr Bertol does not know, perhaps, that this is my geburstag," said Louise, patting the old man's cheek.
               "True, Liebchen, it is thy geburstag: seventeen to-day."
               "Thou wilt not say that I am slipping away from thee for aught of this. I am the same little Louise, in spite of my seventeen years."
               Tears were in the pastor's eyes, and he drew the sunny head to his bosom, and kissed the white brow tenderly. Yes, kindlein, we must not forget it is thy geburstag, and a blessing may it be to thee, liebchen, as it has so far been to me."
               There was something sweetly captivating in the pastor's manner. Independent of his quiet life, there was a stateliness, "noblesse obligé" that spoke of other days and other life. The simplicity was that of a refined, delicate soul—a soul that bore indisputable evidence of having passed through keen and bitter sorrow.
               "Pleasant as it is, we must go now," said the pastor. "There are duties that I must not wholly forget; although it is thy geburtstag, liebchen."
               At the mill, they found the men sitting on the logs, eating their dinner of black bread and cheese. The pastor stopped to say a word to each, sending messages to the inmates of the more distant cottages, and leaving the impression of kindness and good-will that stimulated the lagging energies.
               Not meeting Leutzen and Fritz, Bertol sought them in the mill. A look at their weary faces, and he saw that something was wrong.
               "The saw runs badly, but we cannot make out its defect," said Fritz, wiping his forehead with his coarse sleeve.
               "I used to know something of these things: it is possible that I can help you," said Bertol.
               A look of relief shot over Leutzen's face "If thou art one to do this, it will be a blessing to us."
               Examining carefully the rude machinery, the defect was soon found, and easily remedied.
               "Thou art wise beyond us," said Fritz, with a smile, that betrayed nothing of the past uneasiness; "thou wilt not take it amiss if we ask questions?"
               "On the contrary, I shall be delighted, if, by that means, I can repay a tithe of the kindness I have already received," was the feeling reply.
               At night Hans met them with outstretched arms and gleeful laugh; while Thusnelda set back her wheel and asked of the day, not a little delighted to learn that Bertol had met with Pastor Nielander, and that it was Louise's geburtstag.
               "It had quite escaped me, but she must have a present, just the same," was said to Madchen.
               "Some thread with which she can make lace," suggested Madchen.
               "We will see," replied the motherly woman; and drawing her chair still nearer Bertol, she questioned still further about Pastor Nielander. "And did he speak to thee of the school?"
               "Not a word!" replied Bertol.
               "Then I will: Pastor Nielander is very anxious for thee to take his place and teach the children. How sayest thou?"
               "I have not thought of anything like this; besides,"—and the voice faltered.
               "Besides, what?"
               "I may not remain during the winter," was whispered hoarsely.
               "Thou wilt not rush into temptation," was said so low that no one else could hear.
               A quick light shot out of Bertol's eyes. A new thought lay tangled in the meshes of his brain. He had done wrong—he had longed to expiate that wrong; he had thought of no other way than to yield his own life. He had taken a life: he would give life for life. "A worthy life is the only atonement," Thusnelda had once said. The way was open—he could teach others; in the mean time he could himself study. Hid away in the mountains, surrounded by pure influences, it was possible that he could overcome his appetite for strong drink; the possibilities were before him. Dropping his eyes before Thusnelda's gaze, he said, with evident emotion:
               "Thus far I have had no settled plan, save to study. I will remain and will teach the children, provided the pastor will consider me a pupil."
               "I do not doubt, but this can be easily settled. And now thou art to remain with us," said Thusnelda, in a voice that reached the ears of both Madchen and Fritz.
               "It was the one wish of my heart. But I was not sure it would come to pass," said Madchen.
               Fritz went over to Hans. A moment he gazed upon the face of his child; then he turned and walked back to the hearth.
               "If Hans were but a year older: books are to be coveted, and to study under one who knows books is to be coveted also."
               Madchen took up her lamp; she kissed her mother on the lips, then turned to Hans and gave him a good-night embrace. Bertol was standing by the hearth. She paused as she reached the door, walked back and gave him her hand.
               "I am glad that thou art to stay with us, Bertol; it shall not be my fault if the winter doth not bring thee pleasure."
               "And improvement, I am sure of it," added Thusnelda.
               "Let us hope this will come to all. Tomorrow we will see the pastor!" exclaimed Fritz.
            
            
               
               XVI. The Schoolmaster.
               CHILDREN are good judges, and they are such prompt beings, they require no formal introduction. Hearts are won with a glance, and they are true as long as one is true to them. The new schoolmaster had a smile for children—a letter patent. A token as potent as the grip of the order, or the cabalistic word known only to the initiated. To love children is to love childhood, the little artless ways twining themselves around one's being. It is as though the heart was suddenly turned into a flower-garden. The first impulse is one of attraction; later discoveries show weeds and poisonous plants. Still, it is a garden in which one loves to wander, gathering the sweets, and, perchance, uprooting an ugly weed.
               The school-house adjoined the pastor's dwelling, and both were close to the church. In summer a narrow bridle-path, bordered with ferns and snapdragon, led up from Thusnelda's cottage. It was barred now, and the road skirted along a glade that was protected from the north winds by a wall of mountains. The schoolmaster started early, that he might have an hour with the pastor. The good man met him with outstretched arms; leading him into the room which answered the double purpose of parlor and study, he said to his visitor:
               "I live here, as thou seest. I have my books and my people, and I have my memories."
               Humble as the dwelling, everything gave evidence of culture. Books filled the shelves. There were niches with busts of Greek heroes; a few descriptive paintings brightened the walls, and there were two heads, evidently by a master.
               "Goethe and Schiller. And very good representations," said the pastor.
               
               There was a violin in one corner, and a guitar in the other.
               "I trust thou art a player," continued the pastor, following the schoolmaster's eyes.
               "A little—that is, I did once," was the stammering reply.
               "Music is a divine art. It is the royal road to the heart—if we can embody great truths in our songs, some underlying principle in each."
               "I have been taught to look upon this as a land of song," remarked the schoolmaster.
               "So it is; but a people can never have too much, especially when truth is embodied."
               Louise's work-basket was on the table, with pencils and drawing-paper beside it. A book was lying, as if the reader had just left it, leaving a paper-holder between the leaves. A glance showed it to be "Horace." There was evident surprise, without words.
               "Louise finds time for study, and this is one of her favorites," remarked the pastor, carelessly.
               Behind the table, and half screened by an ample curtain, stood an easel with a halffinished portrait of a young girl, so like to Louise that one could not hesitate with regard to it.
               "Dirichlet has native talent, and I have aided him all that I could. Poor boy! if he lives he must go from me. He has more than talent, he has genius, and he will become a master. But pardon—you have not yet seen him. He is but a child."
               From the study they passed through a narrow hall into the garden. A rustic arbor nestled under the ridge of the mountain that protected the cottage in the rear. The vines that gave it beauty in summer time hung withered and limp. The winds rustled the dry leaves into a low, weird song. Beyond was the school-room. A sudden sense of terror took possession of the master. He repented giving his consent. How was he to teach others, when he could not command himself? Stained with blood, was he a fitting teacher for pure-minded youth? The mountains folded him in, the white fleecy clouds bent over him. "A worthy life is the only atonement," shone in letters of gold. He could but try, and, if he failed, the consciousness of trial would be a drop of mercy in the bitter cup.
               Voices were approaching; the pastor paused.
               "The children are coming to greet the master."
               Presently Louise was seen to issue from the door of the school-room, followed by a long line of lads. At the same time Gretchen advanced from the opposite direction, followed by a long line of young girls, both making the circuit of a half circle, and drawing up in a hollow square directly in front of the master. The pastor stepped a step in advance, and said:
               "My children, a teacher has long been needed whose time is not so occupied with other duties as mine has been. The Herr Bertol loves books, and he loves children. How long he remains will depend very much upon the way and manner in which we conduct ourselves. Herr Bertol is my friend. Look at him, and tell me, shall we choose him for our teacher?"
               Instantly bright eyes twinkled and flashed, while a chorus of voices rung out.
               "We will have him for our teacher."
               "Shall we welcome him with a song?"
               "We will welcome him with a song."
               The pastor took his violin. Louise and Gretchen led the voices, and the Nibelungen Lied was sung with all the emotion it is so capable of inspiring. After this Dirichlet recited a poem, then there was a general shaking of hands, and with this the procession again formed, with the master at the head, and entered the school-room.
               How the day passed was a wonder to himself. The faces of the children, their eager, anxious looking into his, were safeguards; for once the eating, gnawing thirst did not torture him. Purer thoughts and holier images were around him. Demons with their mocking speech and cruel fiery eyes forebore to tempt him—the shadow of a great peace was in his heart.
               
               Dismissing the pupils, the master stood at the west window, looking out into the sunset. The mountains reflected new glory, and the heavens were resplendent with new light. Would God be pleased to accept of his effort? The glory around him was an augury for good; the peace in his heart was a reminder of the days of his boyhood. Unconsciously a cry escaped him. He thought he was alone, and was surprised when a small hand slipped into his. It was Dirichlet, the boy painter, lingering after the others, for the sole pleasure of walking home with the master.
               "Thou art not displeased with me?" asked the lad, as the master turned suddenly.
               "Displeased! O no! Why should I be?" 
               "Because I waited," was the naive reply.
               "It was very good of you to wait, very good. But let us go now. The mountains are glorious. Look! our path is paved with gold."
               "Thou hast a love for the mountains, Herr Bertol. And thou wilt stay with us always?" questioned the child.
               "Always!" echoed the master. It was as though eternity were in the word. Always to stay with the mountains towering above him, and with little children clinging to his hand. "I cannot say," he answered, seeing the child was waiting for a reply.
               To the lad everything wore a familiar look; the few hardy flowers that hung over the precipice, he called by name. The formation of the rocks was known to him, and the goats skipped before him and licked his hand.
               There are natures that seem peculiarly adapted for each other. From the first spoken word, nay, from the first glance, every pulse throbs with new joy; every atom in the very being of each gravitates towards the other. It is like the division of the same mind in two bodies, and both necessary to a perfect whole. From the first, the master's heart had gone out to the child. The light curling hair, blue eyes and transparent skin reminded him of Lura. The same deeply carved eyebrows, and a certain wide opening of the eyes, as if at that moment he saw the world for the first time. While the child looked up to him with a reverent, holy air, as to a superior nature, endowed with knowledge and with wisdom; one to guide him, and by whom he was sure to be loved.
               Before they reached the cottage, the master had learned his story. Dirichlet could not remember any other home. Still, he was not born in the mountains. His father had lived in Berlin as an artist. His genius created furore—many people sat for their portraits; he was petted by royalty, and was attached to the court. His wife shared his good fortune, and for a time there was nothing to be desired that it was not possible for him to receive. Alas! the young artist learned that court favor is not an inheritance. Another star arose with superior brightness. The loss of favor, and the coldness of the world struck to the sensitive heart. Habits of dissipation were fixed. The wife expostulated—it was of no avail; friends interposed, only to be cast aside. Dismissal from court was an insult that could not be effaced. In a fit of despair the unhappy man fled. Days passed—his wife followed him with their one child. After long search the artist was found; but too late. He had become confused, and had fallen from the rocks, it was conjectured. His brokenhearted wife survived him but a few days. Pastor Nielander cared for the child, and as no friend came to claim him, he had kept him, and nourished him as his own son.
               All this the master learned. A portion from the lad; but the most from Thusnelda. "Dirichlet is not the mother's name," continued the woman. "She called her baby Theodore, after his father. But the pastor adopted him as a son, and gave him the name that he liked best."
               It had been a rare day, nevertheless the night air was cool and crisp, rendering it necessary for the inmates of the cottage to gather closely round the hearth.
               All day Thusnelda's loom had been going. Now she sits content without her wheel, watching Hans as he plays with Don, then led to speak of the artist and his wife. Leutzen zen was not there, and Fritz and Madchen sat a little apart, talking and planning for the winter, and what it might bring. Hans fell asleep with his chubby cheek pressed close to Don's face. His brown, dimpled hands were buried in the long curly hair on the dog's neck. Thusnelda raised the child in her arms, and carried him through the open door. The voices took a lower key. The master moved his chair to the window. The moon came from a cloud and dropped a broad path of glory upon the valley, and along the sides of the mountains. Strange shadows flitted through it, and to the master's eyes ships glided noiselessly by and anchored amid this tract of splendor. He looked again—lights were flashing. It was probably some peasant with his lantern, seeking the stragglers from his fold; but to the master's distempered fancy, it was a departing steamer, with lights doubled, and chimneys reflected. This jewelled wonder passed across the bright realm, and then a small boat drifted by; no sails! no oars! With but one human soul drifting—but whither?
               Abruptly the master rose and crossed the room. He did not stop to say good-night to Thusnelda. The moon shone full on his face as he passed. When the heart is cleft to its core, there is no speech nor language.
            
            
               
               XVII. Dirichlet.
               BEFORE the winter set in, Fritz had occasion to go down to the valley. Ludwig went with him: for there were many things to carry, and more to bring back. Leutzen would gladly have joined them, but so much of his time had been spent at the mill, that the wood carving was sadly behind, and much as he desired to see Caroline, he put it all aside for the pleasure of sending her the table he had promised "before the New-year."
               Thusnelda's web was still in the loom. Besides, this was not to be sold; but she had thread. And by the spring, she said to Madchen she would have more, with yards of linen; and the two women planned. Christmas was now very near, and there were so many little things it would be pleasant to have. In his chair beside the hearth, the master listened as the two women talked of the purchases Fritz and Ludwig were to make, and the desire awoke within him to return once more to the great world he had left so suddenly.
               The mad whirl of passion was aroused, the demon of desire struggled, as with a human foe. It was a cowardly act to confine himself. What was there to bind him? Nothing—he would go. In such a frame of mind the master left the cottage. Fritz and Ludwig were not to leave until the following day. Of course there would be ample time at night to speak of his plan, and the children need not know it till he had gone. What right had they to question his proceedings?
               "I will walk with thee. I have an errand with Pastor Nielander," said Thusnelda.
               It was an hour of beauty. A net-work of frost was spread over the mountains; the valley was throwing off the covering of soft gray cloud, and the sun slanting his beams through the clear, cold atmosphere, transformed the delicate tracery into a mine of crusted jewels. Thusnelda stopped to admire the glorious picture. "And this God has for us a father's care. What a thought to lift one up, Bertol!"
               Her words were unheeded. The master had no wish to look and admire. During the walk he had not so much as turned his gaze to the glorious prospect: his heart was cold and stern, he did not desire to think of God. At that moment he doubted if there was a God. But when Thusnelda laid her hand upon his arm, and called him Bertol, as his mother had done, there was a change—the muscles of his face relaxed, his lips trembled, and his eyes filled.
               "Look!" continued Thusnelda, pointing to the mist wreaths, struggling, and coiling, and at length bleached into soft fleecy clouds, floating away into the sunlight. "It makes me think of a soul dark and gloomy. God's love, like the sun, permeates each hidden fold. There is a fearful struggle, the breaking away of old ties, the giving up of old pursuits, and the soul transformed by the power of Divine grace, rises into the white light of truth. The fleecy cloud is not more beautiful, pure and white, than is the soul cleansed through love."
               Little children met them by the way, children on their way to school. With a nod of recognition, Thusnelda took each new comer by the hand, asking questions and listening to replies; thus giving the master time to tone down the turbulence of his spirit.
               Dirichlet was the last; his eyes had a certain wild, entangled look, and his voice a kind of pathetic, lost sweetness, as he said: "This morning Pastor Nielander went to his church over the mountains. We shall miss him; but we have thee, Herr Bertol."
               The child slid his hand into that of the master—his eyes showed a pleading love.
               "He left suddenly, and had no time to say good-by," continued the child.
               "When will he return?" asked Thusnelda.
               "Not for two Sabbaths," answered the child.
               "Herr Bertol will lead us," said Thusnelda, careful to use the Herr in presence of the child.
               "What! on the Sabbath?" stammered the master.
               "A sermon read would be easy for thee, and of profit to us," was the reply.
               Louise met them at the school-room door. Her eyes were red with weeping, and her voice broken.
               "My uncle was called suddenly to the bedside of a young man, dangerously ill. He slept little, and ate nothing this morning, and I fear the journey will be quite too much for him."
               "Thy uncle goes not alone, child; God's protecting care will be round about him," said Thusnelda, tenderly.
               The strange look on the master's face troubled Thusnelda more than did the absence of the pastor. Try as she would, she had elicited nothing. There was no alternative, she must go back with the unsatisfied desire in her heart, to know what had brought about the sudden change.
               The children had never seen the master in such a mood, and for the first time the hours passed heavily. Often, during the day, did Dirichlet turn his face to the wall to hide the tears. The pastor had gone with barely a word, and the master, from whom he had hoped for sympathy, seemed not to be aware of his presence. In vain he tried to fathom the cause, questioned each thought and word during the week, and wondered if the master was really displeased with him. Unable to arrive at any definite conclusion, and distressed at the loss of the accustomed smile, and pleasant word, he determined to remain after the pupils were dismissed, and ask frankly in what he had offended. The resolve made, his thoughts grew brighter; the burden of the morning had fallen by the wayside.
               It was not an unusual thing for Dirichlet to walk home with the master. The children seemed to expect it, making no comments, for, as it happens in some cases, Dirichlet was a favorite. Perhaps the master expected him to remain, and exasperated with himself, he dismissed the pupils with the express command that not one of them was to remain. He had letters to write, and he could not be interrupted.
               "If it please thee, Herr Bertol, I would ask"—stammered the child, as he gathered up his books.
               "Did you hear me? Not one is to remain. I am not to be disturbed," growled the master, In a tone so stern that the lad was forced into silence. Outside the school-room door he sat down on the stone step and wept piteously. Not less unhappy was the master; as truly as he loved anything he loved the child. Never before had he spoken to him hastily. Tired with himself, he longed to be alone; the battle he had to wage demanded solitude. And still so strange and contradictory he was, that the moment he found himself alone he longed for the child. The tender, pleading eyes haunted him. The question that trembled on his lips was now the all-absorbing thought. What was it the child would have asked?
               Standing in the open door, the master looked up and down the narrow path. Dirichlet was not to be seen. His first impulse was to go into the house; but, no, to-morrow would do as well. To-morrow he would speak to the child. "To-morrow"—and suddenly it flashed across his brain that to-morrow he had purposed to go back to the great world. A day would make but trifling difference. If he left without a word, the sad pleading eyes would ever follow him. His purpose was strong to go; but, he would delay—another day would find him kind to the children. He would have his name held in pleasant remembrance.
               With these thoughts surging through his brain, the master was unconscious that the day had greatly changed. A gray spectral curtain fell over the mountains; the air was full of snow-flakes. The wind beat him piteously; but the struggle in his heart, was so much the fiercer. There were voices, still, he could not tell whether within or without: voices that implored him to have pity upon himself. He was young, it was not too late, he could turn. Was it the voice of his mother? Did he feel the pressure of her hand upon his shoulder? "Bertol, think—put down that glass—you know your temperament, your appetite. You must not tamper with it. In any case, it is dangerous; but you—my boy. By what we have suffered, I implore, I beg of you touch not a drop. The curse is on us as a family—it is our inheritance."
               A spasm of pain shot over his face. The black wall looked nearer—spectral figures leaped and danced above it. In his haste he stumbled and fell; the sharp rocks cut his hands, the blood oozed through his fingers—the cold winds stung the wounds. The air was thick and heavy—he could not see—the wall was pressing nearer. He put out his hands, all stiff with blood, to the right and to the left—the same impenetrable wall—nearer and nearer, the four sides steadily coming together. His limbs trembled, and his poor bleeding hands offered feeble resistance.
               
                  
               
               
               With his sin staring him in the face, the master plunged still deeper into the intricacies of the mountains. Storm and darkness were around him; steep acclivities and yawning chasms met him at every step. His garments were bristling with ice, his footing treacherous. Consciousness returned, and the knowledge of his danger only added to the keenness of his despair.
               As the inward struggle grew less, the sounds without were more definite. In the lull he heard a voice—his own name was called. He listened—it was a child's voice. Again it sounded through the blast, and this time it was nearer.
               "Do not try to go farther," said the voice. "Do not even move."
               Once more the master tried to lift his hands. They were stiff with blood. A veil of ice covered his face—his beard was a collection of icicles.
               "Reach down thy hand, and let thyself roll over the ledge."
               There was nothing to be seen, but the voice was familiar. He reached down his hand, and the next instant felt himself falling through the air. Outstretched arms received him, and a boy's face was pressed to his cold cheek. It was Dirichlet.
               "It is a wonder to me how thou art here," said a man taller and stouter than Fritz or Ludwig. "Had'st thou been accustomed to the mountains thou couldest not have done better. It is a mercy that Dirichlet had occasion to pass, or we should not have thought of thee in such a place."
               The combined activities of the man and of Dirichlet were necessary to steady the master across the gaping gulfs and over the slippery paths.
               "Wilhelm knows all the way; and let it be as bad as it may, he never has an accident," whispered the child.
               "But, how came you to think of me?" asked the master, gaining strength, as he gathered warmth from the walk.
               "I am always thinking of thee!" was answered naively.
               "Wilhelm's cottage was soon gained. A fire was burning on the hearth, and the supper-table was set before it.
               "It is a storm that clings to the bones," said Wilhelm. "I trust the pastor is not overtaken by it."
               "God grant it!" responded the good wife, as she folded a bandage round the master's hand. "It is not a night to lose one's way. But to sit before the fire is a mercy for which one must be thankful," continued the housewife.
               Wilhelm eat bountifully of the black bread and broth. But the master had no appetite, and Dirichlet was 'too tired,' he said.
               Ginkel made a soft bed by the fire, but all her motherly coaxing could not win the child to sleep. All the night through he sat by the master, caressing the bandaged hands and lifting the rings of soft brown hair, murmuring words of love and tenderness.
               Morning came; a heavy fall of snow wrapped in the valleys and the mountains. Ginkel was awake early, and Wilhelm was making paths.
               "How didst thou rest?" Ginkel asked of Dirichlet.
               "I never rested better," answered the child. "All through the night as I sat by the master, came the thought, it was my father who had wandered into the mountains, and I had saved him. Thou can'st not know how happy it made me; sleep never brought such rest."
               "Such thoughts are not good for thee, child. It is years since thy father was lost in the mountains. He would have been a man with white hair by this time. Thy father was such an one"—
               Suddenly the woman paused, and began to stir the fire. Dirichlet followed her with his eyes.
               "What dost thou mean by such an one, Ginkel?"
               "Ach, kindlein. Thy father was a painter. He had but to take his brush and he could make a picture so very like, that no one could do better. The king gave him gold, and the queen gave him her hand to kiss. Then came a time"—
               The master turned in his sleep, and Ginkel quickly escaped into the next room.
               Much as Dirichlet desired, he could learn no more of his father. Again the black bread and broth were in readiness, and this time he must eat, or Wilhelm would not hear of his going home through the snow.
               There was no school that day, neither for the next. And when again the master met the pupils, all his old kindness of manner had returned. The struggle in his heart had been fierce and obstinate, and out of it he came forth with stronger resolve and higher purpose.
               At best, life is but a battle field—each step contested and each act a bulwark to shut out the foe.
            
            
               
               XVIII. Into the Valley.
               "WHEN one has anything to do, it's my! I mind the best time to do it, is to do it at once. As for the snow"—and Ludwig shaded his eyes with his hand and looked away over the dazzling surface—"the snow is nothing to one who knows the paths. Why, man, it is much easier to walk in the snow, than in the dust and mire. Catch me thinking any more of it, than so much thistle down."
               It was seldom Ludwig expressed himself with as much spirit. What had come over him? The brown face showed nothing but a dogged resolution. Whatever it was, it had evidently expended itself, or, rather, he felt that he had said enough; drumming on the narrow panes with his clumsy fingers, and sending his gaze over the snow, as if it were nothing but boy's play to plow through it.
               Whether it was in the argument, or in the manner, Fritz seemed convinced that it was best to go. Besides, not to go was nothing else than to wait until spring. This would be such a long time, and he had promised Madchen; and Fritz tossed Hans in his strong arms, while the boy laughed, and showed his teeth; reaching up his fat fingers to the rafters, and clutching the silvery skeins of thread.
               "Hans knows this must come down," said the father. "Like his mother, he has a way of asking for what he wants without words."
               Madchen looked up with her blue, misty eyes. A lovelier face was seldom seen; the light of a holy, trustful love, crowning it with higher beauty than the mere accident of birth could bestow. Fritz dropped his eyes to the level of his wife's face with a look of care and tenderness, such as a true man never gives, save to the mother of his child.
               "Here, mutter, take him," said the strong man. Then bending over mother and child, he added:
               "Ludwig thinks it is best, and his judgment is good in most cases. There is no denying that we need the things, and to wait is to do without them for a long time."
               To hide her tears, Madchen kissed the baby. The touch of his soft flesh, the warm clasping of his small arms, the impatient pressure of his bare feet, only made her weep the faster.
               "If thy heart is against it," whispered Fritz.
               "One must not hinder one's husband from doing what he judges to be right. It is but weakness to weep in this manner; think nothing of it, Fritz."
               "Hans is a great boy, and the nursing is too much for thee;" and again the protecting tenderness leaped out of Fritz's eyes.
               "I feel quite well; but not exactly strong. It will happen so at times. I shall be better when thou art back again;" and Madchen sobbed outright.
               Fritz did not answer with words; but he slid his arm around Madchen's waist and nestled her head to his shoulder; while Hans crowed and gurgled, and Fritz planned of what Christmas would bring, and at last the little woman raised her head, laughing and bright, and Fritz stole away to make the needful preparations for a journey to the valley.
               In silence, Thusnelda took down the skeins of thread. "I will help thee," said Madchen, and she spread a wolf-skin before the fire, and sat Hans upon it.
               "Nay! nay!" cried Thusnelda. "Play with thy boy, child. There is but little to do, and there are hours when it is not well for one to be idle."
               The master sat with a book, and still not so deeply absorbed, but the words reached him. 'There are hours when it is not well for one to be idle.' Was not this so in his own case? And was he not happier and freer from temptation, when mind and body were taxed to the full measure of their strength?
               
               As night drew near, Gretchen came in, and was soon followed by Louise and Dirichlet, Mina and Linda, with others of the neighbors. Everything was bright and happy. The women in their red cloaks and snow-shoes, with eyes sparkling, and cheeks ruddy. Each with a small parcel. Something to sell, and for which she expected a suitable return. Only Linda sighed, and was unhappy. She had worked so hard to finish a cross, twining it with a tiny vine, and covering it with moss curiously variegated. "Only, I have not quite enough, and now the snow has fallen, and I cannot gather any more, and for the want of it my work is of no value."
               Poor Linda! the tears were in her eyes and she felt the weight of a great sorrow, not the less deep, because it was on account of the senseless moss. All the time she had been at work on her cross, she had dreamed of the admiration it would excite. And she did not doubt but there would be one, who would prize it not alone for its beautiful workmanship; but as a symbol of faith. And thus it would sell for a price, and she would receive in return something of which she had really need. It was not the moss, but the want of the moss that would hinder the completion of the work. And of course admiring eyes would never look upon it. And the dream of what she would receive, vanished.
               Dirichlet looked at the cross and then at the beautiful variegated moss. And a quick thought passed through his brain. He knew the place where such moss could be found. He had sat there many a time, and his first really pretty sketching was just there.
               Ludwig was in capital spirits; he had some wood carving, on which Leutzen had helped him not a little. In Ludwig's eyes it was a marvel of beauty. Like Linda, he had anticipated all that would be said in favor of it—the murmured expressions and looks of delight, and last, though not least, the price would be asked, and he would be sure to name a good round sum, and of course they would pay him in gold, and then he would buy at discount; it is only poor people who are obliged to pay high prices for what they have. And Ludwig could almost feel the gold in his fingers, and his purchases he had already written down—and his dreams tended to his happiness. Ludwig was one to spin out his dreams indefinitely.
               All this made Linda's eyes run over; and folding a white cloth about the cross, she laid it aside. Of course it was worthless; still she had a care for it, for some other time, perhaps. But then it would never do the good that it would just now.
               In the medley of voices no one noticed Dirichlet, as he stooped to whisper in Don's ear. The dog raised his shaggy head and looked around the room good-naturedly; then laid his nose along his fore paws and stretched them out in the direction of the bright fire: then he yawned, showing full rows of clean white teeth, raised himself a little on his hind legs, gave a spring, and stood erect.
               Dirichlet was in the out-kitchen. The door of the keeping room was ajar. Don deliberately walked that way, thrust his head through, and went out.
               Madchen sat beside the cradle. A volume of cold air rushed in. Hans turned in his sleep, and murmured, 'mutter.' Madchen put forth her hand and shut the door, not knowing that Dirichlet had gone out.
               Up the sky a silver car climbed slowly; thousands of lights were lit, and the bright pageant showered waves of splendor over the earth. At the window the master stood gazing into the brightness. The snow was not deep; but it was soft, fleecy, spotless. The tops of the mountains, the jagged rocks, the steep precipices, the yawning chasms, were covered by it. Everything was pure. Hardly aware that he was not alone, the master was drifting backward. Strange; he had been thinking all day of something Amelia had said, while at Hofnels, of being pure as snow. So long ago, and still he remembers it; often has it come to him, but never so vividly as to-night. Never before had he felt such a yearning desire to be freed from wrong-doing. Could he but unloose the burden and roll it from him. Could he be pure, as the snow was pure.
               A cloud dimmed the moon's brightness—the stars paled—a white film was creeping over the window; the firelight danced on the wall, and fell on the master's hand. His eye was caught by the crimson stain—a shudder passed over him;—to be pure, like the snow, was not for him.
               There was a movement at the hearth. The women were putting on their red cloaks. Linda was in better spirits—Louise had made over to her a large drawing.
               "But is it right for me to take it—art thou sure thy uncle will not be displeased?" asked Linda.
               "It cannot be put to better purpose. My uncle will not object. The cross is truly beautiful, but it will profit thee nothing this time, but may in the spring, perhaps." And Louise spoke so sweetly, Linda was comforted, and the cross no longer weighed heavily upon her heart.
               Louise stood ready to leave. "But where is Dirichlet?" she called out.
               "Where can he be?" questioned Thusnelda. "The child has changed wonderfully of late. His cheeks are always flushed, and his eyes are so bright, and they have such a clear, earnest expression."
               "Dirichlet is not quite well," answered Louise, trying to look out of the window, now covered with the most beautiful frost tracery.
               "Don is not here," said Fritz, "he and Dirichlet must have gone together;" and opening the outer door he called the familiar name; while the clear air bore it farther and farther, and the stars smiled in their brightness and shot down arrows of light.
               Clear and distinct against the blue background stood a grand old pine. The snow had slipped from the needle-like leaves and it stood like some beautiful device of art, its pedestal of spotless marble, canopied with blue and gold.
               At the base of the cliff a path had been cut, and by the light of the moon a black object was seen leaping and bounding, and losing itself in the snow.
               A merry whistle rang out, and the dog flew over the path, turning with a low cry, and then rushing forward. It was Don and Fritz, and the men hastened to meet him.
               "I did not dream of this, and still, it is just what one might expect of thee," Fritz said, as he grasped Dirichlet by the hand.
               "I knew the place where the moss was to be found, and I could not bear to have Linda lose her work," answered the child. "I have it. Look! it is, if anything, more beautiful than that already on the cross."
               There was no reproof. But Thusnelda made the child drink a cup of hot tea, in which she infused a rare powder, made by herself, and sure to prevent cold from exposure.
               Linda was so delighted that she was obliged to sit up half the night to finish her work; and it looked so nicely, that she had great difficulty in restraining her enthusiasm, so as not to awaken the household before the rising hour.
               The sun was well up before Fritz and Ludwig set off. Madchen did not mean to shed any tears. She knew that Fritz would miss her quite as much as she would him; still, there were so many things that could only be had by going for them.
               "A week will not be so very long, and after that you will not leave us for months." And, holding her baby in her arms, the little wife watched her husband as he went down the mountain, his stout staff plunged into the snow, leaning upon it, and pressing forward, thus rendering the fatigue of the journey less, and greatly facilitating his earnest wish for speed.
               Impelled by a desire to see Dirichlet, the master started for the school-room. Not a week since he had fully determined to go back to the great world from which he had suddenly withdrawn. Influenced, and actually led on by the desire of once more indulging his appetite, he had been kept from it. The struggle was fierce and long, and a blush crimsoned the pale face as he recalled the terrible temptation, the wandering on the mountains, and the storm.
               Before the master reached the door, Dirichlet came forth to meet him.
               "I was thinking of thee," said the child. "It seems, I never missed the pastor half as much." And there was a clinging fondness, that touched the master's heart more than words.
               "What can I do for you, my child?"
               "Canst thou tell me of God, and the place where my mother is? I dreamed of her last night. Her face grows lovelier every time she comes, and last night I was so tired, she just stayed with me and brushed my hair, and smiled. Then she drew me to her, and kissed me on the lips, and after that I slept."
               "You were all too tired, child. When one is ill and feverish, he is liable to such fancies."
               "But it was not a fancy," replied the child. "I saw her, felt her clasping, and she smiled and kissed me."
               To withdraw the child's thoughts, the master ter asked of his drawing, and had he taken any winter views?
               "Such as I have, thou shalt see."
               "It is a beautiful art, and I am sure that you will one day excel," said the master, with much warmth.
               "My father had a genius for painting. You must see his pictures; the pastor has them in his private room. I have my mother's eyes, the pastor says; but my hand is like my father's, and I love drawing."
               "And you dream of being a painter?" asked the master.
               "The pastor has a friend in Dresden, an artist of very great celebrity. When I am a few years older I am to go to him."
               "For this reason you must keep well and strong—even now your hands are feverish."
               "I know, I know," said the child; "much as I would like to go to Dresden, sometimes I am afraid."
               "Afraid of what?"
               "Afraid of temptation," answered the child.
               "What put such an idea into your head?"
               
               "My father was a great painter. He could do wonders with his brush; but he loved strong drink, and he yielded to it."
               "And for that very reason you will not."
               "But, I am like my father."
               A thrill of pain passed over the master's face.
               "Dear child, let us think nothing of this. As a rule, talent cannot be said to be inherited. Still, there are hereditary influences and inclinations, just as there are tendencies to disease, following down through the same family. It is no evidence, because we inherit tendencies, that they must of necessity develop into power. Education has a moulding influence, and the circumstances of life are equally potent."
               The voice had a cold, metallic ring, and the words seemed forced through the lips. The child looked up to the master with a bewildered air.
               "Thou art not angry with me?" And the blue eyes were full of tears.
               "Not angry, child; but it is not well to brood over such things. You remember the pastor teaches that each day brings its duties. This is the morning of a new day, and we have new duties."
            
            
               
               XIX. Christmas.
               CHRISTMAS had come and gone. Pastor Nielander was at home, and so was Fritz and Ludwig. There had been the usual routine of school-life, for the master had learned that calm, steady work was the surest safeguard. The slightest relaxation of hand and brain, and the mad whirl of passion came back with redoubled force. Not that his appetite was gratified; but he longed to indulge it with a longing that required all his mental force and will to keep him from running away to attain it, at any hazard.
               Never before had the master been so impressed with the spirit of Christmas. A festival, but one so full of joy, of loving recognition of God's mercy, coming into His presence with thanksgiving, and bringing, not gold, frankincense, and myrrh; but the love and homage of penitent hearts. Joining with them in all outward worship, he still felt the partition wall high between them. By his own act he was shut out; his heart was full of evil thoughts and inclinations, that required constant watchfulness to keep in check. Of course there was no hope for him. But for the others, it was pleasant to note the wrapt devotion, the earnest zeal, the tender love.
               All the week the church door stood open; ropes of evergreens festooned the walls, and crowns of ivy and holly added brightness. The altar did not blaze with light, as at Hofnels, but strangely it reminded the master of the small sanctuary across the lake. Simple and severely plain, there was a fitness in keeping with the object for which it was designed. A temple within a temple, with nothing of outward splendor to distract the eye, and call off the attention of the worshipper.
               At night some member of the circle was chosen to relate a story, and legends were handed down from father to son, just as they had been handed down for centuries. Dirichlet had always shown a peculiar aptitude in narrating fairy tales, and reciting poetry. Now he sat quiet and still, a patient look on his face, and that far-away expression in his eyes.
               To please the child, Leutzen made a table, the counterpart of which he had sent to Caroline, and on which he had worked so faithfully. It consisted of a pedestal of twisted vine branches, with leaves and delicate bellshaped flowers; the top was circular, the centre smooth, and rimmed with clusters of violets, so light and delicate, it hardly seemed they could be carved from the solid wood.
               The lad smiled, and petted it, much as he would have done a human being; but his strength was failing. To sit with his books and pencils was now his chief desire. The portrait of Louise no longer graced the easel. It was finished, and the pastor sent it to Dresden, as evidence of the lad's genius for painting.
               "I have not thought of parting with him," said Pastor Nielander. "But it is possible that change of climate will benefit, and if he is no stronger in the spring, I will take him to Dresden."
               Every day the child came to the schoolroom, the fancies of his brain taking form and beauty. His faith was grafted on the same branch with that of the pastor—love blossomed in his heart, and every day he seemed lifted higher and higher into the atmosphere of eternal truth.
               Face to face, with the child's hand clasped in his own, there seemed a fearful gulf between them; the sin and wrong-doing gnawing at his heart, and the clasp of the white fingers deepening the red stain of blood. With the arrow in his soul, the master fled to the covert of his room, and was only won back by the tearful eyes and pleading voice of the child, asking piteously in what he had offended.
               As another test of skill, Dirichlet sketched a group. The pastor was the central figure, Thusnelda and the master on the right side, and on the left, Fritz, Madchen, and Hans. The young artist had never attempted so many figures before, and his ardor increased as the work went on—the force of his enthusiasm breaking against the frail barrier, and threatening speedy dissolution. This sketch was finished, and hung for the time in the pastor's study. With less brightness in his heart than usual, the master went with Dirichlet to see the picture. The day was one of beauty, and as the light streamed through the west window, and fell upon the group, the master was surprised to note the expression on the face of each—it was as though the living, breathing forms stood before him.
               Flushed and expectant, Dirichlet stood by his side, pleased and happy as words of encouragement fell from his lips. Above all, as the master drew his attention to the rules of art, blending his praise with so much judicious criticism, that the youthful artist forgot all else, save the better handling of another group—anticipating with a keen relish, and his physical frame strengthened by the light buoyancy of his spirit.
               "It is barely possible that I shall ever succeed in figures as well as my father. You must see one of his heads. I cannot remember when I did not love to look at it, watching the eyes as they followed me around the room, the lips parted, as if about to speak, and the hair so life-like, it seemed the breeze was forever playing in the silken curls."
               It was a Grecian face, delicately moulded and exquisitely colored. The arch look of the eyes softened by such an expression of tender, trustful love; but with no name to give a clue to her history.
               "It was the only finished painting in my father's portfolio, at the time of his death. You do not wonder that I never tire looking at it?" asked the child.
               "It is a face to grow upon one, a face to make one appreciate still more the beautiful art that can stamp the canvas with youth, beauty, love; so true to nature, as to inspire the beholder with feelings akin to those called forth by real life," replied the master.
               "Is it so," asked the child, "that the ideal presence of a loved object has power to thrill us, as the living presence of another could not do? Whenever I look upon this picture, it seems that my mother is bending over me. I feel the pressure of her hand, the kisses of her lips are on my mouth. Is it so with thee, my teacher?"
               It was dangerous ground. The master could not suffer himself to reply, but turning abruptly from the child, he said:
               "Pray tell me is this a fancy sketch, or does it represent one of the pastor's family?"
               It was the portrait of a lad of twelve, perhaps—a beautiful face, and finely shaped head, with abundance of light clustering curls, a nose straight, but not Grecian, and lips that expressed good-fellowship, frankness, and the air of self-command.
               More than once had the master gazed at this picture; a certain haunting look in the eyes riveting his attention, a confused, indefinite nite consciousness, as though he had looked upon the counterpart in real life.
               Before Dirichlet had time to answer, the pastor entered, and with a charming grace began to talk of the pictures, giving bits of history, and showing a just appreciation of artist work and artist life.
               "And this," he continued, looking into the haunting eyes, "is the exact likeness of Terence. He was a beautiful boy. His mother was my youngest sister, a gleeful, happy girl—and now she is a widow in a land remote from her old home."
               "Terence, did you say?" stammered the master.
               "Terence Redford. Poor lad, we had high hopes of him," and the pastor paused abruptly.
               Drops of perspiration stood on the master's forehead. He attempted to speak, but his tongue refused to syllable a word. Terence Redford was the name of his friend. Doubtless, it must be the same. "Poor lad! We had high hopes of him."
               The pastor said nothing more. But, too well the master knew the end of that hope, and the cause. Was not this retribution? Hiding away in the mountains, had not God met him? Giving him to feel the friendship of one who would spurn him from his door, when it was made known of what crime he was guilty.
               Again the master questioned, if it was right to wait for the truth to be made known? Was it not his duty to surrender himself at once? Murder was in his heart, and the stain of blood was on his hands. He could never forgive himself. With unyielding purpose he had endeavored to give a life for a life. God was not pleased to accept it. A public confession of his guilt was possibly the sacrifice required of him.
               Hushing the withering cry of his heart, the master took his leave, saddened, most of all, to think that the pastor still considered him worthy. Better, by far, to sink under the just punishment of the law, than receive the favor and share the hospitality of those whose kindness would be withdrawn, did they dream of the offence.
               The sun had sunk into a dull gray cloud—there was a sombre tint in the sky—the night was coming on. Dirichlet accompanied the master to the door.
               "Is it so," asked the child, "that joy and sadness chase each other through the mind? Hardly does one make an impression than it is quickly effaced by the other. It wont be so there—it will be all brightness."
               The child's eyes were raised reverently. He was thinking of that world from which it seemed he had but temporarily wandered.
               "In your case, child, the sorrow is only a fleeting shade, a breath of sympathy given to another."
               "But I am often sad," returned the child.
               "Sadness that stings is the fruit of deeds ill-done, with the offshoots of despair, remorse and lingering death. Be thankful that you know nothing of this, child."
               "Deeds ill-done?" repeated the child. "To do ill and to repent of doing it, is only to win pardon of God, and there's a sweet joy that follows. I remember, a long time ago, I disobeyed the pastor. I saw the tears in his eyes, but I could not be sorry. I did not consider that I had behaved so very bad. At night he did not kiss me, and when we kneeled his arm was no longer around me. I could not sleep. Suddenly I awoke to feel the wrong was mine—that I had by my own obstinacy shut the door of his heart. Black, ugly forms hovered about me. I left my bed and crept to the study door. The fire was smouldering on the hearth, and the pastor sat before it; his head drooped, and I knew that he was sad. I did not wait to knock. I put my arms around his neck, and my lips clung to his. He lifted me to his knees, he nestled my head on his bosom, he forgave me; and never did it seem that he loved me half as well. God deals with us after this manner when we do wrong. And when we cling to him and tell him we are sorry, he loves us all the better."
               With dim, misty eyes, the master made his way home. Could it be that God loved the wrong doer? Could he love one whose appetites and desires were all wrong? If there were promises for God's children, there were also judgments and denunciations for those who departed from the right. Once more the devouring passion of his heart flamed up. Why should such torture be his? Surely he was not responsible for his nature. To keep aloof from one temptation was to run into another. One draught of the intoxicating cup, and then death—were preferable to what he now endured.
               With fiery torture leaping from heart to brain, the half-dulled eyes of the master were caught in the mesh of sunset. The sky was ablaze with glory; waves of golden splendor bathed the mountain-tops and rolled off into the valleys: crimson and purple met, and a soft silvery haze crept from cliff to cliff. One silver star hung out her lamp, then another and another, until it seemed so many eyes of God looking down upon him. Despair filled his heart. "Curse God and die," whispered the demon. Then the pale, sad face of Dirichlet ichlet came before him. The child loved him and trusted him—it would be a double wrong to tear the illusion from the innocent heart, to teach him that his confidence had been misplaced; rather suffer a few days, or months longer, and then—
               With such reasoning, the tangled brain grew quiet, the quick pulse subsided. Tremblingly the master walked along the narrow ledge. There was a light in the cottage, and the sound of merry voices. To avoid them was the first thought; the next, and he made bold to enter.
               "We have company," said Madchen. "We have waited long, and my Fritz is quite starved."
               "I am always to find new paths," was the quick response.
               "Never mind, so that we have thee once more."
               It was Ginkel and Wilhelm, and they had come to see the master.
            
            
               XX. Spring.
               THE valleys were clothed with beauty; violets blossomed in the hedge corners, and the willows hung out their silken fringes. The earth was carpeted with green, and the trees vied with each other in the quick unrolling of their leaves.
               Out of the laughing valley, Spring ran up the mountain; she breathed on the snow and ice, and cascades and waterfalls leaped forth. The slopes had a velvet softness, and flowers knotted themselves in the springing grass. Once more the red cows grazed on the narrow meadows, and Ninnette gamboled before the door. Vines sent their long arms over the cliffs, and the homes of the mountain dwellers wore new loveliness.
               Thusnelda's web was finished, and the bleaching proved a pleasant occasion. The mill was in motion, and just below and almost within hearing of the men a sunny glade, where the linen was spread and kept thoroughly moist by sprinkling it with water from the running stream. Every morning Thusnelda came leading Hans, talking and telling him stories, filling her pitcher and letting it drip over the linen, while she snatched a few moments to make a ball for the child, then back to the stream with her pitcher, her burden light in thinking of her web and the good price it was sure to bring.
               The Landegemeine was to meet in May, and Fritz and Leutzen were to go down to the valley.
               "We shall have it beautifully white by that time," said Thusnelda, as she sat in the door and talked with Madchen. "And we must have many things—Hans is a great boy, and it is time that he was out of his baby clothes; besides," and she glanced up at Madchen's flushed face, "there is no denying there are other things we must have. It will be best for thee to tell Fritz, perhaps, so that he can choose wisely."
               "We will make out a list—and Fritz is so good," returned Madchen, "he will know quite as well as myself, and then, I always like what he brings." And Madchen brought out the twisted arm-chair and placed it just where the master liked to sit.
               All winter Dirichlet had been failing, but the sweet spring days brought seeming strength, and he was frequently able to walk home with the master. Pastor Nielander joined them at times. There were no concealments now. The pastor knew why the master had fled to the mountains, the devouring thirst for drink breaking against the frail barrier of his resolve, and driving him again and again to drown his reason and his conscience in the fiery draught.
               "I hardly know why, and still your coming strangely reminds me of other days," Pastor Nielander said, just as the master and Dirichlet were leaving the school-room.
               A burning blush shot over the master's face. Was it of his sister the pastor was thinking, or of the hope he had cherished with regard to Terence? In any event he could not answer.
               The next remark showed that the good man's thought was only of the beautiful; the generous appreciation the master gave reminding him of one who saw the beautiful with artist eyes. He acknowledged the spell with his intellect; but his heart did not receive it as a part of the Divine essence. Pleased, delighted, bewildered, it entered not into the leading motive of his life: beauty he saw in everything, but there was no God in it."
               With effort the master had recovered himself, and now a certain brusqueness of manner took possession of him.
               "If so, was it this man's fault, or the fault of his nature?" asked the master.
               "It is not with the eye of mind that man perceives the God in nature; neither is it with the intellect that he comprehends the revelation that God has made. It is the soul of man that perceives—it is the soul that drinks in the reality of the Infinite spirit, witnessing to the truth, and through this inner spiritual influence, the truth becomes incorporated into one's very existence."
               "If it is the soul that appreciates truly, by what process of induction is the soul to be put in possession of this knowledge?" asked the master.
               "By simply bringing a teachable spirit to the study of God's word."
               "This is what I have endeavored to do for years, and still, I am no nearer than when I first began. This trust, and faith, and love in God as a Father, adds a charm to life that nothing else can give. I would give worlds to possess it; and it would be hypocrisy to say that I feel it. I must confess to you that I do not."
               "You would buy God's love. Just there is the difficulty. You would confer a favor upon God, and in return receive his loving kindness. In this the child's knowledge is superior to the teacher's. There is but one way: accept of God's love, loving him because he first loved you."
               The pastor's manner was strangely tender. A sob almost choked down—the master's words.
               There was the pressure of a small hand; the master looked down—Dirichlet's eyes were full of tears.
               "This is what I have longed to say to thee," was fondly whispered. "Coming from the pastor, thou wilt not lose it."
               An answering glance from the master, and the child again relapsed into silence.
               Thusnelda and Madchen were still talking of the Landegemeine, and the linen, and the list to be written down. The master's chair was occupied by Hans, and Fritz had not yet come.
               As the master approached with Dirichlet and the pastor, both women advanced to meet them.
               "The last visit I am to make before I go across the mountains," said the pastor, addressing them.
               "And Dirichlet—art thou stronger, child?" asked Thusnelda, taking the little feverish hand in her own.
               "I have won Louise's consent to leave him with thee until the doctor comes, whom I am to send," answered the pastor. "Thou art a better nurse. I like not to see the lad's cheeks so rosy when the day is done."
               "If nursing will revive him he shall not lack," said the good woman; and she caressed the soft curls, and looked into the blue eyes earnestly.
               Hans had given up his chair, and now sat on the master's knee.
               Beauty deepened on the hills, opal and deep rose shading away into the faintest amethyst. The pastor was talking of the home work, the sermons to be read and the hymns sung. Then there were visits to be made, and the wants of the poorer people freely met.
               "And I am to stay with thee?" whispered Dirichlet, lifting his hand to Thusnelda's cheek. "And wilt thou tell me of my mother? Thou hast seen her, Ginkel once told me."
               "I remember her when thou wast a small boy; but her life was so short here, I have little to tell thee, child."
               "A lovely lady, Ginkel said. Sometimes I see her in my dreams, but when I try to speak to her and clasp her neck, she is gone."
               "It is the fever that gives thee such dreams, child. We must give thee cooling drinks, and thou wilt sleep a healthful sleep, without dreams."
               "You cannot tell how it rests me; through all the day I am happier."
               Fritz and Leutzen now came up, and in the welcome, Thusnelda slipped away to lay the supper-table. It was a rare occasion to have the pastor to supper; but he would stay, of course, and with a little whispering to Madchen, the blue tea-cups were taken down and the plates that Madchen's mother had given her.
               "And Dirichlet is to stay with us," Madchen whispered to Fritz. "I am sure I hope it will do him good; and he is so fond of the master."
               "I do not like his looks," said Fritz. "And he can do too well for a child."
               "Thou must not dishearten us," cried Thusnelda, as she placed the last dish on the table. "We must do what we can. There is One who can make him strong again, if it is best."
               The pastor was in one of his happiest moods—conversation was cheerful and attractive. He spoke of his youthful days, then of artist life in the cities; giving one to see through his eyes the poverty, the struggle, the temptation, and at last the success.
               "And still I am to go Dresden," said Dirichlet, glancing into the tender face.
               "As soon as thou art able, child. This is one reason why thou must try to grow strong again. Thusnelda is a good nurse, and I will send Doctor Burger, as soon as I reach the valley."
               "This is very good, and I thank thee. But thou wilt not think too much of my getting well. It is possible that I shall never go to Dresden—that I shall never be a great painter."
               "And if you are not?"
               "It will be as God pleases," answered the child.
               After the pastor left, Dirichlet crept up to the master and leaned his head on the broad shoulder.
               "It will be useless for Doctor Burger to come. He cannot help me."
               "You must not think this," answered the master; "Doctor Burger is a very able man. Because thou art thin and weak, it is no sign that relief cannot come."
               "But something tells me that it is so. Is it wrong to think of death calmly when you see it approaching day by day?"
               "To be sad hinders recovery," replied the master.
               "Thoughts of death never make me sad. Only leaving thee, and Pastor Nielander, and Louise."
               "Our patient has already exerted himself beyond his strength," said Thusnelda. "He must sleep now, and to-morrow"—
               "I shall claim the privilege of caring for the child at night," the master said.
               "I am only too glad," whispered Dirichlet. "Together we will watch thy star."
            
            
               
               XXI. The Star.
               NOTWITHSTANDING the influences for good, the master's mood fluctuated from gay to grave, from hope to despair. At times the demon of desire had apparently deserted him. Then the pent up fires burst forth afresh, the gnawing of an insatiable thirst consumed him. Every thought and action stimulated desire: a wild warfare between the resolve not to do, and the imperious yearning to do. With blood frenzied, each bare, palpitating vein filled with intolerable burnings, each nerve and fibre throbbing with fiercest pain—at one time crying out in rage; the next determined to overcome. And thus tossed and torn with no common care, the companionship ionship of Dirichlet was a blessing, only equalled by the content of the child.
               What nursing could do had been done. Doctor Burger had been there. Still, there was no perceptible change—only weaker, perhaps, with a crimson stain on the cheeks, that contrasted strongly with the marble whiteness of the forehead. Now came the sweet ministrations of love. With the world fading from his sight, the child grew in wisdom beyond his years; he lived and breathed and thought in a purer atmosphere. Instead of the pupil, he became the teacher. His words carried point by their very simplicity. His was no complex creed—to take God at his word, to lean upon, to love him. To do this required neither age nor experience. Never before had the way appeared so plain, the truth so direct and beautiful.
               Interested in his patient, Doctor Burger made a second visit; and when he left there were tears in his eyes. He had but to look into the child's face, and he knew that the gift of healing was not with him.
               
               The doctor's words did not surprise, but they saddened. "When spring comes," they had said; almost sure that the soft, sweet air would revive and make strong again.
               There was no more bleaching to be done; the swollen waters began to abate—cascades and waterfalls shrunk into a thin, even stream. The mill worked slowly. Still the master came with the child, to sit under the grand old pine, looking away into the golden sunset, and talking in low tones of heaven and of God.
               Dirichlet had a small Bible. It was the only thing left him by his mother, and it was full of pencil marks. Open where he would, he was sure to find something that harmonized with his thoughts, some promise that he would rather read than repeat.
               "'And I will give them an heart to know me,'" read the child.
               "That is it—a new heart—but how to receive it?" murmured the master.
               "How do the mountains receive the sunlight?" asked the child.
               "The sun shines upon them, they drink it in, and delight in it," was the answer.
               "Just so God looks down upon us. He scatters blessings upon our path, more beautiful than sunlight upon the mountains."
               "There are sins so heavy, stains so deep, that it does not seem possible he can forgive. All are not pardoned."
               "Shut thine eyes to the gorgeous drapery of sunset—thou wilt not see it; but the beauty will remain the same. It is God, writing upon the mountains the visible of his Presence; the beautiful shining into our hearts, and igniting the spark of Divinity within. God loves us. Every morning his glory is made manifest, and every night he curtains us about with love."
               When Fritz and Leutzen returned from the Landegemeine, the whispering was all explained.
               "So many parcels for Dirichlet," said Fritz, good-humoredly. "We did our best. I trust they will suit thee, child."
               "We will not look at them to-day," Thusnelda nelda said, bending over the chair of the invalid. "When one is weak, one must not have too much joy. The pastor is to be with us to-night. It will be a glad occasion for all, but most to thee," and Thusnelda kissed the damp forehead.
               The packages were put aside, unopened. The truth was, the good women knew they were only keepsakes, on which it would be impossible to look without tears.
               The pastor came, leaning upon his staff. It was a happy, but painful meeting. The change in Dirichlet was striking, and the pastor bore marks of weariness. With the child's head on his bosom, the good man told of his visit to the churches, and the solicitude he felt that through his efforts good might be effected.
               "There was a time when I looked forward. God sees that it is not best."
               "The old pine braves the storm, while the tender sapling withers and dies. It is His will," and the pastor looked to the islands of white foamy clouds sailing above him.
               "If this world is so beautiful, what must God's world be?" said the child.
               "'Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him,'" answered the pastor.
               Dirichlet felt for the master's hand. He grasped it warmly. "'For them that love him,'" whispered the child.
               "To love God is to obey him," observed the pastor, "and herein we know, if indeed we do love Him. Love purifies the heart, and moulds it day by day into the image of the Beloved."
               "Can humanity be lifted above the temptation to sin?" asked the master.
               "Not above temptation. But the soul that looks to God for strength will not yield to temptation."
               "Do I understand you to say, that loving God implies new desires, new purposes, new appetites?" continued the master.
               "Certainly. When a man loves God, he is a new creature. Faith cometh through love, and without faith it is impossible to please him; for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. And, if we have faith, then we ask and receive according to our need."
               A telegraphic look shot out of the child's eyes—the clasp of the hand was closer. Turning to Thusnelda, the pastor questioned of his people. Were any sick, and had there been dissension in his absence?"
               The stars were out before the visitor rose to leave. Louise had come up with the herdboy to see him home, and likewise to ask when Dirichlet would come.
               A look out of the blue eyes caused the tears to start. Louise drew near, and kissed the pale lips. "I have it almost finished. To-morrow or next week, perhaps," was whispered.
               Dirichlet's hand was unsteady—he had given his pencils to Louise. She was drawing a small portrait of himself, to be given to the master.
               The mountains gleamed like silver.
               "It makes me think of the city 'Having the glory of God; and her light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal,'" said the pastor, as he turned to go.
               Hans had fallen asleep with the hatchet Fritz had bought him still in his hand. Very tenderly the father took him in his strong arms, and bore him to his bed.
               They had been sitting before the door. Thusnelda rose to go in; the master wound his arm about the child; their steps were slow.
               "Everything is so silvery bright," said the child.
               "It is the white light of His love," answered Thusnelda.
               Madchen met them at the door; her face was white, and her eyes were full of strange light.
               "Didst thou see it?" she asked of Thusnelda.
               "See what, Madchen?"
               
               "The star."
               "How sayest thou didst we see a star, when the heavens are full of them?"
               "But, didst thou see it fall?"
               "I saw only the silvery brightness."
               "But it did fall. Fritz saw it plainly."
               Thusnelda tottered forward, and hid her face on Fritz's shoulder.
               "Say nothing of this to the master. He loves the child, and his heart is tender."
               Sleep stole over the household. Only the master and Dirichlet were wakeful.
               "May I tell thee all there is in my heart?" asked the child, nestling his head to the master's bosom.
               "Tell me all, child."
               "I feel so restful, so happy, for the pastor made it plain to thee. I saw it in thine eyes. To love God makes a new creature. If a man have lost anything, he is through love reinstated, and if he have appetites and desires that drag him down, God will take them away, and give him a heart full of pure thoughts and right motives. Is it not so?"
               "I begin to comprehend it, child."
               "I know thou dost. Thou hast knowledge, and thou must return to the world—there is work for thee to do. God will give it thee, and he will hold thee responsible."
               "Thou knowest my weakness. My promises are spider-webs," sobbed the master.
               "It is God that promises, and he will send a seraph with a live coal from the altar, and he will lay it upon thy mouth, and say, 'Lo, this hath touched thy lips, and thy iniquity is taken away, and thy sin is purged.'"
               The moonbeams grew more silvery bright. There was the rustle of angel plumage, and unseen fingers wiped away the tears.
               In that loving embrace the hours passed. Only once the child spoke. "It grows brighter. I see the gate. Now kiss me on the lips, and let me sleep."
               The silvery brightness deepened into golden light; but not before the unseen gate had opened to receive a ransomed soul, and closed again.
            
            
               
               XXII. The Dead to the Living.
               THERE was no mourning in Thusnelda's home, only a more subdued tenderness. A gentle look and air, like children awed in waiting. The keepsakes Fritz and Leutzen had brought from the valley were distributed; not one was forgotten. And with the token, a word of love was blended, so like the thoughtful child, that each wept in receiving it. Louise had finished the portrait, and this was to the master a reminder of all that had passed between them—an amulet upon which he was to look in times of temptation.
               Thusnelda goes with the master, and the pastor and Louise have more leisure. The grand old pine witnesses many a gathering, as the sun goes down. And on the waves of the beautiful, the spirit of the child seems to speak to them, while the pastor is near to discourse of the heaven where so many of his own are gathered; the company to whom the child had gone, making it so real, so tangible, that the dread of passing the entrance gate did not occur to them.
               "We lose, if we fail to think of heaven as a country," said the pastor, "with rivers of delight, islands of blessedness, and mountains of living verdure. Heaven is significant of beauty, as well as of holiness; of delight, as well as of purity; of rest, as well as of enjoyment. Not a place of reception merely, but a place for action. The heart that loves here is a sure mark for sorrow. Love is the highest boon in heaven, as it is on earth. And still, through love comes the keenest anguish, the most exquisite torture. In heaven love will be free from pain. What joy! The mother clasps her babe, the father his child, the husband meets the wife of his youth. There are tears, but they are tears of joy, and there are claspings of hands, and murmured tenderness. And over all, the presence of God, no longer veiled in a cloud, but crowned with glory. What mingling and meeting! And into every circle, the Saviour comes, radiant. Now he receives the reward of his suffering, now is his soul satisfied.
               Louise nestled still closer to her uncle.
               "Thou wilt know thy mother there, child."
               There was something beautiful in the rapt expression of the pastor's face, the gentle tone, and sweet, sad memories of his youth. Whatever it was, his heart had known suffering, and through it all, he had found the peace, the content that springs from a close walk with God.
               Light feathery clouds floated over the valley, while the mountain summits were glittering with gold and pearl. The pastor's eyes were raised to the battlements beyond. A few more steps and he would reach the gate, a few more days and he would clasp to his heart the friends who had begun life with him, and who had dropped by the way.
               The almost celestial joy on the withered face awed Louise. She stood up—the pastor caught the movement, and smiled. Louise handed him his staff. His steps were feeble; once he looked back, raising his hand and passing it over his eyes, as if to dispel an illusion. Then he smiled down upon the young girl, and the words fell gently:
               "And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day, for there shall be no night there."
               Notwithstanding the conflict in his heart, intercourse with the pastor was a source of comfort to the master. Gradually he came to see that "whosoever" was a word that comprehended all. Let the sin be ever so great, the stain dyed red, the blood of Jesus could wash it white as snow. And now he longed to go back to the world he had so suddenly left. Not now, for the purpose of gratifying his thirst for strong drink. But to witness by his deeds the truth of his resolve. What he had done, could not be undone; but the future was before him—there were possibilities to which he could attain.
               Thusnelda saw the change, and her tongue faltered, "Now we shall lose thee, Bertol."
               
               "Wouldst thou have it otherwise?"
               "It will be hard to see thee go. Still, one has work to do."
               "Wherever mine may be, I shall do it better for having been with thee, Thusnelda."
               "Thou hast been like my own Fritz, and I shall send out to thee a mother's love. Going forth thou wilt never again be just as thou hast been, Bertol."
               "Never again just at I have been," answered Bertol, with emotion. "I have learned here that faith in Christ is the only sure foundation for a noble manhood. Without it man is a prey to appetites and passions from which it is impossible to free himself."
               The thought of parting with the master troubled Fritz almost as much as it did Thusnelda.
               "And Hans will never learn of thee!" cried Madchen.
               It was arranged that Bertol was to enter the university for a year, and thither the pastor was to accompany him. It promised to be a pleasant journey. The pastor had need of rest, and this he would find in change. Besides he had a brother at Reinsberg.
               The master had been up to the new pasturage, a little island of soft green grass walled in with rocks and mountain ridges, with a narrow tortuous path, over which the herd walked fearlessly. Thusnelda was making cheese, and bringing curd, she begged the master to taste it. Fritz said the grazing had never been better, and of course it told upon the cheese, and when pressed, it would be fine, and there would be fewer to eat it.
               The bleaching ground was below, and the master sent his gaze along the shelving rocks to the very cliff on which Fritz had found him. How long ago it seemed! How heavy the burden he had carried! Now his heart was lightened. Was it right? There was crime—repented of, true, but that did not change the act. It was there—written down against him. Had God forgiven, blotted it out? But the life he had taken, he could not restore. Once more the image of that widowed mother came up before him. She leaned upon her boy; down the declivity of life she thought to find support in his love. What right had he to peace, when she was desolate?
               With all of this, there was nothing of the old, hard feeling. God knew it all. He must leave it there. God saw the deep dark stain, and still He had spoken words of comfort. The way to the university was not clear, however. He would return to the place where the deed was perpetrated, and offer his own life for the one he had taken.
               The pastor sat in his arm-chair before the door of his dwelling. Louise was at work in the house. The pastor held a letter in his hand, but he was not reading. As the master approached, he said, lightly:
               "Sit down. I have news that will delight thee. My cup is full, running over."
               The master drew his chair still nearer
               "Doubtless you remember the picture of which Dirichlet was so fond, the beautiful-faced boy. He is coming, and his mother. The intelligence quite overpowers me."
               "Terence Redford and his mother!" gasped the master.
               "The same. I remember I told you the mother was my sister. But what is the matter. You are ill—faint. Here, Louise"—
               When the master came to himself, he was lying on the bed; the windows were open, and the moon filled the room with pearly light. The pastor sat by the couch, and the letter on the table was crossed with moonbeams.
               "When are they to arrive?" asked the master, taking up the discourse where it was laid down.
               "They are now in Germany. Terence purposes to study for a few years, and his mother will come to the mountains."
               "Has he decided where?"
               "That will depend upon me. I have a thought, and I will tell it thee. Terence is a fine scholar, and one can see by this letter that he has a fine manly spirit. I doubt not but he would prove a desirable companion, and coming from the States, his society would be doubly dear to thee."
               
               A groan escaped the master. He started up, his white face looking still ghastlier in the lamplight.
               "You say that Terence was wounded in a quarrel with his friend. Did your sister name the person? Could you forgive, if you knew?"—
               The excitement was too much. Again the poor youth fell back upon the pillows.
               "Do not distress yourself," said the pastor, pressing the thin hand in his own. "I have known for months that you and Terence were once friends."
               "Known it, and cared for me still?"
               "Does God desert his creatures, although they sin against him with a high hand? Nay, he calls them tenderly to repent, and put away the wrong."
               "Had it not been for the love of strong drink. To what did it not lead me! And now to know that Redford lives—I must see him. I must tell him on my knees. The fault was all mine!"
               Morning dawned on a happy household. Thusnelda, and Madchen, and Fritz, had gathered in the pastor's room, and there were tears, but they were tears of joy.
               "And to think that it should come right, and it is here thou hast learned the lesson," said Madchen.
               "And now, when thou goest, it will not be as it has been. When one has a desire to be kept down, it is like a fetter eating into the flesh, and by and by there is a festering sore. The burden of a great wrong will no more cling to thee."
               "In this case thou wilt go to the University?" asked the pastor.
               "There is now no obstacle in the way of study," answered Bertol.
            
            
               
               XXIII. Unexpected Intelligence.
               THUSNELDA, with Fritz and Madchen, returned to the cottage. Before the door a smart soldier was walking leisurely.
               "What brings thee into the mountains?" asked Thusnelda, as the man politely touched his cap.
               "Knowest thou not that war is upon us?" answered the lieutenant.
               "War! my husband fell in the war, and my son has served. Thou art beside thyself! At present there is no war."
               "Aye! aye!" returned the soldier. "Have we not been robbed by piecemeal, our borders encroached upon, our treasury exhausted, and our women and children beggared? Have we not borne it for years? And now the vile usurper, stung with rage at what he terms an insult, asks for more."
               "Let him have it at the end of our guns!" cried Fritz.
               "That is the true spirit of the mountains. And now rouse your neighbors. Our king knows how to honor those who are the quickest to reach the field," answered the soldier.
               "At once!" gasped Thusnelda.
               "The challenge is already taken up. Our chief is in the field," continued the lieutenant.
               "Madchen, my poor Madchen!" cried Fritz, as his wife staggered forward, and would have fallen, but for his strong arm. "What is it, child? Thy face is ghastly white, and thy limbs are trembling."
               "Thou wilt not pledge thyself, thou wilt not leave us, Fritz?"
               "Not if our king calls?"
               "What will become of us, Hans and me? And thy mother, Fritz. Say thou didst not mean it!"
               "It is my duty, Madchen, when the king calls."
               
               "Our life is in the mountains, Fritz. We have been happy. Hans is now a big boy and he is proud to follow his father, and he is of an age to be taught. And how am I to do this when my hands are full? And thy mother will be more for the babe than for Hans."
               Thusnelda had been in the cottage. She now came and stood by the side of Fritz.
               "It is not wise to talk of this matter. Bring Madchen in—let her rest on her bed for a time. Rumors do not always bring war, and if war, it may not be for years. I remember when a child it was so. Clouds may be black with wind, as well as rain."
               The voice was cheerful, although Thusnelda's face bore witness to the tears.
               Fritz laid Madchen on her bed, and then sat down beside her; the little woman in her twofold life was dearer to him every day. Hans was a big boy, and it would be as Madchen said. There was a spasmodic twinge of the close-shut lips; to tell the truth Fritz was beginning to question if it was right to leave Madchen, and, if it would not be better to remain for a time? If anything should happen he could never forgive himself, and something was liable to happen. Madchen had never been so weak and miserable before, and he had petted her. He was glad that he had now.
               With her hand clasped in his, the little woman fell asleep. Fritz had not noticed how thin and pale she had grown. She was always active, and said she was well, and he had taken it for granted. All the while she had suffered. He saw it now. Sitting there, Fritz promised himself that he would not leave Madchen until she was quite strong again.
               At night there were bonfires to call in the mountaineers, and a great many people collected before Fritz's house. The lieutenant was there, and Leutzen, and Wilhelm, and Ludwig. And there was a great deal of talking among the elder people, of wrongs that had accumulated, and encroachments that must be won back.
               "France has no business this side the Vosges," said one. "And for her treatment to the good queen, and the money extorted, we will have it all back."
               Thusnelda looked very grave. Her husband had fallen in battle, and Fritz had served, and there was to be war, and so many mother's sons.—Searching through the crowd she found Fritz, looking firm, and strong, and resolute. Down deep in his heart she knew his hate of France; while the love of country was strong within him. As she looks, Madchen finds her way to his side. Poor little Madchen! how white and thin she looks, as she stands there, looking first to her husband and then to Hans. Never has he seen so many people, and the fires are burning, and all are talking, and again all are laughing, and Hans is troubled, and putting up his hand he mutely asks his mother, what it all means?
               "It means that a great war is hanging over us, just for the pleasuring of the French king. And our good Kaiser calls upon everybody's father to fight."
               "Will my father fight?"
               "Ask him." And Hans pushes his way through the crowd. The crowd of women and men, most of them mothers and fathers, noticed him, and each of them gave a word to the boy.
               Very gravely Hans goes on. His father is talking with the lieutenant. Hans is not skilled in proprieties—he bursts out at once, and with the words the tears roll down his plump cheeks: "Art thou going to the war, father?"
               Quickly Fritz caught up the child, and smothered his face with kisses. "Father cannot say, Hans."
               Quite as much mystified as before, the child hastened back to where his mother was sitting weeping. Most of all that she is so weak and babyish, at a time when she ought to be brave and strong. If Fritz must go, tears will unnerve him. And throwing her arms around Hans, she hides her face, and tries to hush the weeping. All the time the child is patting the white cheeks, and murmuring, "Father cannot say."
               And if he cannot say, perhaps he is not to go, thought Madchen; and this helped her to look up.
               Pastor Nielander and the schoolmaster were the last to come up. Very grave, but still, gentle and calm, the pastor took each one by the hand. It was surprising to see how the medley of voices subsided. There were not many words spoken, but enough to know that necessity was upon them, and the honor of Germany must be kept free and untarnished.
               At the close, the lot was cast. Some to go, and others to remain. It was a terrible moment. The white line of women's faces, eager, expectant. Then bright with joy as the names were read, or with that desolate, patient endurance, so sad to see upon a woman's face.
               With suitable directions, the lieutenant gave to each a place. Fritz stood at the head of the line that was to go down to battle.
               The schoolmaster had said little, but the firm compression of his lips showed that his heart was deeply moved. Thusnelda stood near him, with her white, rigid face, and tearless less eyes. Once or twice she tried to speak, but the words died in her mouth. Madchen swooned away, and was carried into the cottage.
               An earnest conversation was going on between the master and the lieutenant. Turning his face to the people, the master said:
               "The king demands men. Fritz is on the list, true; but, if he finds a substitute, it will be the same. You all know how I have been treated by this family, and now I must be allowed to go down to battle in Fritz's place."
               "Himmels Ruh!" exclaimed Leutzen. "Just what we might have expected of thee, and, if thou art to go in Fritz's place, thou art to be our captain, as Fritz was to be."
               "Captain Bertol!" chimed in Wilhelm, and the cheers rung out merrily.
               "Captain Bertol Fairfax," answered the substitute, taking his place at the head of the line.
               The lieutenant added a few words, and the pastor led in a short prayer. Then the people dispersed, each to his own home.
            
            
               
               XXIV. The Substitute.
               THERE was small need of preparation. The hardy mountaineers had each served as a soldier. The tactics of war, so far as obedience and discipline, was known to them. Only Fairfax was untrained. To remedy this Fritz began a system of drill, and Thusnelda, who had learned much from her husband, was quick to prompt. She would have Fritz's substitute quite equal to Fritz himself. And to effect this she insisted upon dressing him in the very steeple hat and laced coat that Fritz used on military occasions.
               "There! there! just so!" said Thusnelda, stepping backward and forward. "That is just as Fritz looked when he came back from the review. Look, Madchen! Wouldst thou think, child, it was the master, looking for all the world so much like our own Fritz?"
               Madchen came running from her work, laughing and crying at the same time.
               "To think that it should change one so much; it is but the hat and the coat, and behold it is no more the master, but Fritz. Dress is not to be despised. It looks well on thee, Herr Captain. But, if, going to the war for Fritz, anything should happen to thee," and the little woman covered her face with her apron, and ran into the cottage to hide her tears.
               "That is good," said Thusnelda. "When it is a settled thing one should not weep and complain. The heart of a brave man is tender—it is easily stirred. If the master is to go to the war in the place of Fritz we must think of him in everything as our own. Let him see nothing but smiles, Madchen."
               Pastor Nielander was no less active, going from house to house, encouraging the men, tempering their zeal, and stimulating them to brave deeds, and noble, magnanimous action.
               
               "War to gratify personal ambition, or to minister to the pride of kings, is to be shunned. But war for the protection of a people is to be met bravely. Do your duty as men, and may God in his mercy protect each and all in the day of battle."
               Wilhelm was of the number to go, and Ginkel left her home and came down to live with Louise and the pastor.
               It had been Leutzen's intention to bring Caroline to his home. All the spring his mother and Gretchen had been preparing, and now his name was on the list of those to go—his place second only to Captain Fairfax.
               "It is not as it once was," said Thusnelda. "It will not be a war of years; but of weeks, perhaps days."
               "That is a right saying," answered Ludwig. "The men in the valley say our guns will mow them down as fast as they come on. They say our king is ready, and the old Von has been preparing for years."
               "That is good! It is not now as it was in the days of the old Napoleon. We were then poor, and they took advantage of us." And Wilhelm flamed up, and brandished his sword till Hans cried out with affright.
               "Dry thy tears, child. I did not mean to frighten thee," said Wilhelm, very gently. Then coming near, he caught up the child in his strong arms. "No, indeed, Wilhelm did not think to make thee weep. But canst thou say it, lad, and when thou sayest it thou must not weep nor whimper. It is a hateful word, and thou must stamp it under thy feet, so." And Wilhelm suited the action to the word, until the child put up his lips, as if to cry again.
               "There! there! now let us say it, child. 'Na-poleon.'"
               "Na-poleon," said the child, straightening himself, and throwing his head back proudly. "Na-poleon!"
               "That is good. Now cast it from thee, spit upon it, trample it under thy feet."
               "Not so, Wilhelm; hate is not the first lesson our Hans must learn. Teach him to love the right and to scorn the wrong. But private individuals and names are to be held sacred," said Thusnelda, coming from the cottage.
               "But when the word covers an entire people—Napoleon and France—France and Napoleon."
               "Nay, nay, Wilhelm; soldiers, German soldiers, are not to flame up so quickly. Whatever thou thinkest, think coolly; whatever thou doest, do rightly. In war, as in peace, God seest thee, and God will call thee to answer for thy deeds."
               "Thou art a wise woman—thou sayest rightly. And now, I promise thee, Thusnelda, that I will not whet my ire on the hateful name. As a soldier I will do my best, and whenever it is in my power to avoid bloodshed, or to lessen evil, that will I do."
               "We will each do it," said Leutzen, coming up in time to hear the last words. "There is an example to set, as well as action to sustain. At the best, war is a calamity to any people. Do not add to it by deeds of private hate and ferocity."
               The tread of gathering forces was heard in the valley. The mountaineers made haste to descend; blankets, and flasks, and powderhorns were brought from out-of-the-way places. A motley array, out of which the soldiers were to take the best.
               There was a far-away look in the young captain's eye, a serious gravity, that even Thusnelda had seldom seen. Following the direction of his gaze, she saw that Hans had filled a flask with water and was attempting to drink therefrom.
               "Dost thou fear the old habit?" was asked, tenderly.
               "I was thinking, if I should be strong enough to resist," answered Fairfax, raising his clear eyes and looking into Thusnelda's face.
               "Thou wilt not fear, but watch. If tempted with a glass, it will not harm thee, except thy hand open to receive it."
               "My hope is in His promise."
               "I knew it was—I was sure, and wherever thou goest thou wilt not forget this." Thusnelda nelda was weeping. "We shall ask for thee, Bertol, and thou wilt remember us."
               "Thou hast been a mother to me, Thusnelda. The memory of your goodness will never leave me."
               At length the order came; the line of march was taken up. Far along the cliffs the sound of fife and drum reverberated. There were tears, and smothered cries, and tender claspings. Captain Fairfax and Fritz stood apart from the main body. Fritz was speaking earnestly; his eyes glowed, and his whole bearing bespoke the enthusiasm of his spirit.
               "Depend upon it, if the war is prolonged, I shall be with thee."
               There was a tender embrace, and when Fritz turned away, the tears rolled over his bronzed face.
               "Thou wilt accept a mother's kiss, and Madchen is thy sister," said Thusnelda.
               A rosy blush mounted to Madchen's cheeks. She had never kissed any one but her husband. One look at Fritz, and she held up her dainty mouth.
               "It is not as though thou wast another one. Hans must kiss thee. And we will pray for thee, that thou wilt make as true a soldier as thou hast been a true friend and a worthy master," said Madchen.
               With their eyes the two women followed the long file of brave men going forth to battle. Strong, and firm, and true, how few of them would ever return! And of the few, which?—There was none to answer, neither could any tell who was to languish with sickness, and festering wounds, dying in hospitals and on the field; or otherwise alone and in prison.
               "God knows, and he will watch over them," stammered Thusnelda. Now, that the need was gone, the barriers of her grief were swept aside—she wept long and convulsively. Then folding her arms around Madchen and Hans, she kissed them tenderly.
               "It is not unwomanly to weep when brave men go forth to battle for their country, and if need be to die. Neither doth God reprove us. But afterwards he would have us equal to the day. Brave hearts on the field must be upheld by brave hearts at home. Every day and every hour our prayers must go up to God for them."
               With this, Thusnelda entered the cottage.
               Besides Fritz, there were few left but old men and young children. To oversee and plan would fall to him, while Thusnelda set about a system of visits that would keep her in communication with each family, and thus do away with much of the isolation and loneliness that would otherwise be felt. As far as possible the usual routine of work was to be kept up—the women to make cheese in the season, with the children to tend the herds. Then to spin and to weave and to make lace.
               "We shall not have time to be lonely," said Thusnelda, as the neighboring women gathered about to mourn and lament. "There are homes to keep, and children to train, and help to send forth. The post of duty is the one of honor, let it be a soldier on the field, or a housekeeper on the mountain."
            
            
               XXV. Joining the Troops.
               IN the hush of an August night, Captain Fairfax sat in the door of his tent. Around him was the strange quiet of a camp at rest. Here and there the flickering light of a spent fire shot upward; while on the ear came the measured beat of sentries on the watch. Overhead the stars were shining, the clear limpid light showing the outline of a deep valley stretching forward, bordered on one side by a steep and partly wooded height. Thus far there had been little but long marches, and the weary men slept, all unconscious that the hour was near for a contest that would leave thousands of them on the plain. Try as he would, the young soldier could not sleep; and thus seating himself, he searched the heavens till he found the star; while his thoughts wandered back to Pastor Nielander and Dirichlet. Did the child know, from his home in yon pure world, could he look down upon his friend, could he mark the contest? The silvery brightness climbing the almost perpendicular height led him to think of the mountain ranges and the bright pathway over which the child had gone. A sweet restful feeling crept over him. If it was not for the child to know, there was One by whom the sparrow's fall was not unnoticed. Once this Friend was one to whom he could not look; now he was the Beloved of his heart. For years he had endeavored to free himself from a baneful habit. This Friend had freed him with only the asking. Burdened with the memory of a heinous crime, this generous Friend had paid the ransom, and in the hour of danger this same Friend would be near to protect and defend him.
               With his eyes on the star, the soldier slept, and dreamed a sweet, refreshing dream that left him calm and untroubled.
               Another night the star looked down upon a battle-field strewed with corpses. The small village of Spieheren was crowded with the dead and the dying. Into an humble dwelling, deserted save by a deaf old woman and a young girl, a body of German soldiers are bringing the wounded. In their rough and blackened faces one can read the history of the day. And still they bear themselves gently. There are no preferences; they see only the writhing, anguished sufferers. A German and a Frenchman are lying side by side. Over them stoops a youthful soldier—tears are in his eyes, and his lips tremble. Is it possible that he can weep for an enemy? Surely the French are to be considered in that light. The deaf old woman approaches—she seems to know by intuition what is to be done, while Suzette brings water, and washes the poor pallid faces, sweeps back the hair, and opens the close coats. "Gott sei dank!" she murmurs, looking into the soldier's face. "He breathes, he may live."
               There is another. The soldier feels for his pulse; but it is not there—the broad shoulders are motionless, the heart will never beat again.
               Suzette and the deaf old woman are at work.
               Again and again the captain and his men clamber up the heights. "It was somewhere here. I saw him as we filed into the narrow path, and just as we gained the wood he fell."
               By the voice we know it is Wilhelm, and he is searching for Leutzen. Already Ludwig lies cold and stark in the cottage. Others have fallen, but the captain and Wilhelm feel that they cannot rest until Leutzen is found. Still, they do not waste time, neither do they turn a deaf ear to the piteous cries for help. Morning finds the small house full, and the men exhausted. Still they come, bearing on a litter a French officer, severely wounded.
               "We must try and make a place for him, Suzette." The eyes of the wounded man opened—a grateful look flashed up into the soldier's face.
               "How can we, Herr Captain? Every place is full!" exclaimed the young girl, a serious look creeping over the round face. "Ach! ach! I have it!" and opening a narrow door, she disclosed a small room filled with all the finery that a young girl loves. The bed was nice and soft, and the white covering was spotless.
               The deaf old woman shook her head.
               "It can't be helped," returned Suzette. "He is sorely wounded. Besides, what if it was Theodore?"
               Gently as they laid him on the bed, the sufferer swooned, and for a time they felt their care was useless.
               All night Suzette had watched her patients, and now she made a pot of broth, and another of coffee. Wiping the sweat from his brow, Captain Fairfax dips a crust in the broth, and drinks off a cup of the steaming coffee. He feels stronger. The surgeon has made his round. The French officer's life "depends upon skilful nursing," was gently said.
               "Ach! He has seen little service," mutters the old woman. "His hands are hardly larger than a child's."
               
               The sufferer moaned, and tried to turn.
               "Do you suffer? Can I relieve you in anything?" asked Captain Fairfax.
               "If you can lift me over," was said, faintly.
               Turning him in his bed, the captain motioned Suzette to offer him some broth. A spoonful sufficed him, and again the almost glazed eyes closed.
               "You had better sleep, or you will fail in the long march before us," Wilhelm said, as the captain and his men moved from the house.
               "I cannot sleep until I know how it is with Leutzen," was the response.
               Not until the evening was he found, and then there was nothing to do, but to hide his face away, and plant a cross to mark the spot where they left him. The day had been beautiful, so far as nature was concerned, and the stars looked down in splendor upon a work of agony and death, such as one could wish never to see again.
               With his eyes on the star, Captain Fairfax slept. When he awoke, Suzette stood by him. Her face was very pale, and the watching and anxiety had left visible marks on her young face. She was habited in the garb of an old woman, and so perfectly did her speech and manner correspond, that not until she had thrown aside her long black bonnet did the soldier recognize his visitor. A crumpled piece of paper was in her hand, and on it a line, hardly legible, from the French officer, asking that he be permitted to remain in the cottage, by simply giving his parole of honor not again to take up arms, provided he should recover. Signed, M. Parson, Lieut.-Colonel, Infantry.
               So long did Captain Fairfax permit his eyes to linger on the words, Suzette was obliged to remind him of the necessity for her to return. "What message shall I take?" was asked, naively.
               "Say to Colonel Parson that I will take his request to the commanding officer. In the mean time, give him this," drawing a card from his pocket, and writing hastily. "But stop!" continued the captain, as the young girl picked up her staff, and drew her long bonnet over her fair hair, "are you not afraid to return alone?"
               "There is little danger to an old woman like me," was answered, merrily.
               It was not late, and the stars were shining. With the crumpled paper in his hand, Captain Fairfax presented himself before Colonel Eidermann. It was, perhaps, the name, for from the first sight, the young captain felt drawn towards the man who, brave and strong, still had a heart as tender as a woman. Captain Eidermann of Hofnels had no brother, and his two sons were in America. Besides, they could not either of them be as old as the colonel. It mattered little, and still the young soldier could not deny that he was glad the name was the same. It served to bring up pleasant memories, and in the bivouac, or in the field, would link him to his commander.
               "M. Parson!" said Colonel Eidermann, as he read the line, and sat twirling it in his fingers. "That is the name of our old college friend. Do you suppose it is the same, Kranzenbach?"
               "It is possible," returned the adjutant. "Henri was not one to hide in a corner when his country had need of him. Besides, he was a firm believer in the Napoleonic dynasty. If he has taken up arms, he has done it conscientiously."
               "Fiddlesticks!" exclaimed Colonel Eidermann.
               Captain Fairfax looked into the face of the adjutant. With a smile, he advanced and offered his hand.
               "Your pardon—it is the M. Parson with whom we climbed the Grotenburg, not quite one year ago."
               "This explains it. I knew I had seen your face; but where, it was difficult to tell," returned the adjutant, grasping the outstretched hand. "Who at that time would have dreamed of meeting here?"
               "This is one of the keenest arrows," added Colonel Eidermann; "friend meeting friend, striving against each other for national honor."
               
               "I could take the blow easier than I could give it," rejoined the adjutant.
               "God grant that such a dilemma may not be ours. As soldiers we must not flinch; personal feeling of whatever kind is lost in public duty," answered Colonel Eidermann.
               "Is it your opinion, if M. Parson is left at the cottage, that he will be duly cared for?" asked the adjutant.
               "It is my opinion that he cannot by any possibility leave. Still, as it is his express wish to remain, I think there is no place where he would be more faithfully cared for," returned Captain Fairfax, as he turned from the tent.
               It was a strange sight to see the troops bivouacked on the battle-field. Every where men were busy, for many of the dead were not yet buried. Drawing his cap still lower over his face, the soldier sought his tent, exhausted. He could do nothing more—and with another look at the star, another thought of that world where strife, commotion, and war can never come, he slept.
            
            
               XXVI. Before the Battle.
               THE contest was now fairly begun. From the field of strife, the capital of both nations had received intelligence. In one, it was the news of "a great victory. God be praised for His mercy—our loss was heavy." The other, "We have suffered a check. Let us be firm under this reverse, and let us hasten to repair it." And thus the flame of war flashed high. Recruits were already filling up the ranks.
               The French boundary was crossed, battle after battle followed in quick succession. Still, the two who had left the mountains to join in the struggle stood side by side—Wilhelm and the young captain. The movement of great masses, which could only be carried on in a considerable breadth of country, had to be secured by special precautions. More than once had Captain Fairfax won commendation by the rapidity and precision with which he had conveyed messages along the lines. There was delay and skirmishing, but no decisive engagement. The grand movement of the French was to keep open communication with Paris. On the other hand, the object was to cut it off.
               It was the sunset of a glorious day. The woods of Bonny were pierced with lances of golden light. The sky was one great opal. Soldiers were everywhere lounging, reading, dreaming, with a few drinking, swearing, and card-playing. A little apart, where the grass was the freshest, a boy was playing a violin, while a girl smaller and fairer was dancing. There was beauty in the child's face, and her movements were graceful. As the boy played, her whole being seemed to thrill with the music. Faster and faster her small bare feet flashed in and out of the sunshine. With her head bent forward, her light figure swaying here and there, she looked the very poetry of motion. When the music ceased, she stopped quickly, cast a hasty glance at the boy's face, and burst into tears.
               "Why do you weep?" asked a soldier.
               "Because I cannot always dance," said the child.
               "You would soon get tired of it, if you had nothing else to do!" was the answer.
               "It is better than picking up sticks in the woods of Bonny."
               "Is this all you have to do?"
               "Since the war there is nothing else. They have eaten up our cow, and the pretty paling is gone, and sometimes we are so much afraid."
               "Thus far you have had no cause to be afraid. But now"—and the soldier hesitated.
               "If Monsieur Captain will tell me what new we have to fear?" asked the child, drawing very near the young man.
               "It is probable that there will be hard fighting soon, and in the terrible struggle it is possible that your cottage will be overrun with soldiers."
               "But you will take care of us. Monsieur has told me so several times. He cannot deceive me."
               "No, Lucile, I will not deceive you; but I am a soldier—in the hour of battle I shall not be here. Let your strait be what it may, you cannot find me, and if you could, I could not help you."
               Tears sprang into the black eyes. "You have been good to Edmond and me. When I hear the cannons roar I shall drop on my knees and pray for you, so will Edmond, and so will my bonne."
               "I shall remember that, Lucile, and it will strengthen me."
               "Monsieur himself prays?" and the earnest eyes grew misty.
               "Every hour during the day Monsieur prays for himself, for these soldiers, and for thee, child."
               "I knew he did, and I told my bonne so. She scolded us when we first came, but when I told her Monsieur was very good, she did not chide us."
               "Look! Lucille. I have so much," said Edmond, holding up his cup filled with pennies and small change.
               "Here is a gold piece. It is possible that you cannot come again," said Captain Fairfax, putting his hand in his pocket and drawing forth several pieces of bright coin.
               "Is it possible you are to give us that! I could dance for you all night, I am so glad," exclaimed the child.
               "I am to give each of you a piece exactly alike, and you are to keep it until you are in very great need. Then you must spend it," was said gravely.
               "We will keep it—we wont ever spend it, will we, Edmond? And every time we look at it we will think of Monsieur. But is it so—are you giving us this because we are never to come here again? Because, if you are, I would rather you would keep it, and let us come as we have been doing."
               "No, Lucile, I dare not say that you may come again, for I may not be here to-morrow night. And if I am not, and if Wilhelm is not here, you might not like to stay."
               
               "No, indeed, I should not;" and the black eyes filled with tears.
               "Come, Lucile, we must say good-by to Monsieur. The stars are coming out, and our bonne will be afraid," said Edmond, caressingly.
               "I do not like to say good-by," said the child. "If Monsieur will permit, I will embrace him."
               "Now it is for me. And Monsieur must remember that we thank him for his kindness, and when this wicked war is over we shall hope to see him again," said Edmond, throwing his arms around Captain Fairfax's neck, and kissing him repeatedly.
               "As it is the last night, I cannot suffer you to go alone. Besides, it may be needful for you to leave the cottage and go into the next village. It may be well for me to see your mother."
               "We have no mother—we live with our bonne. She is good to us," remarked Lucile.
               "Very good, but she will not like to go into the village. She loves her cottage," added Edmond.
               "It may be only for a day or two. But we will see," was the answer.
               A strange place to think of Lura, and still, as Captain Fairfax returned, he could think of little else. So long ago; it seemed so many experiences had crowded into his life. And, still, there was drinking and playing, and a child's voice. Then he dreamed of Dirichlet, and looking up he saw the star.
               There was a movement at the door of his tent, and an orderly entered and presented a neatly folded paper. It was an invitation, not a command, from Colonel Eidermann. An unusual occurrence, but it did not startle Captain Fairfax. He arose instantly, and took the dispatch.
               Colonel Eidermann was sitting at a table covered with maps and charts; with packages, papers and sealed letters, that he had just written. His military coat was thrown aside, and an ample cloak of soft flowing cloth enveloped him. He looked up with a pleasant smile, as Captain Fairfax entered, stretched forth his hand, and drew him to a seat.
               "I see that you have not been asleep."
               "True. I supped with memory, and the siren would not let me go."
               "You are fortunate, if memory, brings you no unrest;" and a sad smile touched the colonel's lips.
               With his uniform thrown aside, he did not look as old, and there was a careworn expression on the face, as though he had known personal sorrow.
               Colonel Eidermann evidently had something to say. He looked up with a rapid movement; then drew his chair still nearer Captain Fairfax.
               "You are doubtless aware that we are on the eve of a great battle. If everything is carried out according to the plan of General Von Moltke, it will be decisive. To speed the endeavor, a trusty messenger arrived but an hour since from headquarters. Redford is one to dare and to do; but he is thoroughly exhausted, and the intelligence he bears must be carried back immediately. He cannot do it, and I have sent for you."
               With strange power Captain Fairfax sat unmoved. Had he heard aright? A messenger from headquarters, and too much exhausted to return! Would he go? Of course he would go.
               "I see your answer in your eyes," said Colonel Eidermann, with a bright smile. "A soldier does not wantonly court danger; in the mean time he does not shrink to meet it." Balancing an empty envelope on his fingers, he continued: "We have little time—you can go at once?"
               "This instant, Colonel Eidermann."
               Unrolling a map and spreading it before him, the plan of the battle was traced carefully. Then the few rapid orders that had come to him were repeated by the colonel, likewise the brief intelligence he had to give.
               "This is all," said Colonel Eidermann, pushing the map aside. "You will take one of my horses, as you have to run the gauntlet—the 'Czar,' perhaps."
               
               Tapping on the table, the orderly once more made his appearance.
               "All ready?" asked the colonel.
               "All ready," was echoed. At the same time there was a short, quick neigh, announcing the fiery impatience of "Czar." He was a powerfully made horse; the proud curve of his neck, flashing eyes, and delicate nostrils, denoted spirit; while the clean feet, slim fore-leg and full breast were favorable for speed and prolonged action. With a word of familiar greeting, Captain Fairfax passed his fingers through the silken mane, and with a light spring was in the saddle.
               "You have no order with regard to route. The enemy are awake. If you fall, my brave fellow, our foes will be none the wiser, while we shall mourn not alone a soldier, but a valued friend."
               With a quick clasp of hands, a dewy expression of the eyes, the horse and his rider leaped forth into the night. The moon, so bright only an hour before, had gone behind a long, dark bank of cloud, as if unwilling to look upon a path so full of peril as that the soldier was entering.
               As they left the camp and wound through the woody slopes, the bank of cloud broke up into squares and circles, with ravelled edges, through which the moon sent down lines of light. The small villages were asleep, with here and there a light that told of watch and anxiety. Patting "Czar" on the neck, Fairfax struck into an easy trot; his thoughts following out on the name of the messenger. True, Pastor Nielander had told him that Redford was in Germany. But this did not make it certain—doubtless there were many of the name—but memory was stirred and would not be pacified.
               Once or twice the white shelter tents of the French were discernible among the dark fruit trees. Eluding these, and favored by the irregular light of the moon, "Czar" quickened his pace, striking into the valley and then up another acclivity, from the ridge of which there was a good view of the Moselle. "Czar" did not stop, neither did his rider afford more than a hasty glance; danger lurked on every hand, and a stray bullet might easily find its mark.
               When within a league of the line beyond which he would be comparatively safe, a sharp "Halt!" rang out through the clear air. Unknowing how many he might have to contend with, Captain Fairfax drew up and looked around. It appeared to be only a sentry, expecting the pass-word, nothing more. There was but one alternative. With an easy confidence that served to disarm the sentinel, the captain drew his pistol and fired. Without a groan the sentry dropped. Czar leaped forward with the instinct of one that knew that the report would bring a dozen to the rescue. A moment later, a band of horsemen were pursuing the fugitive. It was a royal race. Czar in front, his eyes dilated, and his nostrils extended to their utmost. The foremost of the riders was well mounted—his horse was fresh, he was gaining upon Czar. A quick thought flashed through Fairfax's brain. Rising in his stirrups, he turned deliberately liberately, and fired. A groan of mortal agony, and the riderless horse galloped away in a contrary direction.
               Flying for life, Czar bent himself to the ground. The pursuers were not daunted. Fairfax leaned forward, he patted the steaming neck, he spoke words of encouragement. Czar pricked up his ears—he had almost reached the boundary. There was a report, and a stinging sensation in the right arm. Fairfax grasped his pistol, and fired blindly. Czar reeled, the hot breath came hotter. A moment longer, and the danger is passed. Czar straightens himself, his eyes are not as fiery, his breathing is more regular. "Only a flesh wound," comes through the white lips, and Fairfax binds his handkerchief around the bleeding arm.
               His majesty King William is already dressed. A carriage and four horses are in waiting. There seems to be a consultation. Czar is already there, and hurried words are said, and thanks returned. They know the peril, and the exhausted condition of Czar and the white handkerchief around the arm tells the story.
            
            
               XXVII. The Pass of St. Hubert.
               WILHELM was now Captain Hefty, and Fairfax received the title of major. Likewise the iron cross, in commemoration of his midnight ride.
               "It sounds well," said Wilhelm, "and I would like Ginkel to know. But if I had my own way, I would rather it remained as it was. There were two of us then, and if danger threatened thee, I could strike a blow. I promised Thusnelda, and now"—
               "So thou dost not care to be called Captain Hefty?" said the major, laughing. "And as for the major, that is just a trifle, the least of all field officers."
               "But thou hast made the first step, and now thou wilt be going up all the time."
               "Thou hast also made the first step."
               
               "Thou knowest I am not quick like thee, and now thou wilt be more with thy superiors, and I shall hardly see thee."
               "We have all taken steps, Wilhelm. Colonel Eidermann is now a general. But we still belong to his division. We shall see him just as we did before."
               "But I promised Thusnelda, and how can I answer if any harm comes to thee?"
               Wilhelm was in one of his despondent moods. Ludwig and Leutzen had fallen. He knew how they would be mourned, and his heart was filled with fear, lest a blow should be given when he was not by to ward it off.
               "Thusnelda said another thing," said the major, seeing that Wilhelm was not disposed to come out of his despondency.
               "What was that?" was quickly asked.
               "She said, an example was to be set. A soldier is not alone to be brave; he is to be cheerful, light-hearted, and happy."
               "So he is. I see that I have been wrong. I am no longer sorry that I am Captain—that means a leader—and I am to set an example, and I shall do it. I shall not alone lead the men on the battle-field, but I shall give them to see how cheerful and bright I can be, let things go as they will."
               "Now you are a worthy captain; now I shall not fear that the men will become moody and unsatisfied. You will set them an example, and Thusnelda will be satisfied," was the answer.
               Major Fairfax had done his best to dispel the gloom in Wilhelm's heart. And still, as he looked back on that terrible week, he could not deny the heaviness in his own. In spite of the flesh wound in his arm, he had been in every engagement, and still the carnival of death went on. Thousands of men had fallen on both sides—thousands more were made prisoners. So far he was spared. And again thoughts of the old life crept over him. Weary and exhausted, and no less overcome at sight of suffering that he could not assuage, he had for the first time been tempted to drink. The inclination was strong—he had almost yielded. Leaning his head on his hands, he tried to shut out the terrible scene around him—the fierce contest for life through which he had just passed. Many of the dead were buried, and still the ground was strewed with corpses—a time when a brave man should bring all the powers of mind and body into action. What but cowardice could lead him to deaden sensibility, to stupefy the better feelings of his heart? For a moment shame and confusion overpowered him. Then lifting his eyes to the Friend in whom he trusted, the burden in his heart was laid before Him, and with stronger purpose, and more abiding trust, he was again the soldier, calm, courageous, unwavering.
               On every side men were coming from the field, some with the weary, anguished look that saddens more than any form of speech can do; others noisy from excitement, and still others longing only for the respite of an hour, to still the tumult of heart and brain.
               Major Fairfax flung himself into a camp-chair, and shut his eyes. Such of the wounded as could be moved had been sent to the hospitals. Prisoners had been disposed of. In the mean time there were no indications of peace. "To Paris!" was the cry, and before they reached it many a battle must be fought, many a brave heart grow cold and still, many a gaping wound, and disfigured, gory face. It was not a pleasant picture; and rousing himself, he listened to the hum of voices, making merry over their evening meal. Turning his head, so as the better to distinguish the notes of a violin, he saw a woman approach—old, decrepid, and coarsely clad. She had a staff in her hand, and her head was covered with a close-drawn black bonnet. Halting a moment, she seemed to be deciding where to go, and then suddenly advanced with more alacrity than her first appearance would seem to warrant. Approaching the soldier in the camp-chair, she opened her bonnet, and disclosed to his wondering gaze the face of Suzette.
               "Is it possible! And what news do you bring?" asked Major Fairfax, springing from his chair. "Is M. Parson worse? Is he"—
               
               "Not dead," said Suzette, supplying the word; "neither did I come on his account;" and choking down the sobs, the poor girl sat white and still, but unable to articulate another word.
               Not far off, a dozen soldiers were drinking coffee, and eating dry bread. Major Fairfax took a tin cup, and going over to the group, begged them to fill it.
               "You gave me a cup of coffee in my need, permit me to return the same;" and he handed the tin cup to Suzette.
               With this she grew stronger, telling her story in snatches, and still not so brokenly, but it could be easily understood. Theodore was with the cavalry under General Steinmetz. Each day, during the week, she had heard from him. Not a wound had he received, although two horses had been killed under him. Since the battle of Gravelotte, she had heard nothing, save that Steinmetz made a vigorous charge through a deep and difficult pass, leaving half of his regiment behind him. Yesterday she and Ambrose had watched for the wounded. But she had not seen Theodore—had not heard from him. Could Major Fairfax help her?
               It was a sad sight, and touched the heart of the soldier. Whoever Theodore was, he was dear to the heart of this young girl; and that he was brave, was evident. Of this cavalry charge he already knew. But who had fallen, or who lay wounded and dying, it was difficult to tell. A moment he was in suspense; while the eyes of the young girl were bent sorrowfully upon his face.
               "Did you come alone? Were you directed to any one?" asked Major Fairfax.
               "Ambrose came with me. He said the Sanitary Commission would be likely to know. But I remembered your name," she added, with a modest droop of the long eyelashes; "and I would come, although Ambrose said, it was not the thing to do."
               "And because you have come, I will try to help you; but be not too sanguine, it is barely possible."
               "I so much fear that he is wounded and suffering," and again Suzette broke down.
               It required some little time to make the necessary investigation, and then Major Fairfax Suzette and Ambrose set forth to search the field. Especially that pass leading from Gravelotte to St. Hubert. The road here is cut through the hill, and on each side of it rise cliffs from forty to sixty feet high. As the small party went on, they were joined by half a dozen volunteers, each interested to find, if possible, any intelligence of men who had braved this pass. As they reached the narrow gateway, Suzette burst into tears.
               "How was it possible for the half to escape!" she exclaimed. "If I could but know that Theodore died at once. How terrible it must have been—only think of horses and men piled one above the other!"
               And covering her eyes, Suzette leaned heavily against Ambrose, and endeavored to regain her composure.
               Major Fairfax waited until the poor girl had time to overcome her emotion. He then said:
               "You must think of the possibilities, if you would find him, and if you do not, it is pretty sure that he was buried with the others."
               Suzette was standing erect. Her black bonnet pushed back, and her white rigid face ghastly in the moonlight.
               Over the hill came a small body of soldiers, followed by women and children going into the village.
               As they passed, one of the women touched Suzette's arm. "Did you lose any one here?"
               The look and the word was more than the girl could bear. She bowed her face to the woman's shoulder, and sobbed heavily.
               "I saw it all," said the woman, turning to Major Fairfax. "It was terrible to see them ride right into the jaws of death. The last have just been buried;" and she pointed to the soldiers going before.
               "Were there any taken prisoners? Any wounded too sorely to be removed?" was asked.
               "Mon Dieu! the village is full of them; and some from this very spot," returned the woman.
               "Will you show us the way?" asked Major Fairfax.
               "You have but to follow. I will take you there at once;" and the woman strode away, making it hard work for the others to keep pace with her.
               Everywhere there was evidence of the late struggle. Everywhere the ground was ploughed up; while shells, cartridge-holders and broken guns were heaped in confusion.
               "They are in all the houses," said the woman, looking behind her. "But it is only here, I think, we shall find them that rode the horses. They were dressed different." Saying this, she strode on, and through an avenue thinly lined with poplars. The house she indicated was one of the best in the village, with gables and deep low windows that in time of peace must have had a pleasant outlook.
               Mounting the wooden steps, Major Fairfax asked of the wounded soldiers, and if they knew the names of those quartered there.
               In reply several names were given, but none that struck Suzette as being familiar.
               "I have mentioned the names of all that we have," said the honest-faced woman who opened the door. "But stop, there is a house across the garden. I will show you the way," and closing the door behind her, she tripped down the steps and over a garden plot, showing marks of the late terrific struggle. Coming to a neat building, almost hidden by neglected shrubbery, the woman opened a door and entered. Before she asked the question, Suzette caught sight of a face that sent her bounding over the threshold.
               "Herz liebchen, I have thee!" and her arms were around the neck of the wounded man, her face buried in his pillow.
               The woman slid away to the house she had just left.
               As there was but one room, Major Fairfax did not think it wise to enter. Suzette had found her brother, and anything farther would depend upon the condition of the invalid, and the nature of the wound.
               "I have to thank thee," said Suzette, turning with eager, joyful face; but with the tears still running down her cheeks. "Without thee, I should not have found him. And now it is, as M. Parson said, the kindness we gave to him, has been returned. Theodore has been cared for, one can see it. And now I feel that I can live."
               "We shall be on the move with the first glimpse of day. Bear back our kindest wishes to M. Parson, and God grant to Theodore a speedy recovery," answered Major Fairfax.
               As the returning party reached the camp, Wilhelm met Major Fairfax—his face radiant with joy and his whole manner like one who had pleasing intelligence.
               "Wouldst thou think it! With the recruits comes Fritz. He is looking so well, and he desires to see thee."
               "I must first go to General Eidermann, and then bring Fritz," answered Major Fairfax.
            
            
               XXVIII. In the Hospital.
               IT was November; the chill atmosphere without, was tempered by cheerful heat within the different wards of the hospital. It was mid-day, and the men were washed and combed, and their linen was fresh and white. Nurses and surgeons walked softly between the cots, and sweet-faced women assorted flowers and brought vases, filling and placing them where the eye could readily take in their beauty, and where the gentle breeze would waft their perfume into wan, sickly faces.
               It was the first day that Major Fairfax was able to be pillowed up in his bed. He was still very weak, and his right arm, although saved, was bandaged. The fever of his wound had unsettled his brain; for weeks he was considered hopeless. But the cool crisp days have brought a change, and skilful surgery and the most careful nursing have won back a life.
               "How long have I been here?" asked the sick man, as the nurse brought a bunch of flowers and gave them into the feeble hand.
               "Let me see. You came here the very day Sedan was carried."
               "Yes, I remember. I thought we had it, and"—and there was a sad, dreary look on the pale face.
               "There's where you got your wound," continued the nurse. "The terms of capitulation were dated September second."
               "Terms of capitulation! Tell me, is there no longer war?" was said with as much force as the invalid could master.
               "The battle of Sedan was the decisive stroke. Napoleon is a prisoner at Wilhelmshöhe. But you must be calm, or I must not talk any more."
               Two months since, and all this time he had been in the hospital. He would have asked more, but his lips trembled, and his eyes were full of tears. Looking up, the nurse was gone. A moment and she was beside him with a bowl of broth and a chicken's wing.
               "You will take this; then you will sleep, and after that we will talk."
               There was more of command than entreaty in the woman's voice. The sick man drank off the broth. He had not eaten anything before unless it was pressed upon him. He ate the chicken with an appetite.
               "I will ask Lettchen to sing for thee," said the nurse. "It is her life to sing, and her voice is very sweet."
               "Lettchen!" and there was a questioning look.
               "You must shut your eyes. You must sleep," said the nurse, playfully.
               The sick man shut his eyes. The broth made him drowsy. While he slept an angel floated into the room; the atmosphere was full of melody. On the wings of song he was borne into a region pure and bright; flowers were sweetly blooming; with clear running streams, and fountains sparkling in the sunlight light. Birds warbled in every thicket, and remembered forms and faces looked smilingly upon him.
               It was not sadness, and still the tears came. At length the music ceased, the chain of thought was broken.
               "You do not like my singing, you weep," said a sweet voice. At the same time a tender hand wiped away the silent tears.
               The invalid opened his eyes. A small, graceful girl, half-child, half-woman, sat beside the bed. Her blue violet eyes were full of a tender pity. The rounded outline of her cheek was touched with rose. As the sick man opened his eyes the color deepened, and the expression on the face of each was one of surprise.
               "Shall I sing German or English songs?" asked the young girl.
               "Which do you like best?" was asked in return.
               "What will you say, if I answer, that I love both so well, I cannot choose which I love best."
               "I will say that you are a German, but you have been in America."
               "Which is quite true. And as you know so much of me, may I ask, are you not from America?"
               "I was from America—but so long ago."
               The voice was feeble. Once more the eyes closed, and once more the rippling gush of melody floated through the room. Then silence crept over them. A questioning spirit was at work in each heart. When and where, and under what circumstances had they before met?
               Days passed. The invalid watched for Lettchen's visit; her singing revived him. Bringing her book, she read to him. It chanced one day that the hero's name was Paul. The sick man was sitting up; he had walked across the room that morning for the first time. He was weary, and he leaned against the pillows and looked at the young face, as if he looked upon it for the first time in years. Suddenly he sprang forward and clasped his hands. "I have it!"
               
               The young girl closed her book, and gazed into the thin, pale face.
               "You had a father in America, and his name was Paul."
               "Quite true," answered Lettchen.
               "And you are not Lettchen—you are Lura!"
               "Tell me," cried Lettchen, while a low, passionate sob escaped her, "how came you to know this?"
               "It was some time before the invalid could go on, and several days elapsed before he could speak of their meeting. And then he had no need for Lura to tell him that her parents were no longer living.
               "Uncle Karl found us after mother died. And had father lived, he would have been a reformed man."
               "Is Uncle Karl a soldier?"
               "Uncle Karl is general in the army. I am looking for a visit from him, every day."
               "Is he coming to take you home?" asked the invalid, turning his face to the wall.
               "I have no home, but with Uncle Karl."
               "And he lives?"
               "At Hofnels."
               A groan escaped the sufferer.
               "Do not be troubled. Uncle Karl will not take me so long as I can be of use in the hospital."
               "It takes me so long to get well. And still, I ought not to complain. So many poor fellows have lost their arms, and but few have been as well cared for."
               Days passed. Major Fairfax had so far improved as to talk of the time when he could safely leave the hospital. With the assistance of the nurse he spent a few hours of the day with other of the soldiers; some of them weaker than he was, and all of them wanting an arm or a leg. Sitting around the fire the men opened their pocket-books, in which they made notes during the campaign. As they read, tears rolled over their pallid faces.
               "How many will be missing at Christmas!" said one, leaning back in his chair, and covering his face with his hands.
               "But we gained the victory. We are now a united people," said another.
               
               "And our good Queen Louise is avenged," cried a third.
               As the day wore away, the men went back to their cots. Major Fairfax looked after them; some on crutches, and others leaning on the arms of an attendant. Tears of gratitude rolled down his cheeks. "So much better than I deserve," he murmured, halfaloud. "And now, that I can walk, I must find how it fares with our brave men."
               A light step crossed the floor, and a gentle hand touched his arm.
               "Uncle Karl has come, and I have brought him to see you, Major Fairfax."
               "General Eidermann! Is it possible!" exclaimed Major Fairfax, and the next instant he would have fallen, but for the general's arm.
               "Lura is accountable for this little ruse, she should have told you."
               "I should have more command over myself," returned the fainting man.
               "As you have not, I shall be compelled to remove you to Hofnels, there to remain till you can march without reeling. What say you to that, Lura?"
               "That you are the dearest, best uncle in the world!" returned the laughing girl.
               "And the bravest soldier," added Major Fairfax.
            
            
               
               XXIX. Conclusion.
               HOFNELS was the same that it had been. But Frau Hatzfeld was the only one to receive them.
               "The war has made a sad drain upon us," said the good woman to Major Fairfax. "With few exceptions every one whom you met on your first visit here is in the hospital."
               "Would to God, that the French could be satisfied without pushing us farther!" exclaimed General Eidermann. "As men they have fought bravely. If there has been any fault, it has been in leadership. To allow our army to push on to Paris will only expose the blind stupidity of those who hold the interests of the people in their hands."
               "And yet, you know they will," said Frau Hatzfeld.
               "It looks like it. Indeed we are almost there. It is only a question of time," returned the general.
               "A false honor that can only be satisfied by the loss of thousands of her subjects. And still, one cannot see how far they may go," added Frau Hatzfeld.
               "It is not possible for King William to forget the cruel arrogance with which the first Napoleon, after the battle of Jena, dictated terms to the Prussian King at Tilsit. Still, I cannot think that he would take undue advantage of a people's necessity. As he hopes for mercy himself, he would grant it," said Major Fairfax.
               "King William can well afford to be magnanimous. Besides, clemency to an humbled enemy is a crowning virtue. Let them lay down their arms, and as a people they may be sure of his integrity," remarked the general.
               Frau Hatzfeld had spent a few weeks in Berlin, and she had much to say of the devotion of the royal ladies to the wounded. Even Gebhard and Nannette had gone. "I can play for them," said the young musician, "and Nannette makes good soup."
               "With so much to do, it is impossible for me to be idle longer," said Major Fairfax. "If not on the field, I can do something for the sick and suffering."
               "You can first win back a little of the old strength," answered the general, with a playful smile; "and lest you feel inclined to follow the dictates of your own desire in this matter, it may be best to put you under arrest. A prisoner, subject to the closest scrutiny on the part of Frau Hatzfeld and Lura."
               "What is that, Uncle Karl? Anything about coming home at Christmas?" asked Lura, coming in from the terrace.
               "I can now only think of leaving, child; when I return will depend upon the will of God."
               "It does seem that I must go with you;" and Lura pressed her cheek to the general's bronzed face.
               "No, child, you have a sick soldier to care for. When he is strong, if the war is not over, we shall expect him at his post. Until that time your duty is plainly here."
               General Eidermann had gone, and life at Hofnels passed quietly. Every day Major Fairfax grew stronger; sitting with Frau Hatzfeld on the terrace, joining Lura in her walks, and studies; or talking in low, hushed voices of the old life, the first meeting in the saloon and the walk home. Looking upon the glowing face, the major sees another—it is the little girl standing on the rickety stairs—the child-face, pure and bright; but so unspeakably sad. Hedged about with the ruin drink had wrought, she looked down upon him like an angel of mercy—she reached forth to him her hand—she kissed him with her pure lips, and the memory of that kiss had many times kept him from drink.
               At Christmas, Father Auberthal came from the army, with the red cross hanging to his girdle. Eudora and Ulrica also joined them, and Doctor Kaufmann and Frau Stephanie had come home to remain.
               The greeting was very warm and tender, and Major Fairfax learned much from Father Auberthal of his former comrades. Adjutant Redford received a severe wound from the bursting of a shell at the battle of Orleans, and Pastor Nielander had come down to nurse him. In their youth the pastor and Father Auberthal had been students together, and Major Fairfax was not a little pleased to see that the Father recognized the sterling virtue and childlike piety of his friend.
               "It is possible that he may visit Hofnels with his sister," was the Father's concluding remark.
               March came. The conditions of peace were ratified. The king returned to Berlin, and the troops, with the exception of the army of occupation, were coming home. Hofnels was alive with expectation. General Eidermann was coming, and with him several friends, to whom he had written.
               Lura's face was full of hope and sweet expectancy pectancy. Major Fairfax was longing for action, but he could not leave until General Eidermann arrived. All through the winter there had been a growing desire to return home—the beseeching face of his mother was before him—the gentle words of Sibil mingled in his dreams. But Redford was in Germany; rather he was with the German army, and to leave Hofnels might be the surest way to avoid him.
               Watching the sunset from the terrace, Major Fairfax walked up and down in the enjoyment of his own thoughts. In less than a week the visitor would be there, and then—
               There was a quick springing step on the gravelled walk, and Lura's voice, tremulous with joy. "Uncle Karl has come! He is anxious to see you!" stammered the child.
               "In a moment, Lura;" and the major endeavored to control himself.
               Lura had not time to say more, when steps were heard. It was General Eidermann, and with him another, not less tall, and distinguished.
               
               "Pardon, major, if I come to you, instead of waiting for you to come to me. But never since a boy in short breeches and laced jacket have I returned to Hofnels, and been able to sit down before I had explored every nook and corner, and shaken hands with everybody on the place. Besides, I desire to introduce you to one of my American friends, Adjutant Redford."
               It was over—the two who had parted in strife and apparent death, stood face to face.
               "We were both to blame," said Redford, as he held Fairfax in a close embrace. "I should have known your mood."
               "And I—But you forgive me!" was all that Fairfax could say.
               "From this moment, let us forget all but our boyhood's love. Let us henceforth be to each other all that we were in the old college days," returned Redford.
               Lura and Uncle Karl had slipped away, arm-in-arm. The two young men walked along the terrace. Before they reached the house they were met by Pastor Nielander.
               "God bless you, my boys!" said the white-haired man, as he grasped a hand of each. "God establish the covenant between you this day, and grant you peace."
               Mrs. Redford could not speak from emotion.
               "You will not refuse your blessing upon the renewal of our friendship, dear mother?"
               "No, Terence! A mother's blessing rest upon the head of each!" Saying which she gave them a warm embrace.
               Life is notched with way-marks; bright spots, on which the traveller can cast his eyes, when, weary of the way he halts and looks behind him. Standing on higher ground, beauty is reflected downward; he sees the path, the trees, the flowers, the dimpled spring by the wayside but distance covers the thorns that tore his flesh, the sharp rocks that pierced his feet in passing. In the future, this evening at Hofnels will bring pleasant memories—the past and the present meeting, with God's love and forgiveness resting over all.
               
               Before they separated, Pastor Nielander said to Major Fairfax:
               "You have decided what to do. The old plan is to be carried out?"
               "With this difference, I was to study for my own improvement. Now, I am to study in order to render myself useful to my fellowmen."
               "And to do this?" questioned the pastor.
               "I must go back and take up the old life where I laid it down," was the answer.
            
         
      
      
         
            ROBERT CARTER & BROTHERS' NEW BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG.
            
               530 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, April, 1872.
            
            
               
                  Little Sunbeams. By Joanna H. Mathews, author of the "Bessie Books." 6 vols. In a box. $6.00. 
                     Containing:
                     BELLE POWERS' LOCKET.
                     DORA'S MOTTO.
                     LILY NORRIS' ENEMY.
                     JESSIE'S PARROT.
                     MAMIE'S WATCHWORD.
                     NELLIE'S HOUSEKEEPING.
                  
               
               
                  The Bessie Books. By Joanna H. Mathews. 6 vols. In a box. $7.50
               
                  The Flowerets. A series of Stories on the Commandments. By Joanna H. Mathews, author of the "Bessie Books." 6 vols. In a box. $3.60.
               
                  Grandfather's Faith. Being the first of the "Dare to Do Right" series. By Julia A. Mathews. $1.10.
               
                  Our Four Boys. The second of the "Dare to Do Right" series. By Julia A. Mathews. $1.10.
               
                  Drayton Hall Series. Stories on the Beatitudes. By Julia A. Mathews. 6 vol. In a box. $4.50.
               
                  Stories of Vinegar Hill. By Anna Warner. 6 vols. In a box. $3 00.
               
               
                  What She Could. A tale by the author of the "Wide Wide World." $1.25.
               
                  Opportunities. A continuation of "What She Could." $1.25.
               
                  The House in Town. A continuation of "Opportunities." $1.25.
               
                  Trading. A sequel to "House in Town," and a conclusion to the whole series. $1.25. The above, 4 vols., in a box, $5.00.
               
                  Nature's Wonders. By the Rev. Dr. Newton. Uniform with "Bible Wonders." $1.25.
               
                  The Lady of Provence. By A. L. O. E. $0.75.
               
                  The Children's Tabernacle. By A. L. O. E. $0.75.
               
                  Guy Dalesford. By A. L. O. E. $0.75.
               
                  Mat and Sofie. A Child's Book. $0.35.
               
                  We Got Agate of Singing. $0.35.
               
               
                  The Happy Land. By the author of "Lonely Lily." $0.35.
               
                  Lionel St. Clair. By L. A. Moncrief. $0.75.
               
                  Isoult Barry of Wynscote. A Tale of Tudor Times. By Emily Sarah Holt. $1.50
               
                  Ashcliffe Hall. A Tale of the Last Century. By Emily Sarah Holt. $1.25
            
         
      
   
