
    ----CITATION----
        Lady.. Alice Granger .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5575 wright2-0055
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               ALICE GRANGER,
               A Tale of the West:
            
            BY A LADY.
            
               
                  
                     
                        Ours was the glance none saw beside,
                        The smile none else might understand;
                        The whisper'd thoughts of hearts allied,
                        The pressure of the thrilling hand;
                        The kiss, so gentle and refined,
                        That love each warmer wish forbore;
                        Those eyes proclaim'd so pure a mind,
                        Even passion blush'd to plead for more.
                     
                  
                  BYRON.
               
            
            
               CINCINNATI:
               PUBLISHED BY I HART & CO., SECOND STREET.
            
            1852.
         
         
            
            DEDICATION.
            This little book, is respectfully dedicated to those whose love of the intellectual and spiritual, lead them to select the few pearls they may chance to find, and to set them in their own crown of wisdom.
            
               THE AUTHOR
            
         
         
            
            PREFACE.
            The following tale is not altogether a fancy sketch, or work of fiction.
            The author has been intimately acquainted with similar characters and incidents.
            As a "tale of love," it is supposed to possess sufficient interest to guide the reader patiently through its pages to the sequel. But its merit, if it has any, lies in the moral sentiment, and the spirit of revelation, or heart-perception of some of the characters.
            
            While the writer deprecates a too severe criticism, she sincerely desires that its meaning and use, may be received by some youthful minds, as a way leading to the "good, and the true."
            Those superficial minds, that read merely for anecdote, or the story, will overlook that which was more particularly designed for them.
            
               THE AUTHOR.
               FEBRUARY 20th, 1852.
            
         
      
      
         
            Alice Granger
            ALICE GRANGER,
            A TALE OF THE WEST.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  
                     "Fair child! Thy only dower is thy transcendent beauty, and a heart pure as the wreath round Appenines' cold brow, and true and gentle as the dove."
                  
               
               I WAS sitting by my window, listless and melancholy, thinking of my dear brothers, and mourning their absence, as a carriage drove up to the door, and an elderly gentleman, a young girl, and two small boys, alighted.
               My father received them, and, in a few moments, sent for me.
               "These are your cousins, Mary," he said, "my sister's orphan children, whom you have never seen before; Alice Granger and her little brothers. This gentleman, Mr. Grant, has brought them, at my sister's dying request, with a letter written in her last illness, desiring me to receive and provide for them as my own. They have come in time to cheer our solitude, my daughter; for you and I were becoming very lonely."
               As she laid off her mourning bonnet and vail, it disclosed a face of rare beauty. Her dark hazel eye, was very bright, beaming with peculiar earnestness. Her lips and cheeks had the deepest rose-hue—her complexion fair and lovely in the freshness of youth.
               Her smile was sweet and winning in dimpled beauty, and shed the light of native grace and love. The whole expression, that of uncommon loveliness, as if innocence, tenderness and truth, were sheltered in her bosom, and looking through her earnest eyes, as from the windows of the soul, to attract and bless you.
               True it is, that my heart was strongly attracted to her from the first. She had come to us at a time, when it would have been dangerous for me to remain isolated as I then was, in my western-prairie home, where there was very little society; and my brothers, who had been my whole world in this light for one year, had left, the day before, for a college course.
               
               My heart was sickening with a sense of my solitude, and apathetic spirits were brooding over me, which the timely and providential introduction of my cousins into our family dispelled.
               I had no sister, and the prospect of an intimate and kindred association with one of my own sex, unlocked a spring in the soul-life, and I felt that I could take my cousin Alice to my affections, without fear of contamination.
               While my father and Mr. Grant were conversing. I invited my cousins out into the garden.
               It was a balmy April morn. The breath of spring was sweet with dewy fragrance, and the bright sun-beams, from the cloudless sky, had not yet drank off the dew-drops that still freshened the green sward and lay upon the leaf and flowret like pearls on the bosom of a young maiden.
               The early rose-buds were beginning to burst their petals, like the rounded form of my cousin Alice, and the prairie birds were chanting their minstrelsy from their homes in the shrubbery, imparting the purest delights to the senses, as we strolled along the walks and over the green terraced grounds my brothers had planned and improved by their labor and taste and their love of the beautiful in nature.
               I spoke of them to my cousins. I told them how we had left the great city for a home in the West, and how enchanting nature in her robes of green and floral beauty was to me, in comparison with a life in crowded streets, amid the busy, bustling throng.
               I plucked the gay dandelions and butter-cups, and decked the straw hat crowns of the timid stranger boys. I led them to a pure spring, and bade them look for their mirrored forms in the crystal water. I said they must call this their home, and love these rural scenes, and they would soon be happy and contented. They listened, but were silent.
               I saw that I must allude to something they had seen, or left behind them, in order to draw them out. I questioned Alice of her native place, her mother, and associates.
               She answered ingenuously, with charming naivette; and her voice was sweet, the chime of her own soul, tender innocent and bird-like, varying with her affection and though.
               Supernaturally clear and distinct, it seemed the inimitable expression of her pure loves.
               And this was doubtless a fact—for it is said, "the love of truth and goodness is in the tones of the voice, and may be perceived in the measure and modulation." "There is sweet melody in the affection of love," and the first lisping speech of infants has angel sweetness, an unerring echo of "their angels" spheres.
               This is no imagery of the imagination, but a real and supernatural truth. Music hath no strains more sweet and touching, than we may hear in the young voice, whose heart affections are developing in the innocent forms of their loves, and the tones of inquiry they are ever pouring fourth, as the soul-thirst for information and truth.
               But the heart of man can never disclose its most divine portion. This lies too deep in the celestial degree. We may feel our alliance with angels, we may perceive our own immortality—but We can never write this out, or tell the mode of this union, or the condition and progress of this revelation.
               The sea writes not its wailing undertones on the shore, nor can the finest composer give the music of the Æolian measure; but an innocent soul, governed by angels, radiates its own heat and light, and we may catch a glimpse of the inner tones of its quality from the voice and the soul-full eye, and inhale the charm through the features and the smile.
               There are tones in some voices, which are only a wail of the passions for the possession of some forbidden good, or unholy delight; and there are those deep means of the soul that despair brings against hope, when all seems forever lost, and we are wrecked in the deep sea of grief and affliction.
               But it is the history of Alice Granger we are writing, which will show, that, by yielding to the most interior forces of the mind, hereditary evil tendencies may be subdued, and that, in the touching and truthful history of her loves, she was governed by this interior teaching of her guardian spirits, as by the true laws of the inner life.
               Through the course of her dependence on her uncle, and her acquaintance with the object of her affections, and the painful and protracted separation she was called to endure, till the Divine Providence had proved her fidelity, we find the same unswerving moral courage, and true innocence of character, guiding and sustaining her through states of trial and temptation, when all her outer world was sterile and comfortless, and not a friend or helper was at hand to guide her course, or a light to gild the gloom but that which gleamed in her devoted bosom.
               She had had the early advantages of education in common schools, and was, at this time, an intelligent reader and writer. I often employed her to read to me, and enjoyed the subject the better for her peculiar clear and earnest tones, which were like a beautiful piece of variations; and her cadence fell upon the minor key, with such a sweetly, mournful measure, as to impart a most touching charm.
               She possessed a natural and easy independence of mind and manner, a correct consciousness of her own rights, which prevented affectation, or obsequious attention to any one.
               She said she had been persecuted and hated by her classmates in school, for her application and success—but she forgave the wrong because it was the command of her Savior to do so, and it made her unhappy to feel that she was injured and envied by them.
               "It is the Bible injunction," said Alice, "that we must forgive, if we would be forgiven, and my mentor has taught me to do so."
               "By doing this truth, Alice," said I, "you learned to 'love your enemies;' but, is this a lesson the haughty human heart learns from its own wisdom or performs in its own strength?"
               "I think not," she answered, "for Jesus says, 'without me, ye can do nothing.'"
               Duty was her delight, and she never wearied of her care and attention to her brothers. They loved her tenderly, even as a mother, while she—daily instructed them as teacher and guide. They were sweet little plants, reared by tender hands, and gave promise of a future character to reward her toil.
               Alice never mentioned her father. There was a reason doubtless. He had left home before the birth of the youngest child, and never returned. The prospect of a growing family diminished his affection and weakened his resolution of providing for them.
               Her mother struggled with her destitution, and the cold-heartedness of her unfeeling husband, till the youngest was three years old, when nature failed, and she died, a martyr to her duty, broken hearted but resigned. In my father, her only brother, she expected to find a friend and protector to her children, and her confidence was not misplaced.
               Alice loved her mother, and cherished her memory with the most tender and filial enthusiasm.
               She had treasured many valuable truths of her implanting, and her instruction and example had laid the foundation of a life of rare piety and virtue in Alice.
               I never yet have seen a youth of fourteen that had such love and reverence for the Word as my cousin. When the bell rang for evening worship, Alice placed her little brothers, one on either side, and read her portion of the Word, with earnestness and devotion.
               My father was no visionary, or devotee. He was no enthusiast in religion; for he was a straight forward, intellectual, spiritual and well-balanced mind.
               His religion consisted in the heavenly principles of good motives, and a love of usefulness. He was said to have peculiar views. Perhaps he had, but they were rational and sage, the result of his principles of action, of study and experience. I always indorsed all he said. He kept a choice library, read a great deal, and had many maxims the rest of the world, so far as I knew, never thought of.
               "All wisdom is of love," he would say, "and love is the life of man."
               In our seasons for social reading and worship, he illustrated the Word, and gave its spiritual sense.
               "True worship is acknowledgment of the divine," he said, "and it is living because the Lord inspires it, and lucid because there is wisdom in it, and glad because there is heaven in it, There is as much of true worship in reading the Scriptures and confessing their divinity, and doing their precepts, as in the external acts of adoration and prayer. And these last avail nothing without the life of true charity."
               In prayer we all knelt in a circle, our faces to the center, when every voice, even the blacks, repeated in concert, the inimitable form given us by the great Head of the Church, "Our Father who art in Heaven," etc.
               Our form of worship was new to Alice, but her delight was apparent; for heart and voice chimed in sweetly, and a heavenly sphere pervaded—the influence of good spirits who are in attendance and union with such as are in good affections.
               "How beautiful and intellectual," said my father, "is the, true worship of the true God! Many of the ancients worshiped nature as God, and called the universe their deity. They supposed ether to be the Supreme mind called Jupiter, and the air a goddess, the wife of Jupiter, and that the ocean was an inferior god, whom they called Neptune, and that the divinity of nature extended to the earth's center, and there Old Pluto reigned supreme. They supposed the sun to be palace of all the gods, where they assembled in council, and that the rays of the sun produced the affections of love, and thoughts and expression of thoughts were only modifications of ether or modulations of air. But," he added, "the darkness of heathenism has past, and heresies are yielding to the power of truth. New truths are constantly developing, and the higher class of minds are receiving them. The name of Jesus is reaching the ear with the mother's milk, and the unity of Gob is most intimately inscribed on all minds, since it is the center of all influences into the human soul. We should calmly and trustfully consecrate ourselves to obedience of his word and precepts, that we may attain to an imago and a likeness."
               Thus we were daily instructed, and an interest awakened in our minds, relative to another life, and our Bibles appeared to us like a garden, or paradise, full of flowers and fruits, in the midst of which were trees of life, and beside them fountains of living waters.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               
                  
                     
                        "Love dies! but it makes its own sepulcher in its own soul. The best part of every part of love is gathered by a heaven-born mind and entombed in the affections. The souls of the departed and loved are in us, gathered back to our yearning bosoms, and garnered in the store-house of our most affectionate remembrances. Not as nebula, to mystify, and 
                              trancendentalize
                              transcendentalize
                            emotions; but, in unity, in strength and in act, as well as impulse and desire. They infill recipient forms, and vessels of the whole mind and man, from the crown to the foot—think in our thoughts, speak in our words, and act in our gestures and deeds! and man is the connecting link of the inner and outer spheres.
                        "God has placed genius in the hearts of women, because their works of genius are works of love, flowing from the heart, and the heart has its aphorisms of wisdom, as well as the understanding, These are as forecast shadows along the pathway of moral life that do not misled us,"
                     
                     —PASCAL.
                  
               
               AFTER Alice had been with us a few weeks, my father, one day, remarked to me, that he was "gratified more and more with her obliging manners and disposition, and her earnestness and depth of feeling on all subjects and occasions. She is not all surface, like most young girls of her years," said he, "but seems to have innate perceptions of propriety and duty, that guide her conduct, rather than any opinions or precept of those around her. And nothing seems to cross her self-love, for there is little of that hurtful love in her to cross, or to oppose her quick perceptions of duty. I think she has a rare and choice spirit, moulded and governed doubtless by her guardian angels, to whom she yields attentive listening and obedience. She seems to call up her mother's views and her teaching on all occasions, and could not be prevailed upon, I am 
                     pursuaded
                     persuaded
                  , to deviate from any truth, or love of order, that she has instilled into her mind. Mary!" he continued, "her own and well beloved mother is with her, garnered back into her earnest heart, and Alice will yet gain an ascendancy over her hereditary evils, that they will never come into real activity. I want more time than I have had of late, to converse with her, and learn how best we can be useful to her, in advancing her education, and developing those inner springs of celestial life, into forms of genius and use."
               While we were conversing, Alice came in with her brothers, who had had their liberty out in the fields, and their hands full of peach and apple blossoms, and white and purple clover, looking as sweet and rosy as the flowers themselves.
               "Well, my darlings," said my father fondly, "it is merry spring time, and you have been out enjoying the fine air, and hearing the birds sing, have you? Did you see my twin lambs, boys? I must give you each one, I think, if you are good. How were you pleased, Alice—do you love lambs?"
               "O! yes, uncle, they look so innocent; and old John, the colored man, told us Bible stories, about lambs corresponding to innocent thoughts."
               "Where did old John get his knowledge?" said my father.
               "Why, father," said I, "you are always saying such things, and John has a good memory, and a good heart too, I think. Don't you remember what he said, when you gave him his freedom."
               "No. What did he say, child?"
               "He said, 'I can't leave old master, he always say good things, and old John love every word old master says, and when he dies he mean to wait on him in heaven.'"
               "Poor old John!" said my father, "he will get there first, likely, but will not be unrewarded, for his love of obedience and fidelity through along life. But Alice! You have a pair of eyes like the young gazelle. How do you like your new home, child? Are you getting home-sick?"
               "No sir. I have no other home."
               "Well. But what have you been doing all your life, before you came here? Have you read much? Come, sit down by your uncle, and tell me all about it. Have you ever read history, at all?"
               "Yes, sir, I have studied history at school, but have not read many books. My mother's illness pre vented, and my time was occupied with her and my brothers."
               "But did you not hate confinement, and run away from duty sometimes."
               "O. no! It would have injured my kind mother's feelings, and I had not a heart to grieve her."
               "You read to her often, I suppose, did you not?"
               "Yes, I often read to her, but mostly from the Word. It was her greatest comfort, she said, and its views of the other life; and, but for her children, she desired to leave this world, where she had sorrow, and sickness, and a broken spirit. My poor mother!" and Alice wept; "She doubtless drew consolation from the revealings of the Word, for they had long been her guide and solace," said my father, "and what do you think of the Bible, Alice? Is it better than other books, that you are willing to read it more?"
               "O! yes sir; it is God's letter to man, and teaches very beautiful truths of angels and heaven, and the way to get there."
               "And what is the way to heaven, Alice?"
               "It is to shun all evil thoughts, and ways, and words, because they are forbidden by the Lord, and are sins against him. Is it not?"
               "Yes, truly, you have answered well. If we are good we cannot be unhappy, and happiness is heaven. There are many mistaken views of heaven in the world. But there is but one way to obtain it—to shun evil, and do good. But Alice, have you no loved friend, or sweetheart, you have left behind, that makes you sometimes sigh to return."
               This touched a tender chord, and she replied, "I had one dear friend, but I shall never see her again," and she burst into a fresh flood of tears.
               "Don't weep," said my father, "you may see her again, What was her name?"
               "Sarah. She was niece of one of my teachers and lived near the beautiful Owasco. We used to walk together there," said Alice, "and there we gathered flowers from the hill side, and picked the shells from the pebbly shore; and there we joined our hands in holy friendship, and knelt as we pledged ourselves to each other, to truth and heaven."
               Here her tears fell fast, and she rose to leave the room.
               "You can go now," said my father, "but don't consider yourself separated from your friend, for, in the world of mind, friends meet, and souls unite without bodily presence, and if you are alike in your internal affections, you can never be separated, not even in eternity, for similitudes unite, and it is dissimilitudes that separate."
               These remarks were deeply impressed as we shall see here-after, but she left the room, and my father continued the conversation with myself.
               "Mary," said he, "Alice has the most strikingly beautiful countenance I ever saw, and the romance and refinement of a poet."
               "Was her mother like her, and qualified to guide and instruct her?" said I.
               "She was a beautiful and superior woman, and her unfortunate connection with a base and unprincipled husband, had a tendency to center her affections more deeply in her children, and led her to cultivate their virtues; and Alice being the only daughter, she has doubtless guarded her watchfully, tenderly and truly. But, Mary, she has been obedient and has trained herself. There is marked self-culture, in all her words and deportment. Her mind has been softened and subdued by affliction, and her guardian spirits have drawn intimately near, and she, happy child! yields to their angel influence. Her sphere is gentle and innocent as an infant's. Happy they who, in early life, thus bend and yield to this interior teaching; they are garnering a store of material, or 'remains,' for a building of a superior superstructure. How intelligent and truthful she is, and, so thoughtful and self-denying. But she must have evils," he continued, "though they slumber in her bosom under covers of innocence and purity, the forms of her angels' loves, and 'love is the life of man.'"
               "Yes," I added, as he concluded this beautiful figure of speech, "there is a pearl of more worth than Cleopatra's dissolved in her cup of life."
               In our next chapter we shall see more of her character, and her own peculiar views, given in her own language; and also, something of her friendship for her classmate and friend Sarah, for whom, there had been opened in her young breast the first social development of a love out of self, and beyond the filial and fraternal; a love which hallows the object beloved, and gives life to those forms in the soul, which are organized for reception by an all pervading power, that has wisely provided for our social necessities, as well as for our moral and eternal. We may see also, the strong and vivid emotions of an earnest heart, beautifully developed in strains of poesy and still stronger images of supernatural influence.
               I have seen changes in the life and history of Alice Granger, where her thoughts and emotions have been expressed, as her affections have been developed in their varied and manifold character, and have been constrained to give tribute to their celestial origin. Tame and passionless minds may not enter into her sanctuary; those that love not the spiritual, may not conceive the beauty of her mind, in its garniture of truth and innocence—for it is a wise remark of some writer, that "every one has with him the light through which he gazes."
               We shall partially raise the vail from this young heart, and witness its springs of love and action, as they unfold and flow, we know not how as yet, only as they are revealed to us in her countenance and words, and tones of voice. The sentiment that inspired her now may fade, linger and die; but it will be buried in the sepulcher of her soul, and she will embalm and cherish the memories without idolatry, and go, as did Mary, to the Savior's tomb, to weep there.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               
                  
                     
                        "We give birth to thought by writing, as the trees throw out their flowers and fruits. The emotions of the heart pine and sicken, till we have brought forth that which is within us."
                     
                     —DE-LA-MARTINE.
                  
               
               ALICE said to me one day, "Can I spend my time in my own room this evening, dear Mary?"
               "Certainly," I replied; "but what is my cousin doing tonight, that she is so exclusive?"
               "I wish to write," she answered.
               "Do you love to write, Alice?"
               "Yes; when my heart is full I love to pour it out on paper. One does not always wish to speak, all they think; and if I keep all my thoughts pent up within, it is like burying them alive."
               "True enough, Alice; 'silence is the winding-sheet of the soul,' and it is often better to ultimate our thoughts in writing; for thus we fix them where they will not flutter and die, perhaps, which they must do if they are not brought out and released from their imprisonment. If you are willing, I should like to read something of your own composing, my cousin."
               She hesitated a moment, then went to her trunk, and took thence her portfolio, and selected one piece, and, handing it to me, she said,
               "This is about my friend Sarah, that I spoke of to my uncle the other day,"
               Then, with a light and buoyant step, she ran into her room taking her pen, ink and paper, and closing the door.
               Young life was springing; but the full heart could not confine itself continuously to outward things. It needed inner exercise. Writing is justly compared to the "moulting of the feathered tribe." The matured and useless feathers of the soul, when written off, will give place to stronger wings, to take a higher flight. The soul finds enlargement in writing, increasing its revenues of delight and intelligence; but with my cousin there were then many shreds of feeling she could not yet bring into proper form or existence. Amid these reflections upon her state, I unfolded her little, prose-looking note, and read it. It was headed, "SARAH'S BAPTISM," and ran thus:
               "Hand in hand, we walked together to the deep waters of Owasco. We followed with the procession that sang holy hymns, that entranced the soul! Then, when we stood on the shore, was she plunged in the deep, but raised again by the man of God. Cold was the January blast. It stiffened the white robe of the baptized. The frozen drops 
                     beeded
                     beaded
                   her tresses, glittering like stars in the sky or gems in a coronal. Her face shone as the angel's sheen on the sunny hills of the far-off heaven. A halo of glory encircled her form, and its beauty attracted me within the circle. In it there were spirit-voices, whispering their unearthly joys in sweetest tones, As she reached the shore, I clasped her white hand in mine, and her face, so beautifully beaming, rested, with her dark eye, on the soul of her Alice. She was wrapped round and round with her muslin robes, and every shred seemed freezing into her form, like the costume of a marble statue. How strangely beautiful were her features in their speaking to my heart! The forest trees, reft of their green foliage, and sighing with the winter winds, made celestial harmony in their wild, Æolian strains of captivating music. We did not think about the massive ice that covered the bosom of the Owasco, or care for the piercing blast that swept by, in the winter-king's wrath; for that life which is of love warmed our whole being and animated our devotion with supernatural enthusiasm.
               "Heedless of the crowd around us, we conversed, as we were wont, alone.
               "'O, Sarah!' I exclaimed, with impassioned earnestness, 'I was not beautiful and bright as thou, when, at the holy font, I was sprinkled with baptismal water. My forehead was signed with the mystic cross; but my heart trembled, and I wept. I felt a premonition of a life of sorrow, and my dear mother is now dying with grief and sickness; and what will become of her Alice? That holy cross, marking my brow, foreshadowed grief and desolateness. I well remember the heaviness that fell then upon my heart. But thou, Sarah, hast been my heart's sweet joy, enkindled by love. Thou mate of my childhood! thou only one of my school-mates that hast ever loved me! we shall soon separate; and where, and when, shall I find another friend? Shall I ever return to wander with thee on the hillside side of violets and daisies, and gather with thee the wild flowers on the banks of the blue Owasco?'
               "Can I ever forget her loving answer to my pleading tones and tears?
               "'Alice,' she said, 'it may be necessary that we should separate; but, like the hearts of Jonathan and David, our souls are knit together, and we can never forget our love. Thou hast loved me as thine own soul. Now will we kneel together, and pledge ourselves to Truth and Heaven and to each other. God hears! And now, as David said to the mountains of Gilboa, Let there be no dew or rain upon you, so I do say, upon my soul be death and blighting if I forget thee, my beloved Alice!,"
               As I folded up this precious morceau, I thought of my father's motto, "Love is the life of man." Alice had had her green spots in life's desert landscape—one oasis, at least, which, to her loving spirit, was a world of wealth. This had cheered, enlarged and refined her mind and taste. When she wrote the above, her heart was filled with sorrow and smarting under bereavement, and she anticipated destitution and grief from separation from her friend. Her mourning and her tears had bedewed her heart and increased her genius. Well and truly may it be said and echoed, "Take from life those that love us, and what remains?" This little prose poem was a burning of rich perfumes at a holy shrine to embalm her loving memories. She had transposed her affections into music—the naive and tender tones of her bleating bosom, giving birth to the true poetry of the passions—the "human word," Ah! what can equal the charm of innocence and virtue, or the genuine unfolding of the pages of that book of life on which the purest loves are inscribed! I mentally exclaimed as I pondered ever the subject, and compared her fine mind and the perfection of her beauty with all youths of her sex and age I had ever seen. I saw that she possessed a rare identity, a spiritual beauty, and these were in true correspondence.
               My meditations were here interrupted by the entrance of my father. I showed him the poem of Alice on her friend's "baptism." "It is very much like herself," he said, "and as she advances her mind will still shed the grossness of the sensual spheres, and ascend above the corporeal, becoming more and more interior and spirituale, till it assumes the higher celestial forms of the 'good and the true,' the true beauty of those that have her in their keeping and guardianship. I mean her angels."
               "But, Mary, "he continued, "she must be educated. A better education would make her more useful, and develop her mental powers. I would send her away to some institution at once for that purpose, but that I dread to trust my blooming, tender flower to the blighting frosts of the selfish and mercenary heart of society; and, Mary, how could we part with her? You, my daughter, might be useful to Alice in this way. In short, you might become her teacher."
               This proposition was unexpected and startling. That I must part with Alice, or become her teacher myself, did not enter into my calculation or thought; and, after a moment's wonder and hesitation, I exclaimed, "Me, father! I attempt teaching?"
               "Yes, you, It would benefit yourself as well as her. What a voice she has! And here are your piano and guitar, almost useless furniture since your brothers left, because you have no one to join you in your practice. I wonder, indeed, my daughter, that you have not thought of this yourself before this. I really have been expecting you to make the proposition, and to see you leading your cousin to the music room and piano for instruction."
               "Dear father!" I exclaimed, "I never thought of such a thing; and I cannot think of it. Neither can I think of your sending her away," said I, as I felt, a shrinking at the suggestion, and a stubborn will to rise against my sense of duty.
               "Mary," said my father, sternly, "you are very selfish. You profess to love Alice; you admire the beauty of her character; and yet you will not prove this love by being useful to her. That love is very lean and cold that will not go out of self to perform a use to those beloved. How can you hinder her advancement and be guiltless?"
               "I do not 'hinder her advancement, father. Indeed, I wish most sincerely that she had acquaintance with the higher branches, and that she understood music. But I do not know how to teach."
               "And yet you will not consent to have her leave home for that purpose, nor teach her yourself,"
               "How can I teach her, father? I never taught any one, and, I repeat, I do not know how to teach."
               "Where there is a will there is a way, Mary. I did not think my daughter so indolent and so selfish as to raise these objections to the wishes of her father and the advantage her cousin must derive from a course of study and instruction. Having completed your own education within the last two years, which has cost some thousands, in connection with your music and instruments, and with servants to do your pleasure, being qualified, as I supposed, to perform some of the important uses of life, may I ask my daughter what end she has in view for herself, and how she designs to occupy her time in future? If your mother still lived, all these matters would, of course, come under her supervision; but, as it is, it appears to be my duty to give some direction to your future life; and few young ladies at the age of twenty but need the advice and guidance of a senior mind. I leave the subject with you, Mary; but I must urge your study together in history, at all events, and wish you to commence immediately."
               "What history must we study, father?"
               "First, ancient history: Rollin and Josephus."
               "I should prefer modern history," I replied. "I fear I shall not have patience to read thoroughly those works, so voluminous and tedious."
               "Alice loves the Bible history of the Jews, and I wish her to know more about them. She does not yet understand that they were merely a representative people, and, in your studies, I will undertake to instruct you both myself. You may not 'have patience' to read or listen to my instruction, Mary; but your cousin will, I believe, though six years younger than yourself. The constitution of your mind and hers are very different. You do not think as closely and deeply, nor feel as strongly, on any subject. You are naturally inactive, and the dread of exertion causes you to shrink from duty. It will be better far for you, my daughter, to discipline the mind to vigorous effort; but if you cannot dig deep enough to find a mine of intellectual wealth for yourself, it will certainly be wise in you to study the 'Divinity of Duty,' in endeavoring to lead a life of usefulness to others. I hope a little reflection on this subject will give you a willing mind and strength of purpose to make some exertion for your own good and the benefit of your cousin Alice. Take her for an example of patience and perseverance, and consider how untiring and cheerful she is in the instruction and teaching of her brothers."
               While my father waited a reply, I said, "We will commence reading history, father, and I will think more about teaching."
               Reader, I never forgot this lesson. O, what a spirit of obstinacy was raised in my bosom by my own indolence and the evil spirits flowing in to react upon the wisdom of the instruction I had received of my father! A dense cloud rose over my sky, and the storm-king stretched out his iron scepter over my mental horizon, and the darkness of evil thoughts, envyings and surmisings, rankled in my breast and brooded over my spirit. The warring elements of the selfish passions were strangely set in commotion, and I was like a captive in prison. I could not, or did not, find my way out till I was humbled by my own folly and glad to capitulate, on rational terms, for peace.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               WE must return to Alice. We left her retiring to her own room, with a joyous and buoyant spirit, to write. She—poor child!—was all unconscious of the trial that awaited her. O, how is it that a spirit so rare in the innocence of meekness and goodness, must still pass through the refiner's fire, till the dross be so consumed as it may not imbibe contamination from the baser metals around it. We shall see her acting the same part through a deep tragedy in her future life; but the "after piece" will leave no cloud in the range of the vision of the beholder. But I went, undecided, in no pleasant mood, to seek my cousin. She had unclosed the door, which she had fastened on going in, and sat upon a low ottoman, pen still in hand, portfolio in lap, and paper spread upon it. She was not writing now, but reading what she had written. She did not immediately observe me. As I stood, regarding her intently, I saw that thought was chiseling its imperishable forms upon her radiant features, and I felt the drawing near of another tormenting spirit—the rising of envy. How is it, said I, mentally, that this young girl has such superior beauty?—such goodness and strength of mind, as my father supposes? And who knows how she may turn out yet? I have no idea of confining myself again, to pore over philosophy, history, botany and so forth, and to instruct Alice in these, and, above all, to go over the alphabet in music with her.
               As I was hurrying my spirit with such like thoughts, she looked from her manuscript, and saw me. What she saw in my countenance she did not say; but hers changed. She read my thoughts, perhaps; but they went down into her soul. I advanced toward her, assuming a look more calm than my feelings would justify, and, extending my hand for the manuscript, I said, "Shall I see it, Alice?"
               She delivered me the lines, rather hesitatingly, and said, "I do not know what you will think of them, cousin Mary."
               "Ah! you have been rhyming, have you? I did not know I had a cousin a poetess."
               Her look, in answer to this, was inquisitive. Doubtless she saw the foreign mixture in my tones and looks; for the cloud was on my soul and transcribed into my features, doubtless.
               I read her lines silently, and slowly, and critically. In mostly I desired to find occasion to cavil and contemn.
               But I will give them to the reader in her own truthful and simple style and words. They were headed
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "A VISION.
                           
                              "Evening came on; but beauty still
                              Garnished the scene,
                              As moonlight kissed the dewy flowers,
                              With silvery sheen.
                           
                           
                              "Upon their soft, sweet, sighing harps
                              The breezes play,
                              And Philomela's tuneful notes
                              Were sweet as they.
                           
                           
                              "Enchantment threw her magic spell
                              Around the hour,
                              Soothing the wayward thought and sense
                              
                              With fairy power.
                           
                           
                              "And now a vision o'er me stole,
                              Opening interior sight,
                              And, 'mid a circling halo, stood
                              My Sarah, robed in white.
                           
                           
                              "And from her spirit form was shed
                              A holy sphere,
                              Imbuing all my soul with love,
                              As she drew near.
                           
                           
                              "I bowed to clasp her angel form,
                              And kiss her brow;
                              But only heard my name soft breathed,
                              In accents sweet and low.
                           
                           
                              "'Alice!' she said. Intent I looked
                              Into her face so pure.
                              'Alice!' she breathed. Again I looked,
                              And heaven itself was there.
                           
                           
                              "Once more she called, and then I saw
                              That my affections true
                              Had imaged forth her form so loved
                              To my interior view.
                           
                           
                              "For laws of time and space do not
                              Divide united love,
                              And 'Truth and Good' seek union here;
                              Their source is from above."
                           
                           
                              ALICE.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               As I concluded reading these lines, she looked into my face for a word of reply.
               I returned them to her, and dryly remarked, "Very good, Alice; but did you really see your friend in a vision?"
               "Yes, Mary, I did; and I have chosen this way to express it. It was last evening, at twilight, as I sat in the arbor alone, and the full moon shone bright over the lovely landscape, and the whippoorwill sang so plaintive in the grove, and my heart-throbs were hushed as I sat thinking of my friend and the days gone by. Did you hear the nightingale sing, cousin Mary?"
               "No, indeed," said I; "nor see your friend in a vision. It was one of the flights of your romancing nature, I suppose, or an optical illusion. I never have visions. I don't believe in them, either," I continued, rather harshly. As I gave utterance to this infidel speech, she turned her face from me and burst into tears. I saw she was hurt. I had been uniformly kind to her, and my cold, harsh tones were unexpected.
               "You weep very easy, Alice," said I; "I do not understand you. Sometimes you are quite a philosopher, and sustain yourself well. At others, your tears are streaming without much cause, and you appear childish."
               "O, Mary!" she said, "do not upbraid me. Probably you do not understand me. My spirit has been early drenched in sorrow, and melted down under affliction and bereavement. And now, to have my cousin Mary misunderstand and upbraid me for and innocent action, opens afresh the wounds that have scarce had time to heal. O, how unfortunate I am, to offend where I wish to please. Have my lines to the memory of my friend offended you? I regret that my cousin asked me to see them. It is only the transcript of my lonely thoughts of her; and pray forget that you have seen them, and read my heart."
               "Alice," said I, "I am not offended at your lines; but you weep so easily that it disturbs me."
               Here she sobbed and wept again, as if her heart would break. I did not soften at her tears, but said, coldly, "What are you weeping about, Alice?"
               
                  She knew, and so did I. But I hardened my heart at this time, and turned to leave the room. As I did so, I felt the conviction forcing itself upon me, that my evils were increasing and developing in forms of envy and jealousy, and the moroseness and unkindness, that are akin to these heart-plagues, and that will flow from them, as a stream from its fountain. This was afterward a source of more humiliation to me, than any sense I underwent of my inferiority. But I would not yield to the monitor within that condemned me, and bade me turn and apologize at once to my cousin, and restore her confidence in me. I knew that I had recklessly and needlessly wounded her feelings, and when I examined myself, I saw that it was from envy at the genius, goodness and beauty she possessed. Want of an humble mind, made me severe and selfish, and prevented me from making any acknowledgment, and I left her without a kind word to soothe her wounded spirit.
               In my own mind, all was now tumult, confusion and unhappiness. I continued my train of riley thought, mixed with the dregs of self-love and evil surmisings, thinking with myself, "she is a kind of heaven-sick thing, and must pass through some purifying alembic that will regulate her morbid spirituality. A vision! forsooth! Who ever heard of any one's having a vision of their friend? She is a romantic creature at least, and is just the one to be falling in love with my brothers when they return, And they with her, perhaps. It will be Herbert I think, for I confess they are a good deal alike, though I never thought of it before. But they are cousins and that will be in the way of any serious attachment, and finally, Herbert is too high-minded to think of a poor cousin in such a light. They might obtain father's consent doubtless, for he thinks her a superhuman being. I intend to be looking out on this subject. But this idea of giving her music lessons, and French, and going through the higher English branches again with her, is too much, I can not think of it. I should have the glorious mortification of seeing her go far beyond me, and I should get into a total eclipse."
               When feeling and thought had exhausted itself, my better genius drew me back to kinder thoughts of Alice. I had been looking through lens that distorted my vision, and, after the evil spirits that followed hard upon me had led me to unjust views and mean conclusions relating to her, and, my self-derived intelligence, or conceited pride, had placed her beneath our family as a poor cousin, I began to think how ruthlessly I had injured her feelings.
               I never had had a sister. I had hoped to find a substitute in Alice. I had no friend as Alice had, no counterpart, or lover, and I was now verging toward twenty-one. "I shall be a green-eyed spinster," said I, still soliloquizing; "I am that caste, decidedly, and there is no help for it, in this new Western world, where society is sparse as angels' visits."
               And now the long, lone future, stretched out before me, immeasurably lengthened, a solitary wilderness. I looked along the desolate pathway and shuddered, O! this desert of affections!—this dull and bleak aridity of life, monotonous and dreary! 
                     "For wearily, O wearily, drags life, if love depart."
                  
               
               The doors of real life and happiness seemed now closing upon me; for "Love is the life of man."
               This state, dear reader, which I have but faintly described, Was what some people term the "horrors," and others the "blue devils;" but I am certain it was the black ones flowing into my own evils, and, up to this period of my life, had never before raised such a storm of the imagination, and brought me to such an unhappy crisis.
               It has been intimated that I was subject to indolence and ennui, and, when my brothers left, I was in danger of giving up to the influence. And now, being instigated by my father to undertake to bring out Alice and witness in her accomplishments a luster superior to my own, was more than my selfish nature could contemplate with composure, and a real "chill and fever" of the mind had set in. I needed, just then, a stratum of moral or divine philosophy, as well as human reason, to filter the turbid streams of the natural mind, that, like riley land floods, had flowed over their just bounds, and polluted the good and the true in my bosom. The fever tones of the senses had been wrought up in jealousy of a rival in my cousin, and a habitual dread of exertion had now awakened my evil genius.
               Surely, said I, I am miserable and unhappy. I must not suffer this soul-malady to progress without some medicine to neutralize or plant of healing for a remedy. I must rack off these dreggs, that I may see more clearly, and become more sane in my views of others.
               Is it just or wise to offend Alice, I questioned myself, and leave her to reflect upon my hateful behavior, and not make one apology for my conduct in making her unhappy? I have dug a pit in to which I have fallen myself, and I am most wretched of the two. And the most to be pitied, truly, said I, as reflection brought back more rational views. 'Her heart is full of sorrow, mine of self, Her young life has been crowded by privation, and suffering, and persecution, and I have been base enough to envy her—her fine mind, her woman's strength of judgment and her celestial beauty. Yes, I have; and jealous, too, of the place in her heart occupied by her friend. It was not enough for me that she looked up with affectionate regard to me; that she went not out nor came in without my permission and approbation; that she had ever sought my approving smile, and gave her own sweet smile to reward it. No; this was not enough for my exacting spirit.
               O, cruel, cursed slavery! I exclaimed; all this love of ease, this lack of energy, this love of self and of rule, grows out of the embers of that spirit I nursed in my childhood, when my father owned his slaves, as his other property, and I felt a pleasure in my superiority and the power I had of commanding them to do my bidding. I felt that I desired to be loved by Alice as she loved her friend. This love was so deep as to produce an outbirth of her image from her own affections, and not an "optical illusion," as I had hinted to her. But what was now to be done? What will bring me into affinity with Alice? Certainly not such feelings as I had indulged in. These could find no echo in her peaceful bosom.
               My father had inculcated a useful life, and set me the example. It is true love that leads us to make sacrifices for the good of those we love. This he would have said, and this was his view, in desiring me to aid Alice in an education befitting her capacity and beauty. He had considered my own advantage, as well as hers, in making the request. I had heard him repeat a wise man's remark, quite in point, "There is but one true love, which is that love to God we prove by doing good to his family, in smoothing their rough passage through this life and the toils of their rugged pilgrimage, and assisting them onward and upward in their journey home. And there is but one true life, which is the life of that heavenly love, and but one true joy, which is the joy of that life."
               Then, how did I pervert this love by my selfish, sluggish course! And now came the thought how Alice loved the Word—how often I had heard her repeat portions of it in deep, devotional affection. I thought, too, of her uncomplainingness, her charity and forgiveness of injuries, and I felt humbled at the distinct contrast in our dispositions and character. If I would have her love me more, I must be more like her; for "similitudes conjoin." Reaction was taking place. O, how merciful is that Providence that guards our erring natures, and, when our evils pour in upon us like a flood, provides a standard against them.
               But now, I repeated, what must I do? The answer in my heart was, Go and reconcile Alice, and bring back her confidence by confessing your fault. Do away the unkind impressions you have left on her mind, which are draining off and drying up the outflowings of her love, and then nerve yourself to follow your father's advice and suggestions in relation to her. As these thoughts flowed in, they found an abiding place, and rested as though they had found a home. And, as I made an effort to subdue my pride and selfishness, and to put away the tumultuous thoughts that thronged me, I prayed sincerely, "Lead me out of temptation, and deliver me from evil, O Lord!" A tear now started to my own eye, and I soon became calm, subdued and determined.
               It was the first heart-prayer I had ever made for strength to subdue myself. I felt it to be my duty to act immediately upon the new life of truth forming within me; for I understood that doing truth was overcoming in temptation.
               I sought my cousin. It was humiliating to go to her and confess my fault; but, if I waited, I felt that I should reason and waver, and become less resolute.
               I stepped softly to her room door. She had not closed it, nor laid aside her manuscript, but was near the place I left her, looking listlessly out of the window upon the lawn before her. I looked intently into her face to read her thought. The expression was changed, and she seemed shrinking in, and settling down into her own abyss of thought. Her affections were flowing back, and centering into their holy place, there to be vivified, and purified from the mists that had gathered round the soul. While she was kindly treated, she flowed out expansively to all. But the tide was receding now, and the strand drying over. The vision of her friend filled her to much overflowing; but she had ultimated her thought in writing, and the untimely check I had given her had driven her in upon herself again, and I doubted not she had been looking prayerfully to Heaven for help and consolation.
               "Alice,"said I, as my heart melted with love and pity at seeing her, "I have injured your feelings needlessly, and I very much regret having done so. You look like a bleating lamb, shorn by a ruthless hand; but your God is now sheltering you in his bosom; for he 'tempers the wind' to all such innocents. I rudely touched the fine fibers of your sensitive spirit. You might have seen your friend, in your imagination, at least, and your earnest, loving thought might have shadowed forth her image. I was wrong to cavil so. Alice, will you forgive?"
               She rose up instantly, with meek and mournful grace, and placed her hand in mine, and kissed my cheek as I presented it. She was too full to speak. I loved her more as I returned her kiss.
               "Let us go down," said I, "and take our tea. You have been long in your room alone, and must need refreshment. After tea we will read history, Your uncle wishes you to read the history of the Jews. Have you ever read Rollin's Ancient History?"
               She answered, "No."
               "You have read some poetry, have you not?"
               "Yes, I have been reading Ossian the past winter,"
               "I thought so," I replied; "for your own style is somewhat Ossianic."
               "Is it?" she said. "He is called the 'poet of the winds and waves.' Sarah and I used to read it together on the shores of the Owasco, as the waves bent upon its beach and the winds sighed in the groves of fir around us."
               "I wish I could see your friend," said I; "we will write to her to come and visit us."
               "She will never come," said Alice. "The distance is too great." And she checked the rising sigh and starting tear, as I turned the conversation, and said, "Would you like to study philosophy, and botany, and French, and take music lessons, Alice?" She looked surprised and incredulous at this, and I informed her that I had been conversing with her uncle, who was very anxious she should study and acquire a good education. "He spoke of sending you abroad for this purpose; but I could not consent, for I need your society. Yet it is in my power to advance your knowledge and education myself, and I am making up my mind to do so, and give up my time to that purpose. Are you ready and willing to give your attention and application to study, Alice?"
               "O yes, dear Mary. But is it consistent? and shall I not give you too much trouble? and shall I not have to neglect my I others too much?"
               "No, I think not. My father loves you as his own daughter, and he has wealth, and will delight in seeing your mind improved by an accomplished education. You will doubtless improve rapidly when you commence, and, if you are ready, we will enter upon a course of study immediately."
               She consented. The glowing beauty of her fine features was returning, and it would have been difficult to determine just then which had most delight—I at thoughts of repairing my fault, and of being useful to her, and commencing a life of use as I now earnestly desired to do, or Alice, whose whole soul had shed its light into her eye at the prospect before her.
               I informed her that, another year, my brothers would have a long vacation, which they would spend at home, and we should have friends from the South to visit us, and by that time, if she was ambitious, she would make great proficiency. How many times she thanked me I do not remember; but I never can forget the joy of her countenance, and the change that happiness brings to it, when it excludes the bitter grief. When I related all this to my father, I felt a thrill of interior delight I never felt before; and his expressed approbation, congratulating me on the victory I had won, was sufficient to repay me a thousand fold for any sacrifice I might make hereafter of my ease or time, and more than recompensed me for my resolution in duty. It was the "joy of that life" we feel when engaged in doing good, with the will and understanding united, or a kind of wedding day with truth and good.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               AS the flowret opens its petals in lovely spring to the vernal sun, rejoicing in its new life, so did the mind of Alice, which had pined under the long winter of sorrow and destitution that had clouded her life, expand and rejoice, emulous of a higher, better state, and progress in the new duties and delights in which she was now engaged. And as she advanced in science, her mind imbued with knowledge and stored with natural truths—and, as she drank in the soul of music from the spirit of her authors, and a faithful and continued practice—she rose in all the grace of womanhood; and her deep enthusiasm, that peculiar gift of childhood and innocence, elevated her soul, which was seen poising itself on its new wings over the beautiful intellectual world!
               In one year from the time she commenced, she had accomplished more than I did in the convent in four. She was led by her own potent genius; and, in union with her interior teaching, celestial in its nature, thirsting ever for truth, the true waters of life, she expanded and unfolded a strength of character, and beauty of mind and person, I have never seen in another of her years. The tones of her voice and the expressions of her soul-lit features were like a beautiful piece of variations in instrumental music—the charm of innocence super-added, rendered her more fascinating than language can portray. Her intonations in singing were so clear and bird-like, her cadence in conclusion so touching, all hearts were irresistibly drawn toward her.
               After we had been reading history about six months, she began to read romances and poetry: but only such as my father judged proper for her. She lingered around a story of love as at the shrine of devotion. Here, her imagination was furnishing scenes for the drama of her own heart. There might have been a morbid tendency to people her world of mind with unreal images of happiness never to be enjoyed in this shadowy land. The sentimental and sanguine she studied. In entering this field of absorbing interest to youth, her new fledged pinions bore her high in elevated thought and expression, leaving all the past in the distance. If the vague and the wild ungoverned passions existed, they were slumbering still, as in the bosom of infancy, and had not developed their fires or profaned the perfumes of her celestial loves.
               With regard to music, I was said to be a performer on the piano and guitar, and I had doubtless acquired skill in practice or execution, and the science also, but the soul of music was with Alice. She best loved the plaintive, mournful measure, in all her choice of tunes: there were answering chords in her own bosom. The first piece she sang, with the accompaniment, was that simple but sweet ballad: 
                     "Hours there were to memory dearer," &c.
                   Every word and note was echoed back by memories sacred as heaven to her. My father always listened to me with interest and attention, for he was an 
                     amatuer
                     amateur
                  ; but he lingered longest by the side of Alice, for hers was the fascination.
               She had been with us now about two years. She was not only beautiful, but accomplished. My father sat listening to her one day, as she played piece after piece of his selection, and watching the ever-varying and glowing beauty of her countenance; and, doubtless, in his listening were mingled thoughts of her future welfare, or what her future destiny might be. For when she became weary and laid by her music, he commenced a conversation with her in the following manner:
               "My dear Alice, I am much delighted with your very great improvement in all your studies, for the last eighteen months. Your application has been untiring, and you now reap the rewards of your perseverance and industry. You will soon equal your cousin Mary in music, and I presume you have passed beyond her in historical knowledge. Your mind, I trust, is not so smooth a tablet, that the impressions made will be erased by the first dew that may fall upon it, or the changes of life incident to youth. I was anxious you should become acquainted with the whole history of the Jews. The Bible or Mosaic record I thought you might then better understand, especially after you were instructed that God chose them from among the nations of the earth, not because they were a better people, but that they might be merely representative of a church, and shadow forth in their rituals and ceremonies the spiritual progress of regenerate life, in those that might afterward become a true church. And that their exodus out of Egypt, and journeying through the wilderness, were merely symbolical and figurative of the toils of the Christian pilgrim. The literal word relating to them, though so tedious and unimportant apparently, is full of the deepest and most heavenly arcana. But this is not the time for me to enter deeply into the subject. I will only here remark, that Moses, as you know, first led the people to Sinai to offer oblations to God for the salvation of the Jews. But, after that, they wandered forty years in the desert of Arabia, and were fed with manna or honey-dew, as he will feed you, my Alice, though you may in after life have a wilderness to travel, where you may not find your uncle to protect and guard you, as he will while he yet lives. But you must remember to go to God, as did Moses, with YOUR oblations, elevating your interior will to the reception of heavenly influx; and you will then be guarded as the angels are, and safely guided in your pilgrimage to your final home in the spirit-world. Do you feel much interest in the thoughts of another life, Alice?"
               "O yes, dear uncle; tell me of the heavenly world and the homes of the angels! They seem sometimes to encircle me, or burst out so brightly upon my silent thoughts and musings."
               "Read your Bible, Alice, yet more and more. It is the medium of conjoining man to God and heaven. While you read the Word in the letter, and understand the history or literal sense, your angels understand the internal Word, and you will be illustrated and imbued with that power and fullness, in filling the recipient forms of the mind, that will give you the blessed light of truth, as an ever-burning beacon to light you and lead you to all goodness, and thence wisdom, and a warning against all moral evil. It is time another peal was struck, to call attention to the most important of all our interests, that of forming the character for another life, a state of existence, a higher destiny than this. What unaccountable stupidity are ministers, teachers and parents guilty of, who waive these subjects and suffer the youthful mind to be ever listening to and receiving the chaff of error and the froth and scum of works of fiction and earthly vanity, rather than the bread of life—the food of angels! Go thou, my daughter, forth on life's theater, where you will act wisely, or otherwise, for yourself, and ever look interiorly to guard the inner life."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               
                  
                     
                        "As the little flowret hideth, by the woodland stream,
                        So in youthful hearts abideth, Love's first witching dream."
                     
                  
               
               IT was merry, merry May. The sun rode high in the heavens, hastening to its summer solstice, and showering its burning beams o'er meadow and woodland, vineyards and flowers—ripening our fruits, and spinning out the tendrils of our grapevines, to shelter us in the arbors, and promising a vintage for autumn's luxuries, abundant for ourselves and friends. Every thing to please the appetite and gladden the senses might be obtained and enjoyed at Keosa. Alice was "sweet sixteen." She had not yet seen my brothers. They were now expected to spend vacation at home. Swiftly sped the hours, as the whole family were engaged in making preparations for their reception. Alice paid considerable attention to her wardrobe and toilet, and, with all her dignity and grace, was evidently in some perturbation of mind at thoughts of seeing them. Can it be that Cupid was one of her tutelar or guardian spirits, and was already fluttering in her bosom with whisperings of the future? Time will show.
               But we must leave her, and the subject before us, to give a very brief history of a time gone by, when a Providence ever to be remembered with gratitude brought us from the place of our nativity, and planted us in our western prairie home. Our "story" is a "Tale of the West," although we have, for good reasons, known to ourselves, designedly kept this in the background till the present time.
               Now then, dear reader, on the banks of the beautiful Des-Moines you may find our dwelling, in the peaceful village of Keosa. Where the Sacs and Foxes met in council, on the bluffs of this river, in 1838, in their wigwams, are now to be seen cottages in the modern style, and costly edifices, with all the appendages that constitute convenience and elegance, with a temple for worship with the inscription, "A house of prayer for all people."
               Upon the broad bosom of the prairies, once owned by these Indian tribes—then covered with the desert brier, the ivy and clematis—are vineyards and fruit fields now, emulating the fairest of Normandy and vieing with La Belle France for luxuriance.
               Fashionable parties and pic-nics are made upon the same shores, in view of the same streams, where the Indian women paddled their canoes, not more than fifteen years ago, and gathered the wild rice from its native bed. Numberless small lakes, springs and rivers flow romantically through this undulating meadow-land, adorning and fertilizing, till at last they pour their limpid treasures into the great Mississippi.
               Our government purchased this territory of the Indians in 1840; and in 1842 it was surveyed and began to be settled by thousands of immigrants from all parts of the United States, and many even from Europe.
               While others were attracted by the fine soil, healthy climate and productive mines of Iowa, my father, who purchased a thousand acres on the south-east portion, was governed, in selecting this as his future home, by motives chiefly of a moral character. He had been a slaveholder in St. Louis, and, as this great western metropolis increased in population and wealth, he was awakened to a deep sense of the evils of slavery and a conscientious regret for the unlawful subjugation of this degraded and helpless race. But the moral condition of slaveholders he considered more deplorable than the slave, and he determined to free both himself and family from this forced and unnatural relation; and, although three-fourths of his wealth consisted in his negroes, being his paternal inheritance, he would no longer violate his conscience and reason by holding them in slavery—and the death of my mother, who urged him, in her last moments, to listen to his convictions of duty on the subject, hastened his purpose. At the end of that year he called together his whole black family, and, giving them advice relative to their condition as free men, he liberated the whole stock.
               "Thank God!" said he, "it is over, and I am now a free man myself."
               But our house servants, old John, and Susa, and their six children, now grown, refused their freedom. They loved my father as a kind master, and he allowed them to remain with us, and finally settled on each, a sum equivalent to a life service.
               All these matters arranged, he looked for another location for his family, and, exploring the wild lands of Missouri and Iowa, he selected the section above named, just deserted by the Indians, who had retreated to the Rocky Mountains, and laid out a portion of it in village lots for sale, and gave it the name of Keosa (the name of an Indian chief).
               Six months after, difficult and expensive as it was to obtain materials and mechanics, he had a house completed on the most eligible site on the farm joining the village lots, and speedily removed his family, consisting only of my two brothers, Chancey and Herbert, and myself, with the eight blacks above named.
               The style of our house was entirely unique—a true sample of my father's taste, who said and did every thing according to some correspondence. It was something like a tent of olden time, with its sloping roof, its dormer windows, and its continuous rooms in front and folding doors, its long white corridor, and green lattice blinds. It was beautiful to me, without a turret, spire or tower—a real cottage, but not a modern one.
               My brothers had attended the classical institutes in St. Louis, while I had been placed in a convent a Nazareth, in Kentucky. They were now ready to enter college, but were so delighted with the idea of a life in the country, and so anxious to aid the improvements on the farms, that my father permitted them to remain at home another year, and, with the servants and other laborers employed, they soon transformed our prairie—laying out fields for grain, planting gardens and setting out fruit trees, vineyards, shrubs and plants, that soon repaid their toil; and, ere they left, a sloping garden, on the sunny south side, afforded abundance of flowers, as well as vegetable productions; and they had the pleasure of seeing the vines creep over the trellises their own hands had framed, and deep-dyed floral beauties adorn the borders of their terraced walks. We furnished our house neatly, and added a piano and guitar; for I had graduated the year before, and my music was my chief delight, as my brothers took great interest and pleasure in my performance.
               In the nunnery where I received my education, I formed some female acquaintances from the South, where I spent one vacation with a family and friend I am about to introduce to the reader's notice.
               The convent alluded to had its novelties and attractions, though I never understood why I was placed here for an education till after I left it. But my father had his reasons for this, as well as every thing else, which were, he has since informed me, that he dreaded less evil there than in the fashionable boarding schools; and many young ladies, from St. Louis and other western and southern places, were receiving their education here at that time.
               I was taken through a very rigid course, and have reason to believe that the discipline of the institution, the severity of the teachers and the questionable conduct of some engaged in it, gave me a dislike to study; and I am sure that the impressions I received there will never be forgotten. The awe-inspiring presence of the Abbess, Mother Catharine, with her thick linen cap and deep plaited frill, and unbending stately form, gave me a shuddering sense of her superiority, and many unpleasant anticipations. The nuns, too, moving off in single file to vespers every night, counting their beads, and chanting their "Ave-Marias," gave me a gloomy sense of their religion. It was so unlike our freedom at home, and the pleasing, social and family religion of my father's house. But such were their repeated acts of devotion, and so unremitting that I thought them the most religious people in the world.
               But we will now return to Alice, and my brothers, whom we expected by the 20th.
               On that day the carriage and horses were out, and Barney, one of our blacks, drove my father to the landing, and old John rode horseback by their side, "Southern style," to see "No accident befel old master," he said, "or young master Herbert and Chancey."
               As the day wore away we grew impatient, and after night-fall, we posted Bridget and her mother, old "way-wise Susa," as we called her, out in front of the house to watch and give warning of their approach.
               I had almost given them up for that day, when, about ten o'clock, Bridget came running in, almost out of breath, with "they've all come, Miss Mary."
               I flew to the door and met them, my own dear brothers, with a tide of gushing joy at my heart, that I will not attempt to express.
               We shouted, and wept, and embraced by turns, and Chancey cried out, "Joy, joy, Mary! This is home, and our own Keosa."
               Alice now appeared, and I introduced her by saying, "this is your cousin, of whom I have been writing to you so long. She came the day after you left us."
               She extended her hand to Herbert, which he took between both his, and riveted his gaze an instant upon her face, while she blushed a crimson I had never seen her wear before, and returned a look of even deeper searching than his own.
               I have inherited some of my father's prophetic spirit, and the thought that entered now was, "those two glances met and mingled, and here will be love at first sight."
               Chancey shook her hand and kissed her cheek, with all the warmth and naturalness of a brother.
               Herbert turned his look on me, and seemed to say, "is she an angel?"
               She was dressed In a simple plaid pink gingham robe, her hair fell in natural glossy ringlets over her fair neck and shoulders. Her cheek and lip were deep carnation. Her dark hazel eye was bright and sparkling, and her form full and perfect, rather below than above the middling stature. She never could have conceived her own peerless beauty. While she had studied to enrich her mind, its envelop was perfecting in corresponding loveliness. She appeared to me superlatively beautiful.
               My father looked upon us with the moistened eye of affection, and once I detected an indrawn sigh, which, with the upturned look, told me that he was thinking of my mother. I stepped to his side and whispered, "Dear, father! she is with us!" He folded me to his heart without a word.
               Alice now brought her little brothers forward, who were kindly noticed, and then the servants all came in to see their young masters, and shake hands.
               Alice then left the room to lead her brothers to their dormitory, and Herbert said to me, "This cousin, Mary! I never was more taken by surprise. She is the veritable Venus herself! How old is she?"
               "You will be falling in love with her, I see," said I, without answering his question. "Take care, she is your own first cousin, Herbert—did you know that? But what ails you? You look sick."
               "I am," he replied. "Worn down with study, and, besides, have had an attack of your western chill fever. It met me on the way home, and doubtless designs to keep me company here."
               "I hope not," I replied, "but Alice and I will nurse you if it should, and our country air and home comforts will be good medicines for you to take."
               "Sure enough, Mary. Our Keosa is the best place I have seen yet; and, depend upon it, 'there is no place like home,' for surely 'home is where the heart is,' as I have heard them say. I want the morning to come, that I may look over the farm and orchards, and see the improvements.
               "As we leave the river and journey homeward, there is no ill-assorted scenery, but one beautifully varying prospect of rich farms and gardens, vineyards and fruit fields, all new but flourishing, and improving beyond all my expectations. Many a little village has sprang into existence since I left, and numberless cottages and farm houses, dotting the whole prairie around us.
               "But this cousin of mine, Mary? You did not tell me how beautiful and lovely she was. I am all anxiety to know more of her, and to become acquainted. With her here, and your music, Mary. O! this will be like Eden in paradise."
               "Don't be in a hurry, Herbert, there is time to get acquainted with your cousin. I did not say much about her of late in my letters, I acknowledge, for I wished to give you this glad surprise. She is as good and amiable as she is beautiful, and that is all I can tell you now."
               My father now came back into the room, and Chancey and Alice. We could not think of retirement for sleep at present. The men conversed about the farms, society, slavery and the administration, Yale College, etc., etc.
               Herbert's eye often wandered toward Alice, who was silent and thoughtful, she could not tell why. Her imagination might have been building air castles, or foreshadowing the future.
               For myself, I felt an honest pride in the superior intelligence of my father and brothers, and, as I listened, I thought how worthy of all appreciation is the masculine mind, improved and enlightened by science, truth and wisdom.
               The next day we walked over the grounds and through the fields of fruit and grain, from noon till night, occasionally resting by some spring, or loitering on the mossy banks of the Des-Moines.
               The air was fragrant with the perfumes of flowers. The honey bees buzzing their wings with a hum so cheerful as they sipped their sweets, that one would hardly dream they were working for their life, in view of winter. While the minstrelsy of the wild birds of the prairie, and the roaring of the distant rapids, gave inspiration to feeling and thought, and threw enchantment around us.
               "How beautiful is every thing at home," said Herbert. "Here, Chancey; are the grafts and buddings. How they are grown! And what pasture lots of sheep and kine. We shall have to find our old crooks, and turn shepherds again."
               "Why, father! Our prairie is an independent fortune for us."
               "Yes, Herbert. And a better fortune than our slaves were," said my father. "In ten years more this property will be worth more than all our slaves would have brought us, at the highest price in market, if I had sold them, instead of giving them—to themselves."
               "What an idea," said Chancey. "It is an abominable shame a man can not own himself. Is it not, father?"
               "It is a 
                     henious
                     heinous
                   sin to buy and sell human flesh and blood, Chancey, and I wish all slaveholders had a proper sense of it and their own responsibility."
               "How much more like a Christian I feel, in looking over these fields, than in seeing and over seeing my blacks," he continued, "Agriculture is honorable, noble, useful, and a man's mind and soul may grow here, as well as his stock and granary."
               "Professions seem less desirable than ever to me," said Herbert, "and if it were not for the necessity we are under of obtaining knowledge from books, one might almost regret the time we bestow upon them. This ought to come in more by-the-by, father. Don't you think so?"
               "Perhaps so. But my sons are like the rest of the world, I suppose, anxious to make a figure in society, and, after spending four years of the prime of manhood immured in college, will be anxious for a profession, and then ambitious for office and distinction. Young says— 
                     
                        'Man must forever heave at something great,
                        The praise of mortals or the praise of Heaven,'
                     
                  
                  If for the praise of mortals, Herbert, it is poor ambition, and the pay is poor. It would be better for both of my sons, if they would finally become agriculturists. You are now laying up knowledge, at a great sacrifice to us of your time and society. I can but hope you will use it more rationally than many men do. But I leave you in freedom, to choose your course, and you will be able to decide by the time you are through college."
               "I shall remember your advice, father, and believe it good counsel, and, unless a providence beyond my control prevent me, I will return here, and follow out your views, and be with you in your declining years. I think I prefer cultivating this rich soil, to following any profession, or stepping into any office, unless I could hold the helm of Government a few years, and make a revolution in society," he added, smiling at the great idea.
               "Conservatism is an obstinate mule," said my father, "and will be likely to hold on, Herbert; for, while men have the power, the majority will rule, right or wrong, and the 'rich will grind the face of the poor,' and the slave holder will revel in the luxuries and pleasures their slave-labor affords them, and the proud Autocrat will rule in the fiendish love of dominion, and the innocent and helpless must submit. And the worst phasis of the whole matter is, that an honest man must yield the principles dearer to him than his own life (because they are from Heaven), and vice and error must trample on the good and the true."
               "All this I see, and acknowledge," said Herbert, "and I am the more determined to settle down here with you; for here," said he emphatically, "we could be quiet and happy forever."
               I thought it time for me to speak, and said, "You would be likely to want a lady-love added to our society, I think, before you would be supremely happy, my brother."
               He smiled again, and his eye wandered after Alice. She had not heard the concluding portion of the conversation, for she had turned a little bend in the stream we were standing by, and as we moved onward and overtook her, Herbert exclaimed, "was there ever any thing half so beautiful, as this pure, purling, gurgling streamlet, cousin Alice? It flows on and onward, so happily and spiritually too. Does it not?"
               "As it corresponds to truth, it must have spirituality, and seems to represent the light that flows into the mind," she replied.
               "But water appears to me to be the melancholy element," she continued.
               "Why melancholy, Alice?"
               "Because it is ever weeping," she said.
               "Then the voice of the waters may seem to you like wailing," he answered.
               "It does at times, and then again it is plaintive and sweet, I have compared it but just now, to my earliest youth, which never smiled. It weeps on, and on. It 
                     forevever
                     forever
                   weeps. But, the spring of my grief is running dry, I believe, for I am happy now. I should be ungrateful if I were not."
               No one made answer to this, and she continued. "'The voice of the waters,' as you term it, and the music of the air harp, with the singing of birds, are nature's own music, and increase the tenderness and gladness of the heart; and here we have all these in our sweet, wild home."
               "We have, indeed," said Herbert, as he looked on her admiringly, devouring every word with a lover's appetite.
               Here little Fred, tumbled over the broken branch of a sugar maple that lay in his way, by the side of the stream, and cried lustily, for he had grazed considerable surface from his rosy check. And Alice, in springing to catch him, slid into the edge of the brook, and wet her feet, and they both had to go to the house.
               Herbert looked after her, and said, "She is a beautiful girl, I have seen no city belles half so sweet and interesting."
               "She has improved materially under your sister's tutelar care," said my father. "Her early youth, was indeed one of grief and tears, and we remarked the first year concerning her, that she never laughed as others do; although she would always smile when spoken to. She is a model of the good and pure affections, but whether she will ripen into a celestial genius on earth, or in heaven, God knows. You Herbert will study her character, and probably discover new beauties in her mind and disposition, but, you must remember, she is your cousin," he added smiling.
               "You and sister Mary have agreed together to give me this warning, I believe," he said. "But is there really any harm or danger in all that?"
               "Well," said my father, let us not follow out the idea now. We will go to the house, as I see you are weary and look ill. But let me assure you. Mary and I have entered into no agreement to warn you, or obstruct your happiness."
               
                  I wondered what my father's views really were on the subject, and if he saw, as I did, that the die was already cast.
               As we drew near the house, we heard the piano and her voice.
               "Does she sing and play too," said Herbert, a little surprised.
               Here her rich, full voice, sounded out clear and sweet, unconscious as she was of listeners, and Chancey, who was always in raptures when a lady sang, rushed into the house and music room, while Herbert stood as if entranced or spell-bound.
               But all at once the music ceased, and Herbert followed Chancey, and threw himself on the sofa, carelessly observing, "Play on cousin, you make sweeter music than tho 'air harp,' or 'the waters,' or 'the birds,' and I, being rather an invalid, will e'en compose myself here and listen."
               Alice colored at hearing her own words repeated, and at the thought of being overheard in her music, and objected to going on with it.
               But Herbert said, "Waive all ceremony, cousin, and play for me. I really wish to hear you, and I intend to make the most of my privileges with you two ladies to-day, for tomorrow I shall have a sick day with my old friend, the ague and fever."
               But Alice again declined, and Herbert said, "Well. Mary, you will play for me. It is a long time since I have heard you; and, cousin Alice, you will not object, will you, to sit by me with your fan, and keep away the flies, and I will shut my eyes and rest, for I am warm and weary."
               Alice obeyed, and took her book and fan, and seating herself not very near him, observed, playfully, "You were used to have slaves to do your bidding in your youth, and I fear you like the association yet."
               "I do indeed, if my fair cousin is to be slave," said he unguardedly.
               Alice blushed and I began to speculate. I intended to watch the life current of love in them, though it coursed not through my own veins. But I commenced playing, and Chancey sat by me, listening, and now and then glancing at Herbert and Alice, giving me a knowing look. For half an hour all was still but my "lute and song." I thought Herbert had fallen asleep; but as I paused and turned to look at my silent listeners, Herbert started up, saying, "I wonder if they sing and play in the spirit land?"
               "Why?" said Alice; "have you been translated thither?"
               "I believe so," he answered, "But at any rate the music is sweet, as well as the association," he said, glancing at her glowing countenance.
               "Please don't repeat all my words," said Alice; "I shall never dare to speak to you again."
               "Pardon me," he said, "and show that you forgive, by consenting to take your seat at the piano, and play for us now." Then turning to me, he said, "Your French songs are very difficult, Mary; but your fine fingering gives them a charm."
               "Indeed, brother; but what do you know about difficult music?" said I.
               "A young lady where we boarded, in New Haven, played the same pieces, and she complained."
               "Ah, my brother! so you have young lady acquaintances in New Haven that play for you, have you? and you were thinking of them while I was playing for you? When you are through college perhaps you will bring one of them with you?"
               The color forsook the check of Alice for a moment, which betrayed her heart; but Herbert did not see it, and remarked,
               "I think not. But look out for Chancey. I think he is forming a very serious attachment with the same young lady I alluded to."
               "That is the reason he listened so thoughtfully," said I. "I am beginning to find out your secrets, my dear brothers."
               "Come, cousin," said Herbert, "we are waiting for you. Give me something about the spirit world. I may be there ere long." I handed her the sheet containing the "Messenger Bird." I knew just how she sang the music to it and judged it would please Herbert and answer his request about the "spirit land." She commenced tremulously at first, but gained courage as she progressed, and sang, with touching pathos, and concluded with (looking at Herbert) 
                     
                        "Do they love there still? Say—oh—say?—
                        
                           Do—they—love—THERE—still?"
                     
                  
               
               These last lines were prolonged in heavenly cadence. Herbert had left the sofa, and stood by her side with his eyes riveted eted on her spiritual countenance, dizzy with the gaze. The depths of hers were unfathomable. A threefold trinity of melodious sounds were mingled with a trinity of graces, and gave her irresistible attraction. My father, too, had entered the room; for, some how or other, he always heard Alice play and sing, let him be where he would. Music, that universal note that reaches all hearts, had its true charm for him.
               "There is something beautifully spiritual in the words and music both," said my father, who was first to break silence. While he spoke, he looked as if he read all our hearts as well as realized the nearness of the spirit world. As for Alice, the angels looked through her eyes, if ever they did through the eyes of mortals. But she could not quite define the power that was as a spell around us. Herbert listened to hear her speak again, as though he was to have a revelation from Heaven, I mentally exclaimed, O Love, thou descendest from the "gods"—a derivation from angel spheres! Thou fillest all recipient forms. The purest received most immediately and fully.
               "There is a sphere flowing forth from every one," said my father, seeming to commence where he had left off (though there had been a spell-bound silence), "and from the affection of his loves, which he may perceive as clearly as we do the perfumes of flowers. If we study mind and character, we may understand this and perceive its true origin. For, as we allow our minds to be elevated, and ascend from the sensual and corporeal spheres, we may become interior and spiritual, and shed the gross deformity of the natural, assuming internal forms of true beauty. For these forms are portrayed in the voice and in the moral atmosphere around us; and this may be seen as clearly as the peculiar features of our friends are known by their reflex in the Camera obscura. This will be overlooked by those in negative qualities; but the wise and intellectual will see it, or perceive; for it is from the perceptive faculty rather than the understanding. The vail that separates us from this land of souls is very thin, when the mildew of sin is washed away. 'The spheres of the angels are their loves of the good and the true.'"
               There was no reply made to all this; but each seemed absorbed by one idea, which was of love, of Alice, and the angel spheres.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Yes, I do love thee, as the flowers love light and air,
                        As night its stars, and earth its glorious sun;
                        
                        As the crushed heart loves lone and earnest prayer,
                        So love I thee, thou pure and earnest one."
                     
                  
               
               THE next day Herbert was sick, as he predicated. The chill came on before breakfast, and fever followed. He required, like all other men, a great deal of nursing and attention. Bridget, and Chancey, and myself, were at his service all the forenoon.
               In the afternoon his fever abated and he called for Alice. She had not seen him that day, nor since the conversation of my father the evening previous. She usually devoted her evenings to her brothers and to reading.
               "Herbert calls you," said I. "He is on the sofa in the parlor, Alice. Take a book and read to him to prevent his talking. He is quite sick, and must keep quiet."
               As she entered the room she said to him, "You are really sick, cousin Herbert, as you prophesied."
               "Yes," he answered; "but if you will sit by me and fan me, as you did yesterday, it will cool my fever and I shall get better soon. Feel my pulse, Alice. It is up to a hundred, I believe. But sit you down, and let me dream again of that 'spirit land, where there are undying strains of music and no sickness or pain,' and where—they—love—there—still!"
               Alice placed her trembling little fingers upon his wrist and commenced to count.
               "Not so fast, Alice. Your hand trembles, and you don't count right."
               Alice gave back his hand hurriedly, and said, "Let me get some cool water and bathe your head and wrists."
               "Do," he said; "for my head is bursting with pain, and throbs equal to my pulse. Great heavens!" he said, as she left the room, "it is well enough to be sick if Alice will nurse me."
               She returned with water, and, dipping her fingers, she run them over his forehead, and temples, and wrists. He closed, his eyes, and none but heaven knew his thoughts; for God only knows the undefinable emotions of the hearts he has formed for each other and brought together to love their first love. He soon found or feigned sleep, and Alice put down her cup of water and took her book.
               When he looked up, Alice was resting her elbow on the book, looking intently into his face.
               
               "Are you better?" she said. "I think you have been sleeping."
               "Yes, I am better. I was sweetly mesmerized by your electric fingers. There is something in animal magnetism, after all, I am now convinced. But you should have put me into the perfect state, that I might have been clairvoyant; for then they are in communication of thoughts—the magnetized with the magnetizer—and I should have known yours. Were they of love?"
               "Let me call Mary," she said. "Your mind wanders."
               "Don't call her," he said; "I am not bewildered or deranged. I am entranced, I think, and she might dispel the vision."
               But I had entered the room, without calling, in time to hear the remarks, and Alice, who now observed me, said, "Mary, his mind wanders, I am sure. He talks very wildly."
               He is falling deeply in love, thought I. But I said to him, "You must be quiet, brother. Did I not make you promise you would not talk?"
               "You did, I believe; and I will be still and quiet now. Let Alice read aloud, and I will not speak again."
               Alice read, and Herbert listened, his eyes closed. But the same power stole again over his senses. Instead of sleeping or hearing a word of the subject, he recalled the words of his father about spheres. He reasoned, as well as he was able, upon the truth that affections flow forth from the soul, like the insensible perspiration of the body, or like perfumes from flowers, and are perceived, as the odor or fragrance is imbibed by the sense of smell.
               "This power, then, that so palpably pervades my senses, is the sphere of Alice and the force of her affections. This is clear. Then she must be willing, at least, to love me, or how could I receive this from her? and alas for my heart if she is now! for I see clearly that I should feel a repugnance to her influence if I was unwilling or averse to her, instead of feeling, as I do, that I—am—in—love. But there must be something back of all this, It is as my father said—her angels flow into her affections, and shed forth this, through her. This is wonderful, and shows me the concurrence of Heaven in relation to a union of affection between us. This is telling me about the spirit world in a way I never understood before."
               Nor did he yet understand how that a true woman's heart is the nearest to God of anything that he has made, except the celestial angels that are constituted the mediums of her love.
               I saw that Venus was presiding—as we heathens say—with unclipt wings, and her potent influence was sweet and wildering.
               But Herbert did, at length, fall into a refreshing sleep, and Alice betook herself to interior prayer and blessed meditation. When reason guides the helm, she is a skillful pilot, and there is but little danger of becoming disorderly.
               There was but one way for Alice, she must follow her interior teaching, and give herself, her life, her all, to the stream of the Divine Providence, thence to be led, for "weal or woe." It was scarcely two days since the arrival of Herbert, but they had been days of the most intense interest and agitation to Alice. But her tumultuous feelings now subsided, and she rested all with her guardians, and they were indistinctly foreshadowing the future.
               Alice looked again into Herbert's face, as he quietly slept, and then at me, and said, "If he sleeps a little longer, and has pleasant dreams, he will awake refreshed; he will be well."
               "Do you think so," said I. "I hope your thought, given in the spirit of prophecy, will prove true."
               Dr. Abercrombie states, that "there is a strange analogy be tween dreams and insanity." And Dr. Rush says that "a dream is a transient paroxysm of delirium, and delirium a permanent dream," or may be thus considered.
               Others suppose our dreams are but a reflex of our waking thoughts, and some maintain that they are real exponents of the soul's true character, and we must look well to our waking thoughts and lives, if we would have pleasant dreams.
               Alice said she "inclined to the latter sentiment, for if she had bad waking thoughts, she was sure to have troubled dreams, but she always laid the blame on her evil genius, that she might not feel guilty."
               I could not help smiling at her innocent ingenuousness, and, as Herbert awoke, she left the room.
               He was indeed much better, and after tea we strolled into the garden for the fresh air. We were alone, and conversed long and confidentially together about Alice, and her father and family. Any other subject at this time, would not have been as interesting to him. Or thus I judged.
               And now reader, as my brother is the hero of the story, I will give thee a brief description of his person and character.
               His phrenological developments were distinct, exerting a controlling influence, in the direction of his mind. His perceptive faculties very large. His conscientiousness, and hope, and veneration, quite prominent. His ideality produced an extravagant sense of beauty. His intellectual faculties were to be of the highest order, fond of experimental rather than theoretical philosophy. The organ of causality not equal to his practical intellect. His enjoyments more intellectual than sensual. He had clear conceptions, vivid emotions, and was often impulsive. He had power to communicate his ideas forcibly, and a facility and playfulness of expression, which I thought admirable in so youthful a spirit.
               He was fastidious, however, in many things; nor would he bend or cater to the opinions of others, where their correctness was questionable, and clashed with his views of order and right. He was high minded, therefore, and scrupulously truthful on all subjects, and possessed of deep feeling.
               His physiology was striking, No grossness, but tall and well-formed. A fine black eye, beaming with intelligence. High forehead, and dark chestnut hair. A pleasant smile and full manly voice.
               He was a handsome man. A man 
                     ef
                     of
                   correct views and good principles. A young man that honored his father, treasured the memory of his deceased mother with sacred regard and affection, intimate with his brother, and—loved his sister. He resembled his father in mind and person. He was now in his twentieth year, and bore the same name of my father—Herbert Goodman. The reader will not think it strange that he was likely to win the heart of Alice Granger.
               I saw no more of her that evening, or the next day, except at meals, when she was smiling and cheerful as she always was. Herbert was quite well again. My father and his sons rode into the country, among the farms and tenants, in all probability calculating their income, and looking into the temporals of the future.
               Alice never had time hang heavy on her hands, for her brothers were kept perfectly neat and well dressed, with the labor of her own hands, and I never heard her call a servant to wait upon them. Besides, no scrupulous school teacher was ever more faithful in the instruction of her pupils than she was, in bringing them forward in their lessons.
               The gentlemen returned in time for early tea, and we all met again at the table. Chancey was telling us how plump and plenty the prairie chickens were, and how many he hunted down and brought home, when Alice stole away from us, and we saw her enter the garden and walk among the flowers.
               Herbert and I followed. As we approached she seated herself in the summer house, with hands full of flowers, looking rather embarrassed. Perhaps the extravagant language Herbert used the day before occurred to her.
               He plucked the flowers of a rose geranium and the mignonette and offered them, saying, "Have you studied the language of flowers, cousin Alice?"
               "Yes, partially. They all have correspondences, and are doubtless what some modern Botanist has called them, the alphabet of the angels."
               "A beautiful idea," said Herbert. "The language of flowers is sweet and truthful, often touching in their emblems. The flowers that bloom in paradise are said to be exponents of angelic affections."
               "If that be true," said Alice, "what must the evil affections of bad spirits produce?"
               "The appearance of poisonous herbs, and bitter weeds, and evil scented flowers, I suppose," he answered, "true representatives of their errors and vices, and real correspondences of their sensual spheres. How startling is the fact and how important that we should be divested of our evils, and subject the natural mind to the control of the intellectual and internal faculties and affections."
               My brother was preaching what Alice understood quite as well as he did, and I was thinking of what Harriet Martineau says, that "the mood of a virtuous passion is religious," and indorsing her sentiment, when I saw father and Chancey approaching, and thinking that they might enjoy their interview better tete-a-tete. I left them to speculate in the field their deep subject opened before them, and converse as their inclination and genius might lead them.
               They did converse long and alone, and when they came in, they seemed to have made a month's acquaintance, and after this they progressed as easily and naturally in their course of true love, as streams mingle and flow on together. We all made our comments and conclusions on the subject, but there was no use or necessity for regulating the tide that bore them onward. That they loved from the first was evident, and I believe they were both conscious of it. That they were formed for each other was apparent; she a form of good he of truth.
               "The essential of love and marriage is unition of minds," and mind is formed by good and truth. Unition of minds, then, is just such as the truths and goods are from which they are formed. Those from genuine truths and goods must be the most perfect.
               It is said that nothing loves another more than truth loves good, and that from a union of truth with good descends true wedded or conjugal love. This love is filled with interior delight, and perpetuated and perfected throughout eternity."
               
               "Truth receives good, and good loves truth, and as far as truth with man is conjoined to good, so far is man united to the Lord and heaven." "Thence is the very origin of true love, and if the intellectual would receive and believe it, it is the very plane of the Divine influx." And hence it is, doubtless, that heaven, or the kingdom of heaven, in the Word, is compared to a marriage, and that the Lord is called the bridegroom and husband, and heaven, with the Church, is the bride and wife. The love, then, that brings and binds together two minds or souls, that are receptive of genuine good and truth, viewed in itself, from interior perception, is innocence; for every thing delights the minds of those in love (as it does infants); for heaven, it is clear, flows into each of the things of their life, and love represents the most beautiful things."
               Under the similitude of a dream, was once represented two beautiful youths, who were betrothed, a male and female. "They seemed encompassed with a bright cloud which was around them, as though the affections and thoughts that flowed from their minds had formed it. It seemed as an adamantine aura, sparkling with rubies, which seemed to be the delights flowing forth from love. It was perceived also that these delights flowed from the heart, diffusing themselves most softly through all the fibers of the soul, with an inmost sense of gratification, and that their life was happiness itself."
               When memory recalled this that I had read, I thought of Herbert and Alice, and I thought again of Miss Martineau's words, that "the soul in this state is in the very temple of worship, and nothing in heaven is too glorious for its sympathy, and nothing in hell can appal its heroism." Moreover, she says, "the soul attains perfection in this state; pride, envy, earthliness, trouble us no more. We feel as if hovered with the celestial wings of Heaven, and as if we were its favored ones."
               But we must leave this interesting subject, and the lovers, for a time, and introduce our readers to some of our friends. And if they are very discerning, they may trace the commencement of another "tale of love," aside from our hero and heroine; and, if they are patient, they will see the conclusion of the whole matter.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               
                  
                     
                        "The storied East hath classic shades, nymph-haunted stream and dell,
                        Round which the tropic sunlight fades with an unearthly spell,
                        And France her vine-clad hills and plains, where purpling sunbeams rest—
                        But give to me my mountain home, with peace and freedom blest."
                     
                  
               
               THIS day my father received a letter from Tennessee. It was from an old friend of his, Mr. Castelle.
               He informed us that "his son George, and daughter Cora and himself, would be with us in a few days to spend the hot months, and rusticate among the Indian wig-wams."
               "Mary," said my father, "did you not tell me, a year ago, that George Castelle was married?"
               "Yes, sir," said I, "Cora wrote me the news, and I know he was engaged to Miss Brady, when I was in Tennessee, four years ago."
               "His father does not mention his wife in the letter. I should think he would not leave her at home so long. If he did marry at the time you suppose, he will be apt to bring his wife, I think, and you must be ready to receive a house full of blessings; for such I consider that family, whom I have known so long and so well."
               "Perhaps he was not married and is coming here to see my sister Mary, particularly," said Chancey.
               "A good idea," said Herbert, "and I don't doubt that is the case."
               "I do not doubt but that, he will be pleased to see me 'particularly,'" "I replied, but he is a married man, for all that. His sister wrote me the whole story."
               "I should like to know whether a good man that loves his wife, would be willing to leave her alone, to pine in the South this hot summer long, and himself 'rusticating' among our cool streams and wood prairie. There is something more in all this than meets the eye, you may depend upon it, Mary. I am getting to see into the future lately, I believe," said he playfully, stealing a look at Alice. "He has lost his wife if he did marry, or why is she not to be of the party? and if he has, why so young, he—"
               "Be careful brother mine, that you do not see into the future too far. Your mirth-loving spirits are turning your wise head. Causality is wide awake to-day. Look out for to-marrow."
               "What then?" he questioned.
               "Well, you may have another chill-and-fever, and if the organ of intellect between comparison and benevolence, called intuition tion, be as susceptible as it was a few days ago, when your fever was on, you will be able to see the condition of things without a cause-and-effect investigation."
               "See the condition of what things, Mary?"
               "Don't, I beg of you, make me repeat your words. Alice thought your mind wandered, but I think you were only getting hold of this 'seeing-into-the-future,' or, was you 'hovered by the wing of angels,' as a favored author says one is, when falling in love? What do you say to that? Are you prepared for another flash?"
               "No, not now, my dear sister, for I confess your lightning is the sharpest. But," he said, "you may hear from me again. I don't yield my position, till the proof positive appears."
               Father smiled, and Chancey shouted a ringing laugh at our "sharp-shooting," and Alice was so much embarrassed as to blush and leave the room.
               The very next day our friends arrived, a week sooner than we expected them.
               Herbert was not quite recovered from his indisposition, and had retired, and Chancey and Alice helped me to do the agreeable in receiving and welcoming our friends.
               Father was delighted to meet with his old acquaintance, the elder Mr. Castelle, and Cora and myself were full of joy at meeting once more. It was a visit she had been long contemplating to me, and she was all animation, beautiful and smiling, as though her heart was full of happiness.
               Mr. George Castelle brought no wife, and, more than that, he looked pensive and absent minded. He had not married happily, I feared, and I endeavored to give him a cordial reception, in compassion at the thought. He said, "Sister Cora, is in fine spirits. She was enjoying her freedom, previous to wearing the chain matrimonial, which she would have to assume in a few months."
               When we retired for the night, Cora informed me that "her brother's wife was gone into the spiritual world, leaving an infant now nearly a year old. "That her other brother, William (to whom we shall have occasion to introduce the reader), was in New Orleans studying a profession, and was so wild and headstrong, that her parents and brother were very much afraid he would become dissolute in habits and in principle. We had great conversations about our convent days, and the Catholic sisters and pupils at the nunnery.
               Herbert was introduced the next day, and pleased with the junior Castelle. He had never seen him before. Chancey was delighted with the southern manners of Miss Cora. "So easy and playful, "he said, and her singing and songs were "so lively and exhilarating."
               She sang and played fashionably at least, was sociable and agreeable, which suited him, for he was a young man of a glad-some and mirthful spirit, not as intellectual as Herbert—but he was young yet, only about eighteen.
               Time flew swiftly and happily by. We were all well paired in social affinities. My father and the elder Mr. Castelle, Cora and Chancey, Alice and Herbert and Mr. George Castelle and myself. For thus we seemed always to slide together in walking and conversation.
               Herbert had but one more attack of chill and fever, and that was slight. Relaxation from study, the fine air of Iowa, and the medicinal beverage of love, cured him.
               He and Alice were seen every day, in the garden and summer house, among the flowers, studying their language and correspondences, and progressing in knowledge, in their own "temple of science," where their affection and affinity for each other advanced without molestation or casualty as yet—a happy lot which none can understand but those who are initiated.
               Every day they read to each other from favored authors, and looked as happy and beautiful as they really were.
               I asked the opinion of George and Cora concerning them. Cora thought her "very pretty," and George said "she was a rare model of native grace."
               One hot evening in June, we were walking out for the enjoyment of the cooler air, when we became weary and sat down on a natural terrace, by our sloping lawn, when Alice and Herbert, who were first in the procession, walked on, not observing our stop.
               George C. remarked, "Miss Granger is a beautiful girl, and grows moro and more interesting as one becomes better acquainted with her. Your brother, Miss Mary," he said, "appears to appreciate her loveliness and excellence. Is her conversation really so absorbing to him as it appears to be?"
               "I don't know what they find to talk about so constantly," said I. "I suppose their world of mind enlarges as they people it with images from the fancy and imagination. But they are both very young, too young to think of a serious attachment, perhaps. Besides, they are first cousins."
               "Are they," he answered; "I was not aware of that."
               Here followed an animated conversation about marrying cousins.
               The elder Mr. Castelle did not think it right, the younger did not agree with him, and related some happy instances where "cousins were very happy in wedded life."
               My father quoted Scripture and Josephus history, to prove it an ancient custom, and asserted "that Sarah was Abraham's niece, and Rebecca and Isaac were cousins." Chancey said, "If it was right then, why was it not now?" Cora said, "It would be a ruthless act to prevent a certain pair of cousins from marrying, if they were constant." And I added, "That the interdict, in the old version of the Bible's preface, of 'a man may not marry his grandmother,' &c., was doubtless only editorial;" and George said "it was 'apocryphal.' he knew, for a man ought to marry any woman that loved him."
               All this afforded some mirth, but we dropped the conversation as Herbert and Alice came back to us inquiring what pleased us so well? But we did not satisfy their curiosity, and finished our evening stroll in mutual happiness.
               When July came we went abroad more. The mower had thrust in his scythe and the reaper his sickle, and the harvest was plenteous and abundant. The laborers were at rest, and nature seemed languid and weary after disburthening herself of her teeming vegetation.
               My father and brothers were at entire liberty, and free from care, and we gave the servants their harvest holidays, and we made parties on horseback, into the old hunting grounds of the Indians—rested in the dilapidated wigwams—and drank the pure cold water from the same streams that slaked their thirst, pouring out our sympathy for their luckless lot, and joining in good wishes for them, and the advancement of the arts of civilized life.
               The men hunted the prairie fowls, and angled in the streams, and the ladies accompanied them. We had pic-nics, also, of the most rural character.
               On the western bank of the Des-Moines the Sacs had planted a grove, and in the center was an old "lodge," where many a war debate and council had doubtless been held, and many appeals to the "Good Spirit" been made. It was ten miles from Keosa, but we determined to have a pic-nic there.
               The day was fixed, and the weather was fine, and we sent out the servants, with baskets of provisions, and luxuries for refreshments, early in the morning.
               There was a French family near the spot, Mr. DeClunes, who cultivated vineyards and manufactured wine for the St, Louis market. We sent an invitation, by the servants, for them to join us, and we started our whole cortege in fine spirits. Our invited guests were on the spot when we arrived. They had brought on their best Catawba wine, and early melons, harvest pears and apples, which were a luxury to us, as our fruit trees were scarcely old enough to bear. They had lived here before the tribes had left, and could tell us many pleasing anecdotes about them.
               This was a great delight to our Southern friends, who had keen appetites for stories of a wild and rural character. We partook of our refreshments, served out upon a white cloth upon the grass, with a high relish, and social life never before appeared to possess so many charms for me.
               After we had dined the colored people, ours and Mr. DeClunes's, all surrounded the cloth, sitting on the grassy carpet, and devoured the fragments and drank of the wine, as blithe and jocund as the prairie birds that carolled in the grove.
               Herbert had taken the guitar, and Cora and Alice played some lively appropriate airs, and the blacks, who love music and can dance any where, were seen, through the trees, tripping the "light fantastic too" in merry mood.
               O! these were golden days for the owners of Keosa. Our prairie was becoming a pleasant country, and our village rapidly populating and improving.
               The lots my father was constantly selling off, were increasing his wealth, and spreading his fame as an ingenious agriculturist. Many were seeking small farms near the village, and Keosa seemed to possess superior attractions.
               Mr. George Castelle made a heavy purchase of a quarter section on the western portion, advertised lots for sale, and reserved a handsome elevated location for himself. He thought he might sell his slaves, and settle here, in a free state, some day himself.
               As these matters were being conversed upon in Herbert's presence, he said, "Mr. Castelle, we shall be happy to have you for a neighbor. We will become a reformed 'tribe,' follow agriculture, and all live in a quiet way, exempted from the trammels of fashion and politics." Alice gave me a knowing look, as though she recollected the conversation the day before they arrived.
               But the time had now elapsed that limited their stay with us.
               My father had business that called him down the river below Hannibal, and he thought he should go on to St. Louis. He had postponed his business some time, and he proposed, to the elder Mr. Castelle, to go on with him and Herbert, a week sooner than George and Cora wished to start, and they could join their father at the city, where they wished to make a short visit, and all go on to Tennessee together. But Herbert must go with him, he said, for he wanted him as evidence in a matter of litigation.
               This part of the announcement did not please Herbert, for he was fastened to Keosa with those cords that are stronger than any love of pleasure of excitement of traveling. He felt as if he could not leave before October, and then he knew he must return to Yale. But my father showed him it was necessary, and he prepared to go, of course.
               The day before they, left, Alice and Herbert were seen in their usual retreat, in the garden among the flowers, and then in the summer house.
               They were gone longer and later than usual. It was time they should come in, and I stole out after them, with an indistinct idea of witnessing a parting scene. As I entered one end of the arbor, I saw them standing at the extremity of the other, as I supposed, just starting for the house. But my attention was arrested by catching Herbert's words.
               "Yes, Alice, I must leave you for a time, and I have sadness at my heart at the thought, a kind of presage that whispers we are about to part forever. I am not given to gloomy feelings, but I cannot shake this off."
               "I, too, have premonitions of a coming evil. But, Herbert, all things, every particular of our lives, is under the Divine control. Then why should we be sad at any intimation of a change in state or prospect. I will be like this flowering reed, I will have confidence in heaven. But I will tell thee, Herbert, what I saw last night. I would fain have kept it from thee, but that the same presentiment falls upon thy spirit.
               "As I was thinking of our coming separation, and of your return to college, after all was still and sleeping but myself, I was startled by seeing a stranger face and form, dark looking and disagreeable, and there were' a group of beings clustering around him indistinctly—and the sun, which I thought was in a could, suddenly shone out, and I saw more clearly, and shuddered at their looks and actions. I was wondering how it should be so dark all around me, and yet I saw the sun shine distinctly upon them. But as I marveled at the vision, the sun itself grew dark, almost covered with a black spot, as though it was eclipsed, and a rude blast swept by and all was gloom. I turned my head upon my pillow, and closed my eyes to find a light within. But I could not have the mystery solved, and again I was startled by a low rushing and confused noise, and, looking up, I saw the crowd of beings in a misty cloud, moving slowly, as in a column, out of the window, So it faded and lessened, till it was all gone."
               Herbert grasped the two hands of Alice. "Evil portends," he said, "and I cannot leave you. And yet I must, unless some other providence prevent. And if I must, O! pledge yourself to me, now in this solemn hour, while yet you may. Other than thou, dearest, never could I love. Thou art my soul's other part—'my better half.' I am drawn nearer to my God by thee, I—love—thee! and thy blessed angels, Alice! my own one! Thou art my world! my life! my all! All my youthful fancy ever idealized I have found in thee. Speak, Alice! Say thou art mine, before these evil omens are fulfilled. Together, we may 'bide the blast,'"
               "O, say no more, dear Herbert. I am thine, and thine only. I perceived that thou wert mine, and I was thine. I was formed for thee. Though thou are absent in thy person, the spirit's home is with me here. Our love is indissoluble and eternal. Rays from the same sun meet and mingle, and they still shine on, they are forever poured out, and cannot return. The love-light from the rays of the eternal! Sun of love is in our hearts, mingling his beams unceasing. Union of souls is eternal union."
               Herbert still held her hands and in a firmer grasp, when she upraised them, high as her forehead, and for a moment rested them there, saying, in the action, "Father in heaven, we are one in thee!" and Herbert responded, "We are one in thee, O God!"
               As their hands fell, their lips met.
               "And now," said Herbert, "I shall have but one object in life: to grow wise and good for thee and Heaven, my Alice. No earthly cross or sorrow can dissever now, for our bliss is one, and reciprocally pure and perfect. What God has thus 'joined together, let not man put asunder.' Interiorly, we can never be separated; for love like ours is indissoluble and eternal, as thou hast said, when based on higher love. It may be necessary that we separate in body, but our hearts will ever be looking to each other. And(he added in the words of an admired poet), 
                     
                        'Like that flower, that turns to meet the sun,
                        And drink its radiance till the day is done,'—
                        So turns my heart to thee, my pure and only one."
                     
                  
               
               The light of pure love was around them, as a halo of sacred unity, "O, may no sorrow shed its bitter herbs into their cup," I prayed, as hand in hand they left the arbor, like the first pair in Eden.
               In this holy betrothal, soul met soul in innermosts. The inner life was unfolded, thoughts of earth unheeded. The pulse of the spiritual organism was full, and Heaven itself yielded its own pure element for respiration and reciprocation. They left an aura, filled with fragrance shed from cherub wings, which seemed to remain long after they both were gone away. These perfumes die not. They are scattered in the intellectual and moral atmosphere of mind, and thence perceived and imbibed by the receptive.
               Alice—young, innocent and truly unsophisticated, and sweet as innocent, and beautiful as sweet—thus gave herself away, led by her guardian spirits, they by God himself. He only knew the end from the beginning. The angel guides, by him directed.
               Herbert, too, strong in the principles of truth and reason, was ripening into manhood, an intellectual MIND, an "image" and a "likeness," a true man. Such only are men.
               We all met soon after, at the supper table. The pensiveness that had vailed the features of Alice was gone. Her countenance was clear, calm, innocent and beautiful. Herbert's face was radiant with pure joy. His eyes like a flame of light from the intellectual sun.
               They had forgotten their premonitions of evil, for the world within had been lighted, and warmed by a love that expelled all anxious care, or shadowy doubt and fear.
               The evening was spent in animated conversation by all. The gentlemen were unusually free and eloquent.
               Mr. George Castelle, who was himself a writer, drew out his appropriate strictures upon authors, at some length. He was agreeable, talented, handsome. If I were under any obligations to confess, I should say, I was pleased with him. He finally gave the conversation a turn on music and the poets. The poems of George P. Morris had just come out, and many of his songs and ballads had been set to music.
               Miss Cora, was an admirer of Morris's songs, as well as himself. She sang many of them charmingly, and so did Alice.
               Chancey, who was a perfect enthusiast when ladies sang, now proposed that we should hear some of them, and called on Miss Castelle to play 
                     "O! a merry life does the hunter lead;"
                   which she did with animation, and fine execution. She was next invited to make her own selection. She commenced and sang, very delicately, 
                     "I never have been false to thee."
                   It was a tribute to her betrothed, no doubt. My father then called on me for his two favorite pieces;
                     "We were boys together,"
                   and— 
                     "Woodman, spare that tree."
                   These were very popular in those days, and the first was very touching and appropriate, for our elderly gentlemen were boys together and fully appreciated the merits of the song.
               Alice was next called out. Herbert handed her to the piano, and selected that sweetest and simplest of all ballads— 
                     
                        "Near the lake where droops the willow,
                        Long time ago,
                        Mingled were our hearts forever,
                        Long time ago,
                        Can I then forget thee ever?
                        No—dearest—no."
                     
                  
               
               She commenced modestly, knowing all eyes were upon her but gained her wonted confidence as she progressed, and once raised her love-lit eye to Herbert's and he returned the look she sought. She then concluded the song in the most expressive tone, look and manner, with— 
                     
                        "Thou art the star I've gained forever,"
                        Not long ago.
                     
                  
               
               Her uncle would not release her, till she had again played for him the "Messenger Bird." She did play it and sing, as I never heard another, with the true spiritual expression the words should be made to convey: 
                     
                        "Do they love there still?
                        Say—O say—do they love there still?
                        
                           Do—they—love—there—STILL?
                     
                  
               
               There was not a sound beside in the room. A sweet entrancing power cast a spell around us. As tear trembled in my father's eye; Mr. George Castelle pressed my hand; Chancey was absorbed in thought, and Herbert was wrapped as in another sphere, while he murmured low, "they do, 'they—love—there—still—.'" Memory brought back the same spiritual spheres that filled our hearts some months before, when my brothers returned.
               It has been said of the songs of Morris, that "they are like those flowers of old, born of the blood-drops that oozed from the wounded foot of the Queen of love, blushing crimson to the heart, though they bring no blush to the cheek of purity, save that of delight. His graceful purpose is to exhibit an incident in the form of an emotion, and communicate wisdom in the form of a sentiment." All poets have not motives as pure. "Byron," the same writer observes, "pierces too profoundly. Passing below the region of grace, he charges his lyre with more vehemence of passion than their strings can bear."
               There are certain tones, which, hear them when we may, we perceive them to be the accents of the angels, and we surround the band of spirits we there detect in mortal guise, and hail them as seraphs from a brighter sphere.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE proposed trip to St. Louis was deferred a few days, for there was no steamer yet due at the landing.
               All traces of presentiment had fled from the minds of the lovers. There was quiet happiness and serene peace in their outer world, a proper correspondence of their more interior states.
               Five months had passed swiftly by, and our whole family had lived an age of superlative enjoyment. But the Eden of perfect bliss is not given to mortals in this external sphere. Ours was to be disturbed, and it may be long, and under very different circumstances, when we all meet again.
               Ben, one of the men servants, who had been stationed at the landing to give notice when a boat got in, now arrived with the intelligence that the Boreas, No. 2, was putting off freight, and would start down the river about four o'clock, and would wait an hour longer, if passengers could not be ready before. There was no time to be lost, and they must go. They hurried away—my father, the elder Mr. Castelle and Herbert.
               Alice was a little flurried, and when Herbert gave her his hand and a parting kiss, there were lingering looks, fond and fearful, but no time for farewell scenes. Alas, for Alice! it was long are she held that hand again.
               When Ben returned with the carriage that bore them away, he brought her a rude boquet of mingled pine and yarrow, with a single flower of the forget-me-not, whose emblems she doubtless cherished in her heart of hearts.
               In one week, Cora and Alice became better acquainted, Herbert had engrossed so much of her time, that, previously, their real knowledge of each other had been rather superficial. They were both affianced brides, and their strongest life current rent, flowing in one channel. The mind of the writer was taking the same direction also, and, before the week had ended, there was a visit planned for the next summer, and a correspondence by letter proposed and accepted.
               After this, we began to expect the return of my father and Herbert, when Mr. Castelle and his sister would leave immediately and join their father at St. Louis, to return to Tennessee. But we only received letters that they would be detained a few days longer. Alice received one from Herbert. The contents I did not see, but a tear trickled down her cheek, as she concluded it, the first I had seen her shed for many months.
               How had the void in her soul, caused by separation from her friend, been filled during this period? I answer, by a holy affection; a spiritual substance still more pure, exalted and refined; and by thoughts the forms of such affections that were so engrossing that grief and tears were subdued and chased away. But now a fearful void was stealing into her soul, she knew not why. She took her guitar, and played the accompaniment, while she sang, Burns's "Highland Mary." It had a touching plaintiveness that suited her state and the presentiment that throbbed in her bosom.
               Late that night, after all were retired to rest, except myself and old Susa, a stranger called. He gave his name as Granger. I told him I had not the favor of his acquaintance, and begged to know if he would see my brother.
               "No madam," he replied, "I came to see my children."
               I did not like his looks, and was so agitated that I did not know what to say to him.
               "If Alice Granger and her brothers are your children," said I, "I would inform you that they are in bed and asleep, and I do not think best to wake them."
               "Very well," said he, "I can wait till morning."
               He then inquired if "Mr. Goodman was at home."
               "I regret that he is not," I answered, "and will not be for some days."
               "I suppose I can get the children, if he should not return," he said. "I have come for that purpose."
               A whole host of thoughts, of what I had heard of him, and of the foreshadowings of Alice and Herbert, came thronging upon me, and I felt my spirit rise in opposition to him and his "purpose," and I said to him, "my father considers the children his, I believe, and will not part with them, I am sure."
               "I consider the children all mine," said he, "and I do not expect to be opposed in taking them away."
               
               "Would you like to retire for the night?" said I, biting my lips to keep my temper cool, and determined he should say no more then.
               I had a sleepless night, and knew not how to break the news to Alice. I meant to oppose him, and I knew the whole family would. and if my father returned in time, I knew it could be prevented. But I was obliged to undertake the painful duty of telling Alice, and went to her room as soon as I thought she was awake, and said, "Alice! there was a man stopped here last night, who says his name is Granger."
               "Is he here now?" she quickly answered.
               "Yes. and wishes to see you and your brothers."
               She started to her feet with an exclamation of "O, Mary! it is my father?"
               "Be calm, Alice, I suppose it is. How long since you saw him?"
               "Six years; but I should know him. Must I meet him? and does he think of taking me away?" were questions she asked so plaintively, my heart ached with pain for her.
               "He shall not have you, Alice, "I said, "do not suffer the thought."
               That morning they all met before breakfast.
               "Alice," he said, with something of a father's pride, "you have grown handsome and tall. You look some like your mother."
               Alice wept a shower of tears, and the boys would not go near him. But he took up the youngest, and placed him on his knee, saying, "I have come to take you home with me, I hope you are all ready and willing to go with me."
               "I sha'nt go," said Frank. "Nor I either," said Frederick. "I am going to live with uncle Goodman, and cousin Mary."
               "We shall see about that," said he, "I want you all to be ready in a day or two, The boat I came on is to stop for us, on her return from Galena, and wait at the landing till a carriage I have engaged will come here after us."
               Alice sobbed as if her heart would break, which put a stop to his talk for that time.
               He informed us that he returned to his family one year ago, and that Mr. Grant, who lived in the neighborhood, informed him that his wife had died, and he had taken the children into this country with the mother's request. That he could not come so far at that time, and returned to New Orleans—had recently married a rich wife, and was in a profitable business besides; able to support his children, and believed it his duty to do so."
               Alice heard, trembled, and wept again. I prayed in my heart that father would return, and upset the whole matter.
               Mr. Castelle was introduced to him, and said, "I think I have seen you, sir, in Memphis?"
               "Very likely," Granger replied, "I stop there sometimes."
               Castelle told me afterward "he knew him to be a slave-dealer, and had heard of him often as he traveled up and down the river."
               The matter was talked over from time to time, and we all continually urged that nothing could be done till father's return, and I knew if we could keep them till that time, it would be prevented.
               "O!" said Alice, "if you had written and prepared my mind, I could have been better reconciled. But I could not suppose you were living, father, or you would have come back to us before, or written to us at least."
               "The knowledge that I am living seems to give you pain, rather than pleasure or gratitude," he said, rising in a huff, and walking the room.
               "If you had remained at home and aided my mother in the support of your family, and been with her to soothe her dying pangs and ease her broken heart, it would have made some difference in the pleasure I might feel at seeing you, and I should have had some cause for gratitude," she said coolly, but fearlessly.
               Alice had moral courage, and though never very loquacious, she spoke decidedly when she did speak, and was not afraid to speak the truth.
               "O!" she continued, "if uncle and Herbert were only here."
               Granger did not fly in a passion, as I expected, at her words, but coolly replied, "It is not out of the world I am going to take you, Alice. Your friends can visit you in New Orleans very often, if they choose, and you can return next spring if you are not pleased with a life in the South. I want you to see something of the world, and our Queen City. Money is very plenty, and you can have as many servants to wait upon you as you please. Why child," he said. "you never need to wash your own hands. I have lots of little niggers to come at your call, who would think it an honor."
               "There is no consolation in all that," said Alice. "I have no desire to see a servant at my side, and never expect to increase my consequence or happiness by being mistress over slaves."
               Mr. Castelle remarked, that "it could scarcely be considered proper to take the children in Mr. Goodman's absence." And, addressing Alice, he said, by way of consolation, "that she need not grieve so, there was no probability that the boat Mr. Grager spoke of as having gone on to Galena, could return under ten days, and before that time her uncle and cousin would undoubtedly return."
               Alice dried her tears, at this suggestion, and I argued again, "Why take them away, Mr. Granger? You cannot have so much affection for them as we have, and I question if the children can ever be as happy as they are here. We are all very much attached to them, and a step mother, you know, is not usually fond of a large family, especially if she have children of her own.
               "My wife has three children of her own, and—they are not much like my children, that's plain; but I wish to make a fine lady of Alice, and its natural to want one's own children. But, they need not stay more than a year, if they are home-sick and wish to return. They may all come back, if Brother Goodman thinks best."
               "Brother Goodman," thought I, "I never heard any good of you, and I don't like your cool palaver about the matter."
               Chancey now called us all into the library away from Granger, and said, "Don't trouble yourselves at all. Alice is not going to leave us even till next spring. I can prevent it and I will. Let that old sea-monster, or slave dealer,' once get Alice into his hands, he is not going to give her up. Its all pretense. He has some selfish end in view, or he would never have come here for his children. For aught I know he will sell them as he does his slaves, or compel Alice to marry some rich devil, to advance his own views. If father does not return to morrow, I will take them all into the country, and stay there till he and his boat clears out. Mr. DeClune's family will take them and keep dark."
               Mr. Castelle remarked, "He liked Chancey's zeal in the cause but feared he would not succeed."
               "That man," he said, "was a cool, calculating fellow, and would not be easily foiled. It will exasperate him to find the children stolen away from him, and he will probably go all lengths to carry out his selfish purposes, of whatever character they may be. Every man supposes he has a right to his own children, at least till they are of age. And such a man as Granger is not likely to reason on the subject, only in a selfish light. But, it is possible the 'rich wife,' that he has married has brought him a handsome dower, and he may really wish to educate his boys, and make a fine lady of Alice, as he says; and, although I do not suppose it possible she could be as happy with him, or in any other condition, as she is here, yet his motives may not be so bad as we fear. But," he added, "a real negro dealer' is generally a 'hard case."
               Mr Castelle did "not wish to be understood as favoring Mr. Granger, or his plan of taking the children But it is not out of the world, as he says, and if he could be trusted, and the family of Mr. Goodman could be resigned to part with them for a season, the affair was not so formidable after all especially, as Miss Alice must of necessity be separated from her cousins, Herbert and Chancey, very soon, if they returned to college; and a little experience in a city life, and seeing more of society, might be an advantage."
               This conversation did not please me vastly, and, for an instant, the query arose in my mind, whether he might not secretly favor the project and have some lurking passion for Alice himself; and, as Tennessee was not far distant from New Orleans, he could see her when he wished? The pangs of perturbation and uneasiness. revealed to me the state of my own heart, and I wisely judged my best way was to be silent.
               What was my astonishment, when a little while after, Alice spoke out in one of her firm tones, "I have made up my mind to go. I believe, if uncle were here, he would say to me, 'Alice, follow your own convictions of duty on this subject If you feel that you can not go, not all the men on earth can take you from us; but, if you think it would disturb your peace to refuse your father, God can protect you even better than your uncle, and you must do as duty requires.' Now, I believe it to be my duty to go with him. Perhaps I can do him good, or some of his family. If I see myself in any danger, I will return next summer. Meantime, I can correspond with you all by letter. I can write to you Chancey and to Herbert, as well from Louisiana as from Iowa. O! if I might but wait till uncle return home, I should be more resigned. But I have shed all my tears, perhaps," she added, "and will prepare to go."
               "But, O dear Mary. how lonely you will be. Frank shall stay with you, and I will take Frederick. My father must not object to this. If he does, I will not go."
               Here she drew a deep sigh, as though she had parted with half her life, in so courageously submitting to her fate; and remarked, "You and I will correspond, Mary, it will be some mitigation of my sadness, and you will have other correspondents, also," she added, faintly smiling
               Chancey looked his astonishment at her conclusion, and thought as I did, that Father would not let her go on any terms; and that Herbert's plea, superadded, would overthrow her rigid sense of duty.
               But the next day but one after this, the carriage Mr. Granger had engaged, came for them, the boat having returned; and Mr. Goodman and his son were still absent.
               Alice was ready—and did not falter. She had a long conversation with her father, who consented to leave Frank with us for the present.
               At parting, Alice held me long to her throbbing bosom. Her brother Franklin, she kissed wildly. To Chancey, she said, "I love you as my brother; we will write, and be brother and sister still."
               To Mr. Castelle and Cora, she said, "If it be possible, let me see you, and hear from you, soon after your return to Tennessee."
               "Here, my dear Alice," said Mr. Castelle, "is my address, if you want a friend, in a strange land, find me, I will protect and defend you.
               And this was said so ingenuously and friendly, that I shook off all jealousy, and found the enjoyment of returning peace and confidence.
               The servants all came in to bid "Miss Alice" good bye, and every one blubbered, to see her and her youngest brother get into the carriage.
               "She might better die, Miss Mary," old John said, "we shall never see her blessed face again."
               She was gone! The house was desolate, and gloomy. Mr. Castelle gave us what consolation was in his power. He had a brother in New Orleans, he would write to him, and have him introduce himself, and watch over her fate. He would, himself, learn weekly what her safety and happiness was, and if there was trouble or danger, he would protect her and inform us.
               I made a merit of necessity, and dwelt upon the brightest side of the picture, and when father and herbert returned, I endeavored to reconcile them, and suppress my fears
               Father would hear—again and again, what Alice herself said. For if she considered it her duty—he could better trust her to her father. But, he would shake his head, and murmur, "Poor Alice! is it in this way that thou art to be tried? I knew my golden treasure must be tried in fire! But, she will be taken care of," he would say; "heaven takes charge of its own, and to heaven, and thine angels, I commend thee, my loved one, my beautiful Alice!"
               But I will not attempt to describe the grief and consternation of Herbert. He would hear to nothing at first. He was frantic. He wrung his hands, and walked the house, and would not hear me mention her father.
               When the storm abated, I handed him a package addressed to him, from Alice, which she left on the table.
               He tore it open, and run wildly through its contents, which melted his spirit, and he wept and sobbed like a chastened child.
               I asked to read her letter to him, but he declined. He read me the caption to a piece of composition, aside from the letter which was an extract: 
                     
                        "My faith, like morning beams shall glow,
                        My love shall be thy quenchless light."
                     
                  
               
               I believe he would have started off immediately after her, but father detained him. He finally left speaking about her, and took to writing.
               I found a scrap of poetry, the evening she left, in the arbor, which I gave him, and which I give the reader, though it is a mere sentiment.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           TO HERBERT.
                           "Oh, come back to me."
                           
                              Return my own, my dearly lov'd,
                              Ere I go, I know not whither,
                              Return to me, my late betroth'd,
                              For I leave—perhaps, forever?
                           
                           
                              Come back to me! 'tis Alice calls,
                              Her breast with grief is heaving,
                              And absence fonder makes the heart,
                              That fears a long bereaving.
                           
                           
                              Oh, come just now! The night dews fall
                              O'er leaflet, and o'er flower,
                              And Philomela calls her mate
                              To her enchanting bower.
                           
                           
                              The Rapids roar with solemn swell,
                              Along the sweet Des-Moines,
                              And Autumn winds, their dirges sing,
                              In mourning, farewell tones.
                           
                           
                              Oh, now return. The world of mind
                              Has no laws of space to hinder
                              United love, like mine and thine,
                              May purely meet, and fonder.
                           
                           
                           
                              Dost hear me call? I list, I wait,
                              
                                 Oh, breathe a stronger sphere,
                              Oh, Herbert! now I see thy form,
                              And thou art with me here!!!
                           
                           
                              It is enough! my blessed God,
                              We two, are one forever!
                              I know that even death cannot
                              Our wedded souls dissever!!
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               When I handed this to Herbert he read, and his countenance lighted up with its wonted cheerfulness. He compared the date with a certain state of his own mind at the time, the evening before he commenced his journey home. And here was an instance that friends can meet, and souls unite in the world of mind, without bodily presence.
               Mr. and Miss Castelle left immediately after their return. Herbert wrote to Alice every day until he and Chancey returned to college. We had not heard from Alice when they left, and she, it will appear, never received his letters.
               My father took to his library and books, and my only society was little Franklin and my books.
               What a proof of the love of my cousin Alice, that she had strength of mind to refuse, positively, to go with her father, unless he would leave her brother with me.
               He was my favorite, and the sweet prattling of his "Sister Ally," was a pleasure she foresaw I should need.
               She was a sweet young mother, to the youngest one, in the sense of a protector and guide, and he would also be a blessing to her in her self-exiled home.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               
                  
                     
                        "There is a kingdom of God above, in the high interior heaven,
                        Where the joys of fond united love, are to kindred spirits given,
                        Where souls congenial in freedom meet, with affections pure and glowing,
                        And mingle in communion sweet, the riches of hearts o'erflowing
                        Oh! live they not, where the heat of love; by wisdom's light is leading,
                        Through such delights the blessed prove, to heavenly use proceeding,
                        And thus are the holiest angels blest, by wisdom uses doing,
                        Their labor sanctifies their rest, sweet love their souls imbuing.
                        This—this—is the tone of heavenly joy, of the saved and blest in heaven,
                        Renewing love's resistless force, by the wisdom daily given."
                     
                  
               
               We may write of what a full heart may move us to. There are happy intuitions, which doubtless come from angel spirits,for their light and beauty, and the warmth of their love inflow, and what cannot be felt and enjoyed in ultimate life, is found in the interior, where angels are. Who can be slow to see, that connection with celestial beings may not bring us into inexpressible enjoyment, as well as intellectual beauty of thought, and tranquility of soul.
               The following is the only letter we received from Alice, for one year after she departed:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "My dear, dear Uncle, and beloved Cousin Mary:
                           
                           "I cannot express to you the gratitude I feel, at this moment, for having it in my power to address you, my own dearest and best. I feel as if I were gathering you back to my heart, and there centering with you in the bosom of love.
                           "I have received no like or message, as yet, from either of you, or from my cousins Herbert and Chancey, although I am sure you have not neglected to write me.
                           "If any thing occurs to prevent your letters, I will not think you neglect me; but will trust all to the Divine Providence, which, I am sure, doeth all things well. It will be profitable for me to fasten down to paper the emotions of my heart, as I may suffer loneliness, grief or disappointment, in the changes that may be appointed me. All will yet be well, because it cannot be otherwise when our trust is full and entire.
                           "With my pen I shall stir the undying embers of my affection for you, and re-open and animate those sources that never fail us—our remembrances. I will view these in the light of eternity, which will never deceive me. The void which begins to desolate my soul, late so full of love and happiness; the sore isolation I foresee I must suffer, and the heart-hunger that already gnaws within, and the tears I shed, I must also view in this light, that I may see my sorrows as unimportant, and my former blessedness as only a foretaste or pledge of what I shall be permitted to realize and enjoy in another, and more substantial life. I know, I feel that you all do love me, and that you can never doubt the love of your Alice.
                           "These thoughts are as pure springs of water, welling up from the full fountain of my heart, and refreshing my spirit. They are pages in my book of life to be reviewed, and better understood, and appreciated in heaven. Here, I must turn me to the toils of self-culture, and though my thoughts are as the ebb and flow of heart-waves against the shores of life, I will not despair, but cast anchor in my guardian angel's bosom, knowing they are mediums from the pure throne of the blessed Jesus.
                           "Beneath the breathing fervor of their spheres, I may become come a more intellectual, spiritual being—a new creation. Higher aspirations are the monitions that urge forward, and organize materials of growth, that may, (as I remember to have heard my dear uncle remark,) give effectiveness to pure divine morality.
                           "If there are hereditary evils, slumbering in my bosom, like the smouldering elements of the volcano, I hope they may be quenched by the tears I shed, and the resignation I try to exercise. I feel that my only earthly joy will consist in writing to my friends and receiving their letters.
                           "A constant intercourse of this kind, will be a genial light and heat shed over my path; and, in unrolling the folds of my recollection, and delineating my daily exercises, and in seeking counsel and encouragement from those reliable sources I have ever proved infallible, I shall be sustained, until I may return and find my future home in Keosa.
                           "But you will expect me to give you some account of my journey hither, and of my reception from my step-mother, and my present condition.
                           "My trip down the river, and the scenery along the banks of the lower Mississippi, was delightful! The waving sugar-cane, much like our Indian corn, when green and growing; the white cotton fields, like large snow-flakes fallen upon thick shrubbery; the tall moss-tree, and the dangling moss clinging lovingly to the branches; and the orange groves, with ripening fruit, bending down to the very sod beneath them; and the rows of white cabins for the negroes, with a larger edifice for an overseer, were all new scenes to me; and, connected with the high bluffs, skirting the river, without a stone, and the parti-colored strata of clay-moulded earth, was seen as picturesque as the autumn-dyed hues of the forest foliage of Iowa.
                           "The great Father of Waters rolls on, increasing in width as we leave the mouth of the Ohio, and changing its color from blue to umber.
                           "We were twelve days from Keokuk to New Orleans. We landed there in safety, on the 15th inst. We took an omnibus up Canal street, to the Carrollton depot, and the cars to Lafayette, a beautiful suburban village, three miles south of the great city. We alighted before a very pretty white frame house, a few yards from the track, and every thing about the outside of the dwelling, and the small park in front, looked neat, and rather inviting. There were low orange shrubs, and wax-berries, bending with fruit, in this enclosure. My father broke of a small branch from the orange tree, with two oranges pending, and reaching it to me, he said, Do you love oranges? give one to your brother.' Frederick smiled joyfully; and I said, 'Is it here, in this pleasant spot, you live father?'
                           "'Yes,' he said, rather gloomily. 'But I don't know how you will like it inside. You have a step-mother, whom I married more for her money, than her beauty or goodness. You must try to please her; but I am not certain you will like her, or her children. If you succeed, you will be more fortunate than I am. But money and servants are the great object, and you must make the best of it, Alice, and get the right side of her, if possible; and remember, I have other views and prospects for you, than staying with her a long time.'
                           "So saying, he opened the hall door, and showed the way through to a room where sat a tall, dark-looking woman, about thirty-five, and three children, of the same olive complexion, of ten, twelve and thirteen years of age.
                           "'How do ye do, 'Bitha,' said my father. 'Here are my children, Alice and Frederick.'
                           "She came forward to meet us; and staring at me, she said, with an attempt at smiling, 'So, you have come at last, have you? I've heard nothin' else for six months, but his goin' after his children. I hope he'll be content now he's got you here. But where is the other one? I thought he had three?'
                           "'Frank would not come,' said Fred; 'but I came 'cause Ally did.'
                           "'Very well,' she replied, 'you must both take it, as it comes, I reckon.'
                           "Father gave her a sour look, and said, 'Hold on, 'Bitha; don't begin any of your ways.'
                           "She made no reply, but opened a door at the back part of the long room, and screamed out at the top of her voice, 'Bet,—oh—Bet, come here, and show this girl where she will put her things.'
                           "Betty made her appearance—an old black woman of fifty—and beckoning to me, said, 'Come this way, young missus, till I show you your room.'
                           "We went up a flight of steps into a room over the one we had left, neither neat not well-furnished. I sat me down, and drew my brother near me, sick at heart.
                           "Betty was called down again in a moment; and I heard the same voice, crying out as she opened the door, 'Tell your young 'uns to go back, Bet, or I'll give 'em fifty;' and looking down, I saw three or four dirty, woolly-headed, black children, scampering by the stairs; and one of them called to Betty, 'Who's dar, mammy?'
                           "'Go back, I say,' screamed 'Bitha, or 
                                 mi ynteresting
                                 my interesting
                              stepmother mother, 'or I'll give you a hundred.' And she seized a cowhide and shook it, as though she would make good her threat, and reward them well for their curiosity. I went below again, just as she replaced the big whip; and she saw I looked rather blank, I presume, for she said, 'Don't be scared, maybe you aint used to niggers, be you?'
                           "'No, madam,' said I, 'I have never lived in a slave State.'
                           "'I guess you'll wish you never had, or seen a nigger yet, they're nothin' but a cuss, no how. I wonder what your father wants of such a pink and white looking thing as you are, or what he's brought you here for?'
                           "'Indeed, madam, I hardly know myself,' said I, almost frightened out of my senses.
                           "'Now, you needn't call me madam,' said she; 'I'm your father's lawful wife, and a Catholic priest married us; that's more nor all the women about here can say. I gin your father two thousand dollars, gold, the day I married him, and all these niggers, and twenty more he's sold a'ready, trading all the time, to make more money. Bet's four oldest children brought him five or six hundred dollars apiece.'
                           "'How did Betty like to have her children sold?' I asked.
                           "'I do' know; what's that to her? They wern't her'n, no how.'
                           "'I thought you said they were,' said I.
                           "'Now, see here, Miss, you needn't give me the he a'ready, you may tow a bee-line here, if you please, and be mighty careful how you talk up.'
                           "'I did not think of offending you,' said I.
                           "She did not reply to this, but went on talking about her money and negroes, and my father's traffic, as she called it.
                           "'What is his business?' I asked.
                           "'Why, he's a nigger-dealer, to be sure; didn't you know it? He's gone off, half his time, buying up old and young slaves, and brings 'um home, sometimes, and houses 'um up in the garret over Bet's room, thar, and let's 'um rest a little, and sort o' vamps 'um over, till he can make 'um look some likelier, and then he takes 'um to market, and gets a bigger price. He always makes fifty or a hundred dollars on a nigger. It's terrible hateful business, aint it? and nothing else but hell upon earth here, half the time.'
                           "'I should think it must be,' said I; 'I wish my father would not sell flesh and blood,'
                           "'Why, you can't hinder him, I'll warrant you,' she said; and there's no flesh and blood about them, nothing only sort o' brutes.'
                           
                           "I thought to myself, 'I like Bet's flesh and blood much better than yours, any how.' And I said, 'I intend to try to persuade my father not to trade in this way any more.'
                           "'Oh, ho,' said she, 'you'd better not speak, he'll be mighty apt to cuss you.'
                           "Father had left the room as Betty showed me up stairs, and did not hear this colloquy, of course, he now came back and took up little Frederick on his knee, and spoke pleasantly to him and me, as though he had some idea of interesting us, and having some social comfort himself. At length he said, 'Have you shown Alice the parlor?' and opening the door into another room, he said, 'Come in and see my melodeon, Alice, I think you can play on it, can't you?'
                           "'I will try,' said I; and I am delighted to find an instrument of music here. Does any one play on it?'
                           "'Nobody but Mr. Bomino, who visits here sometimes,' he said. 'I took it in trade, to help furnish the room.'
                           "I sat down to the instrument, and found a little practice would enable me to play on it readily, and it was in good tune, a new one. A little, merry, simple tune I tried, set the children all giggling, and trying to dance.
                           "The room was furnished with a good carpet, sofa and large mirror, with other comfortable furniture, but no books. A large number of pictures hung against the white washed walls, and on the center table.
                           "Father remarked, 'He would get some books, and bring home the papers.' And he said, 'you can sit here when you like, Alice. I will tell Bet to keep up a fire in the grate, and you can amuse yourself playing, and Mr. Bomino will be here next week. He sings real Italian style, and can accompany your music.'
                           "I wondered what sort of a being Mr. Bomino could be, but only said, 'You will have some other employment for me father, will you not?'
                           "'I don't know,' said he, 'young ladies here don't work, but you can keep on teaching Fred and your mother's children, too, if she likes.'
                           "'Have they attended school much?' I questioned.
                           "'No,' she answered. 'Don't know how to read, one on 'em.'
                           "Here we were called to supper, which I could have relished, as I felt the need of it, if there had not been a black behind me, and one by each white person at the table, though I am not right in calling my father's wife a white woman, for she can not be.
                           "We had what comes on the table every night, hot corn cakes, hot biscuit, and strong coffee, with beef-steak and ham. I want to my room immediately after supper, and wondered at the manner of life and conversation of people surrounded by slaves in the South.
                           "I read to my brother out of the little pocket Bible you gave me at parting, dear Mary, and helped him to his night dress and bed. Betty came up soon after with water. She lingered a moment at the door and said, 'Does you want any thing else, young Missus?'
                           "'No Betty, only I shall want you to be a friend to me, for I shall be very home-sick, I know.'
                           "'That I will be a friend to you, you darlin',' said she, 'but what can I do? You must mind, young Misses, how you 'front the woman. Old master says she has hydrofoby some times.'
                           "'Is she a white woman, Betty?'
                           "'La, Missy! She's Creole. Her first husband's Creole too. And them black lookin' children. ain't they most as black as niggers, any how,' she said, chuckling a low laugh and whispering.
                           "'You ain't going to tell on me, is you?'
                           "'No, Betty,' I said, 'do'nt fear me. I will be good to you, and I wish you to be kind to me. I think I shall need a friend.'
                           "Here she was called down and I gave myself up to reflection. 'O! how often,' I thought, 'may I pine for my prairie home and my kind and loving friends in Keosa, before I am permitted to return. Would I were now with you.'
                           "But I must close my long letter. I wished to give you this sketch in their own style, that you might better judge of the character and principles of those by whom I am surrounded.
                           "When I am eighteen I will return, please Providence, and I hope, mean time, to hear from you every week and to see you here in the spring.
                           "Will you not come to Tennessee, my dear Mary, and on to Louisiana by spring? But allow me to say, I hope Mr. Castelle will not keep you long away from Keosa. Pardon the suggestion.
                           
                              "Farewell. Ever your affectionate.
                              Alice,
                           
                        
                        
                           "P. S.—My father says the letters must be directed to New Orleans."
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Wait thou for time, it hath a sorcerer's power,
                           To dim life's mockeries that gaily shine,'
                           And bring thy soul a rich of fearful dower,
                           To lift the vale of seeming from the real,'
                           And raise the drooping heart from scenes ideal,
                           To a high purpose in the world of strife:
                           Wait thou for time!"
                        
                     
                     MISS L. HOOPER.
                  
               
               WE were instant to write to Alice. My father opened his paternal heart, in a full letter of love and counsel, assuring her he would come for her whenever she thought best, and we loved her too well to think of living without her, any longer than she could divorce her mind from her sense of duty to her father.
               I also wrote long and lovingly to Alice, telling her every particular of Herbert's return and trials on her account and of Franklin and her loved bower, and the flowers that drooped since her absence.
               But our love and letters never reached her.
               We waited her answer and wrote again and again. But still no letter from Alice came to bless our longing hearts. Herbert also had waited and written and looked, till he lost patience and wrote to us that he had never received but one letter from her.
               The spring wore away, and still no tidings from Alice. At length my father went down the river as far as Tennessee, was taken sick there and sent on Mr. Castelle.
               I had received letters regularly from Mr. Castelle, who had employed his brother, in New Orleans, to find her out, but his brother was unsuccessful. He could find no such person as Mr. Granger or Alice. This was strange, and George made all haste to institute a thorough search through the city. Himself and brother spent a week, but in vain. It was sickly with the yellow fever, and my father continued ill, and judged it not prudent to go on himself, but return and wait till cool weather, determining to make a more particular inquiry.
               At length, but a few days previous to the expedition determined on, we are overjoyed by receiving the following letter from Alice.
               It was dated from Lafayette, La.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "O! MY DEAREST FRIENDS—I am sure none of you have heard form me, or you would have answered my letters. I have directed to you from this post office and from New Orleans, but have reason to believe that my letters have been taken out, or never placed there, and that yours have shared the same fate. For never has my heart been gladdened by the reception of a line from one of you since I left Keosa.
                           "O! the weary waiting that I have felt, and no alternative. Now, I have determined to take this letter myself, three miles, to the post office in New Orleans, and I doubt not I shall succeed in sending you this at last, and I shall watch the return mails, and hope earnestly that I may hear from you.
                           "I have flattered myself I should see you here, but an unaccountable providence has set the seal of silence, and death perhaps, upon all intercourse between me and my Western friends, forever.
                           "Heaven only knows how much. I suffer, from living with those with whom there cannot be the least sympathy or affinity, and how much I have needed the counsel and encouragement of some congenial, kindred spirit. And now my sky lowers, and here I can not, must not stay.
                           "It has always seemed unaccountable to me that my father should desire me to come here at first and what his designs should prove to be in relation to myself.
                           "I have no society out of the family, except the said Bomino I mentioned in my first letter to you. He is the only visitor at our house, male or female.
                           "The temper of my father's wife is hardly human. She beats her slaves cruelly, and her own children also. She employs herself in nothing, except the use of the whip, and the yells of her ill-fated slaves is the music she most delights in.
                           "I put my fingers in my ears, walk the house, and get away as far as possible from the back rooms, where these scenes might be witnessed; and I mourn and weep for the degradation of dehumanized souls, as well as for the sufferings and captivity of the wretched slave. Good old Betty is not exempt from her fiendish; love of dominion and cruelty and her children are threatened with 'fifty' countless times, which they get if they do not spring at her call in an instant, and do her bidding to the most minute particular. She swears and stamps like a fury till the storm of her wrath fails, and her physical strength also, when she is using that dreadful instrument of torture. My father gave it a proper name when he called it hydrophobia. It is worse than canine madness, for her fits are periodical without a cause often, except that interior cause which 'sets on fire the course of nature, and is set on fire of hell,' as St. Paul describes.
                           "She generally whips, because she feels like it and appears to be 
                                 obscessed
                                 obsessed
                               with evil spirits, who flow into her love of rule, and inflame and inflate with a delight in unmercifulness and cruelty.
                           "The place seems to me like the suburbs of hell, where Satan, as a roaring lion, seeks to tear and kill the soul. My father is constantly trading in blacks, buying and selling again to the highest bidder.
                           "I have often felt inclined to contrive their escape, but this would be of no use to them, for their cure is color, and they can go no where, without a 'pass;' for if they do they are conducted to the calaboose, or if refractory fastened to the 'chain-gang,' and males and females, under an overseer, are alike employed as scavengers, or some other filthy use in the public streets.
                           "This is no fancy sketch. I have seen it often, and would have rejoiced could I see them all fall down and die. It is just as poor Betty says, "It's no use, young Missus, nigger's only hope is when he come to die.'
                           "O, this world!—late so beautiful to me in my sweet home with you my friends—how changed!
                           "It is my guardian angels that are watchers over me, and bind her will, or she had long since fallen out with me, and I must have shared the fate of those around me.
                           "But she is exceedingly unkind to me, and awfully disagreeable. I cannot please her without I should sanction her evils, and this I will not do. And prudence teaches me silence, or a simple monosyllable in answer to a question.
                           "My dear brother is afraid of every one but me, and is inseparable from me. Once she seized him by the arm, for being in her way, and was about to whirl him aloft, when I stepped forward and said, 'Touch not that unoffending child. God will judge you one day, for your cruelties to the innocent.
                           "She turned her fiery, fiendish gaze on me, as if to burn her dreadful gaze into my very soul, and said, 'God d—n your little holy heart, and make it black as mine.'
                           "I spoke not, but looked her steadily in the eye one moment, and she shrunk away from my gaze, and wrinkled into an expression of meanness and cowardice I cannot express.
                           "But the worst of my story is not yet told in relation to myself. My father, whose ruling love is money, has had his views, as he has often hinted, ever since he determined to bring me here, and boldly he brought them out some time ago.
                           "This Mr. Bomino, an Italian, perhaps thirty years of age, has returned home with my father from time to time and I have been called into the parlor, to entertain him with music, while he has also performed many airs, and unintelligible pieces, in a foreign and theatrical style, much to his own satisfaction if not mine. And they really are not bad if I were not otherwise disgusted with him.
                           "But he is so extravagant in flattery when I play, that I leave the room if possible. This does not suit my father, and he has informed me that he wishes me to marry this same Italian.
                           "'He is desperately in love with you,' he said, 'and want's my consent as well as yours.'
                           "'Surely, father, you are not serious in these remarks,' I answered.
                           "'Yes, I am, and I wan't to make up your mind right off,' he said.
                           "'My mind is already made up. I cannot bear him, and I never intend to go into the room again where he is.'
                           "'And you won't receive his addresses nor think of him as a husband?"
                           "'No sir,' said I, with as much emphasis as I dare to express.
                           "'Why, Ally, he says you are as beautiful as an angel, and he loves you to distraction. And he is very rich. Says you shall be the greatest lady on earth, and he seriously asked me, child, to talk to you about it, and prepare your mind. He will declare himself tomorrow, and ask you to accept him.'
                           "'He may save himself the trouble,' said I, 'I will not think of such a thing. He is disgusting to me and I wish you to tell him so.'
                           "'Don't say that, Ally,' said he coaxingly. 'I want you to marry rich and live in splendor. I never intended you should live with your step-mother long. She is not much like your own mother, is she?'
                           "'O! father,' said I, 'how can you mention my angel mother in the same breath with this woman?
                           
                           "'But,' said be interrupting me, 'Mr. Bomino is so rich, and money is the object. He owns a large sugar plantation, half a dozen cotton farms, and hundreds of slaves besides his father's estate. He owns a whole township on the Mississippi.
                           "'He obtained his wealth dealing in slaves, as my father is getting his, did he not?' said I.
                           "'Probably,' he replied, 'but he is highly connected. Wishes to introduce you to his father, as soon as you are married. He has a sister about your age. She is highly accomplished.'
                           "'And you father, have talked all this over with this stranger and foreigner, have you?'
                           "'Certainly, we have it all arranged. We are to go co-partners in business, as soon as you are married. Then we shall all be independent, and you will have nothing to but to dress like a queen, and ride about in style. I am sure you will not refuse such an offer.'
                           "I looked within and sought for counsel and strength to give at once the decisive blow. While I remained silent my father hummed one of Bomino's comic tunes, and seemed to feel the victory gained.
                           "At length he turned to me again and said, 'Well, Ally, I shall tell him he may expect to succeed with you.'
                           "'No, sir,' I said more emphatically than before. 'Not if the whole world were his, and I were mistress or queen over it. All I ask, father, is to be permitted to return to my friends in Iowa. O! do,' I said, 'permit my brother and myself to return to our peaceful home; to the longing bosom of my dear uncle and cousins, away from this dreadful place of slavery and moral death.'
                           "'Why, O why, did you bring me here to spend my days in wretchedness and my nights in weeping?'
                           "'You may stop all this at once,' said my father, becoming impatient. 'You are not going to return, I assure you. You have got to marry Mr. Bomino.'
                           "'Never!' I exclaimed. 'I will die first. He a slave dealer, and you and him connected in this dreadful business. I will sooner beg my way back to Keosa, or go to service among strangers for my support, till I can inform them of my condition here, which if they knew they would never suffer. Why have I never heard from them? I suspect my father knows. I know they have often written to me, and I have reason to believe that their letters, and mine have never been permitted to reach their destination.
                           "'What do you insinuate, Alice? Be careful how you vex and irritate me. You are not eighteen and are in my power, and you must not, shall not, throw away this offer. I would have you rich and happy, Alice.
                           "'I should never know happiness, connected in the way you propose, father. I want no worldly wealth, and I never will suffer a slave to wait on me. Urge me no more, I will never consent. And allow me here to plead with you to give your blacks their freedom, as uncle Goodman has, and invest your remaining property in some honorable and useful business, that will bring competence and peace, instead of guilt and misery!
                           "'Alice don't you prate to me in this way, and never mention Goodman's name again. I hate him all his cant about order —and—God knows what,' he said.
                           "'But I do not hate him, and all I desire is to be permitted to return to him and the dear family you took me from. What is the reason, father, that I receive no letters?'
                           
                           "'I don't know where your letters are gone, Of what consequence is that? You have got to mind me, and marry Mr. Bomino, and that right soon, too. I have promised him.'
                           "'How could you promise him, father, without my consent. But, I wish you now to understand me, I will not deceive you with a show of obedience, where I cannot obey. I will not marry Mr. Bomino, that's certain.'
                           "'Yes you will,' said he. 'I can put you in a way to comply. I will give Bitha charge of you. She will keep you in your room till matters are all arranged. And, get away if you can. Ha! ha! now I have you.'
                           "Father!' said I, driven to desperation at this last suggestion, 'this is hell! and I have writhed in its miseries long enough. I am surrounded by fiends, whose example I will not follow, and whose commands I will not obey. I am gifted with reason and freedom; it is the human principle in me, and I never will submit to you unjust requirements. For the love of money you would sacrifice me and my happiness forever. But all things are under the Divine control, and I do not fear. You may do your worst, in concert with your wicked wife, a fit companion for all evil, but nothing will be permitted but what will be for my good, for I trust in God. And and this time I am free. You have forfeited your word relating to my returning to my uncle whenever I wished. You stole me from my true home by fair and deceitful words, and now I know, I feel a sure conviction in my heart that God will deliver me out of your hands.'
                           "'Hump!' said he, 'I should like to see how He is going to do that. Where do you get all your freedom and reason to do this? and get away from me. This it damned cool!' said he, growing white with rage, and rising and approaching me.
                           "I closed my eyes a moment and looked inward and upward for aid, not knowing what would come upon me, for my father stood over me, amazed and irresolute. I then rose up deliberately and left the room, took my brother with me, and shut and fastened my room door, and have written thus far and as I heard my father go out, I shall now walk to the city with my letter, and your receiving it may assure you that nothing uncommon has as yet befallen me, and that I am sure deliverance is at hand; whether it is, as I hope, that you, my dear uncle, are coming after me, or otherwise, I know not. I shall return and resume my story, knowing you will be very anxious to hear it, and every day you may expect letters, till you see me again.
                           "When you receive the next, please inclose the two to Herbert and tell him to write to you, and you may send to me if you should not see me before.
                           "And now, farewell, my heart is lighter than usual, and sweet hope, a soul-full, is glowing in my bosom.
                           
                              ALICE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Thou hast a faith that will not shrink, though pressed by every foe,
                        That does not tremble on the brink of any earthly woe,
                        That will not murmur, or despair, beneath the chastening rod,
                        But in the hour of bitter grief, will lean upon its God.
                        A faith that shines more bright and clear, when tempests rage without,
                        And, when in darkness, feels no fear, in danger knows no doubt,
                        That bears unmoved thy foes' dread frown, nor heeds their guilty smile,
                        That seas of trouble cannot drown, or Satan's arts beguile.
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Strong I shall prove to love thee, for I will be thine;
                        O! be thou, to my homeless heart, an altar and a shrine."
                     
                  
               
               AFFLICTED and surprized as we were upon reception of the above letter, my father said we would take no steps till we heard from her again. So confident was he that her interior teaching would not mislead her, nor her confidence be in vain.
               In two days more we received another letter which I transcribe entire.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MY DEAR FRIENDS—As I returned from the city after safely depositing your letter in the office, weary and exhausted, beginning to tremble and fear for the future, having reached the threshold of our door, I stood a moment leaning for support against our gate, and a gentleman alighted and addressing me, said, 'Does Mr. Granger live here.?'
                           "I answered, 'Yes, but he is not at home.'
                           "'I do not care about seeing him,' he said 'Is his daughter at home?'
                           "'Yes, sir. I am his daughter,' I replied.
                           "'I wish to see you,' he said. 'My name is Castelle, brother of George Castelle, whom you know, I believe.'
                           "I showed him into the house, and, when seated, be commenced the following narrative:
                           "'For six months,' said he, 'there has been great inquiry about you. My brother from Tennessee, and myself, have searched, the directory first, and then the city, in every habitable part of it, to find your father and yourself;  and your uncle came to my father's on his way here, for the same purpose, but was taken sick and obliged to remain in Tennessee for some weeks, while my brother and myself were examining every probable place to find you. To-day he left and enjoined me still to persevere in my inquiries. But he was discouraged, and feared the yellow fever had swept off the whole family. As I parted company with my brother and was coming up Canal street, I met a man whom I knew resided in this place, and inquired of him, if he knew of a man by the name of Granger living any where about the suburbs or in Lafayette. He answered 'yes,' and described the street and residence. And this is not half an hour ago, for I jumped into the cars, and am here to tell you the anxiety of your friends, and their fears for you. They have received but one letter from you and that had no date, but one letter from you and that had no date, but they knew from its contents that you had only been here a short time.
                           "'Is it possible,' I said, 'that I forgot to date my letter from this place, but if it was my first one, it could make no difference, for I discribed the place and the distance from the city.'
                           "'Well, all this trouble of not finding you has arisen in some way, from a mistake in supposing you in New Orleans instead of Lafayette. It is possible that Mr. Goodman's family knew you were here, but did not think to mention it particularly to my brother, for he had no other idea, I am sure, than that you were in the city. But you are found at last, and I am at your service if it is needed in any way; or if you wish to return to Iowa, I can conduct you to my father's in Tennessee, and my brother will see you safe at your uncle's, for he is to be there within a month or two I believe.'
                           "I found that he was acquainted with the fact of your engagement, my dear Mary, with his brother, so we talked the matter over, and I gave my history, spoke of Mr. Bomino, and related my condition and distress.
                           "He advised me decidedly, to leave as soon as possible, and could think of no arrangement better than his first proposition, than I should go on immediately to Tennessee, after writing to inform you, that you might expect me with Mr. George Castelle.
                           "He said, 'If I could be ready to start by five o'clock in the morning train, he would be here and we would be off before they were up, and on the boat in good time to start at nine, the hour,' he said, 'the Somerville leaves for Memphis.'
                           "I engaged to be in readiness if possibly, and he took leave to call again this evening and mature the project.
                           "After William, Castelle left, I went into my step mother's room and found her sick on her bed, unable to manage her children who had left her, or to whip the negroes for not standing by her.
                           "I inquired what I could do for her, and if she knew where my father was.
                           "She had not seen him since yesterday; thought 'he had gone away to find Mr. Bomino.'
                           "I went to my room to write and pack my trunk, and my heart danced with delight. Heaven will prosper me I know, I feel, and to Heaven and Mr. William Castelle's protection I commend myself.
                           "I shall see you when George Castelle goes on to Keosa. And now I pray you write to me and direct to Tennessee, Mr. Castelle's care. I will not seal this till Mr. C. leaves this evening, who will drop it in the office for me, and unless my father returns to-night, all will be well. Betty is in the secret and will assist me. Little Fred is well, but knows not the deliverance that awaits him. After nine to-morrow morning, when I am safe, homeward bound, Betty is to let them know she saw me and brother get into the cars and go to the city. You will hear from me again from 
                                 Tennesse
                                 Tennessee
                              .
                           
                              "Farewell. Ever your loving,
                              ALICE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "And now, my dear father," said I, "'all's well that ends well.' They will all be here in good time. What a Providence. And Herbert and Chancey will be home in a few months."
               "They will be here first, I presume," said my father, "for Herbert, in his last, letter informed me they had gained a term of five months, by intense application to study, and would be here in early spring."
               I sent on the two letters of Alice to Herbert, and wrote to her and Mr. Castelle immediately.
               We soon received letters from Alice and Mr. C., that all was right; Alice in fine spirits, and they would both be here. first of may. Her father had not found her as yet.
               Just one week before they came, my brothers came home. Herbert said his only relief had been in unintermitted study. He had, however, enjoyed a presentiment that all would yet be well. He had written to Alice without an answer, but his conviction was that there was foul play respecting the correspondence, by her father. He had full confidence in her, that she would be faithful to him living or dying. His great trouble had been that they might never meet on earth again. We had full and serious conversations respecting his attachment to her and his calculations in future. He made me a confidant, and spoke ingenuously and feelingly on all points relating to the subject.
               He told me, also, that Chancey was engaged, and would go to New Haven again, in one year, to consummate the betrothal.
               
               It was now near four years since Alice first saw Keosa, and two since her introduction to Herbert. He had changed much since that period, in person and mind, but not in heart. He was faithful to Alice.
               Chancey always looked on the bright side of things, and was all life and animation.
               And how, my dear reader, could I be otherwise than happy, for Alice and her brother was now to return, and my wedding day was approaching.
               "And what ails my dear father?" said I, as with a buoyant spirit I concluded the necessary preparations for the reception of our expected guests. "He seems brooding over some deep thought, unusually sedate and abstracted."
               "We are dependant beings, my daughter, and cannot tell what a day may bring forth. The day of adversity is set over against the day of prosperity, that man may consider."
               "Why father, I do not calculate upon any adversity for some time to come. It, has been strewed so thick in the way for the last eighteen months, that it is the day of prosperity now, is it not?" Alice has had her share, I am sure. Mr. Castelle thinks his probation a long and serious one, and you and I, father, have had loneliness and trouble enough for ourselves, and anxiety sufficient for others; and Herbert would hardly bear adversity any longer at present. So now let us trust and rejoice, for my heart is light.
               
               "Mary," he said, "be happy while you may, innocently so. I see no evil in your joy. But I am sad and thoughtful, without knowing why, and my anticipations are not so glowing as yours. There is something in the mental atmosphere that clogs, and I do not respire freely. If any one departs from order, there is a consequence of evil; and if we are connected with evil doers, we are likely to be entangled in their web."
               "Dear father, what do you mean? Are you prophesying?"
               "No my child," he said, "but these are thoughts that stir within me and seek utterance while I witness your exuberant joy."
               "Do not feel so sad, father. You are not well, I know. Alice is coming, well and safe. Your sons have returned to live with us in Keosa, and your Mary will never leave you. Chancey will bring his chosen one, also, and O! my dear father, what more can you desire? What a happy family!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               
                  
                     "There's not an hour of day or dreaming night, but I am with thee. There's not a wind but whispers of thy name; and not a flower that sleeps beneath the moon, but in its hues and fragrance tells a tale of thee."
                  
               
               AND now the time had fully come, and we learned the boat they were to take was due at the landing.
               My brothers took the carriages, with Ben and Barney for drivers, and started in expectation of meeting them, or determining to wait for them if it was not in.
               A boat was rounding to as they drove in sight, and Herbert saw Alice on the guards. He hurried to the verge of the shore, and as they threw out the plank, Alice flew over it and Herbert received her in his arms. So said Chancey.
               The whole party arrived before sunset. I flew to embrace and welcome Alice and then to receive my lover. My father clasped his niece to his fond paternal bosom.
               "O! my dear child," he said, "you have returned, to leave us no more. Thank Heaven, you are safe."
               "Joy! joy!" exclaimed Alice, "here is home and heaven! O! uncle, this is God's country—another world. There is no slavery here, no guilt and cruelty and sordid love of gain; but love and wisdom govern all this beautiful home."
               She shed a shower of tears and all around her wept in sympathy. (O! how my father loved his beautiful Alice.)
               "Heaven, in its loving kindness, has given you back to us," he said, "and we will not forget its mercies."
               While Alice and my father were thus overflowing in their sympathies and joys, Mr. Castelle had introduced me to his brother William, who "had come unexpectedly, perhaps, to us," he said, "but he would not be denied the pleasure of attending Miss Granger home, and being guest at the wedding."
               We all welcomed him warmly and expressed our gratitude for the service he had rendered our beloved Alice. He received our warm acknowledgments with distant politeness and said something about "Miss Granger's talent at winning all hearts," and sank down upon a seat in moody silence.
               Alice, all joy and gratitude, was superbly beautiful. There was a look of maturity and grace superadded to her former beauty. Herbert could not withdraw his constant gaze, yet I noticed a shade of unrest upon his features.
               Supper was over, and, for an hour or two afterward, so full were our joys, that we did not remark the manner of William Castelle.
               About ten o'clock Herbert came round to me and drew me aside, and said, "Do you see young Castelle? He annoys me exceedingly. He is striving to monopolize the attention of Alice altogether. Politeness and gratitude are certainly his due on her account, as long as he is polite and gentlemanly himself, but I cannot put up with this. And Alice does not repulse his attentions as she ought."
               "I have been engaged in conversation with his brother," said I, "and have not noticed him in particular. But I recollect, now, that I was struck with something unusual in his introduction to you. He has been in her society for the last month or two, and perhaps he's a little in love; but do not be jealous of him, you are in no danger, my dear brother."
               "I do not know that," said Herbert.
               "Well," said I, "we must return to the company, and as soon as our evening party separates; I will confer with Alice, or I will manage to leave her alone with you."
               "No," said Herbert, "not to night. It is a delicate subject, and you will talk with Alice more freely than I could at present. Pray find out, Mary, what he has come here for, just at this time, uninvited, and if he is in the habit of paying her such very particular attention."
               "I will. But I see nothing strange in his coming. I presume his brother George invited him. You seem to forget, brother mine, that we are to have a wedding here soon."
               "True enough, sister Mary. It is not so strange, then, that he is here; but I do not like him nor approve his manners."
               We returned and endeavored to reconcile ourselves to his conduct, but by eleven there was a check so palpable thrown over our delights, that I called Alice out and said to her, "tell me, if you can, what disconcerts the whole company. William Castelle's manner is strange and visible disquiet is on Herbert's mind. And you Alice, for the last hour seem absent minded, and father has not spoken for a longer time. I expected no clouds in our sky at this time. Tell me, dear cousin, if you can, what all this means?"
               "Yes, Mary, I will tell you all. William Castelle has declared himself my lover. George informed him, soon after we arrived in Tennessee, that there had been an engagement of long standing between myself and Herbert, and cautioned him in his attentions to me. And when William proposed coming on with us, he opposed it, and surely I did not invite him hither. But how could I be rude to him in his own father's house, after the politeness he extended to me, and the service, also. Besides, he did not declare himself before we left Tennessee, when I politely but firmly denied him. He is wayward and passionate, and somewhat dissipated. Has given his friends much anxiety and trouble, and all warning and advice is lost upon him. I have trembled for the last few days, and I am filled with forebodings though I strive to overcome them."
               "Alice," said I, "you must tell Herbert of all this, and I will inform my father. He may see how to avoid trouble, but for my part, I am beginning to tremble myself for consequences from this wild Southerner, and Herbert is in no happy mood, that I already know."
               "He does not think it possible that I should change, does he?"
               "Perhaps not, Alice. But he is sorely annoyed with Castelle's conduct this evening, and if he has some fears that you are pleased with him, it is not a marvel."
               "O!" said Alice, "what can be done? No one has ever yet thwarted his wishes with impunity. He has had one duel, young as he is, and the affair was concerning a lady. This, Mr. Castelle's mother informed me, when weeping over the recklessness of her son."
               "My throat is full, Mary, and I am choking with an irresistible rush of the most poignant feelings."
               "Alice, I am not going to yield to these forebodings," said I, "it's folly to do so. What can he do here? Father will regulate this matter, and all will yet be well, only you must lose no time in seeing Herbert, and—"
               "Mary!" said my father's voice, and knocking to our door, "Mr. George Castell wishes to see you, in the parlor, where I have just left him."
               "Come!" he said, as I opened the door, "go immediately, I must seek Herbert. The party broke up, as you and Alice left the room, and Herbert went out, and William Castelle followed him. After this I conversed a few moments with his brother, who informed me that William was very partial to Alice, which he regretted on account of his fiery temper, and, he said, he looks very dark and gloomy to-night. He has gone out to have an interview with Herbert, I fear; and I think you had better watch his movements. By morning his dark and stormy thoughts will subside, and he will be in a better mood, I think. So I must go, Mary, for I do not like him. He does appear thoughts will strange, don't you think so?"
               "I certainly do, father, but he will not quarrel with Herbert to-night, I am sure. But I wish you would find Herbert, and  tell him to come here, and see Alice, who is in one of her prophetic states, auguring evil already; it is too bad, and I will not suffer a trifle to unbalance me."
               Father hastened out, and I left Alice weeping, and entered the room to meet my lover.
               He wished to converse with me on the same subject, and to have me caution Herbert not to be vexed or irritated at anything his brother might say, for he never yielded a point in his life.
               We had not been talking over ten minutes before the report of a pistol was distinctly heard.
               "Great God!" said Castelle, "so soon!" and sprang from his chair. I started to my feet, caught a light, and called Bridget to follow with another, in the direction of the garden, from whence the report came.
               "This way," shouted my father, "bring your lights!"
               We rushed to the spot, he pointed out, and there, weltering in his own gore, lay the body of Wm. Castelle.
               How can I describe the scene, or the consternation and horror that overwhelmed us at the sight.
               George groaned aloud, I screamed with fright, and agony. The blacks gathered around, and father examined the wound and his pulse, to see if there was life remaining. Alice was not there."
               And where was Herbert? I feared to ask; I could not ask what all this meant, if it were an accident, or a duel, or self-murder. None knew, unless my father did, and I could not ask him, he was entirely engrossed with the wretched spectacle before us.
               At length, he said, "He is still now, all is over with him."
               "Where is Herbert?" said I.
               "In the arbor, just behind you," he answered.
               I turned round, and there sat my brother, stupefied with horror, and pale as death.
               "Are you wounded, Herbert?" I asked:
               "No," said he, mechanically.
               "Was it a duel? or how is it? Castelle is dead! do you know it?"
               "He died by his own hand not mine," he answered.
               "Oh, Herbert, you have taken a load from my breast, but come and see.
               As we came again to the spot, father said to the black men, "Take up that corpse, and lay it in the house, and, Chancey, go to the village for a coroner.
               As they raised the body the head dropped, and I then saw that the whole top of his head was gone, and John picked up his scalp, with his coal black hair, from the dewy grass, all daggled with his clotted blood.
               As we moved along to the house, Alice met us at the door, not knowing what was done.
               As she glanced at the horrid sight which met her full view, she shrieked, and fainted, and fell to the floor. My father took her in his arms and murmured, "Poor Alice!" as he laid her upon a bed.
               We sprinkled her face with water, and chafed her temples. As soon as life returned, we begged her to be calm, but she attempted to raise her head to speak, and reeled back, and the blood gushed from her mouth.
               "Oh, dear!" said father, "she has ruptured a blood vessel, a physician must be called!"
               All was confusion and dismay. Alice choked from time to time with the effusion of blood, and I sat by her side, clearing the crimson stains from her lips and clothes, and tried to calm her agitation by feigning a calmness I could not feel.
               George Castelle, and the whole family of colored folks, were engaged with the dead body, in necessary arrangements.
               Herbert remained behind, as they brought away the body from the garden, and knew not that anything had befallen Alice.
               
                  What was now to be done? Alice might be a corpse, too, before morning; and all these dreadful events had taken place within a few hours after the long looked for arrival of our friends, and all our happy prospects blighted.
               I will never again disbelieve, or treat lightly, the spirit of prophecy, or the foreshadowings of evil and good, that seem to be revelations in the soul of my father and Alice, thought I, as I mused solemnly, and mournfully upon the premonitions they had both felt and expressed, and upon my own light and joyful spirit of anticipated happiness, and the unconcern I felt while they had been under this conviction.
               The doctor now arrived, and while examining symptoms, and conversing with father, I sought my brother Herbert, for I knew the state of his mind was lamentable. I believed he was undergoing still the pangs of jealousy for the affections of Alice.
               He had retreated again to the arbor, on the very spot where he had betrothed his soul to her, long before, and the past and present, were under deep consideration. There seemed a spell upon him, which he did not endeavor to shake off. I looked upon him with a, sister's love and pity, and dreaded to inform him of the state of Alice.
               "Brother!" I said, "come in, why do you seek this solitude? try to recover your senses, you will have need of them before all is over. I am thankful that it is not guilt that weighs you down."
               "No, not that, but oh! what gloom there is in death, and—"
               I interrupted him by saying, "Did you know Alice fainted at seeing the body?"
               "No," he said, "worse and worse, that tells—but she is recovered, I suppose. I must see her, true enough, she must tell me all."
               "I can tell you Herbert, she had formed no partiality for Wm. Castelle. I know it. How unreasonable is this fear. But I must tell you, Alice fainted and fell, and burst a blood vessel, and the doctor has been called, and her life is in danger."
               "Her life in danger?"
               "Yes, but you must not see her now."
               "Certainly, I will see her, and instantly," he said, bounding forward.
               "You cannot, indeed. The doctor forbid a person seeing or speaking to her; you should have sought an interview with her before this.
               "Oh, Mary," he said, "all that I ever knew of sorrow and trouble, has been nothing compared to this. Has love such pangs as these?"
               "Dear brother," said I, "I never thought that love had pangs or pain, I think it is your fear of losing her affections, that afflicts you, and you will yet see that it is all in vain."
               These few words passed, and we got in just as the physician left the room where Alice was, and said to me, "I have administered medicine that has a good effect at present, but she must not be agitated, and no person must enter the room this night but yourself and father. I will remain with her, while he must be in the next room, to witness the inquest, and hear the verdict."
               Herbert groaned, and mournfully inquired if Alice was in immediate danger.
               "Not unless a fresh hemorrhage succeeds, but her life, "I consider, depends upon her being quiet. These agitating scenes must not be even thought of by her, if it is possible."
               By this time the house was filled with people, and my father called their attention to the sad accident before them.
               "I am the only witness of this fatal catastrophe, except my son," he said, "and will proceed to relate in detail, the circumstances just as I saw them."
               He then proceeded to relate, in his own impressive manner, with convincing integrity of speech, the circumstances, from the time he left me, and the house, to look for Herbert."
               "I had been conversing with his brother," he said, "who is here present, who informed me there was an unfortunate attachment on the part of the deceased, for my 
                     neice
                     niece
                  , which she could not encourage, and, he feared the consequences, as the sight of a rival had awakened his headstrong passions, and himself had no control or influence over him, and he desired me to be watchful, and to warn my son against becoming irritated at any thing he might say."
               "I remarked that, as my son went out, deceased followed him, and I went, according to his brother's desire, to request my son to converse with my 
                     neice
                     niece
                   on the subject, and, to have an interview with the young man myself."
               "As I came near enough to hear their voices, I listened attentively to catch their words. My son was speaking, and I heard him say, distinctly, if Alice Granger has ceased to regard me, and transferred her affections to you, I will resign her, though it may cost my life to do it."
               "You must give her up at once, or it may cost your life."
               "Mr. Goodman," he continued, "she owes me her life, for delivering her from a fate worse than death, and I will have her, for my own. She does not love you, nor ever did. She has told me so."
               "I do not believe that," my son replied, "but, if it's true, I had rather hear it from her own lips, than yours, Castelle; we have wasted words to no purpose, let us go in."
               "I will not leave this place, until you relinquish her forever."
               "That, I cannot do, until I hear from her own lips the truth or falsity of your assertion."
               "Do you, call me a liar! Goodman?"
               "Why so impetuous, Castelle? there is no necessity for all this."
               "Don't talk to me about being impetuous. I never was foiled, I never will be. I cannot fail my purpose, of this I am certain."
               "We will go in," said Herbert, "I must see Miss Granger."
               "You shall not move, until you yield this point," said Castelle.
               "That, I cannot, will not do," said Herbert.
               "Prepare to fight, then," vociferated Castelle.
               "I never fight," said Herbert, coolly.
               
               "Coward, faint-heart, fight me, or I'll shoot you!"
               "Wait," said Herbert.
               "Defend yourself," said Castelle.
               "He then drew a revolver from his pocket, and I rushed forward to interpose, and save my son. But before I could wrench the weapon from him, it was raised—went off! and the flash, and the groan, and the fall, were all so instantaneous, that I could not determine whether it was an accident, caused by a guilty fear of seeing me, the frenzied act of suicide; most probably, however, it was an unfortunate manœuvre, in attempting to fire, just as I came up and startled him."
               "Thus, an unerring Providence, caused his unjust temper and hatred to recoil upon himself. My son had no arms, he never carried any."
               "This," he continued, "is my statement, and it is truth."
               The whole account was convincing, and satisfactory. My father's character was unimpeachable, and none questioned the evidence.
               The verdict was given, "came to his death by his own hand."
               These subjects furnished conversation for the whole night.
               I now hastened to the room of Alice, who had been left with Bridget, and the doctor, only, during this period. Herbert followed me, stealthily, notwithstanding all our prohibitions to the contrary.
               As we stood over her, who was pale and motionless, except her breathing, the doctor put some medicine to her lips. She opened her eyes, and the rested on the face of Herbert. She involuntarily attempted to raise her head to speak to him, but in the effort threw up another volume of blood, and again fainted. Herbert could scarce refrain from loud weeping, and from taking her in his arms.
               We all supposed her dying, but the doctor, who held her pulse, and said, there is hope yet, but she must not be agitated by the sight of Herbert, or any one but himself and father.
               They would attend during the remainder of the night, with Bridget at hand, to be called if necessary.
               We left the room reluctantly, and I sought Mr. Castelle. I found him in the parlor, walking the floor, in great agitation.
               "Oh, my dear Mary!" said he, "how is Miss Granger."
               "I fear she will not live to see the morning sun," I replied.
               "May God grant she may recover, to save and bless your brother," he said. "He looks like despair itself. She was shocked and frightened to death, I cannot wonder either."
               "She complained of a choking sensation, when I left her to come to you, at the time father came for me," said I, "and her forebodings of evil, increased the tendency to this determination of blood, and the sudden shock of seeing your brother's blood, and the fall, gave the decided blow. I scarcely see how she can recover, but the doctor is skillful, and we will hope for the best."
               "As for Herbert, he is doubling yet, and supposes that this sudden illness of Alice, may be owing to her feelings of partiality to William. I wish you would see him, and see his mind at rest on the subjects, as soon as practicable."
               "And Alice, poor afflicted one, does not know but Herbert is the means of your brother's death."
               "She ought to know this immediately," he replied, "it would allay the excitement of her mind, and I have no doubt would facilitate her recovery."
               "Her physician will inform her, as soon as possible, but now, there is not a word spoken in the room, nothing can be done just now, but to watch over her, and, if the composing medicines operate favorably, and she is perfectly still and quiet, body and mind, we may hope, at least, for a favorable issue. But there are other things, as sad, and more soul-harrowing to think of, Mr. Castelle—the dreadful face of your brother. There are arrangements to make on his account, and what can I now do for you? Myself and Chancey, at least, are ready to assist you, and do what you may desire."
               "Chancey has already gone to get a coffin to enclose my brother's remains. I must return to-morrow to Tennessee. After waiting so long, Mary, I must leave you now, and God knows what will come next. I am melancholy, and wretched, indeed, with 'soul-harrowing' thoughts; cannot you offer me some consolation?"
               "Must you go?" said I, "I had not even thought of such a thing. Is it to take the body, you return—why can it not be buried here? Oh, George! I cannot part with you now."
               "This is no time, dearest, to consummate our union, if I could consent to entomb my brother here. A severe blow of the Divine Providence has fallen upon us all. A sad reverse, indeed! but my mother will be frantic, when she learns the fate of her William; he was her idol, and she would never endure to have him left here. Heaven only knows if I may ever return." "Do not talk thus," I said, "dear George; our sorrows would be lighter, if you could remain with us. How can I part with you?"
               "Say that again, Mary. Call me George, and say that you love me, and do not fear to connect your fate with mine, and my family, and I will be more patient and resigned."
               
               "I will say all that in truth, and I do not fear to connect my fate with yours, or your family. You will return soon, will you not?"
               He folded me to his heart, and imprinted his first kiss upon my lips, while his warm tears trickled o'er my face, and mine were mingling with them.
               "Oh, I am reässured!" he said; "we shall yet be happy. When I am to return, will depend on you. If Alice recovers, let it be soon, and, probably, there will be two nuptial ceremonies, at one and the same hour. My heart is yours, dear Mary; I cannot live without you. You, and the home influence, and happy sphere I enjoy here, makes me a better man. I will release my slaves from servitude, and bring my little daughter here, and settle on the place I purchased of your father. I can arrange all my business, by first of September, and let it be then that I return. I will not take you into a slave State, nor away from your father. We will live in Keosa.
               "I have been irresolute, but my brother's untimely death has brought me deep reflection, and I see it a solemn duty, to 'love my neighbor as myself,' and form an upright principle on the subject of slavery, and a character to bear upon the future life."
               I answered, "The decision you have made, this hour, will tell upon that character, and destiny, doubtless, and will be a satisfaction, as well to my father and brothers, as to myself. It will be good for us all, that we have been afflicted. But good night for a while, I must inquire after Alice, and you must sleep, and rest an hour, if possible, after we have shrouded the body, and taken a farewell look."
               As I left the room, I passed the door of my father's library, and there, on his lounge, lay my dear parent, asleep. His was a calm and peaceful spirit, that no outward circumstances could greatly disturb. I soon learned that Alice slept quietly, and the doctor had prevailed on my father to take a little rest.
               Chancey returned with the coffin, and the dead body was Shrouded, and laid in it. Some kind hand had washed his wound, replaced the mangled part, and so arranged his hair, that he looked quite natural.
               Herbert came in, as we were making the concluding arrangements, in laying him in his narrow house, and George, also, and for a while, we all stood over him, and wept together.
               "Poor William," Herbert murmured, "I lament thy fate. It is hard to lose a loved object, and to feel the pangs of jealous love. Oh, may thy restless spirit rest."
               George and Herbert now retired to the parlor to converse, after I had learned again, that Alice still slept and no worse symptoms.
               After their conversation, Herbert's sky brightened sensibly, and George and be both sought rest, as the day broke. I could not think of sleep for myself, and begged the doctor to permit me to sit by Alice. He did so, and we both remained in deep silence by her bed for two more hours. Then she slowly awakened, and the doc or spoke to her in these words:
               "You are better now, Miss Granger, but, in order to remain so, you must not try to speak, until I think you are out of danger. I am going to say something to you, that will do you good, but do not reply. In due time, we shall say still more to you, that will benefit you. I will only say this, now. The scene you witnessed last night was an accident, occurring through the carelessness of the unfortunate young man himself. His remains are to be taken to Tennessee immediately, and there is no other subject that need to alarm or excite you. Your friends will soon be permitted to see you, if you are patient, and remember not to raise your head without aid, or use your voice, till the rupture has time to heal, which will not be long.
               Saying this, he left the room, and Alice closed her eyes, that faintly brightened up a moment, as I bent over her, and kissed her cheek. She looked tranquil and serene.
               The next day, George Castelle left with his brother's remains. The servants put the house in order, and Alice was still convalescing. The third day from date of this sad story, we saw that Alice was evidently mending, and our good physician informed us, she might soon converse moderately without danger. Herbert was all impatience and anxiety, and had not yet seen her, since the first night of her illness. I prepared her mind, by informing her, that the corpse was removed, the house restored to order, and Mr. Castelle had gone home for the present, but would soon return. That we expected her to recover, and be herself once more, ere long.
               "Herbert will come in and see you, soon," I said, "and you must look cheerful, and say but little."
               I left her to meditate on what I had spoken, and returned again, in a few moments, with Herbert at my side. There was rapture, mingled with devotion, in the countenance of each. Herbert took her fair hand, and pressed it between both of his.
               Her answering look! it imparted new life to his soul.
               "Oh, Alice! Herbert pathetically—slowly said.
               "Dear Herbert!" she sweetly responded.
               He bent over her a moment, and a pure kiss, given and received ceived, re-lighted that love and joy in their hearts, which had been so painfully disturbed, by the late sad catastrophe. There were no more words now, there was no need of them. Each read the other's heart by looks and spheres, more palpable than words, and both were reässsured and happy.
               Every day they saw each other, and every day she improved, and they conversed confidentially and happily, while I more deeply mourned the fate of the rash brother of my George, perhaps, than any one of our family.
               It drew me in yet nearer sympathy with him, and our mutual disappointment and separation, caused me a deeper state of feeling, and more distrust of self. I saw how fallible I was, and how dependent. I mourned the glare of my own wisdom, and the pride of my own intelligence. But I humbled myself in tears and contrition, before heaven, and sought to look deeper into my deceitful and credulous heart. I did not look in vain. Our correspondence took a more intellectual character, and a gradual change was passing over our spirits, and preparing us for a more blessed union.
               My state became less volatile and superficial, and peace soon spread her wings over my soul, and I sang the "psalm of life,' a kind of prelude to the blessedness of wedded love. But how can words portray that must interior state, where the heart-hunger, and the soul-thirst, pines in its immoral cravings, or, when the state alternates, fully describe that sweet, perpetual hymn of the heart, our angels sing within us.
               The human heart has its dark spots, its deep woes, and in these states a shade is cast over the beautiful and the true. But in self culture we find not only self respect, but heaven's peace. The time will come, when spiritual aims will pervade all minds, When disappointment corrects our self-dependence, and our 
                     ambitous
                     ambitious
                   views; the depths of our moral nature is touched, and if we resist the despairings, and recklessness of the external natural mind: and listen to the interior teachings of the good and the true, we may be brought into an elevation of affection and thought, and become strong in conscious union with God and goodness.
               It is in the very nature of things that we have sorrows, but these sorrows cannot greatly move us, if we do not suffer them to blight us too severely; for the power constant in the under current of our life, is all-sufficient to guard us from the adverse forces of the world, and our selfish loves.
               We should have full trust in this influent life from God, and just self-appreciation.
               "We have a spirit within us too divine," says a late writer, "to be given up to despair or sacrificed to any earthly disappointment."
               But I have almost unconsciously wandered from the history of the happy lovers, and given a spicing of my own heart.
               We left them restored to each other, after a long and painful absence, and once more blessed with that mutual confidence, that, between betrothed hearts, is so sweet, and pure and blissful.
               We shall soon conclude their story.
               In a few weeks, Alice was able to ride out with Herbert daily, and soon after to resume her loved seat in the Summer house with him by her side, and books, and flowers and nature's self, was their delight, and, at this season of Summer beauty and fullness, emblematical of their rich and flowering affections, or in happy correspondence with them.
               They were both more experienced, and chastened in their feelings, more thoughtful and intellectual.
               I cannot repeat to my readers their conversations, I wish I could, but I did not bear them.
               At our seasons of family worship, they each read a portion of the Word. We had a Bible class after our own peculiar form. My father was the teacher, and we loved his instructions.
               "The ancients," he said, "had a custom of expressing themselves by representatives, even when they conversed about worldly things, and they ever thought, when viewing nature, of the spiritual and celestial things represented by them." These are what the psalmist calls, "Hidden sayings of old." The internal sense of the Word, was his supreme delight, and he often dwelt upon its beauty and divinity, with such looks of love and wisdom, as produced a radiation from his countenance, and impressed us all with sacred reverence of the Scriptures, and inspired almost the same veneration for him.
               He often alluded to the late calamities that we had severally experienced, and would say, "The Great God appoints all our changes, and adversity and afflictions have their uses."
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               
                  
                     
                        "Come to our cottage love. How sweetly there
                        The roses bloom! How the soft scented air 
                        Plays round the shaded trellises, and floats
                        Through our own quiet rooms The wood-lark notes
                        The sweeter of the choir of earth, awake
                        
                        Our happy spirits to the day, and make
                        A morning hymn of praise. The mellow beams
                        Of the rich sun shine brightly on the streams
                        That murmur there. So may thy pure and
                        Faithful love smile on me ever."
                     
                  
               
               September came. All hearts were once more glad and happy.
               The dove of peace unfolded her wings, holding the olive branch of celestial love in her beak, and hovering our minds with perceptions of order and tranquility, such as our heavenly watcher bequeath us, when we follow their interior teachings of the good and the true.
               No plague spot spread contagion through our moral atmosphere, or evil omen shed over our spirits foreshadowings of gloom of disorder.
               Alice had entirely recovered her health, bloom and beauty. She was just eighteen. Lovely, brilliant, and spiritual.
               Herbert was the truly devoted lover, and affianced husband. His moral and mental power developed in forms that delighted my father and myself, as well as his bride elect. He had motives and principles that governed his thoughts and actions, and philosophy of character by which he formed for himself a graduated scale of the minds of others. The great bias of his mind was reflective, requiring aliment by investigation. He possessed high-tone, moral feelings, deeply sympathetic and conscientious, and had great faith in spiritual influences. His form, graceful, elegant and dignified; his address exceedingly winning, and the expression of his features, harmonious, and prepossessing. He was every way suited to the deep affections and peculiar perceptions of his beautiful betrothed.
               A lady of higher rank and grater fortune, and one of more ambitious views, might have envied her conquest over his heart, but they could not rival her in loveliness, purity or beauty, or have won such devotedness, appreciation, or reliance of love, as Herbert Goodman accorded and bestowed upon Alice Granger.
               Their wedding day was approaching.
               Mr. George Castelle was expected on the 10th, and two nuptials to be celebrated in our cottage home in Keosa.
               Our bridal robes and ornaments were prepared, and all preliminaries arranged.
               My father's mind was unusually clear, elevated and serene.
               Chancey, who accompanied Mr. Castelle when he returned to Tennessee, had returned, and was in fine spirits, gay and happy, and intimated that he had but one regret, and that was, that a certain friend of his could not be present, but threatened us, that in one year more, we might expect a very lovely addition to our family circle.
               Mr. Castelle arrived on the day appointed, with his own little daughter, three old.
               She was a "pretty wee thing," bright and sweet as her aunt Cora, now Mrs. Bristol, who favored us with their presence at the same time.
               Our friendship was renewed with much delight, and the whole party appeared to be in pleasant states, calmly confident, but truly dependent.
               On the third day after the arrival of our guests, our carriages were ordered, and our servants told to be in readiness to attend us on an excursion of pleasure on the following day, the appointed wedding day.
               Old John seemed to renew his age. He "blacked and varnished his own books with rest of the gemmen's," he said, "for he should ride by the side of Master Herbert, and Miss Alice."
               "Lord love her soul, she was a Queen, and young Master just good enough for her."
               The evening previous, we had a few invited guests from the village and country, and our parish clergymen.
               The party being informed of our arrangements for the next morning, and supper over, my father, the good presiding genius, proposed music, and afterwards evening worship.
               After very many appropriate pieces of a social character, we sang in concert, that beautiful chaunt, commencing with: 
                     "For in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert," etc.
                  
               
               After which, the Word was given to the Pastor, who read in Revelations XXI, "And I saw the Holy City, the New Jerusalem, descend, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband." He spoke for a few moments upon the signification of this word, in the following manner:
               "The Lord is the 
                     bridegoom
                     bridegroom
                  ; the Church, the bride and wife. The union of the Lord and the Church is called marriage, and the true love of the married state is given by the Lord; and exists with all according to their states of wisdom and intelligence. The garden of Eden is in man, and the tree of life is in the midst of the garden. When man is in a good state, he eats of the tree of life spiritually; and will live forever. The tree of knowledge of good and evil signifies man's own self-derived intelligence, and contains in it the love of self and the seeds of death. And as often as man performs a good act, if he does not acknowledge it to be from the Lord, and ascribe the power and honor of so doing to him, he so often plucks and eats from the forbidden tree, whose touch is pollution, and whose taste is moral and spiritual death."
               We then had solemn prayer in a social form, and retired for the night.
            
            
               CONCLUSION.
               The next morning sun shone out bright over the peaceful village of Keosa.
               We awoke and dressed, as its mellow light streamed through our casement, and shed its deep-dyed radiance over the gems that adorned our toilette, but not yet affixed to our persons. They were rich and rare, a selection brother Chancey made in St. Louis as he returned from Tennessee.
               There was no bustle except among the servants, who were blithe, and joyous as the birds that welcomed in the morn, with their charming minstrelsy, and inspired us with supernatural peacefulness, as they seemed to chaunt our epithalamium
               
               Our table were loaded with rich delicacies, and wine, pure wine from our own vintage, and clusters of our won earliest grapes.
               The carriages were drawn up before the doors of our dwelling. The servants were in readiness for the drive, well dressed, standing in the back ground, after the folding doors were thrown open. The whole party assembled, and were stationed in their respective places.
               The Clergyman arose, and with an open book addressed the circle in the following appropriate remarks:
               "We are convened this morning for the purpose of consecrating, by religious service, the marriage ceremony between the parties before us. Jesus said, (He who made them male and female,) 'For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh.'
               "The love that brings and binds them together, flows into their minds from the Divine love.
               "True, mutual, conjugal love, is from the union of the divine love and wisdom, the union of the divine and human! The souls of men are from the Lord, and he draws them back, that they may seek re-union. So the humanity of Jesus before the glorification was seeking reünion with his father.
               "Thus the truly married wife is drawn continually to think of her husband's states, and is thus transcribing them into herself, and is builded out of him, as out of a rib taken from his side.
               "True married love brings into communion with itself the true spiritual enjoyment of all the senses. Love breathes after eternal union. "Union of souls is eternal union."
               "The more wise a man becomes, the more he becomes a fit and attractive object of a woman's affection.
               "Man loves to gather the material and build the house of wisdom. Woman loves the structure when formed, and appropriates it to herself. The love of enjoyment with truly united hearts, is from the love of uniting goodness and truth; but mere external marriage corresponds to idolatry.
               The mind of woman after marriage, is 
                     fromed
                     framed
                   by the husband's intelligence and wisdom. Her love attracts his wisdom, and transcribes it into herself.
               "By this, man's love of his own intelligence is modified, and he loves his wife, because, or as she loves his wisdom. This is true order. Internal marriage, or union of minds, corresponds to the marriage union of goodness and truth. An effort to this union, is spiritual love, and eternal in its nature and tendency. In this holy union, is peace, happiness, and a sense of heaven and protection.
               "A woman, chastely appropriating the affections of one man, is, really, transcribing that on which she lives, and this is what is meant in the Genesis of Moses, by being taken out of man. The love man, has, of being wise, is a prior principle, the love of his wife is posterior, and formed from the former love. 'Life forms!' and love is the life of man.'
               "Thus," said the good shepherd of Keosa, "you may see, my dear young friends, and understand, what is the true married life.
               "Women love intelligence, science, wisdom in their husbands! Men, love this perceptive voluntary faculty in their wives; as they love to do what his wisdom teaches, he takes them nearer and nearer to himself, and they become one.
               "How beautiful is the progress of heavenly life! You should, my dear young friends, in this new relation, commence more truly and fully the spiritual life. You should penetrate the depths of your most interior life, and unseal the fountains there. It will be dangerous to resist the cravings of this life for nourishment. You will be daily conscious, that you have infinite desires for something higher, purer, and more infilled with enjoyment joyment, than you can possess, by outward connection with the world, and external things alone. It was not a consideration for the body, merely, that prompted these words from Jesus, 'I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink; I was naked, and ye clothed me not; sick and in prison, and ye visited me not.'
               "If we regard the hunger and thirst, that craves the waters of truth, and the bread of life, within us, we shall feed on the Divine Word, and eat, and drink, and find eternal life, and this, will elevate the prisoner from the pit, where our moral chains of evil have bound us. It will 'heal the sick,' and feed the hungry, and clothe the soul and life. It will eradicate the diseases of the unregenerate heart, and inasmuch as we do it, or suffer it to, be done in us, it is done for him."
               He closed the book. We knelt in prayer. We stood, at length, before him, two and two. My father gave myself away, then Alice. We were married! Our wedding tour was replete with happiness! We are happy still!!
               And, now, if the reader will call on us, at Keosa, we will make his acquaintance with pleasure. He will find us in our cottage-home, enlarged and beautified, in the midst of vineyards, orchards, and meadow-lands, where the prairie birds will sing sweetly to him, as he views our agricultural prosperity, and Alice will welcome him, with her own winning smile, and show him her lovely boy, while her husband will express the happiness he still enjoys, and my father, who yet lives in the innocence and wisdom of a good old age, will bend his venerable, and not ungraceful form, to receive and acknowledge the favor conferred. Mr. Castelle, and myself, also, will make him welcome. Franklin and Frederick Granger are farmers. Chancey is married, and resides in the center of Keosa village, in sight of our farm-house, not half a mile distant.
               The name of William Castelle, the reckless southerner, is seldom mentioned, and Mr. Granger, after following Alice and her brother, as far as Tennessee, just after she had left, being informed that she had returned to Iowa, gave up pursuit, and we have not heard since, from the slave dealer, or Mr. Bomino.
            
         
      
   
