
    ----CITATION----
        Bean, Francis A.. An Allegory .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5758
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               AN ALLEGORY: 
               CONTAINING AN INTERESTING Analogy Between the Order for Discovering NATURAL CURIOSITIES AND FOUNDING CITIES, AND The United States of America. 
             
             
               
                  PAGE 21. "How President Illinois came to be elected, we suppose was in this wise:" "He was a great Swordsman, having been taught the art of fencing by his Uncle Sam. Americus."
                
             
             
               
                  PAGE 41. "And the prospect of his re-election was quite good, as thousands upon thousands of office holders would work to bring this about." "But the disaffected and 'Reformers' looked about for an opponent to him, and finally selected Hon. Mr. Tribune, whose whole life had been a labor of love for the human race, as their standard bearer."
                
             
            
               FOR SALE AT AGENTS. No. 449 Coates Street, Phila.
             
            Price 20 Cents. 
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872, by J. WESLEY CLARK, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 
          
          
             
             
               AN ALLEGORY: 
               CONTAINING AN INTERESTING Analogy Between the Order for Discovering NATURAL CURIOSITIES AND FOUNDING CITIES, AND The United States of America. 
             
             
               
                  PAGE 21. "How President Illinois came to be elected, we suppose was in this wise:" "He was a great Swordsman, having been taught the art of fencing by his Uncle Sam. Americus."
                
             
             
               
                  PAGE 41. "And the prospect of his re-election was quite good, as thousands upon thousands of office holders would work to bring this about." "But the disaffected and 'Reformers' looked about for an opponent to him, and finally selected Hon. Mr. Tribune, whose whole life had been a labor of love for the human race, as their standard bearer."
                
             
            
               FOR SALE AT AGENTS. No. 449 Coates Street, Phila.
             
            Price 20 Cents. 
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872, by J. WESLEY CLARK, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 
          
          
             
            EXPLANATORY CONTENTS. 
             
               An Allegory, A Fable or Type. 
               Analogy, Resemblance between Subjects or Things. 
               Cave, Resemblance to American Greatness and Grandeur. 
               Fishermen, Resemblance to Discoveries of America. 
               Order of the Cave, Resemblance to American Citizens. 
               City of Columbia, Resemblance to Settling the Country. 
               Its Officers, Resemblance to President and Cabinet. 
               Hon. Mr. Whale, Resemblance to Secretary of State. 
               Hon. Mr. Vault, Resemblance to Secretary of Treasury. 
               Hon. Mr. Gunpowder, Resemblance to Secretary of War. 
               Hon. Mr. Swells, Resemblance to Secretary of Navy. 
               Hon. Mr. Interiorman, Resemblance to Secretary of Interior. 
               Hon. Mr. Informationman, Resemblance to Postmaster-General. 
               Hon. Mr. Lawgiver, Resemblance to Attorney-General. 
               Fish Hawk Island, Resemblance to San Domingo. 
               Tyranical Order, Resemblance to Spain. 
               Roaring Lion Order, Resemblance to England. 
               Comeouters of the Cross, Resemblance to Ancient Church. 
               Hon. Mr. Solomon, Resemblance to Hon. Charles Sumner. 
               President Illinois, Resemblance to President U. S. 
               Vice-President Indiana, Resemblance to Vice-President U. S. 
               Hon. Mr. Tribune, Resemblance to Hon. H. Greely. 
             
          
       
      
         
            An allegory 
             
                
               CHAPTER I. 
               THERE is a most singular cave on the Atlantic Coast, connected with which are some of the most daring adventures and strange stories that were ever known. 
               And though the description will be meagre compared with its realties, yet, it will be best to present what light we can, hoping that from so doing the reader will be enabled to imagine the other untold facts. 
               It was discovered in a very remarkable way, and had its discovery remained a secret, the adventures and strange transactions to be related would never have been told: while it is in and of itself, one of the greatest wonders in existence, and all connected with it, whether of adventure or romance, partakes of the same nature. 
               Four men who had been out in an open boat fishing, about one mile from their homes, which consisted of three small houses, were caught in a squall, and were under the necessity of making for the nearest shore. They finally made for a small cove-like opening in the side of the mountain-like shore, thinking to be free from the wind, as after entering it, the space, after about twenty feet, became about four times as wide as the entrance, which was about twenty feet wide, hence the width, after entering the first twenty feet, became a fine little miniature bay or cove. 
               They had often visited this place for refuge or pleasure, but never at any other time than about low water, at which time it was just deep enough for a boat to float without grounding, and have several feet "sea room" either side; and above their heads at the entrance, it was as high in comparison to the width after entering, as the height to the width at entering: then, beside a fine little cove, it was much like entering a dark house, for all the light was from the entrance; and as there was plenty of "drift wood," they had on several occasions built a fire on the shore of the cove to he enabled more fully to see its beauties and examine its size. 
               On this occasion they at once did so, thinking to make themselves comfortable and happy. 
               But what was their consternation to remember that the tide was rising as well as the wind and storm: for it commenced to come through the entrance like a race horse, and to as suddenly rise as the squall had, extinguishing their fire. 
               Securing a quantity of pitch pine, which makes a fine torch, for as the tide arose it shut off the light, and as it arose far above the open space, it came in with a deafening roar, which to the now imprisoned men appeared appalling. 
               One of their number was inclined to seek escape through diving and swimming out, but upon reflection saw that he could not go against such a current, though it would have been an easy feat had the ride been going out: yet they had nothing to fear, as the distance over head was far above the reach of high water, and having their boat, and being provided with torches, they could go on an inspection tour around the basin; and this they did, discovering the cave which we will now describe. 
               As they rowed around, they were much surprised to find on one side another open space, just level with the top of their boat; and it was about twenty feet wide, by about twelve feet high, about like the opening from the outside to the basin; and having plenty of time on their hands, they thought it best to look further. 
               Landing, and taking a long rope to secure the boat, giving it sufficient play should the tide ebb before they were through with their explorations, fastening it securely to an upright stone pillar, apparently made for the purpose, with torch in hand to light them on their way, they started forth to explore a natural wonder. 
               They passed through this hall-like entrance into another chamber: the entrance as to size, length, termination and all was just like the one below, excepting the water in one, and the stone column in the other, to which they had fastened their boat. 
               Still going on and around, they found another entrance about five feet above the floor of the first; they succeeded in climbing into this, and in all particulars it was the same as the other, excepting the stone column; and yet they found another, making three above the basin. 
               The atmosphere was good as on the open land, had the same appearance in all respects, the smoke passing away as readily as though in open air, leading them to think that there must be an outlet as well as an inlet; and looking sharply they finally discovered an opening which they concluded led out above: it was like a gradual winding stairs. 
               Observing that there was a draft of air so powerful that they could not keep their light, unless they could contrive some means to shut off the draft; this they in part accomplished by forming of their jackets of oil cloth, a shield to the light. In this way they come out upon the very pinnacle of the highest land on all the coast for miles, and about half a mile from the shore. 
               The outlet was slanting, just enough to be a comfortable up-hill walk, and in width and depth as the inlet below. 
               Finding it now quite clear, they concluded to go to the shore in the vicinity of their boat, for they hardly felt like retracing their steps; they knew it would be of no use to go direct, and also that they could not reach their boat but by swimming or having another boat. 
               As the outlet was in a great piece of woods, and among great rocks, and as there were many places among them looking just like the land entrance to the cave, there was but little probability of seeing or finding it without marking; this they did for future guidance. 
               Following the direction indicated by their pocket compass, they soon found themselves at home; and after refreshing themselves, and resting sufficiently long for the tide to recede, they, taking another boat, went for the one they left, which they found all right; but they had to sacrifice a portion of their rope, as the distance from the floor above to the boat was more than they would like to jump; they therefore concluded to fasten a small piece of drift wood to the portion left, to direct them at any future time. 
               Now, this place could be 
                     nade
                     made
                   into anything desired-a fort, a palace, or a den for pirates or smugglers, or for any kind of good or evil purposes; and the reader will think it was as wonderfully occupied as the wonderful cave required to correspond with itself. 
               Whether those four fishermen were the first who ever entered this wonderful place, is unknown; but probably they were. It was never any advantage to them, other than what we will now relate. 
               In their vicinity, the population was very sparse; and before they had time to gossip among their neighbors, they took a small lot of fish to the nearest market, which was a small city a few miles distant; and while disposing of their fish, they mentioned their discovery to a very distinguished looking man in the prime of life. 
               He told them to say nothing further of their discovery, and himself and a few friends would visit the place, for they were curiosity hunting, and if it afforded them enjoyment, they would pay them for the pleasure. 
               Full arrangements were made, and next day the stranger, with three others, arrived in a fine pleasure boat; and, accompanied by the fishermen, they went to explore their singular discovery. 
               Great satisfaction was expressed by the strangers upon concluding the examination of the cave; and upon inquiry, they found the fishermen poor, unambitious men, as willing to gain a livelihood by entering the employment of others as to fish with and on their own hook. 
               The strangers then made a bargain with them to enter their employment; and the wages to be paid were so large that they were anxious to conclude the agreement. Of course, the work was to be of that nature they could perform; but there were to be obligations on their part, as well as on the part of the other men. 
               The fishermen were now informed that they were organized discoverers of natural curiosities, and the founders of cities; that all who entered their employ became members of the order for discovering natural curiosities and founding cities. They thought this a queer name for an order; but they concluded, if the name and workings of the order corresponded, that the cave would prove a suitable acquisition; and if their connection with the order proved profitable and pleasant, they would be content. 
               Accordingly, they were informed that they must be regularly initiated; to this they readily complied. 
               From the boat was brought a human skull, and a long pointed double-edged sword, having in plain letters thereon, "the sword of justice." 
               They were then requested to place their hand on the skull, and repeat the following oath:- 
               "I, in remembrance of the certainty of my own mortality, do solemnly pledge my own life and soul, that I will keep the secrets of the order for the discovery of natural curiosities and founding of cities inviolate till death, and will hold him guiltless who shall pierce my heart with the sword of justice, should I break my oath and perjure my soul, and will raise my own hand to slay the guilty." 
               Each one in turn took this oath, and each were handed one hundred dollars in gold. A password was then given them, which was the "sword of justice," with some further instructions. 
               After the ceremony, they were told that they might attend to their own business for ten days; on the eleventh, they were to visit the cave in the same way as now, at the earliest hour in the morning that the tide would serve them; to come without light, and to climb up by the rope, or the best way they could. This day arrived, and the four men kept their appointment. 
               Entering the cave on the flood tide, they sought, in the dim light, for the rope they had left, and they were surprised to find what appeared to be a vessel's shrouds; and by them, they, one after the other, ascended; and, as they passed along, they were greeted by a loud command to halt, which they, in still further surprise, did. They were then commanded to march in single file, ten paces apart, and give the countersign. They followed this order also, one after the other giving the password, as they had been instructed. 
               And now another surprise awaited them, for at the inner termination of the entrance, they came to a partition, a door was opened, and they entered the extensive hall, at the farther side of which a small taper was burning; they were told to cross to the light, and to ascend to the next hall; here they found stairs; wondering and amazed, they proceeded, and again were met with the command to halt; then to advance and give the countersign as before; after which they were told to enter the hall of justice. 
               They entered and were in total darkness, and in every direction in all parts of the hall, a most singular noise met their ears; they were in a complete circle of curious musical sounds, no harmony, as all seemed to play to suit their own fancy; there were one hundred Jews-harps being played at once; this lasted about one minute, then all in the circle spoke up, saying, "Let justice be done." 
               And, in the twinkling of an eye, the great and spacious hall was so brilliantly lighted, that all, the new comers especially, were obliged to shade their eyes from a score of great lights on either side; with great magnificent reflectors, the light was made exceedingly great. 
               All was silence again for one minute, when a most gigantic man in a mask, with the identical sword of justice in his hand, approached the four men and said, "Strangers as yet to the sternness of the sword of justice, advance to the altar." 
               Great letters forming this word were painted on a very transparent cloth, which was stretched in front of a bright light, clearly showing where was indicated for them to appear. 
               Here, on a table, was the identical skull upon which these men had placed their hands when taking the oath, and the same giant, who was about eight feet tall, and large in proportion, again addressed them in the following manner: 
               "Place your hands on the emblem of mortality, and answer my questions." 
               Here they all placed their hands on the skull. 
               "You will answer each for himself, just as you choose." 
               "Have you kept inviolate your sacred oath?" 
               He here drew the sword of justice as though in readiness to slay them, should they reply in the negative; but each replied, "I have." 
               He then asked them, they still holding their hands on the emblem of mortality, "Do you renew your oath?" 
               To which they all said, "I do." 
               "Do you regret having entered the order for the discovery of natural curiosities, and founding of cities?" 
               "I do not." 
               "Do you regret that you discovered this great natural curiosity, the cave?" 
               "I do not," they each replied. 
               He next said, "brothers sing," and one of the best songs, thought the fishermen, that they had ever heard, was sung by a score of voices. 
               The giant then gave a sort of kick, and sent two feet or more of his height, with his sailor-like trowsers, half way across the hall; he then removed a large padded coat and his mask, and then stood before the astonished men, the fine looking ing man who had first been informed of the cave; and grasping each by the hand, the meeting was most cordial. 
               Calling each by name, he introduced them as the original discoverers of the cave; "and in their honor," he added, "we will now repair to the upper banqueting hall, and spend a few hours." 
               They then went up the next flight of stairs, and passed through the hall entrance, which was brilliantly lighted, to the spacious hall above, which was as magnificently lighted as the one below, and beside, it had been floored and richly carpeted and most elegantly furnished with all kinds of furniture that could be named, even to a piano, and all the luxuries that could be brought together. 
               The halls were warmed by a large and substantial stove placed in the centre of the middle hall, with a large funnel reaching to the height of ten feet, then extending along to the next hall entrance, through which it passed, and through the next hall, and on, all the way up and out of the steep and winding way to the outer world, completely warming the second and third apartments, and all the passage way out. 
               And to as fine a repast as could be provided; they all sat down; consisting of all kinds of meat, fish and fowl, and a rare dessert; everything desirable that money could procure, and taste desire, was on the occasion in abundance. In fact, it was the dedication of the great, grand establishment. 
               Untold gold and a hundred men could do a great deal in a few days, and to celebrate the occasion with conferring the second degree on the initiates, was very proper and calculated to impress the new recruits that the greatest of secret organizations was a stupendous reality. 
               After doing justice to the food and injustice to their stomachs, they proceeded to do injustice to their heads, by freely using the juice of the grape and other kinds of costly drinks, and in story-telling with toasts and songs, they spent quite a large portion of the day. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               Now we must say something more about this wonderful place, and will begin with the shore entrance. 
               They built a huge gate for the entrance, and by two upright iron posts, and a cross piece at the top for a frame to the gate, this was securely bolted to the wall on either side, so that it was quite as firm as the rock itself; the gate was now hung on its huge hinges on the cross piece, so that it could swing in or out as the tide might be going. 
               The gate was placed half-way within the entrance, or about ten feet from the outside; it worked like magic; on the floodtide, it looked but a shallow place, not suitable for a boat, and the same on the ebb-tide. 
               On the inside they had a powerful windlass and chain, which they could hook into a ring on the gate and draw it up and keep it open when desirable; though, on pressing against it very slightly, it yielded readily and would go with the tide, allowing the water to pass in or out as though no gate was there; and to finish the gate, they had the frame and all painted, and so disguised that it looked like the natural appearance of the surrounding wall, and a stranger would not observe that it was not a part of the mountain side. 
               Inside, the space was about eighty feet, either way, being plenty of room for dozens of boats, both large and small; after the gate was hung or put up, it was darker than ever, yet they had plenty of light when they required it; the shrouds were drawn up when not in use; the land entrance did not require any disguise, though they carefully made it more difficult of approach. 
               The three halls or separate caves, which were all connected by a passage-way, twenty feet wide, were now more fully prepared for occupancy. 
                
               The first was called the golden room, for here was where the stores were deposited, consisting of everything of value that could be named; the other rooms we will more fully describe. 
               The third room, or banqueting hall, was divided into various rooms, the cooking arrangement and a part of the sleeping apartments were here, while in the hall of justice were many cots, in fact, from the water, where dozens of boats lay, to the outer passage, the place was fully occupied. 
               Perhaps it might be thought an unhealthy place for a dwelling, but they had pure air constantly and could have the temperature of the place to suit them; besides they were out and in, not constantly confined, though it was one of the most healthy dwellings that existed, more so than many large houses, and infinitely more so than those places of human degradation, under-ground dwellings, and prison-like houses of the poor. 
               We now see this wonderful place fixed up to suit its occupants and owners, and will now interest ourselves about the workings of this order. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               In this organization were several officers, whose duty it was to have charge of a certain department; in this way everything went on like clock work; the officers were changed as often as the correct working of the cause demanded, while the leader held his position for four years. 
               The President had about as much power as a king. 
               His counsellors were talented men, seven in number, and each filled a distinct office, and by having all the different departments attended to, the prosperity of the establishment was great. 
               The four fishermen were commissioned watchmen, two to watch by day and two by night, and before they had been members of the order one month, they concluded that the part of the name of the order which came first, was a very correct one, for the curiosities and wonders that were brought together fairly surprised them. 
               About the men going and coming that did not seem strange, for both night and day they were ever busy. 
               One day the four fishermen were requested to go out for fish, and were informed that Indians were about, and they were cautioned and told to be on their guard; but they had no fears, for they were on the best of terms with them, for they had done them a favor once; when their chief was wounded they had secreted him from other Indians, his enemies, so they had their friendship all right; still, it would not do to let them learn of the cave and the new affairs therein, for Indians are greater skulking thieves than Negroes, if possible. 
               But this day was an unfortunate one for them. 
               They had got well out and began to fish with fine prospects, when they discovered three canoes of Indians at a distance, and fearing that they might not be the friendly ones who generally came in that direction, though seldom any others came, they started for the shore, and the Indians at once gave their favorite war-whoop, and started in pursuit; but our lusty fishermen had a good start, and while the Indians were yet one mile or more off, they plunged into their safe retreat, for fortunately it was flood tide, for an hour or so. 
               The four men remained just inside to hear what was the opinion of the savages. 
               Presently they came up, and in broken English sputtered away after this sort: 
               "Pale faces fools; scare him dreadful; go bang against rock; big fools; old boat rotten; too much ballast; go to bottom." 
               They then looked about to see if they could make any discoveries of the boat or men, but failing, soon left, and our fishermen leaving their boat, hastened up through the cave, and running with great speed along the shore, suddenly showed themselves to the Indians, and, being armed with fowling pieces, they gave them a charge of small shot, as they wished not to kill, but to punish and frighten them. 
               But they were more frightened to see them come back from the bottom of the sea than by the shooting; they appeared to think they had charmed lives, or were devils, and as they never returned, it was concluded that the trick had its desired effect on them. 
               Why this organization should admit these fishermen to their order looked very strange, but upon reflection, we can understand it; they needed such men; they knew of the cave, and to secure their silence and private possession of it, induced them to take this, the only wise and safe course; and having removed their families to the city named before, they could give their undivided attention to their duties. 
               Who these men were, or whence they came, the fishermen knew not, and cared but little; they were now members; to go back they would surely perish, to continue seemed all right; they were certain of several things; they possessed untold wealth, and they saw nothing out of the way; the chief was an inveterate smoker, and seemed to be absorbed in thought while smoking. 
               His history and name were a little odd; he was not ashamed of it though; in fact, the name of the order was singular, and how much the workings of the order were in accordance with it they had not yet learned; "but what is in a name?" 
               We now find this most wonderful cave occupied, it being completely transformed, and the order for the discovery of natural curiosities and founding of cities in complete working order. 
               We will now notice several things connected with this mysterious cave. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               One day, at the close of the duties, the watchman saw a great, grand ship approaching under full sail, with three curious flags flying to the breeze. 
               One was pure red, having the emblem of the sun; one was pure white with the moon for an emblem; while the other was pure blue, having the stars. 
               They had noticed in the cave just such flags, and consequently thought the ship connected with the order; and when they came in proper distance they took in sail and cast anchor, and then immediately discharged a small swivel. 
               Making full report of their observations to the President, they were ordered to row out to the ship and take any message back that they might have to send ashore. 
               They obeyed orders, and as they approached the ship they were hailed and ordered alongside, and were surprised to see one of their own officers on board. 
               He at once handed them letters to be taken back. 
               And the affair wound up by the fishermen being ordered to pilot the ship in as near to the shore as possible, after which they and all hands on board, with all those within the cave, manned all the boats, and made a lively time in taking to the shore the cargo of the ship quite as fast as it could be discharged. 
               It consisted of every nameable kind of goods, valuable packages, and bales of dry goods, and everything a great establishment required. 
               They were several days in effecting a full discharge, and a safe storage within the cave, and as they had worked both night and day till they had the job done, they felt like having a good time, and accordingly did so, for it proved that all on board the ship were members. 
               Soon the ship left for parts unknown, at least to the fishermen, which led them to think they were not fully trusted, but they could not complain as they were from the first employed, and their connection was more like an honorary one. 
               One day a letter was handed to one of the fishermen with directions to take it to Vice President Indiana. 
               He was told to go one mile north, following what was called a spotted line, that is, trees with a piece of the bark shaved off close enough together in a direct line, so that one could follow it as well as a road, and when he came to a tree having a spot on all four sides, he was to turn to the right and go another mile to the city of Columbia. 
               Setting forth with his gun that he might shoot any game he might happen to see, in an hour or so, he, following the spotted line which he did not know existed before, till he came to the tree spotted on either side, he then turned to the right, and after going about one mile he came to a settlement that he knew did not exist six months before this time. 
               He was confounded; it is true the houses were new, most of them made of logs; and a grand location it was for a city, on a large river emptying into the ocean, at the mouth of which was as fine a bay as exists on the face of the globe, and by water quite a number of miles from the cave, while across by land it was but a short distance. 
               Our fisherman began to think the name of the order a correct one. 
               As he passed along he saw a sign which read Superintendent's Office, and to inquire he approached the door for that purpose, and found himself in the presence of the Vice President, and to him he delivered the letter, and soon took one in return, and observed the superscription was to his "Honor President Illinois." 
               He learned two of the leaders' names and began to feel interested about the names of the others, and he soon had an opportunity to learn them too. 
               After reporting upon his return, he found plenty to do. 
               He was informed next day that he could visit the city where they first met the president, to take letters to several now absent. One of these was addressed to the Hon. Mr. Whale. 
                
               "Well," soliloquized he, "Mr. Whale would make a good fisherman if he chose to adopt that calling, though, perhaps he is one now, comparatively, he, being a Whale, lives on little fishes, maybe." This officer looked after the interest of the order away from home. 
               Another was to Hon. Mr. Swells. He looked after the department of the sea, and he too had a watery name-"Swell of the sea." 
               Another was Hon. Mr. Gunpowder. He looked after the arms and ammunition; and it was very singular that his name and office were so similar in meaning. 
               Hon. Mr. Interiorman was another, and he looked after the affairs of the great order at home. 
               Hon. Mr. Lawgiver was another; he saw that everything was done according to law. 
               One was addressed, Hon. Mr. Informationman; whose duty was to see that all letters and mail matter were duly delivered. 
               Hon. Mr. Vault was another officer, making seven in all, beside the President and Vice President. He had charge of all the gold, like Judas of old, and was as great a man as any. 
               The fisherman began to think that the officers of the order were as peculiarily named as the order. 
               Arriving safely he delivered the letters, for following directions he had no trouble in finding them; he had seen them all before, but as his duties did not bring him into close business relation, he had not learned their names. 
               Upon his return he had quite a long chat with his three old chums; he had visited all their families, as some one of them did every week, so that they all went home once a month. 
               And as they usually discussed the affairs of the great cave, its management, its officers, their merits, and the probability of success in its various departments, just as the common people ever do the condition of their country, its prosperity or adversity, and also the capacity of their rulers, he delivered himself in this wise to his interested brother fishermen: 
               "Boys, do you know that this organization of ours is destined to fill the whole earth with its glory?" One of the others replied: 
               "As to this organization, I do not know about that; if it had not been for us common fellows and our discovery of the cave, I guess we should not be much greater than other organizations of the world in different parts, of which we have heard so much; and though it was us common men that discovered the foundation for this greatness, I guess we shall not be much better off for it after all, for though we belong to the order and are under all the oaths and obligations, and do all the watching and common work, it don't seem to benefit us much. 
               "Of course we have a home, so do all the common poor of other orders in all parts of the world, but you see though we got a start at first just like the settlers in a new country, where are we now? 
               "Why we work night and day, and when we have paid our rent, which is enormous, and bought all other necessary things, settling once a month, it takes all we can earn to make our families comfortable; and while we beat the bush others will catch the bird. 
               "Our President, for one, will become very wealthy, you see; I believe that that whole cargo of goods came free of duty, but they don't come any cheaper to us, and I begin to think that the President and that big Whale and those others in office, are getting all the cream, while we poor wretches get the skimmed milk, and watered at that. 
               "I should like to know how much the rest of the order receives that are not office holders of the higher grade-I mean all hands belonging to the order-they seem to be happy men; they discuss the merits of everything, and have a great task in making the laws of the order, and seeing to everything generally; overhauling his old Whaleship terribly, thinking that he don't feel so much interest to have the organization grow in greatness, and true glory, as he does to make money out of the position he is in. 
               "They think he don't throw his whole soul into the office he fills, as they think its interests demand, and the President of the great cave, though elected to the greatest office in the gift of the order, with the expectation that he would be very energetic, seems to be satisfied to let everything go about as it may, thinking that his officers will receive all the blame and he still hoard up great riches. 
               "Then the Hon. Mr. Vault, he is named about well enough, for he has charge of the great vaults of the cave, and locks up all the revenues that come in, and pretends that there is only a proper amount on hand, and therefore keeps turning everything into money for the sake of being the richest organization on earth. 
               "But those whose duty lead them to look after the interests of all think that while the officers have so much gold, more than they can count, that the common people ought to have an opportunity to lay up something for themselves, too. 
               "Yet the leaders cry out that there are great expenses to be met in founding cities, securing new curiosities, and to pay off other expenses of the order with the money, though what debts were standing against the organization were not yet due, and the pinching wants of the poor might be relieved by less taxation and all bills met when due, but as it was in the hearts of those in power to oppress the poor, this course would be thought excusable. 
               "I tell you we four men are not all who need a change, and I hope that one of those men who go after the big ones will be elected to office in due time; then we will see better times. 
               "Then while some endure all things in hope of having their turn in office, and others hammer away to bring around the joyful day of justice, we must live in hope." 
               We see by this condition of things as described by the fishermen, that the greatest organization in the world, with the greatest cave on earth for a favorable development of their great strength and beauty, may grow or diminish. 
                
               But as there is not a person on earth without a fault, nor an organization without an error, and as men may grow good or bad, so a great organization may become more perfect and its glory shine brighter, or it may imperceptibly degenerate, and its retrograde at last be seen; therefore we hear the voice of warning, or of praise, as the case may be, for men will not keep silent; we then witness a natural result. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               The new city soon became a world in miniature, consisting of all nations and religions, and covering an extensive tract of country, and where the land entrance of the cave existed stands one of the greatest and most magnificent houses in all the country. 
               It is from the foundation to the top black, consequently it is known as the Black House; it is very capacious, while its underground arrangements are very superior to those of any other. So we find everything in a prosperous condition but the common people. 
               The President, by virtue of his office, was respected and greeted by all as though the existence of all things depended upon his will; and some thought the great organization in all its departments, with the flourishing condition of the great city of Columbia, was owing to his greatness; but others thought very differently. 
               Whatever the policy of the order might be in reference to administering its laws for the purpose of enriching itself, or by dealing in a sharp manner with foreigners, or unjustly taxing its members, the President and his officers did not allow any one, great or small, to attack the policy they thought best to adopt. Though they might be in an error, they would not allow their position in any particular to be assailed. The opponent might be superior in every sense, and capable of criticising the acts of the chief magistrate of the order, or his subordinates; such daring men would be placed in the background, and all the opportunities wherein such fearless champions for the right could be of great assistance, they were ever prevented, if possible, for fear their influence might become too great. 
               Thus things began to be quite out of joint. 
               It was soon learned that the President of the order was a mere figure-head; that when he was really weighed, or tested, that he was found very deficient. 
               Whether it was his almost constant habit of smoking, that had changed the man, and made him very inferior, or whether he was always an inferior man, we cannot say; perhaps the organization had grown beyond his abilities-hence his inferiority was seen. How he came to be elected to the great office we suppose was in this wise. 
               There were capable men in the order, many of whom would have made a good President; but they thought best to select a man who might be the most available, on account of not having been previously engaged in meddling with the workings of the order, and then they could make a Lion of him, by reason of his great office, though he could not make the office great,-though, like many others, he was great in his own peculiar calling. 
               He was a great swordsman, having been taught the art of fencing by his Uncle Sam., Americus. And it is best for all men to seek greatness in their own sphere; then they may excel. And as he had been brought into notice by his greatness in accomplishing the defeat of a set of rascals who had established themselves in such an antagonistical position to the order, that the excitement on the discovery of the plot and its overthrow by him raised such an enthusiastic gratitude, that, in their haste to reward him for his good turn, promoted him to the great office. 
               The enthusiasm of the impulsive put him there, not his adaptation for the office; therefore, it was one constant struggle to control him in his new position. 
               Such a head of the order, while controlled by the great Whale and other officers, would so act under their directions, they being all self, that the body of the membership would rebel, and raise their voices against the manner the order was worked, for avariciousness appeared to be one of the ruling passions of the managing department. 
               Hence, ships were sent abroad to fetch back stores, while officers were appointed to visit all the people throughout the city of Columbia, to gather tithes from all; so that the rich, feeling oppressed, would make the poor pay double the rent and double prices for all kinds of necessaries of life. Such extortion caused the people to cry aloud for reform, they feeling that, had the head of the order stood up for the rights of the people, that this state of things could not have come to pass. 
               Crushing the poor, and enriching a few, was wrong policy. Raising up the poor, by having all things equal, as they used to, was a better one. 
               What made it so very distressing, was the President's unwise use of his almost monarchical power. 
               He had very much changed since his election to office. He had been taught in his youth that those in authority were like a general of an army, his own opinion being the correct guide, and independent of the people he would have his own way. 
               This idea he had still, and thought to carry it out. It was a pity that his Uncle Sam., Americus, taught him in this way, for it made him like a balky horse or mule, though the most contrary beast will go when they want to. So he was ever ready for any enterprise that met his views; but if anything was proposed that did not, or had no interest for him, he would smoke away, puff! puff! and let them talk on, and fret away. As they could not act without him, he was bound to have his way so long as he was in power; for when his term of office expired, he might, or he might not, be re-elected. But as he had become wealthy, it was not so important on his own account, yet anxiety, like excitement, is a condition of mind that may pass from one to another. 
               Consequently, those selfish intriguing office-holders were anxious to have him re-elected, for they too wished to make a fortune; and they were aware, that should some one be elected to the Presidency from the number of those who were so clamorous for justice, that they would have a poor prospect of reappointment to office; hence President and counsellors became anxious for his re-election. 
               This subject now became the every day topic, and all arguments, by both those in favor of conducting the order on the same principles for four years more, and those who desired a change, that could be brought forward, were so constantly agitated, that they were all learned by heart. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               About this time other orders of very distinct laws and management of their internal affairs, were unfortunate enough to become involved in the affairs of the order for the discovery of curiosities and founding cities, and the President and his advisers were perplexed in managing the difficulty. 
               It had ever been the rule of the various orders, for each one to mind his own affairs; and if they did not, to so hold them up to public scorn, that they would be ashamed of their acts, and soon seek reconciliation, for though distinct orders, it was no reason one should say, "we are right, and you are wrong," for it is often the case that all are both right and wrong in some respects. 
               But the President and his officers appeared to think that in all things, money was the object, hence, to settle any affair that did not prove to their advantage, might as well remain unsettled. 
                
               So, at this time, it was constant turmoil without, and great dissatisfaction within, the cave. 
               The time had now come that it would be safe to allow all who wished to visit this wonderful part of creation to do so. 
               Great was the wonder of all, when they beheld the natural grandeur of the cave, and vast hoards of wealth in every conceivable form; showing clearly the ability of the President to live in his present style. 
               He lived like a prince, and his fine equippage might be coveted by a king. 
               Who earned all this? 
               The fact was, the order knew no more about its funds, than though there were none. We will listen to the fishermen as they again express their minds. 
               "Boys, how much do you suppose I have saved the past few years, since we joined the order?" 
               They replied, "Not much I guess, with your family of wife and nine children." 
               "Well, boys, as I live, I have not saved one dollar; we have just lived; my rent is so high, and all kinds of provisions, that when we pay off all the bills, I am just where I was when I used to fish for a living. I think we would have been wiser, if we had secured a share of the profits. I shall go in for a change at any rate, so long as I can vote." 
               To this they all heartily agreed, and each replied that their comrade had told their own story. 
               One of them remarked, "I think it strange that the President and his counsellors have such an influence with so large a portion of the order." 
               "Not in the least," exclaimed another, "you see, some one or more of the order are relatives to these men in office, so they, who are in power, and called the 'insiders,' because they control the money and all the offices, and administer the whole affairs of the great cave, have everything their own way; from the highest to the lowest, all work together, and so make the largest part of the order. 
               "But if all who do not desire any benefit from the finances, are as many in proportion beyond our acquaintance, as there are within our knowledge, I would not wonder, if we rally every man, we succeeded in effecting a change in the administration of our affairs. 
               "There is one thing about it, as all are permitted to see the inside of the cave, I think the ladies, in particular, will see where the great wealth of the order is, how it has been used, and how it will be likely to be, if there is not a change. 
               "Well, boys, I am determined to invite my wife and nine children over here next week, when I go home, and I advise you to do the same; there is nothing like enlightening the people, and the women will be better than a newspaper to spread the real truth broadcast over all sections. 
               "And when the women of our members see the great riches of our chief and his officers, and realize how short a time they have been in securing their wealth, they then will see why we all have been compelled to pay double price for every article we have consumed, though it is pretended that we owe other orders large sums of money, and that we owe debts of honor, which is all pretence, that they may have an excuse to use extortion." 
               The very next week various common people saw for themselves that while they had been groaning with poverty's pinching want, others were groaning under the load of hoarded wealth, fretting for fear of thieves, and seeking new avenues to spend money, or to put it at interest in new ways. 
               One old lady exclaimed: "Why, I declare, when our President was first elected to office he was as poor as a poor fisherman, and now he is as rich as a king." 
               "I don't wonder that while he, with his family, can live in such grandeur, having the great Black House to live in, all free, and we have to pay such rent, that it shows the cause for such a contrast. 
               "I guess if he would take my husband's place, and his wife my place, that they would very soon wish a change in the administration of the order; I wonder the men endure it; I know we women would not if we could vote; and I am certain that to see the organization in such a condition is enough to drive any lady of just indignation to any extreme that might have a tendency to bring the high down and to bring up the crushed. 
               "Why I have known of as fine families as our chief's, or as they ever were or ever will be, who have been so embarrassed financially that they have been compelled to go to the dispensary for medical advice, though hitherto having a plenty, and all because our chief and his counsellors make it impossible to live in comfort." 
               Now, these were the common people, and they concluded that why the President was so highly pleased with the cave in the first place was that it would make a grand place for him to hoard up riches, and to retain this office another term of four years, he could use a great fortune to influence votes, and then have plenty left, though it would look a little weak to have to resort to such means, yet it would be better than to be defeated, and all his counsellors, with a promise that they should remain in office, would do all in their power, for, while working for him, they were working for themselves; and the same arrangement was also made with all the minor officeholders. 
               Though it would be a little risky to buy votes, yet a present to a man would make him feel as though he could not vote against such a friend any more than though he held an office. 
               He would very much dislike to make a fight and then fail, and as the time approached he thought it best to use a little strategy to secure his re-election. 
               Accordingly he made a bluster about the high rates of taxation, as though he was in favor of a repeal of those obnoxious and severe measures so oppressive to the people, while it was privately understood that no material change must be made, Then the people would think he saw the importance of a change for their benefit, so give him their support again. 
               This apparently was the course he was taking, and it might have done very well had not the ladies in every direction taken up the subject, and so clamored for justice that the men generally found that if for no other than to appease their "women folks," that they would be compelled to vote for a change. 
               Hence we see, that though the women cannot vote, that they control the polls, and therefore the destinies of the order and the future occupancy of the Black House, and the great cave, for storing riches, were to be disposed of indirectly by them. 
               But if any one thought that the stupid, indifferent chief of the cave was not sufficient to the occasion, they "reckoned without their host." 
               While others were anxious, he would puff, puff, at his "long nine," and study out what could not be arrived at in haste. 
               "Nothing like indifference to the turmoil of the common people" he would say; yet he kept himself well prepared for anything favorable that might "turn up." 
               He was crafty as well as a great smoker. 
               There were men in the order that were as much superior in abilities to him in every respect as a learned statesman is to an ignorant, self-willed, old fogy Chinaman. 
               And it was of vast importance to his interests that such men be snubbed in their own aspirations and zeal for the welfare of the order. 
               Several of these men were the projectors and the establishers and developers of the great, grand order, and stood in about equal importance to the general order as the first discoverers of the cave. 
               Hence, while they were at work hammering away trying to modify laws and bring about a favorable change for the general good, they had the respect, love, and influence of the common people. 
               Therefore, for the party in power to succeed, it was important that these should be shorn of their strength. 
                
               To effect this, they were charged with all kinds of short-comings and deviations from the correct course good and true members should follow; consequently, whenever important enterprises that involved the interests of all were under consideration, and upon which all had a right to express their mind, these men were so crowded and insulted by being called to order in debate, or refused the opportunity to act on the subject under discussion as referees, or insinuations expressed as to their real object in taking the stand they would, they had but a poor opportunity to throw their whole strength into the cause of general good. 
               But the subtle old smoker did not think it best to stop here. 
               Though they were brothers of the same order, and sworn to be faithful to the secrets of the order, and were under the same constitution and laws, yet the same door to promotion being open to all, it followed, of course, that they had a right, both moral and legal, to do the best they could in accomplishing their object-the election of their favorite; and had they only thus far gone, it would have been better. 
               But unscrupulous men will resort to any means to accomplish their object, for it is a well-known fact that if a man may act wrong in one particular, so he may in others, and feel as well satisfied with himself as when using dishonest means for his own aggrandizement; in other respects, then, he who would crush the poor to enrich himself in money or a great name, will do anything else to gain that object upon which he has cast his whole soul. 
               What a misfortune to this great order that its chief did not remain where he bore an honored name and was beloved by all, for though a large portion held him in high esteem for his office sake, quite as many now scorned his present career and as greatly desired a change or the close of his term of office, as they had been to promote him to it. 
               And it will hardly be credited that very unscrupulous means were resorted 
                     to to
                     to
                   accomplish the ruin of others that he might succeed. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               There was one champion of the oppressed and downtrodden named Solomon, and he was rightly named, though perhaps not so wise as Solomon of old, yet he could be called a second Solomon with propriety. This man thought more of the general good of the order than he did of his personal advantage or the benefit of a few. 
               It was important that he should become powerless or a change in the government of the order would be certain. 
               One day the chief addressed one of the fishermen in a rather more social way than is common for such men, and said: 
               "I wish you would find another cave like this one, excepting the outlet, though I would like to have one that could be closed up with a gate or heavy door. 
               "And I wish it known only to the discoverers; and as you had such good fortune in finding this one, I conclude you have a faculty for such an undertaking. I will procure you and your comrades a furlough for a week, that you may make the effort; and if you are lucky in the attempt, I will give you each a fine house in the new city, though its existence to all others but those I choose to inform must remain a secret. 
               "Now, if on these conditions you will fact, let me know tomorrow." 
               He then shook hands for the second time as he left, just as interested great men are wont to do about election time with the common people. 
               The proposition was fully discussed that evening by the four men, and they concluded that they would undertake the enterprise, as it was honorable, and, if successful, would prove to their advantage. 
               They did not know what such a cave was wanted for, but concluded for secret party caucusing. 
                
               But they reported to his chieftainship that they would make the effort; they could but fail. 
               "Now," said the great smoker, as he blew the puffs of smoke away, "you must remember your oath." 
               "Remember our oath; what oath, your excellency?" 
               "Why your oath to hold inviolate the secrets of the order of which you are members." 
               "As to that, most certainly, though we did not know that this affair was a secret of the order." 
               "I pronounce it so; am I not the chief? Do I not represent the order?" 
               "All right, your honor; we will remember and obey." 
               "Now, boys," said the leader of the four-he always thus addressed them-"I supposed it was a secret of our Chief Magistrate. At any rate, I so understood him yesterday, as none were to know of it but those he chose to inform; I, thinking it wanted for a sort of private room for preparing the work to be done during the campaign; and he now tells us that it is a secret of the order. Then, of course, it as much belongs to one as another of our members; and as no oath requires us to keep secret what belongs to the general order, like anything else holden in common, we can take counsel in reference to it, if we choose, though, if we succeeded, the cave, it seems, was to be appropriated by the President's chosen ones, like other things." 
               "But we will start on our voyage of discovery, and act in accordance with our own inclinations." 
               They set forth, and after visiting every high rocky shore, and many islands, they found just the place they wanted, though different from the other. 
               It was on an island of considerable size, densely wooded, while the small growth and vines, with "under-brush," made progress almost impossible. 
               A large bird named Fish Hawk completely covered the trees with their nests; on some of the trees every branch had one or more. 
               Hundreds and thousands of these large birds swarmed the entire island, giving to the place one of the most forsaken spots on earth, so far as human existence goes; and in climbing over rocks and through almost impregnable thickets, frightening clouds of birds, while thousands of half-fledged ones stretched their long necks and tottering long legs, to see the cause of so great a fuss among the old ones, they came to a curious opening in the side of the hill. 
               It was sufficiently large to allow all four to walk abreast for ten or twelve paces, after which it was about wide enough for two, for about the same distance; it then extended in all directions about one hundred feet. 
               Concluding it just the place they needed, as its advantages were that it was high and dry, and about ten rods from the shore, and also from the wild appearance of the place, seldom, if ever, visited;-they took a chart of it rudely drawn, so that its whereabouts could be easily found among the various islands, though the numerous birds would be a good guide, as this island alone appeared to be appropriated by them, no others containing any. They returned to report. 
               Though they were very jubilant over their discovery, in anticipation of the good fortune to them, yet they were sorely puzzled about its belonging to the order, if the order were to know nothing about it. 
               Their spokesman again expressed himself: 
               "I wish the honorable Mr. Solomon had been at home before we started, for he would have explained all the particulars to us, for he is not so reticent as our Chief. 
               "But, as it is, we will go to him about it, if we feel a doubt about our promised houses; perhaps, too, he will yet explain why the order needs another cave. Maybe they intend to have it for a private storehouse." 
               Thus talking, as folks will, about everything they don't understand more than those things they can fathom, they arrived; and the leader repaired to the Executive presence, to lay before his Honor their success. 
               He made the report, as we have seen it, and was thanked and told that all the deeds should be made out the next day, and cautioned him about its being known. 
               While their friend was absent, the Hon. Mr. Solomon happened to pass that way, and being on social terms with them, he accosted them, and inquired after their comrade, and was informed of his errand to the Chief, with all the particulars of the agreement, their good fortune, with a full and complete description of the island. And as they were the original discoverers of the island cave, they were the legitimate owners, as they had been of the great cave, they were the legitimate owners, as they had been of the great cave now belonging to their order. 
               He was very much surprised at the President's freak, and could see no sense in such a purchase; and had the scheme been introduced into public meeting of the order, he would have inquired into the propriety of it, and that he should offer four houses belonging to the general organization for an island of wild trees and thousands of Fish Hawks, only because it contained a cave, was as much a riddle to him as ever old Bible Solomon found to puzzle him, and to see through it he would really need the wisdom of his old namesake. 
               Now the "pet scheme of the President" was a one-sided affair, and a little underhanded, though his reasons for gaining possession of this worthless spot were to be learned to the regret of those who stood in his way. 
               He took rather too much on himself when he undertook the scheme of buying this little island. 
               It was the cave he wanted, and he had saved enough to buy the (to him) wonderful place, and more too. 
               But he intended to pay out of the funds as though he was "all in all." Perhaps he wanted the place, that he might set up a new order when he should find himself out of office; and perhaps he did not. 
               But the subject was brought up at the next general meeting, and a more surprised man than his excellency never lived to find his action in the premises criticized, and completely over-thrown by the Hon. Mr. Solomon. 
               Let his intention be what it might, he felt so much chagrin at his failure, that he resolved to seek revenge on his opponents, though he knew that Mr. Solomon had the general good at heart, yet he had no right, thought his greatness, to cross his path; and to remove him was now as great a desire as to possess the Island, for he considered him a dangerous rival in the order, as he was a great man, and, should he be elected to the highest office, he would make it greater still in dignity by his own greatness; he was a statesman understanding all things pertaining to any position he might occupy. 
               The President determined to carry out his first plan, and again sent for the fisherman, and stated to him that he would like to visit the Island, with some friends. 
               Accordingly they made a trip to the Island, and the enormous number of birds so very much surprised the President, that he took another segar, and lighting it took a seat on a mossy bowlder for a smoke, the others following his example, so far as sitting down; and there this great man sat absorbed apparently in observing the great flock of Fish Hawks. 
               After smoking three segars, he arose and expressed a wish to proceed. 
               They now entered the cave, and finding it satisfactory, he expressed himself in this style: 
               "I have been admiring the very fine prospect, and lively view (referring to the birds) obtained on this Island of the sea; and the cave suits, while its surroundings and location are more than grand; it borders on the Divine, as the innumerable birds are like a great cloud of witnesses to the existence of man." 
               The Fish Hawks were very much disgusted at being intruded upon; for they always appropriate an Island in this manner till disturbed by man, though sometimes they will seek a lone tree. 
               Off the coast of Maine is an Island answering the above 
                     discription
                     description
                   fully, excepting the cave. 
               They returned from their private trip, and as the subject had been discussed, but not settled, it was thought best to make a great effort, as a failure at last could not be looked upon by the opponents in any worse light than now. 
               Accordingly, a committee, who would report favorably, was selected to visit the island, and though Mr. Solomon had given a full and correct description, yet this committee portrayed its beauties and advantages to such a degree that for a season the indications were that the island would become an appendage of the great cave. 
               The reason why it was desirable that the order should buy the island was, the order would be responsible for whatever disposition was made of it; and though it might be devoted to some purpose foreign to what they might have anticipated, yet the President would be blameless. 
               The President again expressed himself to his counsellors in this wise: 
               "I believe that island a good place for offenders, and who-ever might be unfortunate enough to be so wicked as to get a home there, would be very fortunate to have so grand a view of seeing the great flock of birds, and it would remind them of the sweet days of liberty and lead to repentance, so that when their days of exile were over they would be well prepared to return to their allegiance, and it would be a fitting place for that crooked stick who opposed its purchase, and if I can get him there, I certainly shall." 
               This opponent was "splendid" in personal appearance, and a great orator; he had the hearts of the common people generally, and he might be in the way of the President's re-election. Therefore all those means that could be resorted 
                     to to
                     to
                   break him down in public estimation would be, and every effort made to place him in that position where he would be powerless, and if he could banish him to this island he would be out of the way fully. 
               But for all the great efforts to secure the island, it was lost to the order. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               The troubles of this organization had but just begun. 
               Having a man for their chief who had been educated by his Uncle Sam Americus in the art of fencing, was not what they needed. 
               Ever so good a swordsman may not be suitable for a controlling and civil head. 
               Disputes are very unpleasant in any form and under any circumstances, and, as before mentioned, several orders very similar to the order for the discovery of natural curiosities and founding cities, though not having so fine a cave, had broken the international-like laws governing all independent orders, and the leading men of the order, and all the common people cried aloud to have justice done. 
               But the President feared, it is presumed, that though he had won great renown as the leading swordsman in the art of fencing, and had acquitted himself so satisfactory as to be enthusiastically promoted, would not like to loose that great name gained, as he might if he again stepped to the front; he also knew there was more money in his present course, and as all his counsellors shared in the money, of course nothing would be done. 
               But this management brought out all the strength of Mr. Solomon and a large number of like stamp, while the people called loudly for a change in the departments of Mr. Whale and Mr. Gunpowder. 
               But all the satisfaction they got was smoke, smoke, till the President might as well have been an Opium eater or smoker as to so completely make himself oblivious to all these things by such an intemperate use of the "long nine." 
               The causes of dissatisfaction with one of these orders were various. 
                
               One was they had got to quarrelling among themselves, and every form of brutality that could be practiced upon the dissatisfied was put in practice; it was a distinct branch of this old and tyranical order that had become weary of its oppressive power. 
               They made overbearing and cruel laws, and so overtaxed the discontented portion that they had become desirous to set up for themselves, inasmuch as a separate order would be less expensive and under their own control, having a new and better code of laws, like grown-up children starting out and making a home of their own. 
               But no, they must remain for the sake of the revenue brought to their old home by oppression. 
               Honorable men of other orders looking on in sympathy, and witnessing all kinds of wrong, would seek to render assistance to the oppressed, though the least friendly feeling shown by such was snubbed by this oppressive order, and lest assistance might reach the now frantic and oppressed, there were various great ships of war and innumerable armed men on the alert to prevent any such demonstration. 
               And as some of the ships of the order for the discovery of natural curiosities and founding of cities, sought as usual to carry on a legitimate traffic, these oppressive old fogies insulted them in every possible way, and though the Hon. Mr. Swells, who had charge of the Department of the Sea, called the attention of the President to it, nothing was done, and though insult upon insult was given to members of the order, imprisoning some and confiscating their property, and killing others, yet no effort was made to prevent it. 
               Is it a wonder that the people called for a change, and cheered on their champion, Mr. Solomon? 
               The Chief could ill afford to lose his renown as a swords man; he was unpopular enough now, besides the Hon. Mr. Whale, who had charge of the foreign affairs of the Government, positively declared that more money could be secured by letting things alone, than interfering and asserting their rights. 
               Other important affairs now agitated the order. 
               There was an immense sum of money to be paid to them by an ancient order named the Roaring Lion. 
               The name was taken from the king of beasts, and suggested by the comparison made by the Evil One and the Lion, as both are represented as going about seeking whom they may devour, it clearly suggested this name as characteristic of this old order. 
               The Roaring Lion order had become involved in aiding and abetting those rascals who had been discomfitted and brought to naught by the greatest of swordsmen, who subsequently had been promoted in the order, and they were now informed of the immense sum of money they must pay to settle the expense their meddling had caused, while it would punish them quite properly, and lead them to see that other's rights must be respected. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               It was soon to be decided whether the present incumbent should be re-elected to the presidency, or that some other more suitable man should be, and so have the Black House, with all its privileges and honors, as the great smoking swordsman President had for the last four years. 
               It was very desirable on the part of all in office to remain another term of four years, as the great money times by the agreement of the Roaring Lion order, would make very desirable a position of trust and power. 
               And as the greatest of smoking Presidents had promised all officers, both great and small, that they should remain in office if he was re-elected, but little else could be attended to besides those affairs which would be of advantage to them. 
               Though the law allowed a re-election at present, yet, Mr. Solomon and others were endeavoring to make a law changing this, believing that it would put a stop to corruption, and, of course, have a tendency to purify the order; this was another reason why the President did not much like this man. 
               If he had only waited till he had been in office a second term, as others had been, he thinking himself entitled to the compliment, yet, fearing he might not be, he was ready to join hands with any party that could turn the scale in his favor. 
               Amid all this turmoil and strife, there were various men mentioned as suitable ones for the great and honorable position as Commander-in-Chief of all the land and naval forces of the order. 
               There were various qualifications important to be eligible to the office; lacking any one of these prevented the otherwise qualified individual from becoming the President. 
               One of these requirements was, that his father must have been a member of the order at the time of the candidate's birth. 
               Now our long-headed President would smoke and think, then think and smoke. 
               In his cogitations he would scan the condition of the civilized world, and most vividly the state of a very ancient order, called Comeouters of the Cross, came before his mind's eye, and if that ancient European order could be induced to come to the vicinity of the great Cave, and the two orders unite in electing him, then foes within and without would be powerless. 
               A great many of this ancient order had already united with the order of the Cave. 
               We will glance at this ancient dilapidated order. 
               It was more than eighteen hundred years old, and its name was derived from its founder, because he came out from the wicked world and lived a good life, and ever since a faithful successor has been elected to fill the office as head of the order, retaining the office for his lifetime, being a great contrast to the length of the term of the head of the order for seeking curiosities and founding cities. 
               Now the great head of this ancient Order of the Comeouters of the Cross was a very old man, and soon he must go the way of all the earth, and furthermore ungodly and worldly orders had caused him a great deal of trouble, fairly shaking his dominions from centre to circumference, and causing the now aged head to feel anxious to seek a new locality for his waning power. 
               He was confidently informed that if he would establish his order in the vicinity of the great cave, that all should be done for him during his lifetime that was consistent for distinct and friendly orders to do (perhaps the President had the Fish Hawk Island in view, in part for his safe retreat from worldly care). 
               Let that be as it may, he was informed that his successor could be selected from the native born persons comprising the great order of the cave, as there were many talented and fully competent men who were Comeouters of the Cross, and now belonged to the order. 
               After which he could be elected to the Presidency of the order for seeking curiosities and founding cities, also, as he would be eligible to fill this office. 
               The President thought that as he had been elected on account of his good fortune as a swordsman, that the people would be as likely to make a choice from any other of the walks of life, and an ecclesiastical profession would be as unobjectionable to the order as a choice from the profession of arms. Without doubt it would prove a wiser choice, as the mode of governing among the Comeouters of the Cross was altogether by moral suasion, and not by sword and bayonet, using the language "Come, we will do to others as we would they should do unto us," leading the order in the path of love and peace, and though the contrast would be very great from the present policy, yet a contrast, though great, is often beneficial. 
               Then, after "ruling with a rod of iron" four years more, the President would be quite willing to retire in favor of one who might know as little about statesmanship as himself; then his successor in office would not excel him in a wiser discharge of duty; for one so selfish would prefer a successor with whom the order might become as much disgusted as a large portion were with him. 
               This commanding all to obey, whether right or wrong, till the people would appeal to law for protection, was a condition of things very undesirable, and to continue such a policy by re-election of the great smoking swordsman was to say that the sword and gun should rule, and not law and order. 
               It was true that a chief so full of self, and a desire for the aggrandizement of all his poor relations, as to seek them out, that he might put them in a position in the order, where they too could improve their condition, and not hereafter be a disgrace to him, or pensioners upon his bounty, would also receive gifts from the rich, rewarding them with that class of offices which would enable them to doubly save enough to make up for the gift made to the President, beside the salary and honor. We learn by this that after all the poor relations are provided for, those who desire an office must be either able to make a present which would be equivalent to buying it, or they must be so influential in the order that a position of eminence would make them an advantage to the party in power. Relatives, with the rich and influential, then, were the ones eligible to office. 
               But the prospect of his re-election was quite good. Thousands upon thousands of office-holders of the minor class, with those holding great ones, would work day and night to bring about this. 
               Though the President might meet with the fate of the frog, who thought to swell himself up to the size of the ox, and burst, yet he would not take warning from the common people, but in various ways show his superiority to them. 
               How singular that after the common people had elected him as a poor, though fortunate, swordsman, that he should take great delight in magnifying his superiority to them in various ways; though many thought his good fortune like the luck of the miner who finds a big lump of gold, yet is not superior in any respect to his fellow miners. 
               One of the most common modes of convincing them that he was a superior piece of human flesh, was to spend much of his time in recreation at popular places of resort of the aristocracy. 
               At no time would he feel his greatness more than when riding like a king, with his two great colored slaves and a team of the most valuable horses in the world and his golden chariot, puffing himself into oblivion with his long nine, so far as the interests of his office might affect him. 
               Now, is it to be thought that those who had taken him from their own level, and promoted him to office, thinking he would still be a warm-hearted equal in the journey of life, that they would feel satisfied with his magnificent display of his 
                     superioity
                     superiority
                   to them? Nay, verily. 
               To his cost, he found too late, that his policy in all things had been a blunder,-a sad failure at last. 
               Still, those in office, and others equally interested, sought again to bring him before the people, while the disaffected, with equal zeal for reform in governing the order, looked about among the numerous worthy and able statesmen for an opponent to him, and here they found a great difficulty, for many qualified men who saw the President lacked statesmanship, united in heart and head to move the people to seek reform. Finally, they selected a standard-bearer as an opponent, who had been as much superior in bringing into the present glorious existence, and its continuance in power the great order of the cave, to the present chief, as the pen is mightier than the sword. His name was odd, corresponding with everything else connected with the order: It was Tribune. 
               As the President has been described, a description of Hon. Mr. Tribune will be proper and interesting. 
               In personal appearance, he was about as interesting looking man as could be found. When you first look him in the face, you at once are reminded of the full moon. Great, grand, noble and mild. His talents were of the first order. None could say he was inferior in any of those great abilities requisite for the greatest office in the order. He was also great in goodness. His great benevolence and great heart of love embraced all mankind. His whole life had been a labor of love for the human race. 
               As the sun shines upon the moon, causing it to give light by night to the universal world, so the great eternal light, and fountain of infinite wisdom and goodness so endowed this great statesman, that the reflection through him to all mankind fully showed that he would make a President after God's own heart; ignoring self in his own aggrandizement, grasping in his arms of love, all, both high and low. 
               This kind of President was very much needed. Ruin was threatened all around. Help must come, or a sadder time than was ever experienced would be the lot of the order. 
               The time was soon to come when the popular vote would declare whether the present smoking swordsman should be reelected, or the Hon. Mr. Tribune should be called to the high position he would so ably fill; and should justice be done, the election would be decided in favor of reform, and a redemption from a condition little better than ruin; and once more that glorious condition of the order so desirable for happiness and prosperity, that was once its pride and beauty, when all the orders of the earth looked upon it as the greatest, wisest, and best, would be restored. With a hope that victory will crown the efforts of the reformers, and they be enabled to bring once more the order out of chaos, and its prosperity be the greater, and more fully appreciated, on account of its past fiery trials, "we will put side and shoulder to the wheel" of reform, and go forward from "conquering unto conquer," till its former glory shines. Then we shall appreciate the restoration, and live happily for having done our duty, and die with the reflection that the order is better for our having lived in it. "So let it be." 
             
         
       
   
