
    ----CITATION----
        Various Authors. Atlantic Tales .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5673 wright2-0155
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
           
               
                  
            
               ATLANTIC TALES.
               A COLLECTION OF STORIES From the Atlantic Monthly.
            
            
               BOSTON:
               TICKNOR AND FIELDS.
            
            1866.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by TICKNOR AND
                  FIELDS, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of
                  Massachusetts. SECOND EDITION.
               UNIVERSITY PRESS: WELCH, BIGELOW, & CO.,
               CAMBRIDGE.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               MY DOUBLE; AND HOW HE UNDID ME. Edward Everett Hale. 1
               
               THE DIAMOND LENS. Fitz James O'Brien. 21
               
               LIFE IN THE IRON-MILLS. Miss R. B. Harding. 50
               
               THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE UNDER DIFFICULTIES. Gail Hamilton. 93
               
               A RAFT THAT NO MAN MADE. Robert T. S. Lowell. 147
               
               WHY THOMAS WAS DISCHARGED. George Arnold. 162
               
               VICTOR AND JACQUELINE. Miss Caroline Chesebro. 180
               
               ELKANAH BREWSTER'S TEMPTATION. Charles Nordhoff. 248
               
               THE QUEEN OF THE RED CHESSMEN. Miss Lucretia P. Hale. 271
               
               MISS LUCINDA. Miss Rose Terry. 299
               
               THE DENSLOW PALACE. J. D. Whelpley. 336
               
               FRIEND ELI'S DAUGHTER. Bayard Taylor. 367
               
               A HALF-LIFE AND HALF A LIFE. Miss E. H. Appleton. 398
               
               THE MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY. Edward Everett Hale. 448
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Atlantic tales
            
               
               MY DOUBLE; AND HOW HE UNDID ME.
               IT is not often that I trouble you, my readers. I should not trouble you now, but
                  for the importunities of my wife, who "feels to insist" that a duty to society is
                  unfulfilled, till I have told why I had to have a double, and how he undid me. She
                  is sure, she says, that intelligent persons cannot understand that pressure upon
                  public servants which alone drives any man into the employment of a double. And
                  while I fear she thinks, at the bottom of her heart, that my fortunes will never
                  be remade, she has a faint hope, that, as another Rasselas, I may teach a lesson
                  to future publics, from which they may profit, though we die. Owing to the
                  behavior of my double, or, if you please, to that public pressure which compelled
                  me to employ him, I have plenty of leisure to write this communication.
               I am, or rather was, a minister, of the Sandemanian connection. I was settled in
                  the active, wide-awake town of Naguadavick, on one of the finest water-powers in
                  Maine. We used to call it a Western town in the heart of the civilization of New
                  England. A charming place it was and is. A spirited, brave young parish had I; and
                  it seemed as if we might have all "the joy of eventful living" to our hearts'
                  content.
               Alas! how little we knew on the day of my ordination, and in those halcyon moments of our first
                  housekeeping! To be the confidential friend in a hundred families in the
                  town,—cutting the social trifle, as my friend Haliburton says, "from the top of
                  the whipped-syllabub to the bottom of the sponge-cake, which is the
                  foundation,"—to keep abreast of the thought of the age in one's study, and to do
                  one's best on Sunday to interweave that thought with the active life of an active
                  town, and to inspirit both and make both infinite by glimpses of the Eternal
                  Glory, seemed such an exquisite forelook into one's life! Enough to do, and all so
                  real and so grand! If this vision could only have lasted.
               The truth is, that this vision was not in itself a delusion, nor, indeed, half
                  bright enough. If one could only have been left to do his own business, the vision
                  would have accomplished itself and brought out new paraheliacal visions, each as
                  bright as the original. The misery was and is, as we found out, I and Polly,
                  before long, that, besides the vision, and besides the usual human and finite
                  failures in life, (such as breaking the old pitcher that came over in the
                  "Mayflower," and putting into the fire the Alpenstock with which her father
                  climbed Mont Blanc,)—besides these, I say, (imitating the style of Robinson
                  Crusoe,) there were pitchforked in on us a great rowen-heap of humbugs, handed
                  down from some unknown seed-time, in which we were expected, and I chiefly, to
                  fulfil certain public functions before the community, of the character of those
                  fulfilled by the third row of supernumeraries who stand behind the Sepoys in the
                  spectacle of the "Cataract of the Ganges." They were the duties, in a word, which
                  one performs as member of one or another social class or subdivision, wholly
                  distinct from what one does as A. by himself A. What invisible power put these
                  functions on me, it would be very hard to tell. But such power there was and is.
                  And I had not been at work a year before I found I was living two lives, one real
                  and one merely functional,—for two sets of people, one my parish, whom I loved,
                  and the other a vague public, for whom I did not care two straws. All this was in
                  a vague notion, which everybody had and has, that this second life would
                  eventually bring out some great results, unknown at present, to somebody
                  somewhere.
               Crazed by this duality of life, I first read Dr. Wigan on the "Duality of the
                  Brain," hoping that I could train one side of my head to do these outside jobs,
                  and the other to do my intimate and real duties. For Richard Greenough once told
                  me, that, in studying for the statue of Franklin, he found that the left side of
                  the great man's face was philosophic and reflective, and the right side funny and
                  smiling. If you will go and look at the bronze statue, you will find he has
                  repeated this observation there for posterity. The eastern profile is the portrait
                  of the statesman Franklin, the western of Poor Richard. But Dr. Wigan does not go
                  into these niceties of this subject, and I failed. It was then, that, on my wife's
                  suggestion, I resolved to look out for a Double.
               I was, at first, singularly successful. We happened to be recreating at Stafford
                  Springs that summer. We rode out one day, for one of the relaxations of that
                  watering-place, to the great Monson Poor-House. We were passing through one of the
                  large halls, when my destiny was fulfilled! I saw my man!
               He was not shaven. He had on no spectacles. He was dressed in a green baize
                  roundabout and faded blue overalls, worn sadly at the knee. But I saw at once that
                  he was of my height, five feet four and a half. He had black hair, worn off by his
                  hat. So have and have not I. He stooped in walking. So do I. His hands were large,
                  and mine. And—choicest gift of Fate in all—he had, not "a strawberry-mark on his
                  left arm," but a cut from a juvenile brickbat over his right eye, slightly
                  affecting the play of that eyebrow. Reader, so have I!—My fate was sealed!
               A word with Mr. Holley, one of the inspectors, settled the whole thing. It proved
                  that this Dennis Shea was a harmless, amiable fellow, of the class known as
                  shiftless, who had sealed his fate by marrying a dumb wife, who was at that moment ironing in the laundry. Before I
                  left Stafford, I had hired both for five years. We had applied to Judge Pynchon,
                  then the probate judge at Springfield, to change the name of Dennis Shea to
                  Frederic Ingham. We had explained to the Judge, what was the precise truth, that
                  an eccentric gentleman wished to adopt Dennis under this new name into his family.
                  It never occurred to him that Dennis might be more than fourteen years old. And
                  thus, to shorten this preface, when we returned one night to my parsonage at
                  Naguadavick, there entered Mrs. Ingham, her new dumb laundress, myself, who am Mr.
                  Frederic Ingham, and my double, who was Mr. Frederic Ingham by as good right as
                  I.
               Oh, the fun we had the next morning in shaving his beard to my pattern, cutting
                  his hair to match mine, and teaching him how to wear and how to take off
                  gold-bowed spectacles! Really, they were electro-plate and the glass was plain
                  (for the poor fellow's eyes were excellent). Then in four successive afternoons I
                  taught him four speeches. I had found these would be quite enough for the
                  supernumerary-Sepoy line of life, and it was well for me they were. For though he
                  was good-natured, he was very shiftless, and it was, as our national proverb says,
                  "like pulling teeth" to teach him. But at the end of the next week he could say,
                  with quite my easy and frisky air,—
               1. "Very well, thank you. And you?" This for an answer to casual salutations.
               2. "I am very glad you liked it."
               3. "There has been so much said, and, on the whole, so well said, that I will not
                  occupy the time."
               4. "I agree, in general, with my friend the other side of the room."
               At first I had a feeling that I was going to be at great cost for clothing him.
                  But it proved, of course, at once, that, whenever he was out, I should be at home.
                  And I went, during the bright period of his success, to so few of those awful
                  pageants which require a black dress-coat and what the ungodly call, after Mr.
                  Dickens, a white choker, that in the happy retreat of my own dressing-gowns and
                  jackets my days went by as happily and cheaply as those of another Thalaba. And
                  Polly declares there was never a year when the tailoring cost so little. He lived
                  (Dennis, not Thalaba) in his wife's room over the kitchen. He had orders never to
                  show himself at that window. When he appeared in the front of the house, I retired
                  to my sanctissimum and my dressing-gown. In short, the Dutchman and his wife, in
                  the old weather-box, had not less to do with each other than he and I. He made the
                  furnace-fire and split the wood before daylight; then he went to sleep again, and
                  slept late; then came for orders, with a red silk bandanna tied round his head,
                  with his overalls on, and his dress-coat and spectacles off. If we happened to be
                  interrupted, no one guessed that he was Frederic Ingham as well as I; and, in the
                  neighborhood, there grew up an impression that the minister's Irishman worked
                  day-times in the factory-village at New Coventry. After I had given him his
                  orders, I never saw him till the next day.
               I launched him by sending him to a meeting of the Enlightenment Board. The
                  Enlightenment Board consists of seventy-four members, of whom sixty-seven are
                  necessary to form a quorum. One becomes a member under the regulations laid down
                  in old Judge Dudley's will. I became one by being ordained pastor of a church in
                  Naguadavick. You see you cannot help yourself, if you would. At this particular
                  time we had had four successive meetings, averaging four hours each,—wholly
                  occupied in whipping in a quorum. At the first only eleven men were present; at
                  the next, by force of three circulars, twenty-seven; at the third, thanks to two
                  days' canvassing by Auchmuty and myself, begging men to come, we had sixty. Half
                  the others were in Europe. But without a quorum we could do nothing. All the rest
                  of us waited grimly for our four hours, and adjourned without any action. At the
                  fourth meeting we had flagged, and only got fifty-nine together. But on the
                     first appearance of my double,—whom I
                  sent on this fatal Monday to the fifth meeting,—he was the
                     sixty-seventh man who entered the room. He was greeted with a
                  storm of applause! The poor fellow had missed his way,—read the street signs ill
                  through his spectacles, (very ill, in fact, without them,)—and had not dared to
                  inquire. He entered the room,—finding the president and secretary holding to their
                  chairs two judges of the Supreme Court, who were also members ex officio, and were begging leave to go away. On his
                  entrance all was changed. Presto, the by-laws
                  were amended, and the Western property was given away. Nobody stopped to converse
                  with him. He voted, as I had charged him to do, in every instance, with the
                  minority. I won new laurels as a man of sense, though a little unpunctual,—and
                  Dennis, alias Ingham, returned to the parsonage,
                  astonished to see with how little wisdom the world is governed. He cut a few of my
                  parishioners in the street; but he had his glasses off, and I am known to be
                  near-sighted. Eventually he recognized them more readily than I.
               I "set him again" at the exhibition of the New Coventry Academy; and here he
                  undertook a "speaking part,"—as, in my boyish, worldly days, I remember the bills
                  used to say of Mlle. Céleste. We are all trustees of the New Coventry Academy; and
                  there has lately been "a good deal of feeling" because the Sandemanian trustees
                  did not regularly attend the exhibitions. It has been intimated, indeed, that the
                  Sandemanians are leaning towards Free-Will, and that we have, therefore, neglected
                  these semiannual exhibitions, while there is no doubt that Auchmuty last year went
                  to Commencement at Waterville. Now the head master at New Coventry is a real good
                  fellow, who knows a Sanskrit root when he sees it, and often cracks etymologies
                  with me,—so that, in strictness, I ought to go to their exhibitions. But think,
                  reader, of sitting through three long July days in that Academy chapel, following
                  the programme from 
                     TUESDAY MORNING. English Composition. "SUNSHINE." Miss
                        Jones.
                   round to 
                     Trio on Three Pianos. Duel from the Opera of "Midshipman Easy."
                           Marryatt.
                     
                   coming in at nine, Thursday evening! Think of this, reader, for men who know
                  the world is trying to go backward, and who would give their lives if they could
                  help it on! Well! The double had succeeded so well at the Board, that I sent him
                  to the Academy. (Shade of Plato, pardon!) He arrived early on Tuesday, when,
                  indeed, few but mothers and clergymen are generally expected, and returned in the
                  evening to us, covered with honors. He had dined at the right hand of the
                  chairman, and he spoke in high terms of the repast. The chairman had expressed his
                  interest in the French conversation. "I am very glad you liked it," said Dennis;
                  and the poor chairman, abashed, supposed the accent had been wrong. At the end of
                  the day, the gentlemen present had been called upon for speeches,—the Rev.
                  Frederic Ingham first, as it happened; upon which Dennis had risen, and had said,
                  "There has been so much said, and, on the whole, so well said, that I will not
                  occupy the time." The girls were delighted, because Dr. Dabney, the year before,
                  had given them at this occasion a scolding on impropriety of behavior at lyceum
                  lectures. They all declared Mr. Ingham was a love,—and so handsome!
                  (Dennis is good-looking.) Three of them, with arms behind the others' waists,
                  followed him up to the wagon he rode home in; and a little girl with a blue sash
                  had been sent to give him a rosebud. After this début in speaking, he went to the exhibition for two days more, to
                  the mutual satisfaction of all concerned. Indeed, Polly reported that he had
                  pronounced the trustees' dinners of a higher grade than those of the parsonage.
                  When the next term began, I found six of the Academy girls had obtained permission
                  to come across the river and attend our church. But this arrangement did not long
                  continue.
               After this he went to several Commencements for me, and ate the dinners provided; he sat through three of
                  our Quarterly Conventions for me,—always voting judiciously, by the simple rule
                  mentioned above, of siding with the minority. And I, meanwhile, who had before
                  been losing caste among my friends, as holding myself aloof from the associations
                  of "the Body," began to rise in everybody's favor. "Ingham's a good fellow,—always
                  on hand"; "never talks much,—but does the right thing at the right time"; "is not
                  as unpunctual as he used to be,—he comes early, and sits through to the end." "He
                  has got over his old talkative habit, too. I spoke to a friend of his about it
                  once; and I think Ingham took it kindly," etc., etc.
               This voting power of Dennis was particularly valuable at the quarterly meetings of
                  the Proprietors of the Naguadavick Ferry. My wife inherited from her father some
                  shares in that enterprise, which is not yet fully developed, though it doubtless
                  will become a very valuable property. The law of Maine then forbade stockholders
                  to appear by proxy at such meetings. Polly disliked to go, not being, in fact, a
                  "hens'-rights hen," and transferred her stock to me. I, after going once, disliked
                  it more than she. But Dennis went to the next meeting, and liked it very much. He
                  said the arm-chairs were good, the collation good, and the free rides to
                  stockholders pleasant. He was a little frightened when they first took him upon
                  one of the ferry-boats, but after two or three quarterly meetings he became quite
                  brave.
               Thus far I never had any difficulty with him. Indeed, being of that type which is
                  called shiftless, he was only too happy to be told daily what to do, and to be
                  charged not to be forthputting or in any way original in his discharge of that
                  duty. He learned, however, to discriminate between the lines of his life, and very
                  much preferred these stockholders' meetings and trustees' dinners and Commencement
                  collations to another set of occasions, from which he used to beg off most
                  piteously. Our excellent brother, Dr. Fillmore, had taken a notion at this time
                  that our Sandemanian churches needed more expression of mutual sympathy. He
                  insisted upon it that we were remiss. He said, that, if the Bishop came to preach
                  at Naguadavick, all the Episcopal clergy of the neighborhood were present; if Dr.
                  Pond came, all the Congregational clergymen turned out to hear him; if Dr.
                  Nichols, all the Unitarians; and he thought we owed it to each other, that,
                  whenever there was an occasional service at a Sandemanian church, the other
                  brethren should all, if possible, attend. "It looked well," if nothing more. Now
                  this really meant that I had not been to hear one of Dr. Fillmore's lectures on
                  the Ethnology of Religion. He forgot that he did not hear one of my course on the
                  "Sandemanianism of Anselm." But I felt badly when he said it; and afterwards I
                  always made Dennis go to hear all the brethren preach, when I was not preaching
                  myself. This was what he took exceptions to,—the only thing, as I said, which he
                  ever did except to. Now came the advantage of his long morning-nap, and of the
                  green tea with which Polly supplied the kitchen. But he would plead, so humbly, to
                  be let off, only from one or two! I never excepted him, however. I knew the
                  lectures were of value, and I thought it best he should be able to keep the
                  connection.
               Polly is more rash than I am, as the reader has observed in the outset of this
                  memoir. She risked Dennis one night under the eyes of her own sex. Governor Gorges
                  had always been very kind to us; and when he gave his great annual party to the
                  town, asked us. I confess I hated to go. I was deep in the new volume of
                  Pfeiffer's "Mystics," which Haliburton had just sent me from Boston. "But how
                  rude," said Polly, "not to return the Governor's civility and Mrs. Gorges's, when
                  they will be sure to ask why you are away!" Still I demurred, and at last she,
                  with the wit of Eve and of Semiramis conjoined, let me off by saying, that, if I
                  would go in with her, and sustain the initial conversations with the Governor and
                  the ladies staying there, she would risk Dennis for the rest of the evening.
                     And that was just what we did. She
                  took Dennis in training all that afternoon, instructed him in fashionable
                  conversation, cautioned him against the temptations of the supper-table,—and at
                  nine in the evening he drove us all down in the carryall. I made the grand
                     star-entrée with Polly and the pretty Walton
                  girls, who were staying with us. We had put Dennis into a great rough top-coat,
                  without his glasses,—and the girls never dreamed, in the darkness, of looking at
                  him. He sat in the carriage, at the door, while we entered. I did the agreeable to
                  Mrs. Gorges, was introduced to her niece, Miss Fernanda,—I complimented Judge
                  Jeffries on his decision in the great case of D'Aulnay vs. Laconia
                  Mining Co.,—I stepped into the dressing-room for a moment,—stepped out for
                  another,—walked home, after a nod with Dennis, and tying the horse to a pump;—and
                  while I walked home, Mr. Frederic Ingham, my double, stepped in through the
                  library into the Gorges' grand saloon.
               Oh! Polly died of laughing as she told me of it at midnight! And even here, where
                  I have to teach my hands to hew the beech for stakes to fence our cave, she dies
                  of laughing as she recalls it,—and says that single occasion was worth all we have
                  paid for it. Gallant Eve that she is! She joined Dennis at the library-door, and
                  in an instant presented him to Dr. Ochterlony, from Baltimore, who was on a visit
                  in town, and was talking with her as Dennis came in. "Mr. Ingham would like to
                  hear what you were telling us about your success among the German population." And
                  Dennis bowed and said, in spite of a scowl from Polly, "I'm very glad you liked
                  it." But Dr. Ochterlony did not observe, and plunged into the tide of
                  explanation,—Dennis listening like a prime-minister, and bowing like a
                  mandarin,—which is, I suppose, the same thing. Polly declared it was just like
                  Haliburton's Latin conversation with the Hungarian minister, of which he is very
                  fond of telling. "Quæne sit historia Reformationis in
                     Ungariâ?" quoth Haliburton, after some thought. And his confrère replied gallantly, "In seculo decimo tertio," etc., etc., etc.; and from decimo
                  tertio
                  *
                   to the nineteenth century and a half lasted till the oysters came. So was
                  it that before Dr. Ochterlony came to the "success," or near it, Governor Gorges
                  came to Dennis and asked him to hand Mrs. Jeffries down to supper, a request which
                  he heard with great joy.
                     *Which means, "In the thirteenth century," my dear little bell-and-coral
                        reader. You have rightly guessed that the question means, "What is the
                        history of the Reformation in Hungary?"
                  
               Polly was skipping round the room, I guess, gay as a lark. Auchmuty came to her
                  "in pity for poor Ingham," who was so bored by the stupid pundit,—and Auchmuty
                  could not understand why I stood it so long. But when Dennis took Mrs. Jeffries
                  down, Polly could not resist standing near them. He was a little flustered, till
                  the sight of the eatables and drinkables gave him the same Mercian courage which
                  it gave Diggory. A little excited then, he attempted one or two of his speeches to
                  the Judge's lady. But little he knew how hard it was to get in even a promptu there edgewise. "Very well, I thank you," said
                  he, after the eating elements were adjusted; "and you?" And then did not he have
                  to hear about the mumps, and the measles, and arnica, and belladonna, and
                  chamomile-flower, and dodecatheon, till she changed oysters for salad,—and then
                  about the old practice and the new, and what her sister said, and what her
                  sister's friend said, and what the physician to her sister's friend said, and then
                  what was said by the brother of the sister of the physician of the friend of her
                  sister, exactly as if it had been in Ollendorff? There was a moment's pause, as
                  she declined Champagne. "I am very glad you liked it," said Dennis again, which he
                  never should have said, but to one who complimented a sermon. "Oh! you are so
                  sharp, Mr. Ingham! No! I never drink any wine at all,—except sometimes in summer a
                  little currant spirits,—from our own currants, you know. My own mother,—that is, I
                  call her my own mother, because, you know, I do not remember," etc., etc., etc.;
                  till they came to the candied orange at the end of the feast,—when Dennis, rather
                  confused, thought he must say something,
                  and tried No. 4,—"I agree, in general, with my friend the other side of the
                  room,"—which he never should have said but at a public meeting. But Mrs. Jeffries,
                  who never listens expecting to understand, caught him up instantly with, "Well,
                  I'm sure my husband returns the compliment; he always agrees with you,—though we
                  do worship with the Methodists;—but you know, Mr. Ingham," etc., etc., etc., till
                  the move was made up-stairs;—and as Dennis led her through the hall, he was
                  scarcely understood by any but Polly, as he said, "There has been so much said,
                  and, on the whole, so well said, that I will not occupy the time."
               His great resource the rest of the evening was, standing in the library, carrying
                  on animated conversations with one and another in much the same way. Polly had
                  initiated him in the mysteries of a discovery of mine, that it is not necessary to
                  finish your sentences in a crowd, but by a sort of mumble, omitting sibilants and
                  dentals. This, indeed, if your words fail you, answers even in public extempore
                  speech,—but better where other talking is going on. Thus,—"We missed you at the
                  Natural-History Society, Ingham." Ingham replies,—"I am very gligloglum, that is,
                  that you were mmmmm." By gradually dropping the voice, the interlocutor is
                  compelled to supply the answer. "Mrs. Ingham, I hope your friend Augusta is
                  better." Augusta has not been ill. Polly cannot think of explaining, however, and
                  answers,—"Thank you, Ma'am; she is very rearason wewahwewoh," in lower and lower
                  tones. And Mrs. Throckmorton, who forgot the subject of which she spoke as soon as
                  she asked the question, is quite satisfied. Dennis could see into the card-room,
                  and came to Polly to ask if he might not go and play all-fours. But, of course,
                  she sternly refused. At midnight they came home delighted. Polly, as I said, wild
                  to tell me the story of victory; only both the pretty Walton girls said,—"Cousin
                  Frederick, you did not come near me all the evening."
               We always called him Dennis at home, for convenience, though his real name was
                  Frederic Ingham, as I have explained. When the election-day came round, however, I
                  found that by some accident there was only one Frederic Ingham's name on the
                  voting-list; and, as I was quite busy that day in writing some foreign letters to
                  Halle, I thought I would forego my privilege of suffrage, and stay quietly at
                  home, telling Dennis that he might use the record on the voting-list and vote. I
                  gave him a ticket, which I told him he might use, if he liked to. That was that
                  very sharp election in Maine which the readers of the "Atlantic" so well remember,
                  and it had been intimated in public that the ministers would do well not to appear
                  at the polls. Of course, after that, we had to appear by self or proxy. Still,
                  Naguadavick was not then a city, and this standing in a double queue at
                  town-meeting several hours to vote was a bore of the first water; and so, when I
                  found that there was but one Frederic Ingham on the list, and that one of us must
                  give up, I stayed at home and finished the letters, (which, indeed, procured for
                  Fothergill his coveted appointment of Professor of Astronomy at Leavenworth,) and
                  I gave Dennis, as we called him, the chance. Something in the matter gave a good
                  deal of popularity to the Frederic Ingham name; and at the adjourned election,
                  next week, Frederic Ingham was chosen to the legislature. Whether this was I or
                  Dennis, I never really knew. My friends seemed to think it was I; but I felt,
                  that, as Dennis had done the popular thing, he was entitled to the honor; so I
                  sent him to Augusta when the time came, and he took the oaths. And a very valuable
                  member he made. They appointed him on the Committee on Parishes; but I wrote a
                  letter for him, resigning, on the ground that he took an interest in our claim to
                  the stumpage in the minister's sixteenths of Gore A, next No. 7, in the 10th
                  Range. He never made any speeches, and always voted with the minority, which was
                  what he was sent to do. He made me and himself a great many good friends, some of
                  whom I did not afterwards recognize as quickly as Dennis did my parishioners. On
                     one or two occasions, when there was
                  wood to saw at home, I kept him at home; but I took those occasions to go to
                  Augusta myself. Finding myself often in his vacant seat at these times, I watched
                  the proceedings with a good deal of care; and once was so much excited that I
                  delivered my somewhat celebrated speech on the Central School-District question, a
                  speech of which the "State of Maine" printed some extra copies. I believe there is
                  no formal rule permitting strangers to speak; but no one objected.
               Dennis himself, as I said, never spoke at all. But our experience this session led
                  me to think, that, if, by some such "general understanding" as the reports speak
                  of in legislation daily, every member of Congress might leave a double to sit
                  through those deadly sessions, and to answer to roll-calls and do the legitimate
                  party-voting, which appears stereotyped in the regular list of Ashe, Bocock,
                  Black, etc., we should gain decidedly in working-power. As things stand, the
                  saddest state-prison I ever visit is that Representatives' Chamber in Washington.
                  If a man leaves for an hour, twenty "correspondents" may be howling, "Where was
                  Mr. Pendergrast when the Oregon bill passed?" And if poor Pendergrast stays there!
                  Certainly, the worst use you can make of a man is to put him in prison!
               I know, indeed, that public men of the highest rank have resorted to this
                  expedient long ago. Dumas's novel of the "Iron Mask" turns on the brutal
                  imprisonment of Louis the Fourteenth's double. There seems little doubt, in our
                  own history, that it was the real General Pierce who shed tears when the delegate
                  from Lawrence explained to him the sufferings of the people there,—and only
                  General Pierce's double who had given the orders for the assault on that town,
                  which was invaded the next day. My charming friend, George Withers, has, I am
                  almost sure, a double, who preaches his afternoon sermons for him. This is the
                  reason that the theology often varies so from that of the forenoon. But that
                  double is almost as charming as the original. Some of the most well-defined men,
                  who stand out most prominently on the background of history, are in this way
                  stereoscopic men, who owe their distinct relief to the slight differences between
                  the doubles. All this I know. My present suggestion is simply the great extension
                  of the system, so that all public machine-work may be done by it.
               But I see I loiter on my story, which is rushing to the plunge. Let me stop an
                  instant more, however, to recall, were it only to myself, that charming year while
                  all was yet well. After the double had become a matter of course, for nearly
                  twelve months before he undid me, what a year it was! Full of active life, full of
                  happy love, of the hardest work, of the sweetest sleep, and the fulfilment of so
                  many of the fresh aspirations and dreams of boyhood! Dennis went to every
                  school-committee meeting, and sat through all those late wranglings which used to
                  keep me up till midnight and awake till morning. He attended all the lectures to
                  which foreign exiles sent me tickets begging me to come for the love of Heaven and
                  of Bohemia. He accepted and used all the tickets for charity concerts which were
                  sent to me. He appeared everywhere where it was specially desirable that "our
                  denomination," or "our party," or "our class," or "our family," or "our street,"
                  or "our town," or "our county," or "our State," should be fully represented. And I
                  fell back to that charming life which in boyhood one dreams of, when he supposes
                  he shall do his own duty and make his own sacrifices, without being tied up with
                  those of other people. My rusty Sanskrit, Arabic, Hebrew, Greek, Latin, French,
                  Italian, Spanish, German, and English began to take polish. Heavens! how little I
                  had done with them while I attended to my public duties! My calls on
                  my parishioners became the friendly, frequent, homelike sociabilities they were
                  meant to be, instead of the hard work of a man goaded to desperation by the sight
                  of his lists of arrears. And preaching! what a luxury preaching was when I had on
                  Sunday the whole result of an individual, personal week, from which to speak to a
                  people whom all that week I had been meeting as hand-to-hand friend! I never tired
                     on Sunday, and I was in condition to
                  leave the sermon at home, if I chose, and preach it extempore, as all men should
                  do always. Indeed, I wonder, when I think that a sensible people, like
                  ours,—really more attached to their clergy than they were in the lost days, when
                  the Mathers and Nortons were noblemen,—should choose to neutralize so much of
                  their ministers' lives, and destroy so much of their early training, by this
                  undefined passion for seeing them in public. It springs from our balancing of
                  sects. If a spirited Episcopalian takes an interest in the almshouse, and is put
                  on the Poor Board, every other denomination must have a minister there, lest the
                  poorhouse be changed into St. Paul's Cathedral. If a Sandemanian is chosen
                  president of the Young Men's Library, there must be a Methodist vice-president and
                  a Baptist secretary. And if a Universalist Sunday-School Convention collects five
                  hundred delegates, the next Congregationalist Sabbath-School Conference must be as
                  large, "lest 'they'—whoever they may be—should think 'we'—whoever
                     we may be—are going down."
               Freed from these necessities, that happy year, I began to know my wife by sight.
                  We saw each other sometimes. In those long mornings, when Dennis was in the study
                  explaining to map-pedlers that I had eleven maps of Jerusalem already, and to
                  school-book agents that I would see them hanged before I would be bribed to
                  introduce their text-books into the schools,—she and I were at work together, as
                  in those old dreamy days,—and in these of our log-cabin again. But all this could
                  not last,—and at length poor Dennis, my double, overtasked in turn, undid me.
               It was thus it happened. There is an excellent fellow,—once a minister,—I will
                  call him Isaacs,—who deserves well of the world till he dies, and after,—because
                  he once, in a real exigency, did the right thing, in the right way, at the right
                  time, as no other man could do it. In the world's great football match, the ball
                  by chance found him loitering on the outside of the field; he closed with it,
                  "camped" it, charged it home,—yes, right through the other side,—not disturbed,
                  not frightened by his own success,—and breathless found himself a great man,—as
                  the Great Delta rang applause. But he did not find himself a rich man; and the
                  football has never come in his way again. From that moment to this moment he has
                  been of no use, that one can see, at all. Still, for that great act we speak of
                  Isaacs gratefully and remember him kindly; and he forges on, hoping to meet the
                  football somewhere again. In that vague hope, he had arranged a "movement" for a
                  general organization of the human family into Debating-Clubs, County Societies,
                  State Unions, etc., etc., with a view of inducing all children to take hold of the
                  handles of their knives and forks, instead of the metal. Children have bad habits
                  in that way. The movement, of course, was absurd; but we all did our best to
                  forward, not it, but him. It came time for the annual county-meeting on this
                  subject to be held at Naguadavick. Isaacs came round, good fellow! to arrange for
                  it,—got the town-hall, got the Governor to preside, (the saint!—he ought to have
                  triplet doubles provided him by law,) and then came to get me to speak. "No," I
                  said, "I would not speak, if ten Governors presided. I do not believe in the
                  enterprise. If I spoke, it should be to say children should take hold of the
                  prongs of the forks and the blades of the knives. I would subscribe ten dollars,
                  but I would not speak a mill." So poor Isaacs went his way, sadly, to coax
                  Auchmuty to speak, and Delafield. I went out. Not long after, he came back, and
                  told Polly that they had promised to speak,—the Governor would speak,—and he
                  himself would close with the quarterly report, and some interesting anecdotes
                  regarding Miss Biffin's way of handling her knife and Mr. Nellis's way of footing
                  his fork. "Now if Mr. Ingham will only come and sit on the platform, he need not
                  say one word; but it will show well in the paper,—it will show that the
                  Sandemanians take as much interest in the movement as the Armenians or the
                  Mesopotamians, and will be a great favor to me." Polly, good soul! was tempted,
                  and she promised. She knew Mrs. Isaacs
                  was starving, and the babies,—she knew Dennis was at home,—and she promised! Night
                  came, and I returned. I heard her story. I was sorry. I doubted. But Polly had
                  promised to beg me, and I dared all! I told Dennis to hold his peace, under all
                  circumstances, and sent him down.
               It was not half an hour more before he returned, wild with excitement,—in a
                  perfect Irish fury,—which it was long before I understood. But I knew at once that
                  he had undone me!
               What happened was this. The audience got together, attracted by Governor Gorges's
                  name. There were a thousand people. Poor Gorges was late from Augusta. They became
                  impatient. He came in direct from the train at last, really ignorant of the object
                  of the meeting. He opened it in the fewest possible words, and said other
                  gentlemen were present who would entertain them better than he. The audience were
                  disappointed, but waited. The Governor, prompted by Isaacs, said, "The Honorable
                  Mr. Delafield will address you." Delafield had forgotten the knives and forks, and
                  was playing the Ruy Lopez opening at the chess-club. "The Rev. Mr. Auchmuty will
                  address you." Auchmuty had promised to speak late, and was at the
                  school-committee. "I see Dr. Stearns in the hall; perhaps he will say a word." Dr.
                  Stearns said he had come to listen and not to speak. The Governor and Isaacs
                  whispered. The Governor looked at Dennis, who was resplendent on the platform; but
                  Isaacs, to give him his due, shook his head. But the look was enough. A miserable
                  lad, ill-bred, who had once been in Boston, thought it would sound well to call
                  for me, and peeped out, "Ingham!" A few more wretches cried, "Ingham! Ingham!"
                  Still Isaacs was firm; but the Governor, anxious, indeed, to
                     prevent a row, knew I would say something, and said,
               Our friend Mr. Ingham is always prepared,—and though we had not relied upon him,
                  he will say a word, perhaps." Applause followed, which turned Dennis's head. He
                  rose, fluttered, and tried No. 3: "There has been so much said, and, on the whole,
                  so well said, that I will not longer occupy the time!" and sat down, looking for
                  his hat; for things seemed squally. But the people cried, "Go on! go on!" and some
                  applauded. Dennis, still confused, but flattered by the applause, to which neither
                  he nor I are used, rose again, and this time tried No. 2: "I am very glad you
                  liked it!" in a sonorous, clear delivery. My best friends stared. All the people
                  who did not know me personally yelled with delight at the aspect of the evening;
                  the Governor was beside himself, and poor Isaacs thought he was undone! Alas, it
                  was I! A boy in the gallery cried in a loud tone, "It's all an infernal humbug,"
                  just as Dennis, waving his hand, commanded silence, and tried No. 4: "I agree, in
                  general, with my friend the other side of the room." The poor Governor doubted his
                  senses, and crossed to stop him,—not in time, however. The same gallery-boy
                  shouted, "How's your mother?"—and Dennis, now completely lost, tried, as his last
                  shot, No. 1, vainly: "Very well, thank you; and you?"
               I think I must have been undone already. But Dennis, like another Lockhard, chose
                  "to make sicker." The audience rose in a whirl of amazement, rage, and sorrow.
                  Some other impertinence, aimed at Dennis, broke all restraint, and, in pure Irish,
                  he delivered himself of an address to the gallery, inviting any person who wished
                  to fight to come down and do so,—stating, that they were all dogs and cowards and
                  the sons of dogs and cowards,—that he would take any five of them single-handed.
                  "Shure, I have said all his Riverence and the Misthress bade me say," cried he, in
                  defiance; and, seizing the Governor's cane from his hand, brandished it,
                  quarter-staff fashion, above his head. He was, indeed, got from the hall only with
                  the greatest difficulty by the Governor, the City Marshal, who had been called in,
                  and the Superintendent of my Sunday-School.
               The universal impression, of course, was, that the Rev. Frederic Ingham had lost all command of himself in
                  some of those haunts of intoxication which for fifteen years I have been laboring
                  to destroy. Till this moment, indeed, that is the impression in Naguadavick. This
                  number of the "Atlantic" will relieve from it a hundred friends of mine who have
                  been sadly wounded by that notion now for years;—but I shall not be likely ever to
                  show my head there again.
               No! My double has undone me.
               We left town at seven the next morning. I came to No. 9, in the Third Range, and
                  settled on the Minister's Lot. In the new towns in Maine, the first settled
                  minister has a gift of a hundred acres of land. I am the first settled minister in
                  No. 9. My wife and little Paulina are my parish. We raise corn enough to live on
                  in summer. We kill bear's meat enough to carbonize it in winter. I work on
                  steadily on my "Traces of Sandemanianism in the Sixth and Seventh Centuries,"
                  which I hope to publish next year. We are very happy, but the world thinks we are
                  undone.
            
            
               THE DIAMOND LENS.
               
                  I.
                  THE BENDING OF THE TWIG.
                  FROM a very early period of my life the entire bent of my inclinations had been
                     towards microscopic investigations. When I was not more than ten years old, a
                     distant relative of our family, hoping to astonish my inexperience, constructed
                     a simple microscope for me, by drilling in a disk of copper a small hole, in
                     which a drop of pure water was sustained by capillary attraction. This very
                     primitive apparatus, magnifying some fifty diameters, presented, it is true,
                     only indistinct and imperfect forms, but still sufficiently wonderful to work
                     up my imagination to a preternatural state of excitement.
                  Seeing me so interested in this rude instrument, my cousin explained to me all
                     that he knew about the principles of the microscope, related to me a few of the
                     wonders which had been accomplished through its agency, and ended by promising
                     to send me one regularly constructed, immediately on his return to the city. I
                     counted the days, the hours, the minutes, that intervened between that promise
                     and his departure.
                  Meantime I was not idle. Every transparent substance that bore the remotest
                     semblance to a lens I eagerly seized upon and employed in vain attempts to
                     realize that instrument, the theory of whose construction I as yet only
                        vaguely comprehended. All panes of
                     glass containing those oblate spheroidal knots familiarly known as "bull's
                     eyes" were ruthlessly destroyed, in the hope of obtaining lenses of marvellous
                     power. I even went so far as to extract the crystalline humor from the eyes of
                     fishes and animals, and endeavored to press it into the microscopic service. I
                     plead guilty to having stolen the glasses from my Aunt Agatha's spectacles,
                     with a dim idea of grinding them into lenses of wondrous magnifying
                     properties,—in which attempt it is scarcely necessary to say that I totally
                     failed.
                  At last the promised instrument came. It was of that order known as Field's
                     simple microscope, and had cost perhaps about fifteen dollars. As far as
                     educational purposes went, a better apparatus could not have been selected.
                     Accompanying it was a small treatise on the microscope,—its history, uses, and
                     discoveries. I comprehended then for the first time the "Arabian Nights'
                     Entertainments." The dull veil of ordinary existence that hung across the world
                     seemed suddenly to roll away, and to lay bare a land of enchantments. I felt
                     towards my companions as the seer might feel towards the ordinary masses of
                     men. I held conversations with Nature in a tongue which they could not
                     understand. I was in daily communication with living wonders, such as they
                     never imagined in their wildest visions. I penetrated beyond the external
                     portal of things, and roamed through the sanctuaries. Where they beheld only a
                     drop of rain slowly rolling down the window-glass, I saw a universe of beings
                     animated with all the passions common to physical life, and convulsing their
                     minute sphere with struggles as fierce and protracted as those of men. In the
                     common spots of mould, which my mother, good housekeeper that she was, fiercely
                     scooped away from her jam pots, there abode for me, under the name of mildew,
                     enchanted gardens, filled with dells and avenues of the densest foliage and
                     most astonishing verdure, while from the fantastic boughs of these microscopic
                     forests hung strange fruits glittering with green and silver and gold.
                  It was no scientific thirst that at this time filled my mind. It was the pure
                     enjoyment of a poet to whom a world of wonders has been disclosed. I talked of
                     my solitary pleasures to none. Alone with my microscope, I dimmed my sight, day
                     after day and night after night poring over the marvels which it unfolded to
                     me. I was like one who, having discovered the ancient Eden still existing in
                     all its primitive glory, should resolve to enjoy it in solitude, and never
                     betray to mortal the secret of its locality. The rod of my life was bent at
                     this moment. I destined myself to be a microscopist.
                  Of course, like every novice, I fancied myself a discoverer. I was ignorant at
                     the time of the thousands of acute intellects engaged in the same pursuit as
                     myself, and with the advantages of instruments a thousand times more powerful
                     than mine. The names of Leeuwenhoek, Williamson, Spencer, Ehrenberg, Schultz,
                     Dujardin, Schact, and Schleiden were then entirely unknown to me, or if known,
                     I was ignorant of their patient and wonderful researches. In every fresh
                     specimen of Cryptogamia which I placed beneath my instrument, I believed that I
                     discovered wonders of which the world was as yet ignorant. I remember well the
                     thrill of delight and admiration that shot through me the first time that I
                     discovered the common wheel-animalcule (Rotifera
                        vulgaris) expanding and contracting its flexible spokes, and
                     seemingly rotating through the water. Alas! as I grew older, and obtained some
                     works treating of my favorite study, I found that I was only on the threshold
                     of a science to the investigation of which some of the greatest men of the age
                     were devoting their lives and intellects.
                  As I grew up, my parents, who saw but little likelihood of anything practical
                     resulting from the examination of bits of moss and drops of water through a
                     brass tube and a piece of glass, were anxious that I should choose a
                     profession. It was their desire that I should enter the counting-house of my
                     uncle, Ethan Blake, a prosperous merchant, who carried on business in New York.
                     This suggestion I decisively combated.
                     I had no taste for trade; I should only make a failure; in short, I refused to
                     become a merchant.
                  But it was necessary for me to select some pursuit. My parents were staid New
                     England people, who insisted on the necessity of labor; and therefore,
                     although, thanks to the bequest of my poor Aunt Agatha, I should, on coming of
                     age, inherit a small fortune sufficient to place me above want, it was decided,
                     that, instead of waiting for this, I should act the nobler part, and employ the
                     intervening years in rendering myself independent.
                  After much cogitation I complied with the wishes of my family, and selected a
                     profession. I determined to study medicine at the New York Academy. This
                     disposition of my future suited me. A removal from my relatives would enable me
                     to dispose of my time as I pleased, without fear of detection. As long as I
                     paid my Academy fees, I might shirk attending the lectures; if I chose; and as
                     I never had the remotest intention of standing an examination, there was no
                     danger of my being "plucked." Besides, a metropolis was the place for me. There
                     I could obtain excellent instruments, the newest publications, intimacy with
                     men of pursuits kindred to my own,—in short, all things necessary to insure a
                     profitable devotion of my life to my beloved science. I had an abundance of
                     money, few desires that were not bounded by my illuminating mirror on one side
                     and my object-glass on the other; what, therefore, was to prevent my becoming
                     an illustrious investigator of the veiled worlds? It was with the most buoyant
                     hopes that I left my New England home and established myself in New York.
               
               
                  II.
                  THE LONGING OF A MAN OF SCIENCE.
                  MY first step, of course, was to find suitable apartments. These I obtained,
                     after a couple of days' search, in Fourth Avenue; a very pretty second-floor
                     unfurnished, containing sitting-room, bedroom, and a smaller apartment which I
                     intended to fit up as a laboratory. I furnished my lodgings simply, but rather
                     elegantly, and then devoted all my energies to the adornment of the temple of
                     my worship. I visited Pike, the celebrated optician, and passed in review his
                     splendid collection of microscopes,—Field's Compound, Higham's, Spencer's,
                     Nachet's Binocular, (that founded on the principles of the stereoscope,) and at
                     length fixed upon that form known as Spencer's Trunnion Microscope, as
                     combining the greatest number of improvements with an almost perfect freedom
                     from tremor. Along with this I purchased every possible accessory,—draw-tubes,
                     micrometers, a camera-lucida, lever-stage,
                     achromatic condensers, white cloud illuminators, prisms, parabolic condensers,
                     polarizing apparatus, forceps, aquatic boxes, fishing-tubes, with a host of
                     other articles, all of which would have been useful in the hands of an
                     experienced microscopist, but, as I afterwards discovered, were not of the
                     slightest present value to me. It takes years of practice to know how to use a
                     complicated microscope. The optician looked suspiciously at me as I made these
                     wholesale purchases. He evidently was uncertain whether to set me down as some
                     scientific celebrity or a madman. I think he inclined to the latter belief. I
                     suppose I was mad. Every great genius is mad upon the subject in which he is
                     greatest. The unsuccessful madman is disgraced, and called a lunatic.
                  Mad or not, I set myself to work with a zeal which few scientific students have
                     ever equalled. I had everything to
                     learn relative to the delicate study upon which I had embarked,—a study
                     involving the most earnest patience, the most rigid analytic powers, the
                     steadiest hand, the most untiring eye, the most refined and subtile
                     manipulation.
                  For a long time half my apparatus lay inactively on the shelves of my
                     laboratory, which was now most amply furnished with every possible contrivance
                     for facilitating my investigations. The fact was that I did not know how to use
                     some of my scientific accessories,—never having been taught microscopics,—and
                     those whose use I understood theoretically were of little avail, until by
                     practice I could attain the necessary delicacy of handling. Still, such was the
                     fury of my ambition, such the untiring perseverance of my experiments, that,
                     difficult of credit as it may be, in the course of one year I became
                     theoretically and practically an accomplished microscopist.
                  During this period of my labors, in which I submitted specimens of every
                     substance that came under my observation to the action of my lenses, I became a
                     discoverer,—in a small way, it is true, for I was very young, but still a
                     discoverer. It was I who destroyed Ehrenberg's theory that the Volvox globator was an animal, and proved that his
                     "monads" with stomachs and eyes were merely phases of the formation of a
                     vegetable cell, and were, when they reached their mature state, incapable of
                     the act of conjugation, or any true generative act, without which no organism
                     rising to any stage of life higher than vegetable can be said to be complete.
                     It was I who resolved the singular problem of rotation in the cells and hairs
                     of plants into ciliary attraction, in spite of the assertions of Mr. Wenham and
                     others, that my explanation was the result of an optical illusion.
                  But notwithstanding these discoveries, laboriously and painfully made as they
                     were, I felt horribly dissatisfied. At every step I found myself stopped by the
                     imperfections of my instruments. Like all active microscopists, I gave my
                     imagination full play. Indeed, it is a common complaint against many such, that
                     they supply the defects of their instruments with the creations of their
                     brains. I imagined depths beyond depths in Nature which the limited power of my
                     lenses prohibited me from exploring. I lay awake at night constructing
                     imaginary microscopes of immeasurable power, with which I seemed to pierce
                     through all the envelopes of matter down to its original atom. How I cursed
                     those imperfect mediums which necessity through ignorance compelled me to use!
                     How I longed to discover the secret of some perfect lens whose magnifying power
                     should be limited only by the resolvability of the object, and which at the
                     same time should be free from spherical and chromatic aberrations, in short
                     from all the obstacles over which the poor microscopist finds himself
                     continually stumbling! I felt convinced that the simple microscope, composed of
                     a single lens of such vast yet perfect power, was possible of construction. To
                     attempt to bring the compound microscope up to such a pitch would have been
                     commencing at the wrong end; this latter being simply a partially successful
                     endeavor to remedy those very defects of the simple instrument, which, if
                     conquered, would leave nothing to be desired.
                  It was in this mood of mind that I became a constructive microscopist. After
                     another year passed in this new pursuit, experimenting on every imaginable
                     substance,—glass, gems, flints, crystals, artificial crystals formed of the
                     alloy of various vitreous materials,—in short, having constructed as many
                     varieties of lenses as Argus had eyes, I found myself precisely where I
                     started, with nothing gained save an extensive knowledge of glass-making. I was
                     almost dead with despair. My parents were surprised at my apparent want of
                     progress in my medical studies, (I had not attended one lecture since my
                     arrival in the city,) and the expenses of my mad pursuit had been so great as
                     to embarrass me very seriously.
                  I was in this frame of mind one day, experimenting in my laboratory on a small
                     diamond,—that stone, from its great
                     refracting power, having always occupied my attention more than any other,—when
                     a young Frenchman, who lived on the floor above me, and who was in the habit of
                     occasionally visiting me, entered the room.
                  I think that Jules Simon was a Jew. He had many traits of the Hebrew character:
                     a love of jewelry, of dress, and of good living. There was something mysterious
                     about him. He always had something to sell, and yet went into excellent
                     society. When I say sell, I should perhaps have said peddle; for his operations
                     were generally confined to the disposal of single articles,—a picture, for
                     instance, or a rare carving in ivory, or a pair of duelling-pistols, or the
                     dress of a Mexican caballero. When I was
                     first furnishing my rooms, he paid me a visit, which ended in my purchasing an
                     antique silver lamp, which he assured me was a Cellini,—it was handsome enough
                     even for that,—and some other knickknacks for my sitting-room. Why Simon should
                     pursue this petty trade I never could imagine. He apparently had plenty of
                     money, and had the entrée of the best houses
                     in the city,—taking care, however, I suppose, to drive no bargains within the
                     enchanted circle of the Upper Ten. I came at length to the conclusion that this
                     peddling was but a mask to cover some greater object, and even went so far as
                     to believe my young acquaintance to be implicated in the slave-trade. That,
                     however, was none of my affair.
                  On the present occasion, Simon entered my room in a state of considerable
                     excitement.
                  "Ah! mon ami!" he cried, before I could even
                     offer him the ordinary salutation, "it has occurred to me to be the witness of
                     the most astonishing things in the world. I promenade myself to the house of
                     Madame——. How does the little animal—le
                        renard—name himself in the Latin?"
                  "Vulpes," I answered.
                  "Ah! yes,—Vulpes. I promenade myself to the house of Madame Vulpes."
                  "The spirit medium?"
                  "Yes, the great medium. Great Heavens! what a woman! I write on a slip of paper
                     many of questions concerning affairs the most secret,—affairs that conceal
                     themselves in the abysses of my heart the most profound; and behold! by
                     example! what occurs! This devil of a woman makes me replies the most truthful
                     to all of them. She talks to me of things that I do not love to talk of to
                     myself. What am I to think? I am fixed to the earth!"
                  "Am I to understand you, M. Simon, that this Mrs. Vulpes replied to questions
                     secretly written by you, which questions related to events known only to
                     yourself?"
                  "Ah! more than that, more than that," he answered, with an air of some alarm.
                     "She related to me things—But," he added, after a pause, and suddenly changing
                     his manner, "why occupy ourselves with these follies? It was all the Biology,
                     without doubt. It goes without saying that it has not my credence. But why are
                     we here, mon ami? It has occurred to me to
                     discover the most beautiful thing as you can imagine,—a vase with green lizards
                     on it, composed by the great Bernard Palissy. It is in my apartment; let us
                     mount. I go to show it to you."
                  I followed Simon mechanically; but my thoughts were far from Palissy and his
                     enamelled ware, although I, like him, was seeking in the dark after a great
                     discovery. This casual mention of the spiritualist, Madame Vulpes, set me on a
                     new track. What if this spiritualism should be really a great fact? What if,
                     through communication with subtiler organisms than my own, I could reach, at a
                     single bound, the goal which perhaps a life of agonizing mental toil would
                     never enable me to attain?
                  While purchasing the Palissy vase from my friend Simon, I was mentally
                     arranging a visit to Madame Vulpes.
               
               
                  
                  III.
                  THE SPIRIT OF LEEUWENHOEK.
                  TWO evenings after this, thanks to an arrangement by letter and the promise of
                     an ample fee, I found Madame Vulpes awaiting me at her residence alone. She was
                     a coarse-featured woman, with a keen and rather cruel dark eye, and an
                     exceedingly sensual expression about her mouth and under jaw. She received me
                     in perfect silence, in an apartment on the ground floor, very sparely
                     furnished. In the centre of the room, close to where Mrs. Vulpes sat, there was
                     a common round mahogany table. If I had come for the purpose of sweeping her
                     chimney, the woman could not have looked more indifferent to my appearance.
                     There was no attempt to inspire the visitor with any awe. Everything bore a
                     simple and practical aspect. This intercourse with the spiritual world was
                     evidently as familiar an occupation with Mrs. Vulpes as eating her dinner or
                     riding in an omnibus.
                  "You come for a communication, Mr. Linley?" said the medium, in a dry,
                     business-like tone of voice.
                  "By appointment,—yes."
                  "What sort of communication do you want?—a written one?"
                  "Yes,—I wish for a written one."
                  "From any particular spirit?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Have you ever known this spirit on this earth?"
                  "Never. He died long before I was born. I wish merely to obtain from him some
                     information which he ought to be able to give better than any other."
                  "Will you seat yourself at the table, Mr. Linley," said the medium, "and place
                     your hands upon it?"
                  I obeyed,—Mrs. Vulpes being seated opposite me, with her hands also on the
                     table. We remained thus for about a minute and a half, when a violent
                     succession of raps came on the table, on the back of my chair, on the floor
                     immediately under my feet, and even on the window-panes. Mrs. Vulpes smiled
                     composedly.
                  "They are very strong to-night," she remarked. "You are fortunate." She then
                     continued, "Will the spirits communicate with this gentleman?"
                  Vigorous affirmative.
                  "Will the particular spirit he desires to speak with communicate?"
                  A very confused rapping followed this question.
                  "I know what they mean," said Mrs. Vulpes, addressing herself to me; "they wish
                     you to write down the name of the particular spirit that you desire to converse
                     with. Is that so?" she added, speaking to her invisible guests.
                  That it was so was evident from the numerous affirmatory responses. While this
                     was going on, I tore a slip from my pocket-book, and scribbled a name under the
                     table.
                  "Will this spirit communicate in writing with this gentleman?" asked the medium
                     once more.
                  After a moment's pause her hand seemed to be seized with a violent tremor,
                     shaking so forcibly that the table vibrated. She said that a spirit had seized
                     her hand and would write. I handed her some sheets of paper that were on the
                     table, and a pencil. The latter she held loosely in her hand, which presently
                     began to move over the paper with a singular and seemingly involuntary motion.
                     After a few moments had elapsed she handed me the paper, on which I found
                     written, in a large, uncultivated hand, the words, "He is not here, but has
                     been sent for." A pause of a minute or so now ensued, during which Mrs. Vulpes
                     remained perfectly silent, but the raps continued at regular intervals. When
                     the short period I mention had elapsed, the hand of the medium was again seized
                     with its convulsive tremor, and she wrote, under this strange influence, a few
                     words on the paper, which she handed to me. They were as follows:—
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "I am here. Question me.
                              
                                 "LEEUWENHOEK."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  I was astounded. The name was identical with that I had written beneath the
                     table, and carefully kept concealed. Neither was it at all probable that an
                     uncultivated woman like Mrs. Vulpes should know even the name of the great
                     father of microscopics. It may have been Biology; but this theory was soon
                     doomed to be destroyed. I wrote on my slip—still concealing it from Mrs.
                     Vulpes—a series of questions, which, to avoid tediousness, I shall place with
                     the responses in the order in which they occurred.
                  I.—Can the microscope be brought to perfection?
                  SPIRIT.—Yes.
                  I.—Am I destined to accomplish this great task?
                  SPIRIT.—You are.
                  I.—I wish to know how to proceed to attain this end. For the love which you
                     bear to science, help me!
                  SPIRIT.—A diamond of one hundred and forty carats, submitted to
                     electro-magnetic currents for a long period, will experience a rearrangement of
                     its atoms inter se, and from that stone you
                     will form the universal lens.
                  I.—Will great discoveries result from the use of such a lens?
                  SPIRIT.—So great, that all that has gone before is as nothing.
                  I.—But the refractive power of the diamond is so immense, that the image will
                     be formed within the lens. How is that difficulty to be surmounted?
                  SPIRIT.—Pierce the lens through its axis, and the difficulty is obviated. The
                     image will be formed in the pierced space, which will itself serve as a tube to
                     look through. Now I am called. Good night!
                  I cannot at all describe the effect that these extraordinary communications had
                     upon me. I felt completely bewildered. No biological theory could account for
                     the discovery of the lens. The medium might, by means of
                     biological rapport with my mind, have gone so
                     far as to read my questions tions, and reply to them coherently. But Biology
                     could not enable her to discover that magnetic currents would so alter the
                     crystals of the diamond as to remedy its previous defects, and admit of its
                     being polished into a perfect lens. Some such theory may have passed through my
                     head, it is true; but if so, I had forgotten it. In my excited condition of
                     mind there was no course left but to become a convert, and it was in a state of
                     the most painful nervous exaltation that I left the medium's house that
                     evening. She accompanied me to the door, hoping that I was satisfied. The raps
                     followed us as we went through the hall, sounding on the balusters, the
                     flooring, and even the lintels of the door. I hastily expressed my
                     satisfaction, and escaped hurriedly into the cool night air. I walked home with
                     but one thought possessing me,—how to obtain a diamond of the immense size
                     required. My entire means multipled a hundred times over would have been
                     inadequate to its purchase. Besides, such stones are rare, and become
                     historical. I could find such only in the regalia of Eastern or European
                     monarchs.
               
               
                  IV.
                  THE EYE OF MORNING.
                  THERE was a light in Simon's room as I entered my house. A vague impulse urged
                     me to visit him. As I opened the door of his sitting-room, unannounced, he was
                     bending, with his back toward me, over a carcel lamp, apparently engaged in
                     minutely examining some object which he held in his hands. As I entered, he
                     started suddenly, thrust his hand into his breast pocket, and turned to me with
                     a face crimson with confusion.
                  "What!" I cried, "poring over the miniature of some fair lady? Well, don't
                     blush so much; I won't ask to see it."
                  
                  Simon laughed awkwardly enough, but made none of the negative protestations
                     usual on such occasions. He asked me to take a seat.
                  "Simon," said I, "I have just come from Madame Vulpes."
                  This time Simon turned as white as a sheet, and seemed stupefied, as if a
                     sudden electric shock had smitten him. He babbled some incoherent words, and
                     went hastily to a small closet where he usually kept his liquors. Although
                     astonished at his emotion, I was too preoccupied with my own idea to pay much
                     attention to anything else.
                  "You say truly when you call Madame Vulpes a devil of a woman," I continued.
                     "Simon, she told me wonderful things to-night, or rather was the means of
                     telling me wonderful things. Ah! if I could only get a diamond that weighed one
                     hundred and forty carats!"
                  Scarcely had the sigh with which I uttered this desire died upon my lips, when
                     Simon, with the aspect of a wild beast, glared at me savagely, and rushing to
                     the mantelpiece, where some foreign weapons hung on the wall, caught up a Malay
                     creese, and brandished it furiously before him.
                  "No!" he cried in French, into which he always broke when excited. "No! you
                     shall not have it! You are perfidious! You have consulted with that demon, and
                     desire my treasure! But I will die first! Me! I am brave! You cannot make me
                     fear!"
                  All this, uttered in a loud voice trembling with excitement, astounded me. I
                     saw at a glance that I had accidentally trodden upon the edges of Simon's
                     secret, whatever it was. It was necessary to reassure him.
                  "My dear Simon," I said, "I am entirely at a loss to know what you mean. I went
                     to Madame Vulpes to consult with her on a scientific problem, to the solution
                     of which I discovered that a diamond of the size I just mentioned was
                     necessary. You were never alluded to during the evening, nor, so far as I was
                     concerned, even thought of. What can be the meaning of this outburst? If you
                     happen to have a set of valuable diamonds in your possession, you need fear
                     nothing from me. The diamond which I require you could not possess; or if you
                     did possess it, you would not be living here."
                  Something in my tone must have completely reassured him; for his expression
                     immediately changed to a sort of constrained merriment, combined, however, with
                     a certain suspicious attention to my movements. He laughed, and said that I
                     must bear with him; that he was at certain moments subject to a species of
                     vertigo, which betrayed itself in incoherent speeches, and that the attacks
                     passed off as rapidly as they came. He put his weapon aside while making this
                     explanation, and endeavored, with some success, to assume a more cheerful
                     air.
                  All this did not impose on me in the least. I was too much accustomed to
                     analytical labors to be baffled by so flimsy a veil. I determined to probe the
                     mystery to the bottom.
                  "Simon," I said, gayly, "let us forget all this over a bottle of Burgundy. I
                     have a case of Lausseure's Clos Vougeot
                     down-stairs, fragrant with the odors and ruddy with the sunlight of the Côte
                     d'Or. Let us have up a couple of bottles. What say you?"
                  "With all my heart," answered Simon, smilingly.
                  I produced the wine, and we seated ourselves to drink. It was of a famous
                     vintage, that of 1848, a year when war and wine throve together,—and its pure,
                     but powerful juice seemed to impart renewed vitality to the system. By the time
                     we had half finished the second bottle, Simon's head, which I knew was a weak
                     one, had begun to yield, while I remained calm as ever, only that every draught
                     seemed to send a flush of vigor through my limbs. Simon's utterance became more
                     and more indistinct. He took to singing French chansons of a not very moral tendency. I rose suddenly from the
                     table just at the conclusion of one of those incoherent verses, and, fixing my eyes on him
                     with a quiet smile, said:
                  "Simon, I have deceived you. I learned your secret this evening. You may as
                     well be frank with me. Mrs. Vulpes, or rather one of her spirits, told me
                     all."
                  He started with horror. His intoxication seemed for the moment to fade away,
                     and he made a movement towards the weapon that he had a short time before laid
                     down. I stopped him with my hand.
                  "Monster!" he cried, passionately, "I am ruined! What shall I do? You shall
                     never have it! I swear by my mother!"
                  "I don't want it," I said; "rest secure, but be frank with me. Tell me all
                     about it."
                  The drunkenness began to return. He protested with maudlin earnestness that I
                     was entirely mistaken,—that I was intoxicated; then asked me to swear eternal
                     secrecy, and promised to disclose the mystery to me. I pledged myself, of
                     course, to all. With an uneasy look in his eyes, and hands unsteady with drink
                     and nervousness, he drew a small case from his breast and opened it. Heavens!
                     How the mild lamp-light was shivered into a thousand prismatic arrows, as it
                     fell upon a vast rose-diamond that glittered in the case! I was no judge of
                     diamonds, but I saw at a glance that this was a gem of rare size and purity. I
                     looked at Simon with wonder, and—must I confess it?—with envy. How could he
                     have obtained this treasure? In reply to my questions, I could just gather from
                     his drunken statements (of which, I fancy, half the incoherence was affected)
                     that he had been superintending a gang of slaves engaged in diamond-washing in
                     Brazil; that he had seen one of them secrete a diamond, but, instead of
                     informing his employers, had quietly watched the negro until he saw him bury
                     his treasure; that he had dug it up, and fled with it, but that as yet he was
                     afraid to attempt to dispose of it publicly,—so valuable a gem being almost
                     certain to attract too much attention to its owner's antecedents,—and he had
                     not been able to discover any of those obscure channels by which such matters
                     are conveyed away safely. He added, that, in accordance with Oriental practice,
                     he had named his diamond by the fanciful title of "The Eye of Morning."
                  While Simon was relating this to me, I regarded the great diamond attentively.
                     Never had I beheld anything so beautiful. All the glories of light, ever
                     imagined or described, seemed to pulsate in its crystalline chambers. Its
                     weight, as I learned from Simon, was exactly one hundred and forty carats. Here
                     was an amazing coincidence. The hand of Destiny seemed in it. On the very
                     evening when the spirit of Leeuwenhoek communicates to me the great secret of
                     the microscope, the priceless means which he directs me to employ start up
                     within my easy reach! I determined, with the most perfect deliberation, to
                     possess myself of Simon's diamond.
                  I sat opposite him while he nodded over his glass, and calmly revolved the
                     whole affair. I did not for an instant contemplate so foolish an act as a
                     common theft, which would of course be discovered, or at least necessitate
                     flight and concealment, all of which must interfere with my scientific plans.
                     There was but one step to be taken,—to kill Simon. After all, what was the life
                     of a little peddling Jew, in comparison with the interests of science? Human
                     beings are taken every day from the condemned prisons to be experimented on by
                     surgeons. This man, Simon, was by his own confession, a criminal, a robber, and
                     I believed on my soul a murderer. He deserved death quite as much as any felon
                     condemned by the laws; why should I not, like government, contrive that his
                     punishment should contribute to the progress of human knowledge?
                  The means for accomplishing everything I desired lay within my reach. There
                     stood upon the mantel-piece a bottle half full of French laudanum. Simon was so
                     occupied with his diamond, which I had just restored to him, that it was an
                     affair of no difficulty to drug his glass. In a quarter of an hour he was in a
                     profound sleep.
                  
                  I now opened his waistcoat, took the diamond from the inner pocket in which he
                     had placed it, and removed him to the bed, on which I laid him so that his feet
                     hung down over the edge. I had possessed myself of the Malay creese, which I
                     held in my right hand, while with the other I discovered, as accurately as I
                     could by pulsation, the exact locality of the heart. It was essential that all
                     the aspects of his death should lead to the surmise of self-murder. I
                     calculated the exact angle at which it was probable that the weapon, if
                     levelled by Simon's own hand, would enter his breast; then with one powerful
                     blow I thrust it up to the hilt in the very spot which I desired to penetrate.
                     A convulsive thrill ran through Simon's limbs. I heard a smothered sound issue
                     from his throat, precisely like the bursting of a large air-bubble, sent up by
                     a diver, when it reaches the surface of the water; he turned half round on his
                     side, and, as if to assist my plans more effectually, his right hand, moved by
                     some mere spasmodic impulse, clasped the handle of the creese, which it
                     remained holding with extraordinary muscular tenacity. Beyond this there was no
                     apparent struggle. The laudanum, I presume, paralyzed the usual nervous action.
                     He must have died instantaneously.
                  There was yet something to be done. To make it certain that all suspicion of
                     the act should be diverted from any inhabitant of the house to Simon himself,
                     it was necessary that the door should be found in the morning locked on
                        the inside. How to do this, and afterwards escape myself? Not by the
                     window; that was a physical impossibility. Besides, I was determined that the
                     windows also should be found bolted. The solution was simple
                     enough. I descended softly to my own room for a peculiar instrument which I had
                     used for holding small slippery substances, such as minute spheres of glass,
                     etc. This instrument was nothing more than a long, slender hand-vice, with a
                     very powerful grip, and a considerable leverage, which last was accidentally
                     owing to the shape of the handle. Nothing was simpler than, when the key was in
                     the lock, to seize the end of its stem in this vice, through the keyhole, from
                     the outside, and so lock the door. Previously, however, to doing this, I burned
                     a number of papers on Simon's hearth. Suicides almost always burn papers before
                     they destroy themselves. I also emptied some more laudanum into Simon's
                     glass,—having first removed from it all traces of wine,—cleaned the other
                     wine-glass, and brought the bottles away with me. If traces of two persons
                     drinking had been found in the room, the question naturally would have arisen,
                     Who was the second? Besides, the wine-bottles might have been identified as
                     belonging to me. The laudanum I poured out to account for its presence in his
                     stomach, in case of a postmortem examination.
                     The theory naturally would be, that he first intended to poison himself, but,
                     after swallowing a little of the drug, was either disgusted with its taste, or
                     changed his mind from other motives, and chose the dagger. These arrangements
                     made, I walked out, leaving the gas burning, locked the door with my vice, and
                     went to bed.
                  Simon's death was not discovered until nearly three in the afternoon. The
                     servant, astonished at seeing the gas burning,—the light streaming on the dark
                     landing from under the door,—peeped through the keyhole and saw Simon on the
                     bed. She gave the alarm. The door was burst open, and the neighborhood was in a
                     fever of excitement.
                  Every one in the house was arrested, myself included. There was an inquest; but
                     no clew to his death, beyond that of suicide, could be obtained. Curiously
                     enough, he had made several speeches to his friends, the preceding week, that
                     seemed to point to self-destruction. One gentleman swore that Simon had said in
                     his presence that "he was tired of life." His landlord affirmed that Simon,
                     when paying him his last month's rent, remarked that "he would not pay him rent
                     much longer." All the other evidence corresponded,—the door locked inside, the
                     position of the corpse, the burnt papers. As I anticipated, no one knew of the possession of the diamond by
                     Simon, so that no motive was suggested for his murder. The jury, after a
                     prolonged examination, brought in the usual verdict, and the neighborhood once
                     more settled down into its accustomed quiet.
               
               
                  V.
                  ANIMULA.
                  THE three months succeeding Simon's catastrophe I devoted night and day to my
                     diamond lens. I had constructed a vast galvanic battery, composed of nearly two
                     thousand pairs of plates,—a higher power I dared not use, lest the diamond
                     should be calcined. By means of this enormous engine I was enabled to send a
                     powerful current of electricity continually through my great diamond, which it
                     seemed to me gained in lustre every day. At the expiration of a month I
                     commenced the grinding and polishing of the lens, a work of intense toil and
                     exquisite delicacy. The great density of the stone, and the care required to be
                     taken with the curvatures of the surfaces of the lens, rendered the labor the
                     severest and most harassing that I had yet undergone.
                  At last the eventful moment came; the lens was completed. I stood trembling on
                     the threshold of new worlds. I had the realization of Alexander's famous wish
                     before me. The lens lay on the table, ready to be placed upon its platform. My
                     hand fairly shook as I enveloped a drop of water with a thin coating of oil of
                     turpentine, preparatory to its examination,—a process necessary in order to
                     prevent the rapid evaporation of the water. I now placed the drop on a thin
                     slip of glass under the lens, and throwing upon it, by the combined aid of a
                     prism and a mirror, a powerful stream of light, I approached my eye to the
                     minute hole drilled through the axis of the lens. For an instant I saw nothing
                     save what seemed to be an illuminated chaos, a vast luminous abyss. A pure
                     white light, cloudless and serene, and seemingly limitless as space itself, was
                     my first impression. Gently, and with the greatest care, I depressed the lens a
                     few hairs' breadths. The wondrous illumination still continued, but as the lens
                     approached the object, a scene of indescribable beauty was unfolded to my
                     view.
                  I seemed to gaze upon a vast space, the limits of which extended far beyond my
                     vision. An atmosphere of magical luminousness permeated the entire field of
                     view. I was amazed to see no trace of animalculous life. Not a living thing,
                     apparently, inhabited that dazzling expanse. I comprehended instantly, that, by
                     the wondrous power of my lens, I had penetrated beyond the grosser particles of
                     aqueous matter, beyond the realms of Infusoria and Protozoa, down to the
                     original gaseous globule, into whose luminous interior I was gazing, as into an
                     almost boundless dome filled with a supernatural radiance.
                  It was, however, no brilliant void into which I looked. On every side I beheld
                     beautiful inorganic forms, of unknown texture, and colored with the most
                     enchanting hues. These forms presented the appearance of what might be called,
                     for want of a more specific definition, foliated clouds of the highest rarity;
                     that is, they undulated and broke into vegetable formations, and were tinged
                     with splendors compared with which the gilding of our autumn woodlands is as
                     dross compared with gold. Far away into the illimitable distance stretched long
                     avenues of these gaseous forests, dimly transparent, and painted with prismatic
                     hues of unimaginable brilliancy. The pendent branches waved along the fluid
                     glades until every vista seemed to break through half-lucent ranks of
                     many-colored drooping silken pennons. What seemed to be either fruits or
                     flowers, pied with a thousand hues lustrous and ever varying, bubbled from the
                     crowns of this fairy foliage. No hills, no lakes, no rivers, no forms animate
                     or inanimate were to be seen, save those vast auroral copses that floated
                     serenely in the luminous stillness,
                     with leaves and fruits and flowers gleaming with unknown fires, unrealizable by
                     mere imagination.
                  How strange, I thought, that this sphere should be thus condemned to solitude!
                     I had hoped, at least, to discover some new form of animal life,—perhaps of a
                     lower class than any with which we are at present acquainted,—but still, some
                     living organism. I find my newly discovered world, if I may so speak, a
                     beautiful chromatic desert.
                  While I was speculating on the singular arrangements of the internal economy of
                     Nature, with which she so frequently splinters into atoms our most compact
                     theories, I thought I beheld a form moving slowly through the glades of one of
                     the prismatic forests. I looked more attentively, and found that I was not
                     mistaken. Words cannot depict the anxiety with which I awaited the nearer
                     approach of this mysterious object. Was it merely some inanimate substance,
                     held in suspense in the attenuated atmosphere of the globule? or was it an
                     animal endowed with vitality and motion? It approached, flitting behind the
                     gauzy, colored veils of cloud-foliage, for seconds dimly revealed, then
                     vanishing. At last the violet pennons that trailed nearest to me vibrated; they
                     were gently pushed aside, and the Form floated out into the broad light.
                  It was a female human shape. When I say "human," I mean it possessed the
                     outlines of humanity,—but there the analogy ends. Its adorable beauty lifted it
                     illimitable heights beyond the loveliest daughter of Adam.
                  I cannot, I dare not, attempt to inventory the charms of this divine revelation
                     of perfect beauty. Those eyes of mystic violet, dewy and serene, evade my
                     words. Her long lustrous hair following her glorious head in a golden wake,
                     like the track sown in heaven by a falling star, seems to quench my most
                     burning phrases with its splendors. If all the bees of Hybla nestled upon my
                     lips, they would still sing but hoarsely the wondrous harmonies of outline that
                     enclosed her form.
                  She swept out from between the rainbow-curtains of the cloud-trees into the
                     broad sea of light that lay beyond. Her motions were those of some graceful
                     Naiad, cleaving, by a mere effort of her will, the clear, unruffled waters that
                     fill the chambers of the sea. She floated forth with the serene grace of a
                     frail bubble ascending through the still atmosphere of a June day. The perfect
                     roundness of her limbs formed suave and enchanting curves. It was like
                     listening to the most spiritual symphony of Beethoven the divine, to watch the
                     harmonious flow of lines. This, indeed, was a pleasure cheaply purchased at any
                     price. What cared I, if I had waded to the portal of this wonder through
                     another's blood? I would have given my own to enjoy one such moment of
                     intoxication and delight.
                  Breathless with gazing on this lovely wonder, and forgetful for an instant of
                     everything save her presence, I withdrew my eye from the microscope
                     eagerly,—alas! As my gaze fell on the thin slide that lay beneath my
                     instrument, the bright light from mirror and from prism sparkled on a colorless
                     drop of water! There, in that tiny bead of dew, this beautiful being was
                     forever imprisoned. The planet Neptune was not more distant from me than she. I
                     hastened once more to apply my eye to the microscope.
                  Animula (let me now call her by that dear name which I subsequently bestowed on
                     her) had changed her position. She had again approached the wondrous forest,
                     and was gazing earnestly upwards. Presently one of the trees—as I must call
                     them—unfolded a long ciliary process, with which it seized one of the gleaming
                     fruits that glittered on its summit, and sweeping slowly down, held it within
                     reach of Animula. The sylph took it in her delicate hand, and began to eat. My
                     attention was so entirely absorbed by her, that I could not apply myself to the
                     task of determining whether this singular plant was or was not instinct with
                     volition.
                  I watched her, as she made her repast, with the most profound attention. The
                     suppleness of her motions sent a thrill of delight through my frame; my heart
                     beat madly as she turned her beautiful
                     eyes in the direction of the spot in which I stood. What would I not have given
                     to have had the power to precipitate myself into that luminous ocean, and float
                     with her through those groves of purple and gold! While I was thus breathlessly
                     following her every movement, she suddenly started, seemed to listen for a
                     moment, and then cleaving the brilliant ether in which she was floating, like a
                     flash of light, pierced through the opaline forest, and disappeared.
                  Instantly a series of the most singular sensations attacked me. It seemed as if
                     I had suddenly gone blind. The luminous sphere was still before me, but my
                     daylight had vanished. What caused this sudden disappearance? Had she a lover,
                     or a husband? Yes, that was the solution! Some signal from a happy fellow-being
                     had vibrated through the avenues of the forest, and she had obeyed the
                     summons.
                  The agony of my sensations, as I arrived at this conclusion, startled me. I
                     tried to reject the conviction that my reason forced upon me. I battled against
                     the fatal conclusion,—but in vain. It was so. I had no escape from it. I loved
                     an animalcule!
                  It is true, that, thanks to the marvellous power of my microscope, she appeared
                     of human proportions. Instead of presenting the revolting aspect of the coarser
                     creatures, that live and struggle and die, in the more easily resolvable
                     portions of the water-drop, she was fair and delicate and of surpassing beauty.
                     But of what account was all that? Every time that my eye was withdrawn from the
                     instrument, it fell on a miserable drop of water, within which, I must be
                     content to know, dwelt all that could make my life lovely.
                  Could she but see me once! Could I for one moment pierce the mystical walls
                     that so inexorably rose to separate us, and whisper all that filled my soul, I
                     might consent to be satisfied for the rest of my life with the knowledge of her
                     remote sympathy. It would be something to have established lished even the
                     faintest personal link to bind us together,—to know that at times, when roaming
                     through those enchanted glades, she might think of the wonderful stranger, who
                     had broken the monotony of her life with his presence, and left a gentle memory
                     in her heart!
                  But it could not be. No invention, of which human intellect was capable, could
                     break down the barriers that Nature had erected. I might feast my soul upon her
                     wondrous beauty, yet she must always remain ignorant of the adoring eyes that
                     day and night gazed upon her, and, even when closed, beheld her in dreams. With
                     a bitter cry of anguish I fled from the room, and flinging myself on my bed,
                     sobbed myself to sleep like a child.
               
               
                  VI.
                  THE SPILLING OF THE CUP.
                  I AROSE the next morning almost at daybreak, and rushed to my microscope. I
                     trembled as I sought the luminous world in miniature that contained my all.
                     Animula was there. I had left the gas-lamp, surrounded by its moderators,
                     burning, when I went to bed the night before. I found the sylph bathing, as it
                     were, with an expression of pleasure animating her features, in the brilliant
                     light which surrounded her. She tossed her lustrous golden hair over her
                     shoulders with innocent coquetry. She lay at full length in the transparent
                     medium, in which she supported herself with ease, and gambolled with the
                     enchanting grace that the Nymph Salmacis might have exhibited when she sought
                     to conquer the modest Hermaphroditus. I tried an experiment to satisfy myself
                     if her powers of reflection were developed. I lessened the lamp-light
                     considerably. By the dim light that remained, I could see an expression of pain
                     flit across her face. She looked upward suddenly, and her brows contracted. I flooded the stage of the
                     microscope again with a full stream of light, and her whole expression changed.
                     She sprang forward like some substance deprived of all weight. Her eyes
                     sparkled, and her lips moved. Ah! if science had only the means of conducting
                     and reduplicating sounds, as it does the rays of light, what carols of
                     happiness would then have entranced my ears! what jubilant hymns to Adonaïs
                     would have thrilled the illumined air!
                  I now comprehended how it was that the Count de Gabalis peopled his mystic
                     world with sylphs,—beautiful beings whose breath of life was lambent fire, and
                     who sported forever in regions of purest ether and purest light. The
                     Rosicrucian had anticipated the wonder that I had practically realized.
                  How long this worship of my strange divinity went on thus I scarcely know. I
                     lost all note of time. All day from early dawn, and far into the night, I was
                     to be found peering through that wonderful lens. I saw no one, went nowhere,
                     and scarce allowed myself sufficient time for my meals. My whole life was
                     absorbed in contemplation as rapt as that of any of the Romish saints. Every
                     hour that I gazed upon the divine form strengthened my passion,—a passion that
                     was always overshadowed by the maddening conviction, that, although I could
                     gaze on her at will, she never, never could behold me!
                  At length I grew so pale and emaciated, from want of rest, and continual
                     brooding over my insane love and its cruel conditions, that I determined to
                     make some effort to wean myself from it. "Come," I said, "this is at best but a
                     fantasy. Your imagination has bestowed on Animula charms which in reality she
                     does not possess. Seclusion from female society has produced this morbid
                     condition of mind. Compare her with the beautiful women of your own world, and
                     this false enchantment will vanish."
                  I looked over the newspapers by chance. There I beheld the advertisement of a
                     celebrated danseuse who appeared peared
                     nightly at Niblo's. The Signorina Caradolce had the reputation of being the
                     most beautiful as well as the most graceful woman in the world. I instantly
                     dressed and went to the theatre.
                  The curtain drew up. The usual semicircle of fairies in white muslin were
                     standing on the right toe around the enamelled flower-bank, of green canvas, on
                     which the belated prince was sleeping. Suddenly a flute is heard. The fairies
                     start. The trees open, the fairies all stand on the left toe, and the queen
                     enters. It was the Signorina. She bounded forward amid thunders of applause,
                     and lighting on one foot remained poised in air. Heavens! was this the great
                     enchantress that had drawn monarchs at her chariot-wheels? Those heavy muscular
                     limbs, those thick ankles, those cavernous eyes, that stereotyped smile, those
                     crudely painted cheeks! Where were the vermeil blooms, the liquid expressive
                     eyes, the harmonious limbs of Animula?
                  The Signorina danced. What gross, discordant movements! The play of her limbs
                     was all false and artificial. Her bounds were painful athletic efforts; her
                     poses were angular and distressed the eye. I could bear it no longer; with an
                     exclamation of disgust that drew every eye upon me, I rose from my seat in the
                     very middle of the Signorina's pas-de-fascination, and abruptly quitted the house.
                  I hastened home to feast my eyes once more on the lovely form of my sylph. I
                     felt that henceforth to combat this passion would be impossible. I applied my
                     eye to the lens. Animula was there,—but what could have happened? Some terrible
                     change seemed to have taken place during my absence. Some secret grief seemed
                     to cloud the lovely features of her I gazed upon. Her face had grown thin and
                     haggard; her limbs trailed heavily; the wondrous lustre of her golden hair had
                     faded. She was ill!—ill, and I could not assist her! I believe at that moment I
                     would have gladly forfeited all claims to my human birthright, if I could only
                     have been dwarfed to the size of an animalcule, and permitted to console her from whom fate had
                     forever divided me.
                  I racked my brain for the solution of this mystery. What was it that afflicted
                     the sylph? She seemed to suffer intense pain. Her features contracted, and she
                     even writhed, as if with some internal agony. The wondrous forests appeared
                     also to have lost half their beauty. Their hues were dim, and in some places
                     faded away altogether. I watched Animula for hours with a breaking heart, and
                     she seemed absolutely to wither away under my very eye. Suddenly I remembered
                     that I had not looked at the water-drop for several days. In fact, I hated to
                     see it; for it reminded me of the natural barrier between Animula and myself. I
                     hurriedly looked down on the stage of the microscope. The slide was still
                     there,—but, great heavens! the water-drop had vanished! The awful truth burst
                     upon me; it had evaporated, until it had become so minute as to be invisible to
                     the naked eye; I had been gazing on its last atom, the one that contained
                     Animula,—and she was dying!
                  I rushed again to the front of the lens, and looked through. Alas! the last
                     agony had seized her. The rainbow-hued forests had all melted away, and Animula
                     lay struggling feebly in what seemed to be a spot of dim light. Ah! the sight
                     was horrible: the limbs once so round and lovely shrivelling up into nothings;
                     the eyes—those eyes that shone like heaven—being quenched into black dust; the
                     lustrous golden hair now lank and discolored. The last throe came. I beheld
                     that final struggle of the blackening form—and I fainted.
                  When I awoke out of a trance of many hours, I found myself lying amid the wreck
                     of my instrument, myself as shattered in mind and body as it. I crawled feebly
                     to my bed, from which I did not rise for months.
                  They say now that I am mad; but they are mistaken. I am poor, for I have
                     neither the heart nor the will to work; all my money is spent, and I live on
                     charity. Young men's associations that love a joke invite me to lecture on
                     Optics before them, for which they pay me, and laugh at me while I lecture.
                     "Linley, the mad microscopist," is the name I go by. I suppose that I talk
                     incoherently while I lecture. Who could talk sense when his brain is haunted by
                     such ghastly memories, while ever and anon among the shapes of death I behold
                     the radiant form of my lost Animula!
               
            
            
               
               LIFE IN THE IRON-MILLS.
               
                  
                     
                        "Is this the end?
                        O Life, as futile, then, as frail!
                        What hope of answer or redress?"
                     
                  
               
               A CLOUDY day: do you know what that is in a town of iron-works? The sky sank down
                  before dawn, muddy, flat, immovable. The air is thick, clammy with the breath of
                  crowded human beings. It stifles me. I open the window, and, looking out, can
                  scarcely see through the rain the grocer's shop opposite, where a crowd of drunken
                  Irishmen are puffing Lynchburg tobacco in their pipes. I can detect the scent
                  through all the foul smells ranging loose in the air.
               The idiosyncrasy of this town is smoke. It rolls sullenly in slow folds from the
                  great chimneys of the iron-founderies, and settles down in black, slimy pools on
                  the muddy streets. Smoke on the wharves, smoke on the dingy boats, on the yellow
                  river,—clinging in a coating of greasy soot to the house-front, the two faded
                  poplars, the faces of the passers-by. The long train of mules, dragging masses of
                  pig-iron through the narrow street, have a foul vapor hanging to their reeking
                  sides. Here, inside, is a little broken figure of an angel pointing upward from
                  the mantel-shelf; but even its wings are covered with smoke, clotted and black.
                  Smoke everywhere! A dirty canary chirps desolately in a cage beside me. Its dream
                  of green fields and sunshine is a very old dream,—almost worn out, I think.
               From the back-window I can see a narrow brick-yard sloping down to the river-side,
                  strewed with rain-butts and tubs. The river, dull and tawny-colored, (la belle rivière!) drags itself sluggishly along,
                  tired of the heavy weight of boats and coal-barges. What wonder? When I was a
                  child, I used to fancy a look of weary, dumb appeal upon the face of the
                  negro-like river slavishly bearing its burden day after day. Something of the same
                  idle notion comes to me to-day, when from the street-window I look on the slow
                  stream of human life creeping past, night and morning, to the great mills. Masses
                  of men, with dull, besotted faces bent to the ground, sharpened here and there by
                  pain or cunning; skin and muscle and flesh begrimed with smoke and ashes; stooping
                  all night over boiling caldrons of metal, laired by day in dens of drunkenness and
                  infamy; breathing from infancy to death an air saturated with fog and grease and
                  soot, vileness for soul and body. What do you make of a case like that, amateur
                  psychologist? You call it an altogether serious thing to be alive: to these men it
                  is a drunken jest, a joke,—horrible to angels perhaps, to them commonplace enough.
                  My fancy about the river was an idle one: it is no type of such a life. What if it
                  be stagnant and slimy here? It knows that beyond there waits for it odorous
                  sunlight,—quaint old gardens, dusky with soft, green foliage of apple-trees, and
                  flushing crimson with roses,—air, and fields, and mountains. The future of the
                  Welsh puddler passing just now is not so pleasant. To be stowed away, after his
                  grimy work is done, in a hole in the muddy graveyard, and after
                     that,—not air, nor green fields, nor curious roses.
               Can you see how foggy the day is? As I stand here, idly tapping the window-pane,
                  and looking out through the rain at the dirty back-yard and the coal-boats below,
                  fragments of an old story float up before me,—a story of this house into which I
                  happened to come to-day. You may think it a tiresome story enough, as foggy as the
                  day, sharpened by no sudden flashes of pain or pleasure. I know: only the
                     outline line of a dull life, that long
                  since, with thousands of dull lives like its own, was vainly lived and lost:
                  thousands of them,—massed, vile, slimy lives, like those of the torpid lizards in
                  yonder stagnant water-butt.—Lost? There is a curious point for you to settle, my
                  friend, who study psychology in a lazy, dilettante way. Stop a moment. I am going to be honest. This is what
                  I want you to do. I want you to hide your disgust, take no heed to your clean
                  clothes, and come right down with me,—here, into the thickest of the fog and mud
                  and foul effluvia. I want you to hear this story. There is a secret down here, in
                  this nightmare fog, that has lain dumb for centuries: I want to make it a real
                  thing to you. You, Egoist, or Pantheist, or Arminian, busy in making straight
                  paths for your feet on the hills, do not see it clearly,—this terrible question
                  which men here have gone mad and died trying to answer. I dare not put this secret
                  into words. I told you it was dumb. These men, going by with drunken faces, and
                  brains full of unawakened power, do not ask it of Society or of God. Their lives
                  ask it; their deaths ask it. There is no reply. I will tell you plainly that I
                  have a great hope; and I bring it to you to be tested. It is this: that this
                  terrible dumb question is its own reply; that it is not the sentence of death we
                  think it, but, from the very extremity of its darkness, the most solemn prophecy
                  which the world has known of the Hope to come. I dare make my meaning no clearer,
                  but will only tell my story. It will, perhaps, seem to you as foul and dark as
                  this thick vapor about us, and as pregnant with death; but if your eyes are free
                  as mine are to look deeper, no perfume-tinted dawn will be so fair with promise of
                  the day that shall surely come.
               My story is very simple,—only what I remember of the life of one of these men,—a
                  furnace-tender in one of Kirby & John's rolling-mills,—Hugh Wolfe. You know
                  the mills? They took the great order for the lower Virginia railroads there last
                  winter; run usually with about a thousand men. I cannot tell why I choose the
                  half-forgotten story of this Wolfe more than that of myriads of these
                  furnace-hands. Perhaps because there is a secret, underlying sympathy between that
                  story and this day with its impure fog and thwarted sunshine,—or perhaps simply
                  for the reason that this house is the one where the Wolfes lived. There were the
                  father and son,—both hands, as I said, in one of Kirby & John's mills for
                  making railroad-iron,—and Deborah, their cousin, a picker in some of the
                  cotton-mills. The house was rented then to half a dozen families. The Wolfes had
                  two of the cellar-rooms. The old man, like many of the puddlers and feeders of the
                  mills, was Welsh,—had spent half of his life in the Cornish tin-mines. You may
                  pick the Welsh emigrants, Cornish miners, out of the throng passing the windows,
                  any day. They are a trifle more filthy; their muscles are not so brawny; they
                  stoop more. When they are drunk, they neither yell, nor shout, nor stagger, but
                  skulk along like beaten hounds. A pure, unmixed blood, I fancy, shows itself in
                  the slight angular bodies and sharply-cut facial lines. It is nearly thirty years
                  since the Wolfes lived here. Their lives were like those of their class: incessant
                  labor, sleeping in kennel-like rooms, eating rank pork and molasses, drinking—God
                  and the distillers only know what; with an occasional night in jail, to atone for
                  some drunken excess. Is that all of their lives?—of the portion given to them and
                  these their duplicates swarming the streets to-day?—nothing beneath?—all? So many
                  a political reformer will tell you,—and many a private reformer, too, who has gone
                  among them with a heart tender with Christ's charity, and come out outraged,
                  hardened.
               One rainy night, about eleven o'clock, a crowd of half-clothed women stopped
                  outside of the cellar-door. They were going home from the cotton-mill.
               "Good-night, Deb," said one, a mulatto, steadying herself against the gas-post.
                  She needed the post to steady her. So did more than one of them.
               "Dah's a ball to Miss Potts' to-night. Ye'd best come."
               
               "Inteet, Deb, if hur'll come, hur'll hef fun," said a shrill Welsh voice in the
                  crowd.
               Two or three dirty hands were thrust out to catch the gown of the woman, who was
                  groping for the latch of the door.
               "No."
               "No? Where's Kit Small, then?"
               "Begorra! on the spools. Alleys behint, though we helped her, we dud. An wid ye!
                  Let Deb alone! It's ondacent frettin' a quite body. Be the powers, an' we'll have
                  a night of it! there'll be lashin's o' drink,—the Vargent be blessed and praised
                  for't!"
               They went on, the mulatto inclining for a moment to show fight, and drag the woman
                  Wolfe off with them; but, being pacified, she staggered away.
               Deborah groped her way into the cellar, and, after considerable stumbling, kindled
                  a match, and lighted a tallow dip, that sent a yellow glimmer over the room. It
                  was low, damp,—the earthen floor covered with a green, slimy moss,—a fetid air
                  smothering the breath. Old Wolfe lay asleep on a heap of straw, wrapped in a torn
                  horse-blanket. He was a pale, meek little man, with a white face and red
                  rabbit-eyes. The woman Deborah was like him; only her face was even more ghastly,
                  her lips bluer, her eyes more watery. She wore a faded cotton gown and a slouching
                  bonnet. When she walked, one could see that she was deformed, almost a hunchback.
                  She trod softly, so as not to waken him, and went through into the room beyond.
                  There she found by the half-extinguished fire an iron saucepan filled with cold
                  boiled potatoes, which she put upon a broken chair with a pint-cup of ale. Placing
                  the old candlestick beside this dainty repast, she untied her bonnet, which hung
                  limp and wet over her face, and prepared to eat her supper. It was the first food
                  that had touched her lips since morning. There was enough of it, however: there is
                  not always. She was hungry,—one could see that easily enough,—and not drunk, as
                  most of her companions would have been found at this hour. She did not drink, this
                  woman,—her face told that too,—nothing stronger than ale. Perhaps the weak,
                  flaccid wretch had some stimulant in her pale life to keep her up,—some love or
                  hope, it might be, or urgent need. When that stimulant was gone, she would take to
                  whiskey. Man cannot live by work alone. While she was skinning the potatoes, and
                  munching them, a noise behind her made her stop.
               "Janey!" she called, lifting the candle and peering into the darkness. "Janey, are
                  you there?"
               A heap of ragged coats was heaved up, and the face of a young girl emerged,
                  staring sleepily at the woman.
               "Deborah," she said, at last, "I'm here the night."
               "Yes, child. Hur's welcome," she said, quietly eating on.
               The girl's face was haggard and sickly; her eyes were heavy with sleep and hunger:
                  real Milesian eyes they were, dark, delicate blue, glooming out from black shadows
                  with a pitiful fright.
               "I was alone," she said, timidly.
               "Where's the father?" asked Deborah, holding out a potato, which the girl greedily
                  seized.
               "He's beyant,—wid Haley,—in the stone house." (Did you ever hear the word
                     jail from an Irish mouth?) "I came here. Hugh told me never to
                  stay me-lone."
               "Hugh?"
               "Yes."
               A vexed frown crossed her face. The girl saw it, and added quickly,—
               "I have not seen Hugh the day, Deb. The old man says his watch lasts till the
                  mornin'."
               The woman sprang up, and hastily began to arrange some bread and flitch in a tin
                  pail, and to pour her own measure of ale into a bottle. Tying on her bonnet, she
                  blew out the candle.
               "Lay ye down, Janey dear," she said, gently, covering her with the old rags. "Hur
                  can eat the potatoes, if hur's hungry."
               
               "Where are ye goin', Deb? The rain's sharp."
               "To the mill, with Hugh's supper."
               "Let him bide till th' morn. Sit ye down."
               "No, no,"—sharply pushing her off. "The boy 'll starve."
               She hurried from the cellar, while the child wearily coiled herself up for sleep.
                  The rain was falling heavily, as the woman, pail in hand, emerged from the mouth
                  of the alley, and turned down the narrow street, that stretched out, long and
                  black, miles before her. Here and there a flicker of gas lighted an uncertain
                  space of muddy footwalk and gutter; the long rows of houses, except an occasional
                  lager-bier shop, were closed; now and then she met a band of mill-hands skulking
                  to or from their work.
               Not many even of the inhabitants of a manufacturing town know the vast machinery
                  of system by which the bodies of workmen are governed, that goes on unceasingly
                  from year to year. The hands of each mill are divided into watches that relieve
                  each other as regularly as the sentinels of an army. By night and day the work
                  goes on, the unsleeping engines groan and shriek, the fiery pools of metal boil
                  and surge. Only for a day in the week, in half-courtesy to public censure, the
                  fires are partially veiled; but as soon as the clock strikes midnight, the great
                  furnaces break forth with renewed fury, the clamor begins with fresh, breathless
                  vigor, the engines sob and shriek like "gods in pain."
               As Deborah hurried down through the heavy rain, the noise of these thousand
                  engines sounded through the sleep and shadow of the city like far-off thunder. The
                  mill to which she was going lay on the river, a mile below the city-limits. It was
                  far, and she was weak, aching from standing twelve hours at the spools. Yet it was
                  her almost nightly walk to take this man his supper, though at every square she
                  sat down to rest, and she knew she should receive small word of thanks.
               Perhaps, if she had possessed an artist's eye, the picturesque oddity of the scene
                  might have made her step stagger ger less, and the path seem shorter; but to her
                  the mills were only "summat deilish to look at by night."
               The road leading to the mills had been quarried from the solid rock, which rose
                  abrupt and bare on one side of the cinder-covered road, while the river, sluggish
                  and black, crept past on the other. The mills for rolling iron are simply immense
                  tent-like roofs, covering acres of ground, open on every side. Beneath these roofs
                  Deborah looked in on a city of fires, that burned hot and fiercely in the night.
                  Fire in every horrible form: pits of flame waving in the wind; liquid metal-flames
                  writhing in tortuous streams through the sand; wide caldrons filled with boiling
                  fire, over which bent ghastly wretches stirring the strange brewing; and through
                  all, crowds of half-clad men, looking like revengeful ghosts in the red light,
                  hurried, throwing masses of glittering fire. It was like a street in Hell. Even
                  Deborah muttered, as she crept through, "'T looks like t' Devil's place!" It
                  did,—in more ways than one.
               She found the man she was looking for, at last, heaping coal on a furnace. He had
                  not time to eat his supper; so she went behind the furnace, and waited. Only a few
                  men were with him, and they noticed her only by a "Hyur comes t'hunchback,
                  Wolfe."
               Deborah was stupid with sleep; her back pained her sharply; and her teeth
                  chattered with cold, with the rain that soaked her clothes and dripped from her at
                  every step. She stood, however, patiently holding the pail, and waiting.
               "Hout, woman! ye look like a drowned cat. Come near to the fire,"—said one of the
                  men, approaching to scrape away the ashes.
               She shook her head. Wolfe had forgotten her. He turned, hearing the man, and came
                  closer.
               "I did no' think; g' me my supper, woman."
               She watched him eat with a painful eagerness. With a woman's quick instinct, she
                  saw that he was not hungry,—was eating to please her. Her pale, watery eyes began
                  to gather a strange light.
               
               "Is't good, Hugh? T'ale was a bit sour, I feared."
               "No, good enough." He hesitated a moment. "Ye're tired, poor lass! Bide here till
                  I go. Lay down there on that heap of ash, and go to sleep."
               He threw her an old coat for a pillow, and turned to his work. The heap was the
                  refuse of the burnt iron, and was not a hard bed; the half-smothered warmth, too,
                  penetrated her limbs, dulling their pain and cold shiver.
               Miserable enough she looked, lying there on the ashes like a limp, dirty rag,—yet
                  not an unfitting figure to crown the scene of hopeless discomfort and veiled
                  crime: more fitting, if one looked deeper into the heart of things,—at her
                  thwarted woman's form, her colorless life, her waking stupor that smothered pain
                  and hunger,—even more fit to be a type of her class. Deeper yet if one could look;
                  was there nothing worth reading in this wet, faded thing, half covered with ashes?
                  no story of a soul filled with groping, passionate love, heroic unselfishness,
                  fierce jealousy? of years of weary trying to please the one human being whom she
                  loved, to gain one look of real heart-kindness from him? If anything like this
                  were hidden beneath the pale, bleared eyes, and dull, washed-out-looking face, no
                  one had ever taken the trouble to read its faint signs: not the half-clothed
                  furnace-tender, Wolfe, certainly. Yet he was kind to her: it was his nature to be
                  kind, even to the very rats that swarmed in the cellar: kind to her in just the
                  same way. She knew that. And it might be that very knowledge had given to her face
                  its apathy and vacancy more than her low, torpid life. One sees that dead, vacant
                  look steal sometimes over the rarest, finest of women's faces,—in the very midst,
                  it may be, of their warmest summer's day; and then one can guess at the secret of
                  intolerable solitude that lies hid beneath the delicate laces and brilliant smile.
                  There was no warmth, no brilliancy, no summer for this woman; so the stupor and
                  vacancy had time to gnaw into her face perpetually. She was young, too, though no
                  one guessed it; so the gnawing was the fiercer.
               She lay quiet in the dark corner, listening, through the monotonous din and
                  uncertain glare of the works, to the dull plash of the rain in the far
                  distance,—shrinking back whenever the man Wolfe happened to look towards her. She
                  knew, in spite of all his kindness, that there was that in her face and form which
                  made him loathe the sight of her. She felt by instinct, although she could not
                  comprehend it, the finer nature of the man, which made him among his
                  fellow-workmen something unique, set apart. She knew, that, down under all the
                  vileness and coarseness of his life, there was a groping passion for whatever was
                  beautiful and pure,—that his soul sickened with disgust at her deformity, even
                  when his words were kindest. Through this dull consciousness, which never left
                  her, came, like a sting, the recollection of the dark blue eyes and lithe figure
                  of the little Irish girl she had left in the cellar. The recollection struck
                  through even her stupid intellect with a vivid glow of beauty and of grace. Little
                  Janey, timid, helpless, clinging to Hugh as her only friend: that was the sharp
                  thought, the bitter thought, that drove into the glazed eyes a fierce light of
                  pain. You laugh at it? Are pain and jealousy less savage realities down here in
                  this place I am taking you to than in your own house or your own heart,—your
                  heart, which they clutch at sometimes? The note is the same, I fancy, be the
                  octave high or low.
               If you could go into this mill where Deborah lay, and drag out from the hearts of
                  these men the terrible tragedy of their lives, taking it as a symptom of the
                  disease of their class, no ghost Horror would terrify you more. A reality of
                  soul-starvation, of living death, that meets you every day under the besotted
                  faces on the street—I can paint nothing of this, only give you the outside
                  outlines of a night, a crisis in the life of one man: whatever muddy depth of
                  soul-history lies beneath you can read according to the eyes God has given
                  you.
               Wolfe, while Deborah watched him as a spaniel its master, bent over the furnace
                  with his iron pole, unconscious of her
                  scrutiny, only stopping to receive orders. Physically, Nature had promised the man
                  but little. He had already lost the strength and instinct vigor of a man, his
                  muscles were thin, his nerves weak, his face (a meek, woman's face) haggard,
                  yellow with consumption. In the mill he was known as one of the girl-men: "Molly
                  Wolfe" was his sobriquet. He was never seen in
                  the cockpit, did not own a terrier, drank but seldom; when he did, desperately. He
                  fought sometimes, but was always thrashed, pommelled to a jelly. The man was game
                  enough, when his blood was up: but he was no favorite in the mill; he had the
                  taint of school-learning on him,—not to a dangerous extent, only a quarter or so
                  in the free-school in fact, but enough to ruin him as a good hand in a fight.
               For other reasons, too, he was not popular. Not one of themselves, they felt that,
                  though outwardly as filthy and ash-covered; silent, with foreign thoughts and
                  longings breaking out through his quietness in innumerable curious ways: this one,
                  for instance. In the neighboring furnace-buildings lay great heaps of the refuse
                  from the ore after the pig-metal is run. Korl we call it here: a
                  light, porous substance, of a delicate, waxen, flesh-colored tinge. Out of the
                  blocks of this korl, Wolfe, in his off-hours from the furnace, had a habit of
                  chipping and moulding figures,—hideous, fantastic enough, but sometimes strangely
                  beautiful: even the mill-men saw that, while they jeered at him. It was a curious
                  fancy in the man, almost a passion. The few hours for rest he spent hewing and
                  hacking with his blunt knife, never speaking, until his watch came again,—working
                  at one figure for months, and, when it was finished, breaking it to pieces
                  perhaps, in a fit of disappointment. A morbid, gloomy man, untaught, unled, left
                  to feed his soul in grossness and crime, and hard, grinding labor.
               I want you to come down and look at this Wolfe, standing there among the lowest of
                  his kind, and see him just as he is, that you may judge him justly when you hear
                  the story of this night. I want you to look back, as he does every day, at his
                  birth in vice, his starved infancy; to remember the heavy years he has groped
                  through as boy and man,—the slow, heavy years of constant, hot work. So long ago
                  he began, that he thinks sometimes he has worked there for ages. There is no hope
                  that it will ever end. Think that God put into this man's soul a fierce thirst for
                  beauty,—to know it, to create it; to be—something, he knows not
                  what,—other than he is. There are moments when a passing cloud, the sun glinting
                  on the purple thistles, a kindly smile, a child's face, will rouse him to a
                  passion of pain,—when his nature starts up with a mad cry of rage against God,
                  man, whoever it is that has forced this vile, slimy life upon him. With all this
                  groping, this mad desire, a great blind intellect stumbling through wrong, a
                  loving poet's heart, the man was by habit only a coarse, vulgar laborer, familiar
                  with sights and words you would blush to name. Be just: when I tell you about this
                  night, see him as he is. Be just,—not like man's law, which seizes on one isolated
                  fact, but like God's judging angel, whose clear, sad eye saw all the countless
                  cankering days of this man's life, all the countless nights, when, sick with
                  starving, his soul fainted in him, before it judged him for this night, the
                  saddest of all.
               I called this night the crisis of his life. If it was, it stole on him unawares.
                  These great turning-days of life cast no shadow before, slip by unconsciously.
                  Only a trifle, a little turn of the rudder, and the ship goes to heaven or
                  hell.
               Wolfe, while Deborah watched him, dug into the furnace of melting iron with his
                  pole, dully thinking only how many rails the lump would yield. It was late,—nearly
                  Sunday morning; another hour, and the heavy work would be done,—only the furnaces
                  to replenish and cover for the next day. The workmen were growing more noisy,
                  shouting, as they had to do, to be heard over the deep clamor of the mills.
                  Suddenly they grew less boisterous,—at the far end, entirely silent. Something
                  unusual had happened. After a moment, the silence came nearer; the men stopped
                     their jeers and drunken choruses.
                  Deborah, stupidly lifting up her head, saw the cause of the quiet. A group of five
                  or six men were slowly approaching, stopping to examine each furnace as they came.
                  Visitors often came to see the mills after night: except by growing less noisy,
                  the men took no notice of them. The furnace where Wolfe worked was near the bounds
                  of the works; they halted there hot and tired: a walk over one of these great
                  founderies is no trifling task. The woman, drawing out of sight, turned over to
                  sleep. Wolfe, seeing them stop, suddenly roused from his indifferent stupor, and
                  watched them keenly. He knew some of them: the overseer, Clarke,—a son of Kirby,
                  one of the mill-owners,—and a Doctor May, one of the town-physicians. The other
                  two were strangers. Wolfe came closer. He seized eagerly every chance that brought
                  him into contact with this mysterious class that shone down on him perpetually
                  with the glamour of another order of being. What made the difference between them?
                  That was the mystery of his life. He had a vague notion that perhaps to-night he
                  could find it out. One of the strangers sat down on a pile of bricks, and beckoned
                  young Kirby to his side.
               "This is hot, with a vengeance. A match, please?"—lighting his cigar.
                  "But the walk is worth the trouble. If it were not that you must have heard it so
                  often, Kirby, I would tell you that your works look like Dante's Inferno."
               Kirby laughed.
               "Yes. Yonder is Farinata himself in the burning tomb,"—pointing to some figure in
                  the shimmering shadows.
               "Judging from some of the faces of your men," said the other, "they bid fair to
                  try the reality of Dante's vision, some day."
               Young Kirby looked curiously around, as if seeing the faces of his hands for the
                  first time.
               "They're bad enough, that's true. A desperate set, I fancy. Eh, Clarke?"
               The overseer did not hear him. He was talking of net profits just then,—giving, in
                  fact, a schedule of the annual business of the firm to a sharp peering little
                  Yankee, who jotted down notes on a paper laid on the crown of his hat: a reporter
                  for one of the city papers, getting up a series of reviews of the leading
                  manufactories. The other gentlemen had accompanied them merely for amusement. They
                  were silent until the notes were finished, drying their feet at the furnaces, and
                  sheltering their faces from the intolerable heat. At last the overseer concluded
                  with—
               "I believe that is a pretty fair estimate, Captain."
               "Here, some of you men!" said Kirby, "bring up those boards. We may as well sit
                  down, gentlemen, until the rain is over. It cannot last much longer at this
                  rate."
               "Pig-metal,"—mumbled the reporter,—"um!—coal facilities,—um!—hands employed,
                  twelve hundred,—bitumen,—um!—all right, I believe, Mr. Clarke;—sinking-fund,—what
                  did you say was your sinking-fund?"
               "Twelve hundred hands?" said the stranger, the young man who had first spoken. "Do
                  you control their votes, Kirby?"
               "Control? No." The young man smiled complacently. "But my father brought seven
                  hundred votes to the polls for his candidate last November. No force-work, you
                  understand,—only a speech or two, a hint to form themselves into a society, and a
                  bit of red and blue bunting to make them a flag. The Invincible Roughs,—I believe
                  that is their name. I forget the motto: 'Our country's hope,' I think."
               There was a laugh. The young man talking to Kirby sat with an amused light in his
                  cool gray eye, surveying critically the half-clothed figures of the puddlers, and
                  the slow swing of their brawny muscles. He was a stranger in the city,—spending a
                  couple of months in the borders of a Slave State, to study the institutions of the
                  South,—a brother-in-law of Kirby's,—Mitchell. He was an amateur gymnast,—hence his
                  anatomical eye; a patron, in a blasé way, of the
                  prize-ring; a man who sucked the essence out of a science or philosophy in an
                  indifferent, gentlemanly way; who took
                  Kant, Novalis, Humboldt, for what they were worth in his own scales; accepting
                  all, despising nothing, in heaven, earth, or hell, but one-idead men; with a
                  temper yielding and brilliant as summer water, until his Self was touched, when it
                  was ice, though brilliant still. Such men are not rare in the States.
               As he knocked the ashes from his cigar, Wolfe caught with a quick pleasure the
                  contour of the white hand, the blood-glow of a red ring he wore. His voice, too,
                  and that of Kirby's, touched him like music,—low, even, with chording cadences.
                  About this man Mitchell hung the impalpable atmosphere belonging to the
                  thoroughbred gentleman. Wolfe, scraping away the ashes beside him, was conscious
                  of it, did obeisance to it with his artist sense, unconscious that he did so.
               The rain did not cease. Clarke and the reporter left the mills; the others,
                  comfortably seated near the furnace, lingered, smoking and talking in a desultory
                  way. Greek would not have been more unintelligible to the furnace-tenders, whose
                  presence they soon forgot entirely. Kirby drew out a newspaper from his pocket and
                  read aloud some article, which they discussed eagerly. At every sentence, Wolfe
                  listened more and more like a dumb, hopeless animal, with a duller, more stolid
                  look creeping over his face, glancing now and then at Mitchell, marking acutely
                  every smallest sign of refinement, then back to himself, seeing as in a mirror his
                  filthy body, his more stained soul.
               Never! He had no words for such a thought, but he knew now, in all the sharpness
                  of the bitter certainty, that between them there was a great gulf never to be
                  passed. Never!
               The bell of the mills rang for midnight. Sunday morning had dawned. Whatever
                  hidden message lay in the tolling bells floated past these men unknown. Yet it was
                  there. Veiled in the solemn music ushering the risen Saviour was a key-note to
                  solve the darkest secrets of a world gone wrong,—even this social riddle which the
                  brain of the grimy puddler grappled with madly to-right.
               The men began to withdraw the metal from the caldrons. The mills were deserted on
                  Sundays, except by the hands who fed the fires, and those who had no lodgings and
                  slept usually on the ash-heaps. The three strangers sat still during the next
                  hour, watching the men cover the furnaces, laughing now and then at some jest of
                  Kirby's.
               "Do you know," said Mitchell, "I like this view of the works better than when the
                  glare was fiercest? These heavy shadows and the amphitheatre of smothered fires
                  are ghostly, unreal. One could fancy these red smouldering lights to be the
                  half-shut eyes of wild beasts, and the spectral figures their victims in the
                  den."
               Kirby laughed. "You are fanciful. Come, let us get out of the den. The spectral
                  figures, as you call them, are a little too real for me to fancy a close proximity
                  in the darkness,—unarmed, too."
               The others rose, buttoning their overcoats, and lighting cigars.
               "Raining still," said Doctor May, "and hard. Where did we leave the coach,
                  Mitchell?"
               "At the other side of the works.—Kirby, what's that?"
               Mitchell started back, half-frightened, as, suddenly turning a corner, the white
                  figure of a woman faced him in the darkness,—a woman, white, of giant proportions,
                  crouching on the ground, her arms flung out in some wild gesture of warning.
               "Stop! Make that fire burn there!" cried Kirby, stopping short.
               The flame burst out, flashing the gaunt figure into bold relief.
               Mitchell drew a long breath.
               "I thought it was alive," he said, going up curiously.
               The others followed.
               "Not marble, eh?" asked Kirby, touching it.
               One of the lower overseers stopped.
               "Korl, Sir."
               "Who did it?"
               
               "Can't say. Some of the hands; chipped it out in off-hours."
               "Chipped to some purpose, I should say. What a flesh-tint the stuff has! Do you
                  see, Mitchell?"
               "I see."
               He had stepped aside where the light fell boldest on the figure, looking at it in
                  silence. There was not one line of beauty or grace in it: a nude woman's form,
                  muscular, grown coarse with labor, the powerful limbs, instinct with some one
                  poignant longing. One idea: there it was in the tense, rigid muscles, the
                  clutching hands, the wild, eager face, like that of a starving wolf's. Kirby and
                  Dr. May walked around it, critical, curious. Mitchell stood aloof, silent. The
                  figure touched him strangely.
               "Not badly done," said Doctor May. "Where did the fellow learn that sweep of the
                  muscles in the arm and hand? Look at them! They are groping,—do you
                  see?—clutching: the peculiar action of a man dying of thirst."
               "They have ample facilities for studying anatomy," sneered Kirby, glancing at the
                  half-naked figures.
               "Look," continued the Doctor, "at this bony wrist, and the strained sinews of the
                  instep! A working-woman,—the very type of her class."
               "God forbid!" muttered Mitchell.
               "Why?" demanded May. "What does the fellow intend by the figure? I cannot catch
                  the meaning."
               "Ask him," said the other, dryly. "There he stands,"—pointing to Wolfe, who stood
                  with a group of men, leaning on his ash-rake.
               The Doctor beckoned him with the affable smile which kind-hearted men put on, when
                  talking to these people.
               "Mr. Mitchell has picked you out as the man who did this,—I'm sure I don't know
                  why. But what did you mean by it?"
               "She be hungry."
               Wolfe's eyes answered Mitchell, not the Doctor.
               "Oh-h! But what a mistake you have made, my fine fellow! You have given no sign of
                  starvation to the body. It is strong,—terribly strong. It has the mad,
                  half-despairing gesture of drowning."
               Wolfe stammered, glanced appealingly at Mitchell, who saw the soul of the thing,
                  he knew. But the cool, probing eyes were turned on himself now,—mocking, cruel,
                  relentless.
               "Not hungry for meat," the furnace-tender said at last.
               "What then? Whiskey?" jeered Kirby, with a coarse laugh.
               Wolfe was silent a moment, thinking.
               "I dunno," he said, with a bewildered look. "It mebbe. Summat to make her live, I
                  think,—like you. Whiskey ull do it, in a way."
               The young man laughed again. Mitchell flashed a look of disgust somewhere,—not at
                  Wolfe.
               "May," he broke out impatiently, "are you blind? Look at that woman's face! It
                  asks questions of God, and says, 'I have a right to know.' Good God, how hungry it
                  is!"
               They looked a moment; then May turned to the mill-owner:—
               "Have you many such hands as this? What are you going to do with them? Keep them
                  at pudding iron?"
               Kirby shrugged his shoulders. Mitchell's look had irritated him.
               "Ce n'est pas mon affaire. I have no fancy for
                  nursing infant geniuses. I suppose there are some stray gleams of mind and soul
                  among these wretches. The Lord will take care of his own; or else they can work
                  out their own salvation. I have heard you call our American system a ladder which
                  any man can scale. Do you doubt it? Or perhaps you want to banish all social
                  ladders, and put us all on a flat table-land,—eh, May?"
               The Doctor looked vexed, puzzled. Some terrible problem lay hid in this woman's
                  face, and troubled these men. Kirby waited for an answer, and, receiving none,
                  went on, warming with his subject.
               
               "I tell you, there's something wrong that no talk of 'Liberté' or 'Egalité' will do
                  away. If I had the making of men, these men who do the lowest part of the world's
                  work should be machines,—nothing more,—hands. It would be kindness. God help them!
                  What are taste, reason, to creatures who must live such lives as that?" He pointed
                  to Deborah, sleeping on the ash-heap. "So many nerves to sting them to pain. What
                  if God had put your brain, with all its agony of touch, into your fingers, and bid
                  you work and strike with that?"
               "You think you could govern the world better?" laughed the Doctor.
               "I do not think at all."
               "That is true philosophy. Drift with the stream, because you cannot dive deep
                  enough to find bottom, eh?"
               "Exactly," rejoined Kirby. "I do not think. I wash my hands of all social
                  problems,—slavery, caste, white or black. My duty to my operatives has a narrow
                  limit,—the pay-hour on Saturday night. Outside of that, if they cut korl, or cut
                  each other's throats, (the more popular amusement of the two,) I am not
                  responsible."
               The Doctor sighed,—a good honest sigh, from the depths of his stomach.
               "God help us! Who is responsible?"
               "Not I, I tell you," said Kirby, testily. "What has the man who pays them money to
                  do with their souls' concerns, more than the grocer or butcher who takes it?"
               "And yet," said Mitchell's cynical voice, "look at her! How hungry she is!"
               Kirby tapped his boot with his cane. No one spoke. Only the dumb face of the rough
                  image looking into their faces with the awful question, "What shall we do to be
                  saved?" Only Wolfe's face, with its heavy weight of brain, its weak, uncertain
                  mouth, its desperate eyes, out of which looked the soul of his class,—only Wolfe's
                  face turned towards Kirby's. Mitchell laughed,—a cool, musical laugh.
               "Money has spoken!" he said, seating himself lightly on a stone with the air of an
                  amused spectator at a play. "Are you answered?"—turning to Wolfe his clear,
                  magnetic face.
               Bright and deep and cold as Arctic air, the soul of the man lay tranquil beneath.
                  He looked at the furnace-tender as he had looked at a rare mosaic in the morning;
                  only the man was the more amusing study of the two.
               "Are you answered? Why, May, look at him! 'De profundis
                     clamavi.' Or, to quote in English, 'Hungry and thirsty, his soul
                  faints in him.' And so Money sends back its answer into the depths through you,
                  Kirby! Very clear the answer, too!—I think I remember reading the same words
                  somewhere:—washing your hands in Eau de Cologne, and saying, 'I am innocent of the
                  blood of this man. See ye to it!'"
               Kirby flushed angrily.
               "You quote Scripture freely."
               "Do I not quote correctly? I think I remember another line, which may amend my
                  meaning: 'Inasmuch as ye did it unto one of the least of these, ye did it unto
                  me.' Deist? Bless you, man, I was raised on the milk of the Word. Now, Doctor, the
                  pocket of the world having uttered its voice, what has the heart to say? You are a
                  philanthropist, in a small way,—n'est ce pas?
                  Here, boy, this gentleman can show you how to cut korl better,—or your destiny. Go
                  on, May!"
               "I think a mocking devil possesses you to-night," rejoined the Doctor,
                  seriously.
               He went to Wolfe and put his hand kindly on his arm. Something of a vague idea
                  possessed the Doctor's brain that much good was to be done here by a friendly word
                  or two: a latent genius to be warmed into life by a waited-for sun-beam. Here it
                  was: he had brought it. So he went on complacently:—
               "Do you know, boy, you have it in you to be a great sculptor, a great man?—do you
                  understand?" (talking down to the capacity of his hearer: it is a way people
                     have with children, and men like
                  Wolfe,)—"to live a better, stronger life than I, or Mr. Kirby here? A man may make
                  himself anything he chooses. God has given you stronger powers than many men,—me,
                  for instance."
               May stopped, heated, glowing with his own magnanimity. And it was magnanimous. The
                  puddler had drunk in every word, looking through the Doctor's flurry, and generous
                  heat, and self-approval, into his will, with those slow, absorbing eyes of
                  his.
               "Make yourself what you will. It is your right."
               "I know," quietly. "Will you help me?"
               Mitchell laughed again. The Doctor turned now, in a passion,—
               "You know, Mitchell, I have not the means. You know, if I had, it is in my heart
                  to take this boy and educate him for—"
               "The glory of God, and the glory of John May."
               May did not speak for a moment; then, controlled, he said,—
               "Why should one be raised, when myriads are left?—I have not the money, boy," to
                  Wolfe, shortly.
               "Money?" He said it over slowly, as one repeats the guessed answer to a riddle,
                  doubtfully. "That is it? Money?"
               "Yes, money,—that is it," said Mitchell, rising, and drawing his furred coat about
                  him. "You've found the cure for all the world's diseases.—Come, May, find your
                  good-humor, and come home. This damp wind chills my very bones. Come and preach
                  your Saint-Simonian doctrines to-morrow to Kirby's hands. Let them have a clear
                  idea of the rights of the soul, and I'll venture next week they'll strike for
                  higher wages. That will be the end of it."
               "Will you send the coach-driver to this side of the mills?" asked Kirby, turning
                  to Wolfe.
               He spoke kindly: it was his habit to do so. Deborah, seeing the puddler go, crept
                  after him. The three men waited outside. Doctor May walked up and down, chafed.
                     Suddenly he stopped.
               
               "Go back, Mitchell! You say the pocket and the heart of the world speak without
                  meaning to these people. What has its head to say? Taste, culture, refinement?
                  Go!"
               Mitchell was leaning against a brick wall. He turned his head indolently, and
                  looked into the mills. There hung about the place a thick, unclean odor. The
                  slightest motion of his hand marked that he perceived it, and his insufferable
                  disgust. That was all. May said nothing, only quickened his angry tramp.
               "Besides," added Mitchell, giving a corollary to his answer, "it would be of no
                  use. I am not one of them."
               "You do not mean"—said May, facing him.
               "Yes, I mean just that. Reform is born of need, not pity. No vital movement of the
                  people's has worked down, for good or evil; fermented, instead, carried up the
                  heaving, cloggy mass. Think back through history, and you will know it. What will
                  this lowest deep—thieves, Magdalens, negroes—do with the light filtered through
                  ponderous Church creeds, Baconian theories, Goethe schemes? Some day, out of their
                  bitter need will be thrown up their own light-bringer,—their Jean Paul, their
                  Cromwell, their Messiah."
               "Bah!" was the Doctor's inward criticism. However, in practice, he adopted the
                  theory; for, when, night and morning, afterwards, he prayed that power might be
                  given these degraded souls to rise, he glowed at heart, recognizing an
                  accomplished duty.
               Wolfe and the woman had stood in the shadow of the works as the coach drove off.
                  The Doctor had held out his hand in a frank, generous way, telling him to "take
                  care of himself, and to remember it was his right to rise." Mitchell had simply
                  touched his hat, as to an equal, with a quiet look of thorough recognition. Kirby
                  had thrown Deborah some money, which she found, and clutched eagerly enough. They
                  were gone now, all of them. The man sat down on the cinder-road, looking up into
                  the murky sky.
               "'T be late, Hugh. Wunnot hur come?"
               
               He shook his head doggedly, and the woman crouched out of his sight against the
                  wall. Do you remember rare moments when a sudden light flashed over yourself, your
                  world, God? when you stood on a mountain-peak, seeing your life as it might have
                  been, as it is? one quick instant, when custom lost its force and every-day usage?
                  when your friend, wife, brother, stood in a new light? your soul was bared, and
                  the grave,—a foretaste of the nakedness of the Judgment-Day? So it came before
                  him, his life, that night. The slow tides of pain he had borne gathered themselves
                  up and surged against his soul. His squalid daily life, the brutal coarseness
                  eating into his brain, as the ashes into his skin: before, these things had been a
                  dull aching into his consciousness; to-night, they were reality. He griped the
                  filthy red shirt that clung, stiff with soot, about him, and tore it savagely from
                  his arm. The flesh beneath was muddy with grease and ashes,—and the heart beneath
                  that! And the soul? God knows.
               Then flashed before his vivid poetic sense the man who had left him,—the pure
                  face, the delicate, sinewy limbs, in harmony with all he knew of beauty or truth.
                  In his cloudy fancy he had pictured a Something like this. He had found it in this
                  Mitchell, even when he idly scoffed at his pain: a Man all-knowing, all-seeing,
                  crowned by Nature, reigning,—the keen glance of his eye falling like a sceptre on
                  other men. And yet his instinct taught him that he too—He! He looked at himself
                  with sudden loathing, sick, wrung his hands with a cry, and then was silent. With
                  all the phantoms of his heated, ignorant fancy, Wolfe had not been vague in his
                  ambitions. They were practical, slowly built up before him out of his knowledge of
                  what he could do. Through years he had day by day made this hope a real thing to
                  himself,—a clear, projected figure of himself, as he might become.
               Able to speak, to know what was best, to raise these men and women working at his
                  side up with him: sometimes he forgot this defined hope in the frantic anguish to
                  escape,— only to escape,—out of the wet, the pain, the ashes, some-where,
                  anywhere,—only for one moment of free air on a hillside, to lie down and let his
                  sick soul throb itself out in the sunshine. But to-night he panted for life. The
                  savage strength of his nature was roused; his cry was fierce to God for
                  justice.
               "Look at me!" he said to Deborah, with a low, bitter laugh, striking his puny
                  chest savagely. "What am I worth, Deb? Is it my fault that I am no better? My
                  fault? My fault?"
               He stopped, stung with a sudden remorse, seeing her hunchback shape writhing with
                  sobs. For Deborah was crying thankless tears, according to the fashion of
                  women.
               "God forgi' me, woman! Things go harder wi' you nor me. It's a worse share."
               He got up and helped her to rise; and they went doggedly down the muddy street,
                  side by side.
               "It's all wrong," he muttered, slowly,—"all wrong! I dunnot understan'. But it'll
                  end some day."
               "Come home, Hugh!" she said, coaxingly; for he had stopped, looking around
                  bewildered.
               "Home,—and back to the mill!" He went on saying this over to himself, as if he
                  would mutter down every pain in this dull despair.
               She followed him through the fog, her blue lips chattering with cold. They reached
                  the cellar at last. Old Wolfe had been drinking since she went out, and had crept
                  nearer the door. The girl Janey slept heavily in the corner. He went up to her,
                  touching softly the worn white arm with his fingers. Some bitterer thought stung
                  him, as he stood there. He wiped the drops from his forehead, and went into the
                  room beyond, livid, trembling. A hope, trifling, perhaps, but very dear, had died
                  just then out of the poor puddler's life, as he looked at the sleeping, innocent
                  girl,—some plan for the future, in which she had borne a part. He gave it up that
                  moment, then and forever. Only a trifle, perhaps, to us: his face grew a shade
                  paler,—that was all. But, somehow, the
                  man's soul, as God and the angels looked down on it, never was the same
                  afterwards.
               Deborah followed him into the inner room. She carried a candle, which she placed
                  on the floor, closing the door after her. She had seen the look on his face, as he
                  turned away; her own grew deadly. Yet, as she came up to him, her eyes glowed. He
                  was seated on an old chest, quiet, holding his face in his hands.
               "Hugh!" she said, softly.
               He did not speak.
               "Hugh, did hur hear what the man said,—him with the clear voice? Did hur hear?
                  Money, money,—that it wud do all?"
               He pushed her away,—gently, but he was worn out; her rasping tone fretted him.
               "Hugh!"
               The candle flared a pale yellow light over the cobwebbed brick walls, and the
                  woman standing there. He looked at her. She was young, in deadly earnest; her
                  faded eyes, and wet, ragged figure caught from their frantic eagerness a power
                  akin to beauty.
               "Hugh, it is true! Money ull do it! Oh, Hugh, boy, listen till me! He said it
                  true! It is money!"
               "I know. Go back! I do not want you here."
               "Hugh, it is t' last time. I'll never worrit hur again."
               There were tears in her voice now, but she choked them back.
               "Hear till me only to-night! If one of t' witch people wud come, them we heard of
                  t' home, and gif hur all hur wants, what then? Say, Hugh!"
               "What do you mean?"
               "I mean money."
               Her whisper shrilled through his brain.
               "If one of t' witch dwarfs wud come from t' lane moors to-night, and gif hur
                  money, to go out,—out, I say,—out, lad, where t' sun shines, and t'
                  heath grows, and t' ladies walk in silken gownds, and God stays all t' time,—where
                  t' man lives that talked to us to-night,—Hugh knows,—Hugh could walk there like a
                  king!"
               He thought the woman mad, tried to check her, but she went on, fierce in her eager
                  haste.
               "If I were t' witch dwarf, if I had t' money, wud hur thank me? Wud
                  hur take me out o' this place wid hur and Janey? I wud not come into the gran'
                  house hur wud build, to vex hur wid t' hunch,—only at night, when t' shadows were
                  dark; stand far off to see hur."
               "Poor Deb! poor Deb!" he said, soothingly.
               "It is here," she said, suddenly jerking into his hand a small roll. "I took it! I
                  did it! I shall be hanged! I shall be burnt in hell, if anybody knows I took it!
                  Me, me! not hur! Out of his pocket, as he leaned against t' bricks. Hur
                  knows?"
               She thrust it into his hand, and then, her errand done, began to gather chips
                  together to make a fire, choking down hysteric sobs.
               "Has it come to this?"
               That was all he said. The Welsh Wolfe blood was honest. The roll was a small green
                  pocket-book containing one or two gold pieces, and a check for an incredible
                  amount, as it seemed to the poor puddler. He laid it down, hiding his face again
                  in his hands.
               "Hugh, don't be angry wud me! It's only poor Deb,—hur knows?"
               He took the long skinny fingers kindly in his.
               "Angry? God help me, no! Let me sleep. I am tired."
               He threw himself heavily down on the wooden bench, stunned with pain and
                  weariness. She brought some old rags to cover him.
               It was late on Sunday evening before he awoke. I tell God's truth, when I say he
                  had then no thought of keeping this money. Deborah had hid it in his pocket. He
                  found it there. She watched him eagerly, as he took it out.
               "I must gif it to him," he said, reading her face.
               
               "Hur knows," she said with a bitter sigh of disappointment. "But it is hur right
                  to keep it."
               His right! The word struck him. Doctor May had used the same. He washed himself,
                  and went out to find this man Mitchell. His right! Why did this chance word cling
                  to him so obstinately? Do you hear the fierce devils whisper in his ear, as he
                  went slowly down the darkening street?
               The evening came on, slow and calm. He seated himself at the end of an alley
                  leading into one of the larger streets. His brain was clear to-night, keen,
                  intent, mastering. It would not start back, cowardly, from any hellish temptation,
                  but meet it face to face. Therefore the great temptation of his life came to him
                  veiled by no sophistry, but bold, defiant, owning its own vile name, trusting to
                  one bold blow for victory.
               He did not deceive himself. Theft! That was it. At first the word sickened him;
                  then he grappled with it. Sitting there on a broken cart-wheel, the fading day,
                  the noisy groups, the church-bells' tolling passed before him like a panorama,
                  while the sharp struggle went on within. This money! He took it out, and looked at
                  it. If he gave it back, what then? He was going to be cool about it.
               People going by to church saw only a sickly mill-boy watching them quietly at the
                  alley's mouth. They did not know that he was mad, or they would not have gone by
                  so quietly: mad with hunger; stretching out his hands to the world, that had given
                  so much to them, for leave to live the life God meant him to live. His soul within
                  him was smothering to death; he wanted so much, thought so much, and
                     knew—nothing. There was nothing of which he was certain, except
                  the mill and things there. Of God and heaven he had heard so little, that they
                  were to him what fairy-land is to a child: something real, but not here; very far
                  off. His brain, greedy, dwarfed, full of thwarted energy and unused powers,
                  questioned these men and women going by, coldly, bitterly, that night. Was it not
                  his right to live as they,—a pure life, a good, true-hearted life, full of beauty
                  and kind words? He only wanted to know how to use the strength within him. His
                  heart warmed, as he thought of it. He suffered himself to think of it longer. If
                  he took the money?
               Then he saw himself as he might be, strong, helpful, kindly. The night crept on,
                  as this one image slowly evolved itself from the crowd of other thoughts and stood
                  triumphant. He looked at it. As he might be! What wonder, if it blinded him to
                  delirium,—the madness that underlies all revolution, all progress, and all
                  fall?
               You laugh at the shallow temptation? You see the error underlying its argument so
                  clearly,—that to him a true life was one of full development rather than
                  self-restraint? that he was deaf to the higher tone in a cry of voluntary
                  suffering for truth's sake than in the fullest flow of spontaneous harmony? I do
                  not plead his cause. I only want to show you the mote in my brother's eye: then
                  you can see clearly to take it out.
               The money,—there it lay on his knee, a little blotted slip of paper, nothing in
                  itself; used to raise him out of the pit; something straight from God's hand. A
                  thief! Well, what was it to be a thief? He met the question at last face to face,
                  wiping the clammy drops of sweat from his forehead. God made this money—the fresh
                  air, too—for his children's use. He never made the difference between poor and
                  rich. The Something who looked down on him that moment through the cool gray sky
                  had a kindly face, he knew,—loved his children alike. Oh, he knew that!
               There were times when the soft floods of color in the crimson and purple flames,
                  or the clear depth of amber in the water below the bridge, had somehow given him a
                  glimpse of another world than this,—of an infinite depth of beauty and of quiet
                  somewhere,—somewhere,—a depth of quiet and rest and love. Looking up now, it
                  became strangely real. The sun had sunk quite below the hills, but his last rays
                  struck upward, touching the zenith. The fog had risen, and the town and river were steeped in its thick,
                  gray damp; but overhead, the sun-touched smoke-clouds opened like a cleft
                  ocean,—shifting, rolling seas of crimson mist, waves of billowy silver veined with
                  blood-scarlet, inner depths unfathomable of glancing light. Wolfe's artist-eye
                  grew drunk with color. The gates of that other world! Fading, flashing before him
                  now! What, in that world of Beauty, Content, and Right, were the petty laws, the
                  mine and thine, of mill-owners and mill-hands?
               A consciousness of power stirred within him. He stood up. A man,—he thought,
                  stretching out his hands,—free to work, to live, to love! Free! His right! He
                  folded the scrap of paper in his hand. As his nervous fingers took it in, limp and
                  blotted, so his soul took in the mean temptation, lapped it in fancied rights, in
                  dreams of improved existences, drifting and endless as the cloud-seas of color.
                  Clutching it, as if the tightness of his hold would strengthen his sense of
                  possession, he went aimlessly down the street. It was his watch at the mill. He
                  need not go, need never go again, thank God!—shaking off the thought with
                  unspeakable loathing.
               Shall I go over the history of the hours of that night? how the man wandered from
                  one to another of his old haunts, with a half-consciousness of bidding them
                  farewell,—lanes and alleys and back-yards where the mill-hands lodged,—noting,
                  with a new eagerness, the filth and drunkenness, the pig-pens, the ash-heaps
                  covered with potato-skins, the bloated, pimpled women at the doors,—with a new
                  disgust, a new sense of sudden triumph, and, under all, a new, vague dread,
                  unknown before, smothered down, kept under, but still there? It left him but once
                  during the night, when, for the second time in his life, he entered a church. It
                  was a sombre Gothic pile, where the stained light lost itself in far-retreating
                  arches; built to meet the requirements and sympathies of a far other class than
                  Wolfe's. Yet it touched, moved him uncontrollably. The distances, the shadows, the
                  still, marble figures, the mass of silent, kneeling worshippers, the mysterious
                  music, thrilled, lifted his soul with a wonderful pain. Wolfe forgot himself,
                  forgot the new life he was going to live, the mean terror gnawing underneath. The
                  voice of the speaker strengthened the charm; it was clear, feeling, full, strong.
                  An old man, who had lived much, suffered much; whose brain was keenly alive,
                  dominant; whose heart was summer-warm with charity. He taught it to-night. He held
                  up Humanity in its grand total; showed the great world-cancer to his people. Who
                  could show it better? He was a Christian reformer; he had studied the age
                  thoroughly; his outlook at man had been free, world-wide, over all time. His faith
                  stood sublime upon the Rock of Ages; his fiery zeal guided vast schemes by which
                  the Gospel was to be preached to all nations. How did he preach it to-night? In
                  burning, light-laden words he painted Jesus, the incarnate Life, Love, the
                  universal Man: words that became reality in the lives of these people,—that lived
                  again in beautiful words and actions, trifling, but heroic. Sin, as he defined it,
                  was a real foe to them; their trials, temptations, were his. His words passed far
                  over the furnace-tender's grasp, toned to suit another class of culture; they
                  sounded in his ears a very pleasant song in an unknown tongue. He meant to cure
                  this world-cancer with a steady eye that had never glared with hunger, and a hand
                  that neither poverty nor strychnine-whiskey had taught to shake. In this morbid,
                  distorted heart of the Welsh puddler he had failed.
               Eighteen centuries ago, the Master of this man tried reform in the streets of a
                  city as crowded and vile as this, and did not fail. His disciple, showing Him
                  to-night to cultured hearers, showing the clearness of the God-power acting
                  through Him, shrank back from one coarse fact; that in birth and habit the man
                  Christ was thrown up from the lowest of the people: his flesh, their flesh; their
                  blood, his blood; tempted like them, to brutalize day by day; to lie, to steal:
                  the actual slime and want of their hourly life, and the wine-press he trod
                  alone.
               
               Yet, is there no meaning in this perpetually covered truth? If the son of the
                  carpenter had stood in the church that night, as he stood with the fishermen and
                  harlots by the sea of Galilee, before His Father and their Father, despised and
                  rejected of men, without a place to lay His head, wounded for their iniquities,
                  bruised for their transgressions, would not that hungry mill-boy at least, in the
                  back seat, have "known the man"? That Jesus did not stand there.
               Wolfe rose at last, and turned from the church down the street. He looked up; the
                  night had come on foggy, damp; the golden mists had vanished, and the sky lay dull
                  and ash-colored. He wandered again aimlessly down the street, idly wondering what
                  had become of the cloud-sea of crimson and scarlet. The trial-day of this man's
                  life was over, and he had lost the victory. What followed was mere drifting
                  circumstance,—a quicker walking over the path,—that was all. Do you want to hear
                  the end of it? You wish me to make a tragic story out of it? Why, in the
                  police-reports of the morning paper you can find a dozen such tragedies; hints of
                  shipwrecks unlike any that ever befell on the high seas; hints that here a power
                  was lost to heaven,—that there a soul went down where no tide can ebb or flow.
                  Commonplace enough the hints are,—jocose sometimes, done up in rhyme.
               Doctor May, a month after the night I have told you of, was reading to his wife at
                  breakfast from this fourth column of the morning-paper: an unusual thing,—these
                  police-reports not being, in general, choice reading for ladies; but it was only
                  one item he read.
               "Oh, my dear! You remember that man I told you of, that we saw at Kirby's
                  mill?—that was arrested for robbing Mitchell? Here he is; just listen:—'Circuit
                  Court. Judge Day. Hugh Wolfe, operative in Kirby & John's Loudon Mills.
                  Charge, grand larceny. Sentence, nineteen years hard labor in
                  penitentiary.'—Scoundrel! Serves him right! After all our kindness that night!
                  Picking Mitchell's pocket at the very time!"
               His wife said something about the ingratitude of that kind of people, and then
                  they began to talk of something else.
               Nineteen years! How easy that was to read! What a simple word for Judge Day to
                  utter! Nineteen years! Half a lifetime!
               Hugh Wolfe sat on the window-ledge of his cell, looking out. His ankles were
                  ironed. Not usual in such cases; but he had made two desperate efforts to escape.
                  "Well," as Haley, the jailer, said, "small blame to him! Nineteen years'
                  imprisonment was not a pleasant thing to look forward to." Haley was very
                  good-natured about it, though Wolfe had fought him savagely.
               "When he was first caught," the jailer said afterwards, in telling the story,
                  "before the trial, the fellow was cut down at once,—laid there on that pallet like
                  a dead man, with his hands over his eyes. Never saw a man so cut down in my life.
                  Time of the trial, too, came the queerest dodge of any customer I ever had. Would
                  choose no lawyer. Judge gave him one, of course. Gibson it was. He tried to prove
                  the fellow crazy; but it would n't go. Thing was plain as daylight: check found on
                  him. 'T was a hard sentence,—all the law allows; but it was for 'xample's sake.
                  These mill-hands are gettin' onbearable. When the sentence was read, he just
                  looked up, and said the money was his by rights, and that all the world had gone
                  wrong. That night, after the trial, a gentleman came to see him here, name of
                  Mitchell,—him as he stole from. Talked to him for an hour. Thought he came for
                  curiosity, like. After he was gone, thought Wolfe was remarkable quiet, and went
                  into his cell. Found him very low; bed all bloody. Doctor said he had been
                  bleeding at the lungs. He was as weak as a cat; yet, if ye'll b'lieve me, he tried
                  to get a-past me and get out. I just carried him like a baby, and threw him on the
                  pallet. Three days after, he tried it again: that time reached the wall. Lord help
                  you! he fought like a tiger,—giv' some terrible blows. Fightin' for life, you
                     see; for he can't live long, shut up
                  in the stone crib down yonder. Got a death-cough now. 'T took two of us to bring
                  him down that day; so I just put the irons on his feet. There he sits, in there.
                  Goin' to-morrow, with a batch more of 'em. That woman, hunchback, tried with
                  him,—you remember?—she's only got three years. 'Complice. But she's a
                  woman, you know. He's been quiet ever since I put on irons: giv' up, I suppose.
                  Looks white, sick-lookin'. It acts different on 'em, bein' sentenced. Most of 'em
                  gets reckless, devilish-like. Some prays awful, and sings them vile songs of the
                  mills, all in a breath. That woman, now, she's desper't'. Been beggin' to see
                  Hugh, as she calls him, for three days. I'm a-goin' to let her in. She don't go
                  with him. Here she is in this next cell. I'm a-goin' now to let her in."
               He let her in. Wolfe did not see her. She crept into a corner of the cell, and
                  stood watching him. He was scratching the iron bars of the window with a piece of
                  tin which he had picked up, with an idle, uncertain, vacant stare, just as a child
                  or idiot would do.
               "Tryin' to get out, old boy?" laughed Haley. "Them irons will need a crowbar
                  beside your tin, before you can open 'em."
               Wolfe laughed, too, in a senseless way.
               "I think I'll get out," he said.
               "I believe his brain's touched," said Haley, when he came out.
               The puddler scraped away with the tin for half an hour. Still Deborah did not
                  speak. At last she ventured nearer, and touched his arm.
               "Blood?" she said, looking at some spots on his coat with a shudder.
               He looked up at her. "Why, Deb!" he said, smiling,—such a bright, boyish smile,
                  that it went to poor Deborah's heart directly, and she sobbed and cried out
                  loud.
               "Oh, Hugh, lad! Hugh! dunnot look at me, when it wur my fault! To think I brought
                  hur to it! And I loved hur so! Oh, lad, I dud!"
               The confession, even in this wretch, came with the woman's blush through the sharp
                  cry.
               He did not seem to hear her,—scraping away diligently at the bars with the bit of
                  tin.
               Was he going mad? She peered closely into his face. Something she saw there made
                  her draw suddenly back,—something which Haley had not seen, that lay beneath the
                  pinched, vacant look it had caught since the trial, or the curious gray shadow
                  that rested on it. That gray shadow,—yes, she knew what that meant. She had often
                  seen it creeping over women's faces for months, who died at last of slow hunger or
                  consumption. That meant death, distant, lingering: but this—Whatever it was the
                  woman saw, or thought she saw, used as she was to crime and misery, seemed to make
                  her sick with a new horror. Forgetting her fear of him, she caught his shoulders,
                  and looked keenly, steadily, into his eyes.
               "Hugh!" she cried, in a desperate whisper,—"oh, boy, not that! for God's sake, not
                     that!"
               The vacant laugh went off his face, and he answered her in a muttered word or two
                  that drove her away. Yet the words were kindly enough. Sitting there on his
                  pallet, she cried silently a hopeless sort of tears, but did not speak again. The
                  man looked up furtively at her now and then. Whatever his own trouble was, her
                  distress vexed him with a momentary sting.
               It was market-day. The narrow window of the jail looked down directly on the carts
                  and wagons drawn up in a long line, where they had unloaded. He could see, too,
                  and hear distinctly the clink of money as it changed hands, the busy crowd of
                  whites and blacks shoving, pushing one another, and the chaffering and swearing at
                  the stalls. Somehow, the sound, more than anything else had done, wakened him
                  up,—made the whole real to him. He was done with the world and the business of it.
                  He let the tin fall, and looked out, pressing his face close to the rusty bars.
                  How they crowded and pushed! And he,—he should never walk that pavement again! There came Neff
                  Sanders, one of the feeders at the mill, with a basket on his arm. Sure enough,
                  Neff was married the other week. He whistled, hoping he would look up; but he did
                  not. He wondered if Neff remembered he was there,—if any of the boys thought of
                  him up there, and thought that he never was to go down that old cinder-road again.
                  Never again! He had not quite understood it before; but now he did. Not for days
                  or years, but never!—that was it.
               How clear the light fell on that stall in front of the market! and how like a
                  picture it was, the dark-green heaps of corn, and the crimson beets, and golden
                  melons! There was another with game: how the light flickered on that pheasant's
                  breast, with the purplish blood dripping over the brown feathers! He could see the
                  red shining of the drops, it was so near. In one minute he could be down there. It
                  was just a step. So easy, as it seemed, so natural to go! Yet it could never
                  be—not in all the thousands of years to come—that he should put his foot on that
                  street again! He thought of himself with a sorrowful pity, as of some one else.
                  There was a dog down in the market, walking after his master with such a stately,
                  grave look!—only a dog, yet he could go backwards and forwards just as he pleased:
                  he had good luck! Why, the very vilest cur, yelping there in the gutter, had not
                  lived his life, had been free to act out whatever thought God had put into his
                  brain; while he—No, he would not think of that! He tried to put the thought away,
                  and to listen to a dispute between a countryman and a woman about some meat; but
                  it would come back. He, what had he done to bear this?
               Then came the sudden picture of what might have been, and now. He knew what it was
                  to be in the penitentiary,—how it went with men there. He knew how in these long
                  years he should slowly die, but not until soul and body had become corrupt and
                  rotten,—how, when he came out, if he lived to come, even the lowest of the
                  mill-hands would jeer him,—how his hands would be weak, and his brain senseless
                  less and stupid. He believed he was almost that now. He put his hand to his head,
                  with a puzzled, weary look. It ached, his head, with thinking. He tried to quiet
                  himself. It was only right, perhaps; he had done wrong. But was there right or
                  wrong for such as he? What was right? And who had ever taught him? He thrust the
                  whole matter away. A dark, cold quiet crept through his brain. It was all wrong;
                  but let it be! It was nothing to him more than the others. Let it be!
               The door grated, as Haley opened it.
               "Come, my woman! Must lock up for t' night. Come, stir yerself!"
               She went up and took Hugh's hand.
               "Good-night, Deb," he said, carelessly.
               She had not hoped he would say more; but the tired pain on her mouth just then was
                  bitterer than death. She took his passive hand and kissed it.
               "Hur'll never see Deb again!" she ventured, her lips growing colder and more
                  bloodless.
               What did she say that for? Did he not know it? Yet he would not be impatient with
                  poor old Deb. She had trouble of her own, as well as he.
               "No, never again," he said, trying to be cheerful.
               She stood just a moment, looking at him. Do you laugh at her, standing there, with
                  her hunchback, her rags, her bleared, withered face, and the great despised love
                  tugging at her heart?
               "Come you!" called Haley, impatiently.
               She did not move.
               "Hugh!" she whispered.
               It was to be her last word. What was it?
               "Hugh, boy, not THAT!"
               He did not answer. She wrung her hands, trying to be silent, looking in his face
                  in an agony of entreaty. He smiled again, kindly.
               "It is best, Deb. I cannot bear to be hurted any more."
               "Hur knows," she said, humbly.
               
               "Tell my father good-by; and—and kiss little Janey."
               She nodded, saying nothing, looked in his face again, and went out of the door. As
                  she went, she staggered.
               "Drinkin' to-day?" broke out Haley, pushing her before him. "Where the Devil did
                  you get it? Here, in with ye!" and he shoved her into her cell, next to Wolfe's,
                  and shut the door.
               Along the wall of her cell there was a crack low down by the floor, through which
                  she could see the light from Wolfe's. She had discovered it days before. She
                  hurried in now, and, kneeling down by it, listened, hoping to hear some sound.
                  Nothing but the rasping of the tin on the bars. He was at his old amusement again.
                  Something in the noise jarred on her ear, for she shivered as she heard it. Hugh
                  rasped away at the bars. A dull old bit of tin, not fit to cut korl with.
               He looked out of the window again. People were leaving the market now. A tall
                  mulatto girl, following her mistress, her basket on her head, crossed the street
                  just below, and looked up. She was laughing; but, when she caught sight of the
                  haggard face peering out through the bars, suddenly grew grave, and hurried by. A
                  free, firm step, a clear-cut olive face, with a scarlet turban tied on one side,
                  dark, shining eyes, and on the head the basket poised, filled with fruit and
                  flowers, under which the scarlet turban and bright eyes looked out half-shadowed.
                  The picture caught his eye. It was good to see a face like that. He would try
                  to-morrow, and cut one like it. To-morrow! He threw down the tin,
                  trembling, and covered his face with his hands. When he looked up again, the
                  daylight was gone.
               Deborah, crouching near by on the other side of the wall, heard no noise. He sat
                  on the side of the low pallet, thinking. Whatever was the mystery which the woman
                  had seen on his face, it came out now slowly, in the dark there, and became
                  fixed,—a something never seen on his face before. The evening was darkening fast.
                  The market had been over for an hour; the rumbling of the carts over the pavement
                  grew more infrequent: he listened to each, as it passed, because he thought it was
                  to be for the last time. For the same reason, it was, I suppose, that he strained
                  his eyes to catch a glimpse of each passer-by, wondering who they were, what kind
                  of homes they were going to, if they had children,—listening eagerly to every
                  chance word in the street, as if—(God be merciful to the man! what strange fancy
                  was this?)—as if he never should hear human voices again.
               It was quite dark at last. The street was a lonely one. The last passenger, he
                  thought, was gone. No,—there was a quick step: Joe Hill, lighting the lamps. Joe
                  was a good old chap; never passed a fellow without some joke or other. He
                  remembered once seeing the place where he lived with his wife. "Granny Hill" the
                  boys called her. Bedridden she was; but so kind as Joe was to her! kept the room
                  so clean!—and the old woman, when he was there, was laughing at "some of t' lad's
                  foolishness." The step was far down the street; but he could see him place the
                  ladder, run up, and light the gas. A longing seized him to be spoken to once
                  more.
               "Joe!" he called out of the grating. "Good-by, Joe!"
               The old man stopped a moment, listening uncertainly; then hurried on. The prisoner
                  thrust his hand out of the window, and called again, louder; but Joe was too far
                  down the street. It was a little thing; but it hurt him,—this disappointment.
               "Good-by, Joe!" he called, sorrowfully enough.
               "Be quiet!" said one of the jailers, passing the door, striking on it with his
                  club.
               Oh, that was the last, was it?
               There was an inexpressible bitterness on his face, as he lay down on the bed,
                  taking the bit of tin, which he had rasped to a tolerable degree of sharpness, in
                  his hand,—to play with, it may be. He bared his arms, looking intently at their
                  corded veins and sinews. Deborah, listening in the next cell, heard a slight clicking sound, often
                  repeated. She shut her lips tightly, that she might not scream; the cold drops of
                  sweat broke over her, in her dumb agony.
               "Hur knows best," she muttered at last, fiercely clutching the boards where she
                  lay.
               If she could have seen Wolfe, there was nothing about him to frighten her. He lay
                  quite still, his arms outstretched, looking at the pearly stream of moonlight
                  coming into the window. I think in that one hour that came then he lived back over
                  all the years that had gone before. I think that all the low, vile life, all his
                  wrongs, all his starved hopes, came then, and stung him with a farewell poison
                  that made him sick unto death. He made neither moan nor cry, only turned his worn
                  face now and then to the pure light, that seemed so far off, as one that said,
                  "How long, O Lord? how long?"
               The hour was over at last. The moon, passing over her nightly path, slowly came
                  nearer, and threw the light across his bed on his feet. He watched it steadily, as
                  it crept up, inch by inch, slowly. It seemed to him to carry with it a great
                  silence. He had been so hot and tired there always in the mills! The years had
                  been so fierce and cruel! There was coming now quiet and coolness and sleep. His
                  tense limbs relaxed, and settled in a calm languor. The blood ran fainter and slow
                  from his heart. He did not think now with a savage anger of what might be and was
                  not; he was conscious only of deep stillness creeping over him. At first he saw a
                  sea of faces: the mill-men,—women he had known, drunken and bloated,—Janey's timid
                  and pitiful,—poor old Debs: then they floated together like a mist, and faded
                  away, leaving only the clear, pearly moonlight.
               Whether, as the pure light crept up the stretched-out figure, it brought with it
                  calm and peace, who shall say? His dumb soul was alone with God in judgment. A
                  Voice may have spoken for it from far-off Calvary, "Father, forgive them, for they
                  know not what they do!" Who dare say? Fainter and fainter the heart rose and fell,
                  slower and slower the moon floated from behind a cloud, until, when at last its
                  full tide of white splendor swept over the cell, it seemed to wrap and fold into a
                  deeper stillness the dead figure that never should move again. Silence deeper than
                  the Night! Nothing that moved, save the black, nauseous stream of blood dripping
                  slowly from the pallet to the floor!
               There was outcry and crowd enough in the cell the next day. The coroner and his
                  jury, the local editors, Kirby himself, and boys with their hands thrust knowingly
                  into their pockets and heads on one side, jammed into the corners. Coming and
                  going all day. Only one woman. She came late, and outstayed them all. A Quaker, or
                  Friend, as they call themselves. I think this woman was known by that name in
                  heaven. A homely body, coarsely dressed in gray and white. Deborah (for Haley had
                  let her in) took notice of her. She watched them all—sitting on the end of the
                  pallet, holding his head in her arms—with the ferocity of a watch-dog, if any of
                  them touched the body. There was no meekness, no sorrow, in her face; the stuff
                  out of which murderers are made, instead. All the time Haley and the woman were
                  laying straight the limbs and cleaning the cell, Deborah sat still, keenly
                  watching the Quaker's face. Of all the crowd there that day, this woman alone had
                  not spoken to her,—only once or twice had put some cordial to her lips. After they
                  all were gone, the woman, in the same still, gentle way, brought a vase of
                  wood-leaves and berries, and placed it by the pallet, then opened the narrow
                  window. The fresh air blew in, and swept the woody fragrance over the dead face.
                  Deborah looked up with a quick wonder.
               "Did hur know my boy wud like it? Did hur know Hugh?"
               "I know Hugh now."
               The white fingers passed in a slow, pitiful way over the dead, worn face. There
                  was a heavy shadow in the quiet eyes.
               
               "Did hur know where they'll bury Hugh?" said Deborah in a shrill tone, catching
                  her arm.
               This had been the question hanging on her lips all day.
               "In t' town-yard? Under t' mud and ash? T' lad 'll smother, woman! He wur born on
                  t' lane moor, where t' air is frick and strong. Take hur out, for God's sake, take
                  hur out where t' air blows!"
               The Quaker hesitated, but only for a moment. She put her strong arm around Deborah
                  and led her to the window.
               "Thee sees the hills, friend, over the river? Thee sees how the light lies warm
                  there, and the winds of God blow all the day? I live there,—where the blue smoke
                  is, by the trees. Look at me." She turned Deborah's face to her own, clear and
                  earnest. "Thee will believe me? I will take Hugh and bury him there
                  to-morrow."
               Deborah did not doubt her. As the evening wore on, she leaned against the iron
                  bars, looking at the hills that rose far off, through the thick sodden clouds,
                  like a bright, unattainable calm. As she looked, a shadow of their solemn repose
                  fell on her face: its fierce discontent faded into a pitiful, humble quiet. Slow,
                  solemn tears gathered in her eyes: the poor weak eyes turned so hopelessly to the
                  place where Hugh was to rest, the grave heights looking higher and brighter and
                  more solemn than ever before. The Quaker watched her keenly. She came to her at
                  last, and touched her arm.
               "When thee comes back," she said, in a low, sorrowful tone, like one who speaks
                  from a strong heart deeply moved with remorse or pity, "thee shall begin thy life
                  again,—there on the hills. I came too late; but not for thee,—by God's help, it
                  may be."
               Not too late. Three years after, the Quaker began her work. I end my story here.
                  At evening-time it was light. There is no need to tire you with the long years of
                  sunshine, and fresh air, and slow, patient Christ-love, needed to make healthy and
                  hopeful this impure body and soul. There is a homely pine house, on one of these
                  hills, whose windows overlook broad, wooded slopes and clover-crimsoned
                  meadows,—niched into the very place where the light is warmest, the air freest. It
                  is the Friends' meeting-house. Once a week they sit there, in their grave, earnest
                  way, waiting for the Spirit of Love to speak, opening their simple hearts to
                  receive His words. There is a woman, old, deformed, who takes a humble place among
                  them: waiting like them: in her gray dress, her worn face, pure and meek, turned
                  now and then to the sky. A woman much loved by these silent, restful people; more
                  silent than they, more humble, more loving. Waiting: with her eyes turned to hills
                  higher and purer than these on which she lives,—dim and far off now, but to be
                  reached some day. There may be in her heart some latent hope to meet there the
                  love denied her here,—that she shall find him whom she lost, and that then she
                  will not be all-unworthy. Who blames her? Something is lost in the passage of
                  every soul from one eternity to the other,—something pure and beautiful, which
                  might have been and was not: a hope, a talent, a love, over which the soul mourns,
                  like Esau deprived of his birthright. What blame to the meek Quaker, if she took
                  her lost hope to make the hills of heaven more fair?
               Nothing remains to tell that the poor Welsh puddler once lived, but this figure of
                  the mill-woman cut in korl. I have it here in a corner of my library. I keep it
                  hid behind a curtain,—it is such a rough, ungainly thing. Yet there are about it
                  touches, grand sweeps of outline, that show a master's hand. Sometimes,—to-night,
                  for instance,—the curtain is accidentally drawn back, and I see a bare arm
                  stretched out imploringly in the darkness, and an eager, wolfish face watching
                  mine: a wan, woful face, through which the spirit of the dead korl-cutter looks
                  out, with its thwarted life, its mighty hunger, its unfinished work. Its pale,
                  vague lips seem to tremble with a terrible question. "Is this the End?"—they
                  say,—"nothing beyond?—no more?" Why, you tell me you have seen that look in the eyes of dumb brutes,—horses dying under
                  the lash. I know.
               The deep of the night is passing while I write. The gas-light wakens from the
                  shadows here and there the objects which lie scattered through the room: only
                  faintly, though; for they belong to the open sunlight. As I glance at them, they
                  each recall some task or pleasure of the coming day. A half-moulded child's head;
                  Aphrodite; a bough of forest-leaves; music; work; homely fragments, in which lie
                  the secrets of all eternal truth and beauty. Prophetic all! Only this dumb, woful
                  face seems to belong to and end with the night. I turn to look at it. Has the
                  power of its desperate need commanded the darkness away? While the room is yet
                  steeped in heavy shadow, a cool, gray light suddenly touches its head like a
                  blessing hand, and its groping arm points through the broken cloud to the far
                  East, where, in the flickering, nebulous crimson, God has set the promise of the
                  Dawn.
            
            
               THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE UNDER DIFFICULTIES;
               AND WHAT CAME OF IT.
               "MR. GEER!"
               Mr. Geer was unquestionably asleep.
               This certainly did not indicate a sufficiently warm appreciation of Mrs. Geer's
                  social charms; but the enormity of the offence will be greatly modified by a brief
                  review of the attending circumstances. If you will but consider that the crackling
                  of burning wood in a huge Franklin stove is strongly soporific in its
                  tendencies,—that the cushion of a capacious arm-chair, constructed and adjusted as
                  if with a single eye to a delicious doze, nay, to a long succession of dozes, is a
                  powerful temptation to a sleepy soul,—that the regular, and, it must be confessed,
                  somewhat monotonous click, click, click of Mrs. Geer's
                  knitting-needles only served to measure, without disturbing the silence,—and,
                  lastly, that they had been husband and wife for thirty years,—you will not cease
                  to wonder that Mr. Geer 
                     
                        "was glorious,
                        O'er all the ills of life victorious."
                     
                  
               
               To most men, an interruption at such a time would have been particularly annoying;
                  but when Mrs. Geer spoke in that way, Mr. Geer, asleep or awake, always made a
                  point of hearing; so he roused himself, and turned his round, honest face and placid blue eyes on the partner of
                  his bosom, who went on,—
               "Mr. Geer, our Ivy will be seventeen, come fall."
               "Possible?" replied Mr. Geer. "Who 'd 'a' thunk it?"
               Mr. Geer, as you may infer, was eminently a free-thinker, or rather, a free-actor,
                  in respect of irregular verbs. In fact, he tyrannized over all parts of speech:
                  wrested nouns and verbs from their original shape, till you could hardly recognize
                  their distorted faces; and committed that next worst sin to murdering one's
                  mother, namely,—murdering one's mother-tongue, with an abandon that
                  was absolutely fascinating. Having delivered his opinion thus sententiously, he at
                  once subsided, closed his placid eyes, and retired into his inner world
                  of—thought, perhaps.
               "Mr. Geer!"
               This time he fairly jumped from his seat, and cast about him scared, blinking
                  eyes.
               "Mr. Geer, how can you sleep away your precious time so?"
               "Sleep? I—I—am sure, I was never wider awake in my life."
               "Well, then, tell me what I said."
               "Said? Eh,—eh,—something about Ivy, was n't it?"
               And Mr. Geer nervously twitched up the skirts of his coat, and replaced his awry
                  cushion, and began to think that perhaps, after all, he had been asleep. But Mrs.
                  Geer was too much interested in the subject of her own cogitations to pursue her
                  victory further; so she answered,—
               "Yes, and what is a-going to become of her?"
               "Lud, lud! What's the matter?" asked Mr. Geer, wildly.
               "Matter? Why, she 'll be seventeen, come fall, and doesn't know a thing."
               "O Lud! that all? That a'n't nothin'."
               And Mr. Geer settled comfortably down into his armchair once more. He felt
                  decidedly relieved. Visions of small-pox, cholera, and throat-distemper, the worst
                  evils that he could think of and dread for his darling, had been conjured up by
                  his wife's words; and when he found the real state of the case, a great burden,
                  which had suddenly fallen on his heart, was as suddenly lifted.
               "But I tell you it is something," continued Mrs. Geer, energetically.
                  "Ivy is 'most a woman, and has never been ten miles from home in her life, and to
                  no school but our little district—"
               "And, she's as pairk a gal," interrupted Mr. Geer, "as any you'll find in all the
                  ten miles round, be the other who she will."
               "She's well enough in her way," replied Mrs. Geer, in all the humility of motherly
                  pride; "and so much the more reason why she should n't be let go so. There's Mr.
                  Dingham sending his great logy girls to Miss Porter's seminary. (I wonder if he
                  expects they'll ever turn out anything?) And here's our Ivy, bright as a button,
                  and you full well able to maintain her like a lady, and have done nothing but turn
                  her out to grass all her life, till she's fairly run wild. I declare it's a shame.
                  She ought to be sent to school tomorrow."
               "Nonsense, Sally! nonsense! I a'n't a-goin' to have no such doin's. Sha'n't go off
                  to school. What's the use havin' her, if she can't stay at home with us? Let Mr.
                  Dingham send his gals to Chiny, if he wants to. All the book-larnin' in the world
                  won't make 'em equal to our Ivy with only her own head. I don't want her to go to
                  gettin' up high-falutin' notions. She's all gold now. She don't need no improvin'.
                  Sha'n't budge an inch. Sha'n't stir a step."
               "But do consider, Mr. Geer, the child has got to leave us some time. We can't have
                  her always."
               "Why can't we?" exclaimed Mr. Geer, almost fiercely.
               "Sure enough! Why can't we? There a'n't nobody besides you and me, I suppose, that
                  thinks she's pairk. What's John Herricks and Dan Norris hangin' round for all the
                  time?"
               
               "And they may hang round till the cows come home! Nary hair of Ivy's head shall
                  they touch,—nary one of 'em!"
               Just at this juncture of affairs, the damsel in question bounded into the
                  room.
               "Come here, Ivy," said the old man; "your mother's been a-slanderin' you; says you
                  don't know nothin'."
               Ivy knelt before him, rested her arms on his knees, and turned upon him a pair of
                  palpably roguish eyes.
               "Father, it is an awful slander. I do know a sight."
               "Lud, child, yes! I knew you did. No more you don't want to marry John Herricks,
                  do you?"
               "O Daddy Geer! O—h—h!"
               "Nor Dan Norris? nor none of 'em?"
               "Never a one, father."
               "Nor don't you ever think of gettin' married and slavin' yourself out for nobody.
                  I'm plenty well able to take care of you, as long as I live. You'll never live so
                  happy as you do at home; and you'll break my heart to go away, Ivy."
               "I'll never go, papa." (She pronounced it with the accent on the first syllable.)
                  "Indeed, I never will. I'll never be married, as long as I live."
               "No more you sha'n't, good child, good child!"
               And again Farmer Geer betook himself to the depths of his arm-chair, with the
                  complacent consciousness of having faithfully discharged his parental duties. "She
                  should not go to school. She would not be married. She had said she would not, and
                  of course she would not."
               "Of course I shall not," mused Ivy, as she lay in her white bed. "What could put
                  it into poor papa's head? Marry John Herricks, with his everlasting smirk, and his
                  diddling walk, and take care of all the Herricks' sisters and mothers and aunts,
                  and the Herricks' cows and horses and pigs—and—hens—and—and—"
               But Ivy had kept her thoughts on her marriage longer than ever before in her life;
                  and ere she had finished the inventory of John Herricks's personal property and
                  real estate, the blue eyes were closed in the sweet, sound sleep of youth and
                  health.
               Mrs. Geer, in her estimate of her daughter's attainments, was partly right and
                  partly wrong. Ivy had never been "finished" at Mrs. Porter's seminary, and was
                  consequently in a highly unfinished condition. "Small Latin and less Greek"
                  jostled each other in her head. German and French, Italian and Spanish, were
                  strange tongues to Ivy. She could not dance, nor play, nor draw, nor paint, nor
                  work little dogs on footstools.
               What, then, could she do?
               
                  Imprimis, she could climb a tree like a
                  squirrel. Secundo, she could walk across the
                  great beam in the barn like a year-old kitten. In the pursuit of hens' eggs she
                  knew no obstacles; from scaffold to scaffold, from haymow to haymow, she leaped
                  defiant. She pulled out the hay from under the very noses of the astonished cows,
                  to see if, perchance, some inexperienced pullet might there have deposited her
                  golden treasure. With all four-footed beasts she was on the best of terms. The
                  matronly and lazy old sheep she unceremoniously hustled aside, to administer
                  consolation and caresses to the timid, quaking lamb in the corner behind. Without
                  saddle or bridle she could 
                     
                        "Ride a black horse
                        To Banbury Cross."
                     
                   (N. B.—I don't say she actually did. I only say she could; and under
                  sufficiently strong provocation, I have no doubt she would.) She knew where the
                  purple violets and the white innocence first flecked the spring turf, and where
                  the ground-sparrows hid their mottled eggs. All the little waddling, downy
                  goslings, the feeble chickens, and faint-hearted, desponding turkeys, that broke
                  the shell too soon, and shivered miserably because the spring sun was not high
                  enough in the morning to warm them, she fed with pap, and cherished in
                  cotton-wool, and nursed and watched with eager, happy eyes. O blessed Ivy Geer!
                  True Sister of Charity! Thrice blessed
                  stepmother of a brood whose name was Legion!
               From the conjugal and filial conversation which I have faithfully reported, a
                  casual observer, particularly if young and inexperienced, might infer that the
                  question of Miss Ivy's education was definitively settled, and that she was
                  henceforth to remain under the paternal roof. I should, myself, have fallen into
                  the same error, had not a long and intimate acquaintance with the female sex
                  generated and cherished a profound and mournful conviction of the truth of the
                  maxim, that appearances are deceitful. E. g., a woman has set her heart on
                  something, and is refused. She pouts and sulks: that is clouds, and will soon blow
                  over. She scolds, storms, and raves (I speak in a figure; I mean she does
                  something as much like that as a tender, delicate, angelic woman can): that is
                  thunder, and only clears the air. She betakes herself to tears, sobs, and
                  embroidered cambric: that is a shower, and everything will be greener and fresher
                  after it. You may go your ways,—one to his farm, another to his merchandise; the
                  world will not wind up its affairs just yet. But, put the case, she goes on the
                  even tenor of her way unmoved: 
                     
                        "Beware! beware!
                        Trust her not; she is fooling thee."
                     
                  
               
               Thus Mrs. Geer, who was a thorough tactician. Like Napoleon, she was never more
                  elated than after a defeat. Before consulting her husband at all, she had
                  contemplated the subject in all its bearings, and had deliberately decided that
                  Ivy was to go to school. The consent of the senior partner of the firm was a
                  secondary matter, which time and judicious management would infallibly secure.
                  Consequently, notwithstanding the unpropitious result of their first colloquy, she
                  the next day commenced preparations for Ivy's departure, as unhesitatingly, as
                  calmly, as assiduously, as if the day of that departure had been fixed.
               Mrs. Geer was right. She knew she was, all the time. She had a sublime faith in
                  herself. She felt in her soul the divine afflatus, and pressed forward gloriously
                  to her goal. Mr. Geer had as much firmness, not to say obstinacy, as falls to the
                  lot of most men; but Mrs. Geer had more; and as Launce Outram, hard beset, so
                  pathetically moaned, "A woman in the very house has such deused opportunities!" so
                  Farmer Geer grumbled, and squirmed, and remonstrated, and—yielded.
               Mrs. Geer was not right. She had reckoned without her host. Her
                  affairs were gliding down the very Appian Way of prosperity in a chariot-and-four,
                  with footmen and outriders, when, presto! they turned a sharp and unexpected
                  corner, and over went the whole establishment into a mirier mire than ever
                  bespattered Dr. Slop.
               To speak without a parable. When her expected Hegira was announced to Miss Mary
                  Ives Geer, that young lady, to the ill-concealed vexation of her mother, and the
                  not-attempted-to-be-concealed exultation of her father, expressed decided
                  disapprobation of the whole scheme. As she was the chief dramatis persona, the very Hamlet of the play, this unlooked-for
                  decision somewhat interfered with Mrs. Geer's plans. All the eloquence of that
                  estimable woman was brought to bear on this one point; but this one point was
                  invincible. Expostulation and entreaty were alike vain. Neither ambition nor
                  pleasure could hold out any allurements to Ivy. Maternal authority was at length
                  hinted at, only hinted at, and the spoiled child declared that she had not had her
                  own will and way for sixteen years to give up quietly in her seventeenth. One last
                  resort, one forlorn hope,—one expedient, which had never failed to overcome her
                  childish stubbornness: "Would she grieve her parents so much as to oppose this
                  their darling wish?" And Ivy burst into tears, and begged to know if she should
                  show her love to her father and mother by going away from them. This drove the
                  nail into her old father's heart, and then the little vixen clenched it by
                  throwing herself into his arms, and sobbing, "O, papa! would you turn your Ivy out
                  of doors and break her heart?"
               
               Flimsiest of fallacies! Shallowest of sophists! But she was the only and beloved
                  child of his old age; so the fallacy passed unchallenged; the strong arms closed
                  around the naughty girl; and the soothing voice murmured,—"There, there, Ivy!
                  don't cry, child! Lud! lud! you sha'n't be bothered; no more you sha'n't, lovey!"
                  and the status quo was restored. 
                     
                        "It is not in the sea nor in the strife
                        We feel benumbed and wish to be no more,
                        But in the after silence on the shore,
                        When all is lost, except a little life,"
                     
                   said one who had breasted the stormiest sea and plunged into the fiercest
                  strife. Ivy, who had never read Byron, and therefore could not be suspected of any
                  Byronical affectations, felt it, when, having gained her point, she sat down alone
                  in her own room. When her single self had been pitted against superior numbers,
                  age, experience, and parental authority, all her heroism was roused, and she was
                  adequate to the emergency; but her end gained, the excitement gone, the sense of
                  disobedience alone remaining, and she was thoroughly uncomfortable, nay,
                  miserable.
               "Mamma is right; I know I am a little goose," sobbed she. (The words were mental,
                  intangible, unspoken; the sobs physical, palpable, decided.) "I never did know
                  anything, and I never shall,—and I don't care if I don't. I don't see any good in
                  knowing so much. We don't have a great while to stay in the world any way, and I
                  don't see why we can't be let alone and have a good time while we are here, and
                  when we get to heaven we can take a fresh start. O, dear! I never shall go to
                  heaven, if I am so bad and vex mamma. But then papa didn't care. But then he would
                  have liked me to go to school. But there, I won't! I won't! I will
                     not! I'll study at home. O, dear! I wish papa was a great man, and knew
                  everything, and could teach me. Well, he is just as happy, and just as rich, and
                  everybody likes him just as well, as if he knew the whole world full; and why
                  can't I do so, too? Rebecca Dingham, indeed! Mercy! I hope I never shall be like
                  her; I would rather not know my A B C! What shall I do? There's Mr.
                  Brownslow might teach me; he knows enough. But, dear me! he is as busy as he can
                  be, all day long; and Squire Merrill goes out of town every day; and there's Dr.
                  Mix, to be sure, but he smells so strong of paregoric, and I don't believe he
                  knows much, either; and there's nobody else in town that knows any more than
                  anybody else; and there's nothing for it but I must go to school, if I am ever to
                  know anything." (A renewal of sobs, uninterrupted for several minutes.) "There's
                  Mr. Clerron!" (A sudden cessation.) "I suppose he knows more than the whole town
                  tumbled into one; and writes books, and——mercy! there's no end to his knowledge;
                  and he's rich, and does everything he likes, all day long. O, if I only
                     did know him! I would ask him straight off to teach me. I should
                  be scared to death. I've a great mind to ask him, as it is. I can tell him who I
                  am. He never will know any other way, for he isn't acquainted with anybody. They
                  say he is as proud as Lucifer. If he were ten times prouder, I would rather ask
                  him than go to school. He might just as well do something as not. I am sure, if
                  God had made me him, and him me, I should be glad to help him. I'll go straight to
                  him the first thing to-morrow morning."
               Once seeing a possible way out of her difficulties, her sorrow vanished. Not quite
                  so gayly as usual, it is true, did she sing about the house that night; for she
                  was summoning all her powers to prepare an introductory speech to Felix Clerron,
                  Esq., a gentleman and a scholar. Her elocutionary attempts were not quite
                  satisfactory to herself, but she was not to be daunted; and when morning came, she
                  took heart of grace, slung her broad-brimmed hat over her arm, and began her march
                  "over the hills and far away," in search of her—fate.
               "And did her mother really let her roam away, alone, on such an errand, to a
                  perfect stranger?"
               "Humanly speaking," nothing was more unlikely than that Mrs. Geer, a prudent, modest, and sensible
                  woman, should give her consent to such an—to use the mildest term—unusual
                  undertaking. Nor did she. The fact is, her consent was not asked. She knew nothing
                  whatever of the plan.
               "Worse and worse! Did the wilful girl go off without leave? without even informing
                  her parents?"
               I am sorry to say she did. In writing a story of real life, one cannot take that
                  liberty with facts which is quite proper, not to say indispensable, in history,
                  science, and belles-lettres generally. Duty
                  compels me to adhere closely to the truth; and for whatever of obloquy may be
                  heaped upon me, or upon my Ivy, I shall find consolation in the words of the
                  illustrious Harrison; or perhaps it was the illustrious Taylor; I am not quite
                  sure, however, that it was not the illustrious Washington:—"Do right, and let the
                  consequences take care of themselves." I am therefore obliged to say, that Ivy's
                  departure in pursuit of knowledge was entirely unknown to her respected and
                  beloved parents. But you must remember that she was an only child, and a spoiled
                  child,—spoiled as only stern New England Puritan parents, somewhat advanced in
                  years, can spoil their children. I do not defend Ivy. On the contrary,
                  notwithstanding my regard for her, I hand her over to the reprobation of an
                  enlightened community; and I hereby entreat all young persons into whose hands
                  this memoir may fall to take warning by the fate of poor Ivy, and never enter upon
                  any important undertaking, until they have, to say the least, consulted those who
                  are their natural guides, their warmest friends, and their most experienced
                  counsellors.
               While I have been writing this, Ivy Geer, light of heart, fleet of foot, and firm
                  of will, has passed over hillside, through wood-path, and across meadow-land, and
                  drawn near the domains of Felix Clerron, Esq. Light of heart perhaps I scarcely
                  ought to say. Certainly, that enterprising organ had never before beat so furious
                  a tattoo in Ivy's breast, as when she stood, hat in hand, on the steps of the
                  somewhat stately dwelling. To do her justice, she had intended to do the penance
                  of wearing her hat when she should have reached her destination; but in her
                  excitement she quite forgot it. So, as I said, she stood on the doorstep, as a
                  royal maiden stood three hundred years before (not in the same place), with the
                  "wind blowing her fair hair about her beautiful cheeks."
               There had come to Ivy from the great, gay world a vague rumor, that, instead of
                  knocking at a door, like a Christian, with your own good knuckles, for such case
                  made and provided, modern fashion had introduced "the ringing and the dinging of
                  the bells." This vague rumor found a local habitation, when Mr. Clerron came down
                  upon the village and established himself, his men and women and horses and cattle;
                  but as Ivy stood on his doorstep, looking upward, downward, sidewise, with
                  earnest, peering gaze, no bell, and no sign of bell, was visible; nothing unusual,
                  save a little door-knob at the right hand side of the door,—a thing which could
                  not be accounted for. After long and serious deliberation, she came to the
                  conclusion that the bell must be inside, and that the knob was a screw attached to
                  it. So she tried to twist it, first one way, then the other; but twist it would
                  not. In despair she betook herself to her fingers and knocked. Nobody came. Twist
                  again. No use. Knock again. Ditto. Then she went down to the gravelled path,
                  selected one of the largest pebbles, took up her station before the door, and
                  began to pound away. In a moment, a gentleman in dressing-gown and smoking-cap,
                  with a cigar between his fingers, came round the corner. Seeing her, he threw away
                  his cigar, lifted his velvet cap, bowed, and, with a gentle "allow me," stepped to
                  the door, pulled the bell, and again passed out of sight. Ivy was not so confused
                  at being detected in her assault and battery on the door of a respectable,
                  peaceable, private gentleman, as not to make the silent reflection, "Pulled the
                  knob, instead of twisting it. How easy it is to do a thing, if you only know
                  how!"
               
               The summons was soon answered by a black gnome, and Ivy was ushered into a large
                  room, which, to her dazzled, sun-weary eyes, seemed delightfully fresh and
                  green-looking. Two minutes more of waiting,—then a step in the hall, a gently
                  opening door, and Ivy felt rather than saw herself in the presence of the
                  formidable Mr. Clerron. A single glance showed her that he was the person who had
                  rung the bell for her, though the gay dressing-gown had been exchanged for a
                  soberer suit. Mr. Clerron bowed. Ivy, hardly knowing what she did, faltered forth,
                  "I am Ivy Geer." A half-curious, half-sarcastic smile glimmered behind the heavy
                  beard, and gleamed beneath the heavy eyebrows, as he answered, "I am happy to make
                  your acquaintance"; but another glance at the trembling form, the frightened, pale
                  face, and quivering lips, changed the smile into one that was very good-natured,
                  and even kind; and he added, playfully,—
               "I am Felix Clerron, very much at your service."
               "You write books and are a very learned man," pursued Ivy, hurriedly, never
                  lifting her eyes from the floor, and never ceasing to twirl her hat-strings.
               There was no possibility of supposing her guilty of committing a little diplomatic
                  flattery in conveying this succinct bit of information. She made the assertion
                  with the air of one who has a disagreeable piece of business on hand, and is
                  determined to go through with it as soon as possible. He bowed and smiled again;
                  quite unnecessarily,—since, as I have before remarked, Ivy's eyes were steadfastly
                  fixed on the carpet. A slight pause for breath and she pitched ahead again.
               "I am very ignorant, and I am growing old. I am almost seventeen. I don't know
                  anything to speak of. Mamma wishes me to go to school. Papa did not, but now he
                  does. I won't go. I would rather be stupid all my life long than leave home. But
                  mamma is vexed, and I want to please her, and I thought,—Mr. Brownslow is so busy,
                  and you,—if you have nothing to do,—and know so much,—I thought"——
               She stopped short, utterly unable to proceed. Wonderfully different did this
                  affair seem from the one she had planned the preceding evening. It is so much
                  easier to fight the battle of life in our own chimney-corner, by the ruddy and
                  genial firelight, than in broad day on the world's great battle-field!
               Mr. Clerron, seeing Ivy's confusion, kindly came to her aid. "And you thought my
                  superfluous time and wisdom might be transferred to you, thus making a more equal
                  division of property?"
               "If you would be so good,—I,—yes, Sir."
               "May I inquire how you propose to effect such an exchange?"
               He really did not intend to be anything but kind, but the whole matter presented
                  itself to him in a very ludicrous light; and in endeavoring to preserve proper
                  gravity, he became severe. Ivy, all-unused to the world, still had a secret
                  feeling that he was laughing at her. Tears, that would not be repressed, glistened
                  in her downcast eyes, gathered on the long lashes, dropped silently to the floor.
                  He saw that she was entirely a child, ignorant, artless, and sincere. His better
                  feelings were roused, and he exclaimed, with real earnestness,—
               "My dear young lady, I should rejoice to serve you in any way, I beg you to
                  believe."
               His words only hastened the catastrophe which seems to be always impending over
                  the weaker sex. Ivy sobbed outright,—a perfect tempest. Felix Clerron looked on
                  with a bachelor's dismay. "What in thunder? Confound the girl!" were his first
                  reflections; but her utter abandonment to sorrow melted his heart again,—not a
                  very susceptible heart either; but men, especially bachelors, are
                     so—green! (the word is found in Cowper.)
               He sat down by her side, stroked the hair from her burning forehead, as if she had
                  been six instead of sixteen, and again and again assured her of his willingness to
                  assist her.
               
               "I must go home," whispered Ivy, as soon as she could command, or rather coax her
                  voice.
               His hospitality was shocked.
               "Indeed you must not, till we have at least had a consultation. Tell me how much
                  you know. What have you studied?"
               "O, nothing, Sir. I am very stupid."
               "Ah! we must begin with the Alphabet, then. Blocks or a primer?"
               Ivy smiled through her tears.
               "Not quite so bad as that, Sir."
               "You do know your letters? Perhaps you can even count, and spell your name; maybe
                  write it. Pray, enlighten me."
               Ivy grew calm as he became playful.
               "I can cipher pretty well. I have been through Green-leaf's Large."
               "House or meadow? And the exact dimensions, if you please."
               "Sir?"
               "I understood you to say you had traversed Green-leaf's Large. You did not
                  designate what."
               He was laughing at her now, indeed, but it was open and genial, and she
                  joined.
               "My Arithmetic, of course. I supposed everybody knew that. Everybody calls it
                  so."
               "Time is short. Yes. Do you like Arithmetic?"
               "Pretty well, some parts of it. Fractions and Partial Payments. But I can't bear
                  Duodecimals, Position, and such things."
               "Positions are occasionally embarrassing. And Grammar?"
               "I think it's horrid. It's all 'indicative mood, common noun, third person,
                  singular number, and agrees with John.'"
               "Bravissima! A comprehensive sketch! A
                  bird's-eye view, as one may say,—and not entertaining, certainly. What other
                  branches have you pursued? Drawing, for instance?"
               "O, no, Sir!"
               "Nor Music?"
               "No, Sir."
               "Good! excellent! An overruling Providence has saved you and your friends from
                  many a pitfall. Shall we proceed to History? Be so good as to inform me who
                  discovered America."
               "I believe Columbus has the credit of it," replied Ivy, demurely.
               "Non-committal, I see. Case goes strongly in his favor, but you reserve your
                  judgment till further evidence."
               "I think he was a wise and good and enterprising man."
               "But are rather sceptical about that San Salvador story. A wise course. Never
                  decide till both sides have been fairly presented. 'He that judgeth a matter
                  before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him,' said the wise man.
                  Occasionally his after-judgment is equally discreditable. That is a thousand times
                  worse. Exit Clio. Enter—well!—Geographia. My young friend, what celebrated city
                  has the honor of concentrating the laws, learning, and literature of
                  Massachusetts, to wit, namely, is its capital?"
               "Boston, Sir."
               "Your Geography has evidently been attended to. You have learned the basis fact.
                  You have discovered the pivot on which the world turns. You have dug down to the
                  antediluvian, ante-pyrean granite,—the primitive, unfused stratum of society. The
                  force of learning can no farther go. Armed with that fact, you may march
                  fearlessly forth to do battle with the world, the flesh, and—the—ahem—the King of
                  Beasts! Do you think you should like me for a teacher?"
               "I can't tell, Sir. I did not like you as anything awhile ago."
               "But you like me better now? You think I improve on acquaintance? You detect signs
                  of a moral reformation?"
               "No, Sir, I don't like you now. I only don't dislike you so much as I did."
               
               "Spoken like a major-general, or, better still, like a brave little Yankee girl,
                  as you are. I am an enthusiastic admirer of truth. I foresee we shall get on
                  famously. I was rather premature in sounding the state of your affections, it must
                  be confessed,—but we shall be rare friends by and by. On the whole, you are not
                  particularly fond of books?"
               "I like some books well enough, but not studying-books," said Ivy, with a sigh,
                  "and I don't see any good in them. If it was n't for mamma, I never would open
                  one,—never! I would just as soon be a dunce as not; I don't see anything very
                  horrid in it."
               "How should you, to be sure? There is a distinction, however, which you must
                  immediately learn to make. The dunce subjective is a very inoffensive animal,
                  contented, happy, and harmless; and, as you justly remark, inspires no horror, but
                  rather an amiable and genial self-complacency. The dunce objective, on the
                  contrary, is of an entirely different species. He is a bore of the first
                  magnitude,—a poisoned arrow, that not only pierces, but inflames,—a dull knife,
                  that not only cuts, but tears,—a cowardly little cur, that snaps occasionally, but
                  snarls unceasingly; whom, which, and that, it becomes the duty of all good
                  citizens to sweep from the face of the earth."
               "What is the difference between them? How shall one know which is which?"
               "The dunce subjective is the dunce from his own point of view,—the dunce with his
                  eyes turned inward,—confining his duncehood to the bosom of his family. The dunce
                  objective is the dunce butting against his neighbor's study-door,—intruding,
                  obtruding, protruding his insipid folly and still more insipid wisdom at all times
                  and seasons. He is a creature utterly devoid of shame. He is like Milton's angels,
                  in one respect at least: you may thrust him through and through with the two-edged
                  sword of your satire, and at the end he shall be as intact and integral as at the
                  beginning. Am I sufficiently obvious?" He was talking, however, quite as much to
                  himself as to Ivy, and with a bitterness evidently born of suffering.
               "It is very obvious that I am both, according to your definition."
               "It is very obvious that you are neither, but a sensible young girl,—with no great
                  quantity of the manufactured article, perhaps, but plenty of raw material, capable
                  of being wrought into fabric of the finest quality."
               "Do you really think I can learn?" asked Ivy, with a bright blush of pleasure.
               "Can learn?"
               "As much as if I went to school?"
               "My dear miss, as the forest oak, 'cabined, cribbed, confined' with multitudes of
                  its fellows, grows stunted, scrubby, and dwarfed, but brought into the open fields
                  alone, stretches out its arms to the blue heavens and its roots to the kindly
                  earth,—so, in a word, shall you, under my fostering care, flourish like a green
                  bay-tree, only not quite so high and mightily as I am flourishing now;—that is, if
                  I am to have the honor."
               "Yes, Sir, I mean—I meant—I was thinking as if you were teaching me—I mean were
                  going to teach me."
               "Which I also mean, if your parents continue to wish it."
               "O, they won't care!"
               "Won't care?"
               "No, Sir, they will be glad, I think. Papa, at least, will be glad to have me stay
                  at home."
               "Did not they direct you to come to me to-day?"
               Ivy blushed deeply, and replied, in a low voice, "No, Sir; I knew mamma would not
                  let me come, if I asked her."
               "And to prevent any sudden temptation to disobedience, and a consequent forfeiture
                  of your peace of mind, you took time by the forelock and came on your own
                  responsibility?"
               "Yes, Sir."
               "Very ingenious, upon my word! But, my dear Miss Geer, I must confess I have not
                  this happy feminine knack of keeping out of the way of temptation. I should prefer
                  to consult your friends, even at the risk of losing the pleasure of your
                  society."
               
               "O, yes, Sir! I don't care, now it is all settled."
               And so, over hillside, along wood-path, and through meadow-land, with light heart
                  and smiling eyes, tripped Ivy back again. To Mrs. Geer shelling peas in the shady
                  porch, and to Mr. Geer fanning himself with his straw hat on the steps beside her,
                  Ivy recounted the story of her adventures. Mrs. Geer was thunderstruck at Ivy's
                  temerity; Mr. Geer was lost in admiration of her pluck. Mrs. Geer termed it a
                  wild-goose chase; Mr. Geer declared Ivy to be as smart as a steel trap. Mrs. Geer
                  vetoed the whole plan; Mr. Geer did n't know. But when at sunset Mr. Clerron rode
                  over, and admired Mr. Geer's orchard, and praised the points of his Durhams, and
                  begged a root of Mrs. Geer's scarlet verbena, and assured them he should be very
                  glad to refresh his own early studies, and also to form an acquaintance with the
                  family,—he knew very few in the village,—and if Mrs. Geer would drive over when
                  Ivy came to recite,—or perhaps they would rather he should come to their house. O,
                  no! Mrs. Geer could not think of that. Just as they pleased. Mrs. Simm, the
                  housekeeper, would be very glad to meet Mrs. Geer. By the way, Mrs. Simm was a
                  thrifty and sensible woman, and he was sure they would be pleased with each other.
                  When, in short, all this and much more had been said, it was decided that Ivy
                  should be regularly installed pupil of Mr. Felix Clerron.
               "Eureka!" cries the professional novel-reader, that farsighted and
                  keen-scented hound that snuffs a dénouement afar
                  off; and anon there rises before his eyes the vision of poor little Stella
                  drinking in love and learning, especially love, from the divine eyes of the
                  anything but divine Swift,—of Shirley, the lioness, the pantheress, the
                  leopardess, the beautiful, fierce creature, sitting, tamed, quiet, meek, by the
                  side of Louis Moore, her tutor and master,—and of all the legends of all the ages
                  wherein Beauty has sat at the feet of Wisdom, and Love has crept in unawares, and
                  spoiled the lesson while as yet half-unlearnt;—so he cries, "She is going the way
                  of all heroines. The man and the girl,— they will fall in love, marry, and live
                  happily all the rest of their days."
               Of course they will. Is there any reason why they should not? If any man can show
                  just cause why they may not lawfully be joined together, let him now speak, or
                  else hereafter forever hold his peace.
               I repeat it, of course they will. You surely cannot suppose I should, in cold
                  blood, sit down to write a story in which nobody was to fall in love or be in
                  love! Scoff as you may, love is the one vital principle in all romance. Not only
                  does your cheek flush and your eye sparkle, till heart, brain, and soul are all on
                  fire, over the burning words of some Brontean Pythoness, but when you open the
                  last thrilling work of Maggie Marigold, and are immediately submerged "in a weak,
                  washy, everlasting flood" of insipidity, and heart-rending sorrow, you do not shut
                  the book with a jerk. Why not? Because in the dismal distance you dimly descry two
                  figures swimming, floating, struggling towards each other, and a languid curiosity
                  detains you till you have ascertained, that, after infinite distress, Adolphus and
                  Miranda have made 
                     
                        "One of the very best matches,
                        Both well mated for life:
                        She's got a fool for a husband,
                        He's got a fool for his wife."
                     
                  
               
               Sir, scoff as you may, love is the one sunbeam of poetry that gilds with a
                  softened splendor the hard, bare outline of many a prosaic life. "Work, work,
                  work, from weary chime to chime"; tramp behind the plough, hammer on the lapstone,
                  beat the anvil, drive the plane, from morn till dewy eve; but when the dewy eve
                  comes, ah! Hesperus gleams soft and golden over the far-off pine-trees, but 
                     
                        "The star that lightens your bosom most,
                        And gives to your weary feet their speed,
                        Abides in a cottage beyond the mead."
                     
                  
               
               It is useless to assert that the subject is worn threadbare. Threadbare it may be to you, enervated and blasé man of pleasure, worn and hardened man of the
                  world; but it is not for you I write. The fountain which leaps up fresh and living
                  in every new life can never be exhausted till the springs of all life are dry.
                  Tell me, O lover, gazing into those tender eyes uplifted to yours, twining the
                  silken rings around your bronzed finger,—does it abate one jot or tittle of your
                  happiness to know that eyes just as tender, curls just as silken, have stirred the
                  hearts of men for a thousand years?
               Love, then, is a sine qua non in stories; and if
                  love, why not marriage? What pleasure can a humane and benevolent man find in
                  separating two individuals whose chief, perhaps whose sole happiness, consists in
                  being together? For certain inscrutable reasons, Divine Benevolence permits evil
                  to exist in the world. All who have a taste for misery can find it there in
                  exhaustless quantities. Johns are every day falling in love with Katys, but
                  marrying Isabels, and Isabels the same, mutatis
                     mutandis. We submit to it because there is no alternative; and we
                  believe that good shall finally be wrought and wrested from evil. But let us not
                  in mere wantonness introduce into our novel-world the work of our own hand, an
                  abridged edition, a daguerrotype copy of the world without, of which we know so
                  little and so much. I always do and always shall read the last page of a novel
                  first; and if I perceive there any indications that matters are not coming out
                  "shipshape," my reading invariably terminates with the last page.
               For the rest, please to remember that I am not writing about a princess of the
                  blood, nor of the days of the bold barons, but only the life of a quiet little
                  girl in a quiet little town in the eastern part of Massachusetts; and so far as my
                  experience and observation go, men and women in the eastern part of Massachusetts
                  are not given to thrilling adventures, hairbreadth escapes, wonderful
                  concatenations of circumstances, and blood and thunder generally,—but pursue the
                  even tenor of their way, and of their love, with a sober and delightful
                  equanimity. If you want a plot, go to the "Children of the Abbey," "Consuelo," and
                  myriads of that kin, and help yourself. As for me, I must confess I hate plots. I
                  see no pleasure in stumbling blindfolded through a story, unable to see a yard
                  ahead, fancying every turn to be the last, and the road to go straight on to a
                  glorious goal,—and, lo! we are in a more hopeless labyrinth than ever. I have a
                  sense of restraint. I want to breathe freely, and cannot. I want to have leisure
                  to observe the style, the development of character, the author's tone of thought,
                  and not be galloped through on the back of a breathless desire to know "how they
                  are coming out."
               But, my dear plot-loving friend, be easy. I will not leave you in the lurch. I am
                  not going to marry my man and woman out of hand. An obstacle, of which I suppose
                  you have never heard,—an obstacle entirely new, fresh, and unhackneyed, will
                  arise; so, I pray you, let patience have her perfect work.
               Wonderful was the new world opened to Ivy Geer. It was as if a corse, cold, inert,
                  lifeless, had suddenly sprung up, warm, invigorated, informed with a spirit which
                  led her own spell-bound. Grammar,—Grammar, which had been a synonyme for all that
                  was dry, irksome, useless,—a beating of the wind, the crackling of thorns under a
                  pot,—Grammar even assumed for her a charm, a wonder, a glory. She saw how the
                  great and wise had shrined in fitting words their purity, and wisdom, and sorrow,
                  and suffering, and penitence; and how, as this generation passed away, and another
                  came forth which knew not God, the golden casket became dim, and the memory of its
                  priceless gem faded away; but how, at the touch of a mighty wand, the obedient lid
                  flew back, and the long-hidden thought "sprang full-statured in an hour." She saw
                  how love and beauty and freedom lay floating vaguely and aimlessly in a million
                  minds till the poet came and crystallized them into clear-cut, prismatic words,
                  tinged for each with the color of his own fancy, and wrought into a perfect
                  mosaic, not for an age, but for all
                  time. Led by a strong hand, she trod with awe down the dim aisles of the Past, and
                  saw how the soul of man, bound in its prison-house, had ever struggled to voice
                  itself in words. Roaming in the dense forest with the stern and bloody
                  Druid,—bounding over the waves with the fierce pirates who supplanted them, and in
                  whose blue eyes and beneath whose fair locks gleamed indeed the ferocity of the
                  savage, but lurked also, though unseen and unknown, the tender chivalry of the
                  English gentleman,—gazing admiringly on the barbaric splendor of the
                  cloth-of-gold, whereon trod regally, to the sound of harp and viol, the beauty and
                  bravery of the old Norman nobility, she delighted to see how the mother-tongue,
                  our dear mother-tongue, had laid all the nations under contribution to enrich her
                  treasury,—gathering from one its strength, from another its stateliness, from a
                  third its harmony, till the harsh, crude, rugged dialect of a barbarous horde
                  became worthy to embody, as it does, the love, the wisdom, and the faith of half a
                  world.
               So Grammar taught Ivy to reverence language.
               History, in the light of a guiding mind, ceased to be a bare record of slaughter
                  and crime. Before her eyes filed, in a statelier pageant than they knew, the long
                  procession of "simple great ones gone forever and ever by," and the countless
                  lesser ones whose names are quenched in the darkness of a night that shall know no
                  dawn. She saw the "great world spin forever down the ringing grooves of change";
                  but amid all the change, the confusion, the chaos, she saw the finger of God ever
                  pointing, and heard the sublime monotone of the Divine voice ever saying to the
                  children of men, "This is the way, walk ye in it." And Ivy thought she saw, and
                  rejoiced in the thought, that, even when this warning was unheeded,—when on the
                  brow of the mournful Earth "Ichabod, Ichabod," was forever engraven,—when the
                  First Man with his own hand put from him the cup of innocence, and went forth from
                  the happy garden, sin-stained and fallen, the whole head sick, and the whole heart
                  faint,—even then she saw within him the Divine spark, the leaven of life, which
                  had power to vitalize and vivify what Crime had smitten with death. Though sea and
                  land teemed with strange perils, though night and day pursued him with mysterious
                  terrors, though the now unfriendly elements combined to check his career, still,
                  with unswerving purpose, undaunted courage, she saw him march constantly forward.
                  Spirits of evil could not drive from his heart the prescience of greatness; and
                  his soul dwelt calmly under the foreshadow of a mighty future.
               And as Ivy looked, she saw how the children of men became a great nation, and
                  possessed the land far and wide. They delved into the bosom of the pleased earth,
                  and brought forth the piled-up treasures of uncounted cycles. They unfolded the
                  book of the skies, and sought to read the records thereon. They plunged into the
                  unknown and terrible ocean, and decked their own brows with the gems they plucked
                  from hers. And when conquered Nature had laid her hoards at their feet, their
                  restless longings would not be satisfied. Brave young spirits, with the dew of
                  their youth fresh upon them, set out in quest of a land beyond their ken. Over the
                  mountains, across the seas, through the forests, there came to the ear of the
                  dreaming girl the measured tramp of marching men, the softer footfalls of loving
                  women, the pattering of the feet of little children. Many a day and many a night
                  she saw them wander on towards the setting sun, till the Unseen Hand led them to a
                  fair and fruitful country that opened its bounteous arms in welcome. Broad rivers,
                  green fields, laughing valleys wooed them to plant their household gods,—and the
                  foundations of Europe were laid. Here were sown the seeds of those heroic virtues
                  which have since leaped into luxuriant life,—seeds of that irresistible power
                  which fastened its grasp on Nature, and forced her to unfold the secret of her
                  creation,—seeds of that far-reaching wisdom which in the light of the unveiled
                  past has read the story of the unseen future.
               And still under Ivy's eye they grouped themselves, Some gathered on the pleasant hills of the sunny
                  South, and the beauty of earth and sea and sky passed into their souls forever.
                  They caught the evanescent gleam, the passing shadow, and on unseemly canvas
                  limned it for all time in forms of unuttered and unutterable loveliness. They
                  shaped into glowing life the phantoms of grace that were always flitting before
                  their enchanted eyes, and poured into inanimate marble their rapt and passionate
                  souls. They struck the lyre to wild and stirring songs whose tremulous echoes
                  still linger along the corridors of Time. Some sought the ice-bound North, and
                  grappled with dangers by field and flood. They hunted the wild dragon to his
                  mountain-fastnesses, and fought him at bay, and never quailed. Death, in its most
                  fearful forms, they met with grim delight, and chanted the glories of the Valhalla
                  waiting for heroes who should forever quaff the "foaming, pure, and shining mead"
                  from skulls of foes in battle slain. Some crossed the sea, and on 
                     
                        "that pale, that white-faced shore,
                        Whose foot spurns back the ocean's swelling tide,"
                     
                   they reared a sinewy and stalwart race, "whose morning drum-beat encircles
                  the world."
               And History taught Ivy to reverence man.
               But there was one respect in which Ivy was both pupil and teacher. Never a word of
                  Botany had fallen upon her ears; but through all the unconscious bliss of infancy,
                  child-hood, and girlhood, for sixteen happy years, she had lived among the
                  flowers, and she knew their dear faces and their wild-wood names. She loved them
                  with an almost human love. They were to her companions and friends. She knew their
                  likings and dislikings, their joys and sorrows,—who among them chose the darkest
                  nooks of the old woods, and who bloomed only to the brightest sunlight,—who sent
                  their roots deep down among the mosses by the brook, and who smiled only on the
                  southern hillside. Around each she wove a web of beautiful individuality, and more
                  than one had received from her a new christening. It is true, that, when she came
                  to study from a book, she made wry faces over the long, barbarous, Latin names
                  which completely disguised her favorites, and in her heart deemed a great many of
                  the definitions quite superfluous; but she had strong faith in her teacher, and
                  when the technical was laid aside for the real, then, indeed, "her foot was on her
                  native heath, and her name was MacGregor." A wild and merry chase she led her
                  grave instructor. Morning, noon, or night, she was always ready. Under the blue
                  sky, breathing the pure air, treading the green turf familiar from her infancy,
                  she could not be otherwise than happy; but when was superadded to this the
                  companionship of a mind vigorous, cultivated, and refined, she enjoyed it with a
                  keen and intense delight. Nowhere else did her soul so entirely unfold to the
                  genial light of this new sun which had suddenly mounted above her horizon. Nowhere
                  else did the freshness and fulness and splendor of life dilate her whole being
                  with a fine ecstasy.
               And what was the end of all this? Just what you would have supposed. She had led a
                  life of simple, unbounded love and trust,—a buoyant, elastic gladness,—a dream of
                  sunshine. No gray cloud had ever lowered in her sky, no thunderbolt smitten her
                  joys, no winter rain chilled her warmth. Only the white fleeciness of morning mist
                  had flitted sometimes over her summer-sky, deepening the blue. Little cooling
                  drops had fluttered down through the leafiness, only to span her with a rainbow in
                  the glory of the setting sun. But the time had come. From the deep fountains of
                  her heart the stone was to be rolled away. The secret chord was to be smitten by a
                  master-hand,—a chord which, once stirred, may never cease to quiver.
               At first Ivy worshipped very far off. Her friend was to her the embodiment of all
                  knowledge and goodness and greatness. She marvelled to see him so at home in what
                  was to her so strange. Every word that fell from his lips was an oracle. She
                  secretly contrasted him with all the men she had ever met, to the utter discomfiture of the latter. Washington, the
                  Apostle Paul, and Peter Parley were the only men of the past or present whom she
                  considered at all worthy to be compared with him; and in fact, if these three men
                  and Felix Clerron had all stood before her, and offered each a different opinion
                  on any given subject, I have scarcely a doubt as to whose would have commended
                  itself to her as combining the soundest practical wisdom and the highest Christian
                  benevolence.
               So the summer passed on, and her shyness wore off,—and their intimacy became less
                  and less that of teacher and pupil, and more and more that of friend and friend.
                  With the sudden awakening of her intellectual nature, there-woke also another
                  power, of whose existence she had never dreamed. It was natural, that, in ranging
                  the fields of thought so lately opened to her, she should often revert to him
                  whose hand had unbarred the gates; she was therefore not startled that the image
                  of Felix Clerron was with her when she sat down and when she rose up, when she
                  went out and when she came in. She ceased, indeed, to think of him.
                  She thought him. She lived him. Her soul fed on his life. And so—and
                  so—by a pleasant and flowery path, there came into Ivy's heart the old, old
                  pain.
               Now the thing was on this wise:—
               One morning, when she went to recite, she did not find Mr. Clerron in the library,
                  where he usually awaited her. After spending a few moments in looking over her
                  lessons, she rose and was about to pass to the door to ring, when Mrs. Simm looked
                  in, and, seeing Ivy, informed her that Mr. Clerron was in the garden, and desired
                  her to come out. Ivy immediately followed Mrs. Simm into the garden. On the south
                  side of the house was a piazza two stories high. Along the pillars which supported
                  it a trellis-work had been constructed, reaching several feet above the roof of
                  the piazza. About this climbed a vigorous grape-vine, which not only completely
                  screened nearly the whole front of the piazza, but, reaching the top of the
                  trellis, shot across, by the aid of a few pieces of fine wire, and overran a part
                  of the roof of the house. Thus the roof of the piazza was the floor of a beautiful
                  apartment, whose walls and ceiling were broad, rustling, green leaves, among which
                  drooped now innumerable heavy clusters of rich purple grapes.
               From behind this leafy wall a well-known voice cried, "All hail, my twining vine!"
                  Ivy turned and looked up, with the uncertain, inquiring smile we often wear when
                  conscious that, though unseeing, we are not unseen; and presently two hands parted
                  the leaves far enough for a very sunshiny smile to gleam down on the upturned
                  face.
               "O, I wish I could come up there!" cried Ivy, clasping her hands with childish
                  eagerness.
               "The wish is father to the deed."
               "May I?"
               "Be sure you may."
               "But how shall I get in?"
               "Are you afraid to come up the ladder?"
               "No, I don't mean that; but how shall I get in where you are, after I am up?"
               "O, never fear! I'll draw you in safely enough."
               "Lorful heart! Miss Ivy, what are you going to do?" cried Mrs. Simm, in
                  terror.
               Ivy was already on the third round of the ladder, but she stopped and answered,
                  hesitatingly,—
               "He said I might."
               "He said you might, yes," continued Mrs. Simm,—talking to Ivy, but
                     at Mr. Clerron, with whom she hardly dared to remonstrate in a
                  more direct way. "And if he said you might throw yourself down Vineyard Cliff, it
                  don't follow that you are bound to do it. He goes into all sorts of haphazard
                  scrapes himself, but you can't follow him."
               "But it looks so nice up there," pleaded Ivy, "and I have been twice as high at
                  home. I don't mind it at all."
               "If your father chooses to let you run the risk of your life, it's none of my
                  lookout, but I a'n't going to have you breaking your neck right under my nose. If
                  you want to get up there, I'll show you
                  the way in the house, and you can step right out of the window. Just wait till
                  I've told Ellen about the dinner."
               As Mrs. Simm disappeared, Mr. Clerron said softly to Ivy, "Come!"—and in a moment
                  Ivy bounded up the ladder and through an opening in the vine, and stood by his
                  side.
               "I 'm ready now, Miss Ivy," said Mrs. Simm, reappearing. "Miss Ivy! Where is the
                  child?"
               A merry laugh greeted her.
               "O, you good-for-nothing!" cried the good-natured old housekeeper, "you 'll never
                  die in your bed."
               "Not for a good while, I hope," answered Mr. Clerron.
               Then he made Ivy sit down by him, and took from the great basket the finest
                  cluster of grapes.
               "Is that reward enough for coming?"
               "Coming into so beautiful a place as this is like what you read yesterday about
                  poetry to Coleridge, 'its own exceeding great reward.'"
               "And you don't want the grapes?"
               "I don't know that I have any intrinsic objection to them as a free gift. It was
                  only the principle that I opposed."
               "Very well, we will go shares, then. You may have half for the free gift, and I
                  will have half for the principle. Little tendril, you look as fresh as the
                  morning."
               "Don't I always?"
               "I should say there was a little more dew than usual. Stand up and
                  let me survey you, if perchance I may discover the cause."
               Ivy rose, made a profound courtesy, and then turned slowly around, after the
                  manner of the revolving fashion-figures in a milliner's window.
               "I don't know," continued Mr. Clerron, when Ivy, after a couple of revolutions,
                  resumed her seat. "You seem to be the same. I think it must be the frock."
               "I don't wear a frock. I don't think it would improve my style of beauty if I did.
                  Papa wears one sometimes."
               "And what kind of a frock, pray, does 'papa' wear?"
               "O, a horrid blue thing. Comes about down to his knees. Made of some kind of
                  woollen stuff. Horrid!"
               "And what name do you give to that white thing with blue sprays in it?"
               "This?"
               "Yes."
               "This is a dress."
               "No. This, and your collar, and hat, and shoes, and sash are your dress. This is a
                  frock."
               Ivy shook her head doubtfully.
               "You know a great deal, I know."
               "So you informed me once before."
               "O, don't mention that!" said Ivy, blushing, and quickly added, "Do you know I
                  have discovered the reason why you like me this morning?"
               "And every morning."
               "Sir?"
               "Go on. What is the reason?"
               "It is because I clear-starched and ironed it myself with my owny-dony hands; and
                  that, you know, is the reason it looks nicer than usual."
               "Ah me! I wish I wore dresses."
               "You can, if you choose, I suppose. There is no one to hinder you."
               "Simpleton! that is not what you were intended to say. You should have asked the
                  cause of so singular a wish, and then I had a pretty little speech all ready for
                  you,—a veritable compliment."
               "It is well I did not ask, then. Mamma does not approve of compliments, and
                  perhaps it would have made me vain."
               "Incorrigible! Why did you not ask me what the speech was, and thus give me an
                  opportunity to relieve myself. Why, a body might die of a plethora of flattery, if
                  he had nobody but you to discharge it against."
               "He must take care, then, that the supply does not exceed the demand."
               
               "Political economy, upon my word! What shall we have next?"
               "Domestic, I suppose you would like. Men generally, indeed, prefer it to the
                  other, I am told."
               "Ah, Ivy, Ivy! little you know about men, my child!"
               He leaned back in his seat and was silent for some minutes. Ivy did not care to
                  interrupt his thinking. Presently he said,—
               "Ivy, how old are you?"
               "I shall be seventeen the last day of this month."
               A short pause.
               "And then eighteen."
               "And then nineteen."
               "And then twenty. In three years you will be twenty."
               "Horrid old, is n't it?"
               He turned his head, and looked down upon her with what Ivy thought a curious kind
                  of smile, but only said,—
               "You must not say 'horrid' so much."
               By and by Ivy grew rather tired of sitting silent and watching the rustle of the
                  leaves, which hid every other prospect; she turned a little so that she could look
                  at him. He sat with folded arms, looking straight ahead; and she thought his face
                  wore a troubled expression. She felt as if she would like very much to smooth out
                  the wrinkles in his forehead and run her fingers through his hair, as she
                  sometimes did for her father. She had a great mind to ask him if she should; then
                  she reflected that it might make him nervous. Then she wondered if he had
                  forgotten her lessons, and how long they were to sit there. Determined, at length,
                  to have a change of some kind, she said, softly,—
               "Mr. Clerron!"
               He roused himself suddenly, and stood up.
               "I thought, perhaps, you had a headache."
               "No, Ivy. But this is not climbing the hill of science, is it?"
               "Not so much as it is climbing the piazza."
               "Suppose we take a vacation to-day, and investigate the state of the
                  atmosphere?"
               "Yes, sir, I am ready."
               Ivy did not fully understand the nature of his proposition; but if he had proposed
                  to "put a girdle round the earth in forty minutes," she would have said and acted,
                  "Yes, sir, I am ready," just the same.
               He took up the basket of grapes which he had gathered, and led the way through the
                  window, down-stairs. Ivy waited for him at the hall-door, while he carried the
                  grapes to Mrs. Simm; then he joined her again and proposed to walk through the
                  woods a little while, before Ivy went home.
               "You must know, my docile pupil, that I am going to the city to-morrow, on
                  business, to be gone a week or two. So, as you must perforce take a vacation then,
                  why, we may as well begin to vacate to-day, and enjoy it."
               "I am sorry you are going away."
               "You are? That is almost enough to pay me for going. Why are you sorry?"
               "Because I shall not see you for a week; and I have become so used to you, that
                  somehow I don't seem to know what to do with a day without you; and then the cars
                  may run off the track and kill you or hurt you, or you may get the small-pox, or a
                  great many things may happen."
               "And suppose some of these terrible things should happen,—the last, for
                  instance,—what would you do?"
               "I? I should advise you to send for the doctor at once."
               Mr. Clerron laughed.
               "So you would not come and nurse me, and take care of me, and get me well
                  again?"
               "No, because I should then be in danger of taking it myself and giving it to papa
                  and mamma; besides, they would not let me, I am quite sure."
               "So you love your papa and mamma better than—"
               He stopped abruptly. Ivy finished for him.
               "Better than words can tell. Papa particularly. Mamma, somehow, seems strong of
                  herself, and does n't depend upon me; but papa,—O, you don't know how he is to
                     me! I think, if I should die, he
                  would die of grief. I have, I cannot help having, a kind of pity for him, he loves
                  me so."
               "Do you always pity people, when they love you very much?"
               "O no! of course not. Besides, nobody loves me enough to be pitied, except
                  papa.—Is n't it pleasant here? How very green it is! It looks just like summer. O
                  Mr. Clerron, did you see the clouds this morning?"
               "There were none when I arose."
               "Why, yes, sir, there was a great heap of them at sunrise."
               "I am not prepared to contradict you."
               "Perhaps you were not up at sunrise."
               "I have an impression to that effect."
               He smiled so comically, that Ivy could not help saying, though she was half afraid
                  he might not be pleased,—
               "I wonder whether you are an early riser."
               "Yes, my dear, I consider myself tolerably early. I believe I have been up every
                  morning but one, this week, by nine o'clock."
               Ivy was horror-struck. Her country ideas of "early to bed and early to rise"
                  received a great shock, as her looks plainly showed. He laughed gayly at her
                  amazed face.
               "You don't seem to appreciate me, Miss Geer."
               "'Nine o'clock'!" repeated Ivy, slowly,—"'every morning but one'! and it is
                  Tuesday to-day."
               "Yes, but you know yesterday was a dark, cloudy day, and excellent for
                  sleeping."
               "But, Mr. Clerron, then you are not more than fairly up when I come. And when do
                  you write?"
               "Always in the evening."
               "But the evenings are so short,—or have been."
               "Mine are not particularly so. From six to three is about long enough for one
                  sitting."
               "I should think so. And you must be so tired!"
               "Not so tired as you think. You, now, rising at five or six, and running round all
                  day, become so tired that you have to go to bed by nine; of course you have no
                  time for reflection and meditation. I, on the contrary, take life easily,—write in
                  the night, when everything is still and quiet,—take my sleep when all the noise of
                  the world's waking-up is going on,—and after creation is fairly settled for the
                  day, I rise leisurely, breakfast leisurely, take a smoke leisurely, and leisurely
                  wait the coming of my little pupil."
               "Mr. Clerron!"
               "Well!"
               "May I tell you another thing I don't like in you? a bad habit?"
               "As many as you please, provided you won't require me to reform."
               "What is the use of telling it, then?"
               "But it may be a relief to you. You will have the satisfaction arising from doing
                  your duty. We shall exchange opinions, and perhaps come to a better understanding.
                  Go on."
               "Well, sir, I wish you did not smoke so much."
               "I don't smoke very much, little Ivy."
               "I wish you would not at all. Mamma thinks it is very injurious, and wrong, even.
                  And papa says cigars are bad things."
               "Some of them are outrageous. But, my dear, granting your father and mother and
                  yourself to be right, don't you see I am doing more to extirpate the evil than
                  you, with all your principle? I exterminate, destroy, and ruin them at the rate of
                  three a day; while you, I venture to say, never lifted a finger or lighted a spark
                  against them."
               "Now, sir, that is only a way of slipping round the question. And I really wish
                  you did not. Before I knew you, I thought it was almost as bad to smoke as it was
                  to steal. I know, however, now, that it cannot be; still—"
               "Feminine logic."
               "I have not studied Logic yet; still, as I was going to say, sir, I don't like to
                  think of you as being in a kind of subjection to anything."
               
               "Ivy, seriously, I am not in subjection to a cigar. I often don't smoke for months
                  together. To prove it, I promise you I won't smoke for the next two months."
               "O, I am so glad! O, I am so much obliged to you! And you are not in the least
                  vexed that I spoke to you about it?"
               "Not in the least."
               "I was afraid you would be. And one thing more, sir, I have been afraid of, the
                  last few days. You know when I first knew you, or before I knew you, I supposed
                  you did nothing but walk round and enjoy yourself all day. But now I know you do
                  work very hard; and I have feared that you could not well spare two hours every
                  day for me,—particularly in the morning, which are almost always considered the
                  best. But if you like to write in the evening, you would just as soon I would come
                  in the morning?"
               "Certainly."
               "But if two hours are too much, I hope you won't, at any time, hesitate to tell
                  me. I have no claim on a moment,—only—"
               "My dear Ivy Geer, pupil and friend, be so good as to understand, henceforth, that
                  you cannot possibly come into my house at any time when you are not wanted; nor
                  stay any longer than I want you; nor say anything that will not please me;—well, I
                  am not quite sure about that;—but, at least, remember that I am always glad to see
                  you, and teach you, and have you with me; and that I can never hope to do you as
                  much good as you do me every day of your blessed life."
               "O Mr. Clerron!" exclaimed Ivy, with a great gush of gratitude and happiness; "do
                  I, can I, do you any good?"
               "You do and can, my tendril! You supply an element that was wanting in my life.
                  You make every day beautiful to me. The flutter of your robes among these trees
                  brings sunshine into my heart. Every morning I walk in my garden as soon as I am,
                  as you say, fairly up, till I see you turn into the lane; and every day I watch
                  you till you disappear appear. You are fresh and truthful and natural, and you
                  give me new life. And now, my dear little trembling benefactor, because we are
                  nearly through the woods, I can go no farther with you; and because I am going
                  away tomorrow, not to see you again for a week, and because I hope you will be a
                  little lonesome while I am gone, why, I think I must let you—kiss me!"
               Ivy had been looking intently into his face, with an expression, at first, of the
                  most beaming, tearful delight, then gradually changing into waiting wonder; but
                  when his sentence finally closed, she stood still, scarcely able to comprehend. He
                  placed his hands on her temples, and, smiling involuntarily at her blushes and
                  embarrassment, half in sport and half in tenderness, bent her head a little back,
                  touched brow, cheeks, and lips, whispered softly, "Go now! God bless you for ever
                  and ever, my darling!" and, turning walked hastily down the winding path. As for
                  Ivy, she went home in a dream, blind and stunned with a great joy.
               The week of Mr. Clerron's absence passed away more quickly than Ivy had supposed
                  it would. The reason for this may be found in the fact that her thoughts were very
                  busily occupied. She was more silent than usual, so much so that her father one
                  day said to her,—"Ivy, I haven't heard you sing this long while, and seems to me
                  you don't talk either. What's the matter?"
               "Do I look as if anything was the matter?" and the face she turned upon him was so
                  radiant, that even the father's heart was satisfied.
               Very quietly happy was Ivy to think she was of service to Mr. Clerron, that she
                  could give him pleasure,—though she could in no wise understand how it was. She
                  went over every event since her acquaintance with him; she felt how much he had
                  done for her, and how much he had been to her; but she sought in vain to discover
                  how she had been of any use to him. She only knew that she was the most ignorant
                  and insignificant girl in the whole world, and that he was the best and greatest
                  man. As this was very nearly the same
                  conclusion at which she had arrived at an early period of their acquaintance, it
                  cannot be said that her week of reflection was productive of any very valuable
                  results.
               The day before Mr. Clerron's expected return, Ivy sat down to prepare her lessons,
                  and for the first time remembered that she had left her books in Mr. Clerron's
                  library. She was not sorry to have so good an excuse for visiting the familiar
                  room, though its usual occupant was not there to welcome her. Very quietly and
                  joyfully happy, she trod slowly along the path through the woods where she last
                  walked with Mr. Clerron. She was, indeed, at a loss to know why she was so calm.
                  Always before, a sudden influx of joy testified itself by very active
                  demonstrations. She was quite sure that she had never in her life been so happy as
                  now; yet she never had felt less disposed to leap and dance and sing. The
                  non-solution of the problem, however, did not ruffle her serenity. She was content
                  to accept the facts, and await patiently the theory.
               Arriving at the house, she went, as usual, into the library without ringing,—but,
                  not finding the books, proceeded in search of Mrs. Simm. That notable lady was
                  sitting behind a huge pile of clean clothes, sorting and mending to her heart's
                  content. She looked up over her spectacles at Ivy's bright "good morning," and
                  invited her to come in. Ivy declined, and begged to know if Mrs. Simm had seen her
                  books. To be sure she had, like the good housekeeper that she was. "You'll find
                  them in the book-case, second shelf; but, Miss Ivy, I wish you would come in, for
                  I've had something on my mind that I've felt to tell you this long while."
               Ivy came in, took the seat opposite Mrs. Simm, and waited for her to speak; but
                  Mrs. Simm seemed to be in no hurry to speak. She dropped her glasses; Ivy picked
                  them up and handed them to her. She muttered something about the destructive
                  habits of men, especially in regard to buttons; and presently, as if determined to
                  come to the subject at once, abruptly exclaimed,—
               "Miss Ivy, you're a real good girl, I know, and as innocent as a lamb. That's why
                  I'm going to talk to you as I do. I know, if you were my child, I should want
                  somebody to do the same by you."
               Ivy could only stare in blank astonishment. After a moment's pause, Mrs. Simm
                  continued,—
               "I've seen how things have been going on for some time; but my mouth was shut,
                  though my eyes were open. I didn't know but maybe I'd better speak to your mother
                  about it; but then, thinks I to myself, she'll think it is a great deal worse than
                  it is, and then, like enough, there'll be a rumpus. So I concluded, on the whole,
                  I'd just tell you what I thought; and I know you are a sensible girl and will take
                  it all right. Now you must promise me not to get mad."
               "No," gasped Ivy.
               "I like you a sight. It's no flattery, but the truth, to say I think you're as
                  pretty-behaved a girl as you'll find in a thousand. And all the time you've been
                  here, I never have known you to do a thing you hadn't ought to. And Mr. Clerron
                  thinks so too, and there's the trouble. You see, dear, he's a man, and men go on
                  their ways and like women, and talk to them, and sort of bewitch them, not meaning
                  to do them any hurt,—and enjoy their company of an evening, and go about their own
                  business in the morning, and never think of it again; but women stay at home, and
                  brood over it, and think there's something in it, and build a fine air-castle,—and
                  when they find it's all smoke, they mope and pine and take on. Now that's what I
                  don't want you to do. Perhaps you'd think I'd better have spoken with Mr. Clerron;
                  but it wouldn't signify the head of a pin. He'd either put on the Clerron look and
                  scare you to death and not say a word, or else he'd hold it up in such a
                  ridiculous way as to make you think it was ridiculous yourself. And I thought I'd
                  put you on your guard a little, so as you needn't fall in love with him. You'll
                  like him, of course. He likes you; but a young girl like you might make a mistake, if she was ever
                  so modest and sweet,—and nobody could be modester or sweeter than you,—and think a
                  man loved you to marry you, when he only pets and plays with you. Not that Mr.
                  Clerron means to do anything wrong. He'd be perfectly miserable himself, if he
                  thought he'd led you on. There ain't a more honorable man every way in the whole
                  country. Now, Miss Ivy, it's all for your good I say this. I don't find fault with
                  you, not a bit. It's only to save you trouble in store that I warn you to look
                  where you stand, and see that you don't lose your heart before you know it. It's
                  an awful thing for a woman, Miss Ivy, to get a notion after a man who hasn't got a
                  notion after her. Men go out and work and delve and drive, and forget; but there
                  ain't much in darning stockings and making pillow-cases to take a woman's thought
                  off her troubles, and sometimes they get sp'iled for life."
               Ivy had remained speechless from amazement; but when Mrs. Simm had finished, she
                  said, with a sudden accession of womanly dignity that surprised the good
                  housekeeper,—
               "Mrs. Simm, I cannot conceive why you should speak in this way to me. If you
                  suppose I am not quite able to take care of myself, I assure you you are very much
                  mistaken."
               "Lorful heart! Now, Miss Ivy, you promised you wouldn't be mad."
               "And I have kept my promise. I am not mad."
               "No, but you answer up short like, and that isn't what I thought of you, Ivy
                  Geer."
               Mrs. Simm looked so disappointed that Ivy took a lower tone, and at any rate she
                  would have had to do it soon; for her fortitude gave way, and she burst into a
                  flood of tears. She was not, by any means, a heroine, and could not put on the
                  impenetrable mask of a woman of the world.
               "Now, dear, don't be so distressful, dear, don't!" said Mrs. Simm, soothingly. "I
                  can't bear to see you."
               "I am sure I never thought of such a thing as falling in love with Mr. Clerron or
                  anybody else," sobbed Ivy, "and I don't know what should make you think so."
               "Dear heart, I don't think so. I only told you, so you needn't."
               "Why, I should as soon think of marrying the angel Gabriel!"
               "O, don't talk so, dear; he's no more than man, after all; but still, you know,
                  he's no fit match for you. To say nothing of his being older, and all that, I
                  don't think it's the right place for you. Your father and mother are very nice
                  folks; I am sure nobody could ask for better neighbors, and their good word is in
                  everybody's mouth; and they've brought you up well, I am sure; but, my dear, you
                  know it's nothing against you nor them that you ain't used to splendor, and you
                  wouldn't take to it natural like. You'd get tired of that way of life, and want to
                  go back to the old fashions, and you'd most likely have to leave your father and
                  mother; for it's noways probable Mr. Clerron will stay here always; and when he
                  goes back to the city, think what a dreary life you'd have betwixt his two proud
                  sisters, on the one hand,—to be sure, there's no reason why they should be; their
                  gran'ther was a tailor, and their grandma was his apprentice, and he got rich, and
                  gave all his children learning; and Mr. Felix's father, he was a lawyer, and he
                  got rich by speculation, and so the two girls always had on their high-heeled
                  boots; but Mr. Clerron, he always laughs at them, and brings up "the
                  grand-paternal shop," as he calls it, and provokes them terribly, I know. Well,
                  that's neither here nor there; but, as I was saying, here you'll have them on the
                  one side, and all the fine ladies on the other, and a great house and servants,
                  and parties to see to, and, lorful heart! Miss Ivy, you'd die in three years; and
                  if you know when you're well off, you'll stay at home, and marry and settle down
                  near the old folks. Believe me, my dear, it's a bad thing both for the man and the
                  woman, when she marries above her."
               
               "Mrs. Simm," said Ivy, rising, "will you promise me one thing?"
               "Certainly, child, if I can."
               "Will you promise me never again to mention this thing to me, or allude to it in
                  the most distant manner?"
               "Miss Ivy, now,"—began Mrs. Simm, deprecatingly.
               "Because," interrupted Ivy, speaking very thick and fast, "you cannot imagine how
                  disagreeable it is to me. It makes me feel ashamed to think of what you have said,
                  and that you could have thought it even. I suppose—indeed, I know—that you did it
                  because you thought you ought; but you may be certain that I am in no danger from
                  Mr. Clerron, nor is there the slightest probability that his fortune, or honor, or
                  reputation, or sisters will ever be disturbed by me. I am very much obliged to you
                  for your good intentions, and I wish you good morning."
               "Don't, now, Miss Ivy, go so—"
               But Miss Ivy was gone, and Mrs. Simm could only withdraw to her pile of clothes,
                  and console herself by stitching and darning with renewed vigor. She felt rather
                  uneasy about the result of her morning's work, though she had really done it from
                  a conscientious sense of duty.
               "Welladay," she sighed, at last, "she'd better be a little cut up and huffy now,
                  than to walk into a ditch blindfolded; and I wash my hands of whatever may happen
                  after this. I've had my say and done my part."
               Alas, Ivy Geer! The Indian summer day was just as calm and beautiful,—the far-off
                  mountains wore their veil of mist just as aerially,—the brook rippled over the
                  stones with just as soft a melody; but what "discord on the music" had fallen!
                  what "darkness on the glory"! A miserable, dull, dead weight was the heart which
                  throbbed so lightly but an hour before. Wearily, drearily, she dragged herself
                  home. It was nearly sunset when she arrived, and she told her mother she was tired
                  and had the headache, which was true,—though, if she had said heartache, it would
                  have been truer. Her mother immediately did what ninety-nine mothers out of a
                  hundred would do in similar circumstances,—made her swallow a cup of strong tea,
                  and sent her to bed. Alas, alas that there are sorrows which the strongest tea
                  cannot assuage!
               When the last echo of her mother's footstep died on the stairs, and Ivy was alone
                  in the darkness, the tide of bitterness and desolation swept unchecked over her
                  soul, and she wept tears more passionate and desponding than her life had ever
                  before known,—tears of shame and indignation and grief. It was true that the
                  thought which Mrs. Simm had suggested had never crossed her mind before; yet it is
                  no less true, that, all-unconsciously, she had been weaving a golden web, whose
                  threads, though too fine and delicate even for herself to perceive, were yet
                  strong enough to entangle her life in their meshes. A secret chamber, far removed
                  from the noise and din of the world,—a chamber whose soft and rose-tinted light
                  threw its radiance over her whole future, and within whose quiet recesses she
                  loved to sit alone and dream away the hours,—had been rudely entered, and thrown
                  violently open to the light of day, and Ivy saw with dismay how its pictures had
                  become ghastly and its sacredness was defiled. With bitter, though needless and
                  useless self-reproach, she saw how she had suffered herself to be fascinated.
                  Sorrowfully, she felt that Mrs. Simm's words were true, and a great gulf lay
                  between her and him. She pictured him moving easily and gracefully and naturally
                  among scenes which to her inexperienced eye were grand and stately; and then, with
                  a sharp pain, she felt how constrained and awkward and entirely unfit for such a
                  life was she. Then her thoughts reverted to her parents,—their unchanging love,
                  their happiness depending on her, their solicitude and watchfulness,—and she felt
                  as if ingratitude were added to her other sins, that she could have so attached
                  herself to any other. And again came back the bitter, burning agony of shame that
                  she had done the very thing that Mrs. Simm too late had warned her not to do; she
                  had been carried away by the kindness
                  and tenderness of her friend, and, unasked, had laid the wealth of her heart at
                  his feet. So the night flushed into morning; and the sun rose upon a pale face and
                  a trembling form,—but not upon a faint heart; for Ivy, kneeling by the couch where
                  her morning and evening prayer had gone up since lisping infancy,—kneeling no
                  longer a child, but a woman, matured through love, matured, alas! through
                  suffering, prayed for strength and comfort; prayed that her parents' love might be
                  rendered back into their own bosoms a hundred-fold; prayed that her friend's
                  kindness to her might not be an occasion of sin against God, and that she might be
                  enabled to walk with a steady step in the path that lay before her. And she arose
                  strengthened and comforted.
               All the morning she lay quiet and silent on the lounge in the little sitting-room.
                  Her mother, busied with household matters, only looked in upon her occasionally,
                  and, as the eyes were always closed, did not speak thinking her asleep. Ivy was
                  not asleep. Ten thousand little sprites flitted swiftly through the chambers of
                  her brain, humming, singing, weeping, but always busy, busy. Then softly came
                  another tread, and she knew her dear old father had drawn a chair close to her,
                  and was looking into her face. Tears came into her eyes, her lip involuntarily
                  quivered, and then she felt the pressure of his—his!—surely that was not her
                  father's kiss! She started up. No, no! that was not her father's face bending over
                  her,—not her father's eyes smiling into hers; but, woe for Ivy! her soul thrilled
                  with a deeper bliss, her heart leaped with a swifter bound, and for a moment all
                  the experience and suffering and resolutions of the last night were as if they had
                  never been. Only for a moment, and then with a strong effort she remembered the
                  impassable gulf.
               "A pretty welcome home you have given me!" said Mr. Clerron, lightly.
               He saw that something was weighing on her spirits, but did not wish to distress
                  her by seeming to notice it.
               "I wait in my library, I walk in my garden, expecting every moment will bring
                  you,—and lo! here you are lying, doing nothing but look pale and pretty as hard as
                  you can."
               Ivy smiled, but did not consider it prudent to speak.
               "I found your books, however, and have brought them to you. You thought you would
                  escape a lesson finely, did you not? But you see I have outwitted you."
               "Yes,—I went for the books yesterday," said Ivy, "but I got talking with Mrs. Simm
                  and forgot them."
               "Ah!" he replied, looking somewhat surprised. "I did not know Mrs. Simm could be
                  so entertaining. She must have exerted herself. Pray, now, if it would not be
                  impertinent, what subject was it that drove everything else from your mind? The
                  best way of preserving apples, I dare swear, or the superiority of pickled grapes
                  to pickled cucumbers."
               "No," said Ivy, with the ghost of another smile,—"we talked upon various subjects;
                  but not those. How do you do, Mr. Clerron? Have you had a pleasant visit to the
                  city?"
               "Very well, I thank you, Miss Geer; and I have not had a remarkably pleasant
                  visit, I am obliged to you. Have I the pleasure of seeing you quite well, Miss
                  Geer,—quite fresh and buoyant?"
               The lightness of tone which he had assumed had precisely the opposite effect
                  intended. 
                     
                        "Ye banks and braes o' bonny Doon,
                        How can ye bloom sae fresh and fair?
                        How can ye chant, ye little birds,
                        And I sae weary fu' o' care?"
                     
                   is the wail of stricken humanity everywhere. And Ivy thought of Mr. Clerron,
                  rich, learned, elegant, happy, on the current of whose life she only floated a
                  pleasant ripple,—and of herself, poor, plain, ignorant, to whom he was the life of
                  life, the all in all. I would not have you suppose this passed through her mind
                  precisely as I have written it. By no
                  means. The ideas rather trooped through in a pellmell sort of way; but they got
                  through just as effectually. Now, if Ivy had been content to let her muscles
                  remain perfectly still, her face might have given no sign of the confusion within;
                  but, with a foolish presumption, she undertook to smile, and so quite lost control
                  of the little rebels, who immediately twisted themselves into a sob. Her whole
                  frame convulsed with weeping and trying not to weep, he forced her gently back on
                  the pillow, and, bending low, whispered softly,—
               "Ivy what is it?"
               "O, don't ask me!—please, don't! Please, go away!" murmured the poor child.
               "I will, my dear, in a minute; but you must think I should be a little anxious. I
                  leave you as gay as a bird, and healthy and rosy,—and when I come back, I find you
                  white and sad and ill. I am sure something weighs on your mind. I assure you, my
                  little Ivy, and you must believe, that I am your true friend,—and if you would
                  confide in me, perhaps I could bring you comfort. It would at least relieve you to
                  let me help you bear the burden."
               The burden being of such a nature, it is not at all probable that Ivy would have
                  assented to his proposition; but the welcome entrance of her mother prevented the
                  necessity of replying.
               "O, you're awake! Well, I told Mr. Clerron he might come in, though I thought you
                  would n't be. Slept well this morning, did n't you, deary, to make up for last
                  night?"
               "No, mamma, I have n't been asleep."
               "Crying, my dear? Well, now, that's a pretty good one! Nervous she is, Mr.
                  Clerron, always nervous, when the least thing ails her; and she did n't sleep a
                  wink last night, which is a bad thing for the nerves,—and Ivy generally sleeps
                  like a top. She walked over to your house yesterday, and when she got home she was
                  entirely beat out,—looked as if she had been sick a week. I don't know why it was,
                  for the walk could n't have hurt her. She's always dancing round at home. I don't
                  think she's been exactly well for four or five days. Her father and I both thought
                  she'd been more quiet like than usual."
               The sudden pang that shot across Ivy's face was not unobserved by Mr. Clerron. A
                  thought came into his mind. He had risen at Mrs. Geer's entrance, and he now
                  expressed his regret for Ivy's illness, and hoped that she would soon be well, and
                  able to resume her studies; and, with a few words of interest and inquiry to Mrs.
                  Geer, took his leave.
               "I wonder if Mrs. Simm has been making mischief!" thought he, as he
                  stalked home rather more energetically than was his custom.
               That unfortunate lady was in her sitting-room, starching muslins, when Mr. Clerron
                  entered. She had surmised that he was gone to the farm, and had looked for his
                  return with a shadow of dread. She saw by his face that something was wrong.
               "Mrs. Simm," he began, somewhat abruptly, but not disrespectfully, "may I beg your
                  pardon for inquiring what Ivy Geer talked to you about, yesterday?"
               "O, good Lord! she ha' n't told you, has she?" cried Mrs. Simm,—her fear of God,
                  for once, yielding to her greater fear of man. The embroidered collar, which she
                  had been vigorously beating, dropped to the floor, and she gazed at him with such
                  terror and dismay in every lineament, that he could not help being amused. He
                  picked up the collar, which, in her perturbation, she had not noticed, and
                  said,—
               "No, she has told me nothing; but I find her excited and ill, and I have reason to
                  believe it is connected with her visit here yesterday. If it is anything relating
                  to me, and which I have a right to know, you would do me a great favor by
                  enlightening me on the subject."
               Mrs. Simm had not a particle of that knowledge in which Young America is so great
                  a proficient, namely, the "knowing how to get out of a scrape." She was,
                     besides, alarmed at the effect of
                  her words on Ivy, supposing nothing less than that the girl was in the last stages
                  of a swift consumption; so she sat down, and, rubbing her starchy hands together,
                  with many a deprecatory "you know," and apologetic "I am sure I thought I was
                  acting for the best," gave, considering her agitation, a tolerably accurate
                  account of the whole interview. Her interlocutor saw plainly that she had acted
                  from a sincere conscientiousness, and not from a meddlesome, mischievous
                  interference; so he only thanked her for her kind interest, and suggested that he
                  had now arrived at an age when it would, perhaps, be well for him to conduct
                  matters, particularly of so delicate a nature, solely according to his own
                  judgment. He was sorry to have given her any trouble.
               "Scissors cuts only what comes between 'em," soliloquized Mrs. Simm, when the door
                  closed behind him. "If ever I meddle with a courting-business again, my name ain't
                  Martha Simm. No, they may go to Halifax, whoever they be, 'fore ever I'll lift a
                  finger."
               It is a great pity that the world generally has not been brought to make the same
                  wise resolution.
               One, two, three, four days passed away, and still Ivy pondered the question so
                  often wrung from man in his bewildered gropings, "What shall I do?" Every day
                  brought her teacher and friend to comfort, amuse, and strengthen. Every morning
                  she resolved to be on her guard, to remember the impassable gulf. Every evening
                  she felt the silken cords drawing tighter and tighter around her soul, and binding
                  her closer and closer to him. She thought she might die, and the thought gave her
                  a sudden joy. Death would solve the problem at once. If only a few weeks or months
                  lay before her, she could quietly rest on him, and give herself up to him and wait
                  in heaven for all rough places to be made plain. But Ivy did not die. Youth and
                  nursing and herb-tea were too strong for her, and the color came back to her cheek
                  and the languor went out from her blue eyes. She saw nothing to be done but to
                  resume her old routine. It would be difficult to say whether she was more glad or
                  sorry at seeming to see this necessity. She knew her danger, and it was very
                  fascinating. She did not look into the far-off future; she only prayed to be kept
                  from day to day. Perhaps her course was wise; perhaps not. But she had to rely on
                  her own judgment alone; and her judgment was founded on inexperience, which is not
                  a trustworthy basis.
               A new difficulty arose. Ivy found that she could not resume her old habits. To be
                  sure, she learned her lessons just as perfectly at home as she had ever done. Just
                  as punctual to the appointed hour, she went to recite them; but no sooner had her
                  foot crossed Mr. Clerron's threshold than her spirit seemed to die within her. She
                  remembered neither words nor ideas. Day after day, she attempted to go through her
                  recitation as usual, and, day after day, she hesitated, stammered, and utterly
                  failed. His gentle assistance only increased her embarrassment. This she was too
                  proud to endure; and, one day, after an unsuccessful effort, she closed the book
                  with a quick, impatient gesture, and exclaimed,—
               "Mr. Clerron, I shall not recite any more!"
               The agitated flush which had suffused her face gave way to paleness. He saw that
                  she was under strong excitement, and quietly replied,—
               "Very well, you need not, if you are tired. You are not quite well yet, and must
                  not try to do too much. We will commence here to-morrow."
               "No, sir,—I shall not recite any more at all."
               "Till to-morrow."
               "Never any more!"
               There was a moment's pause.
               "You must not lose patience, my dear. In a few days you will recite as well as
                  ever. A fine notion, forsooth, because you have been ill, and forgotten a little,
                  to give up studying! And what is to become of my laurels, pray,—all the glory I am
                  to get by your proficiency?"
               
               "I shall study at home just the same, but I shall not recite."
               "Why not?"
               His look became serious.
               "Because I cannot. I do not think it best,—and—and I will not."
               Another pause.
               "Ivy, do you not like your teacher?"
               "No, sir. I hate you!"
               The words seemed to flash from her lips. She sprang up and stood erect before him,
                  her eyes on fire, and every nerve quivering with intense excitement. He was
                  shocked and startled. It was a new phase of her character,—a new revelation. He,
                  too, arose, and walked to the window. If Ivy could have seen the workings of his
                  face, there would have been a revelation to her also. But she was too highly
                  excited to notice anything. He came back to her and spoke in a low voice,—
               "Ivy, this is too much. This I did not expect."
               He laid his hand upon her head as he had often done before. She shook it off
                  passionately.
               "Yes, I hate you. I hate you, because—"
               "Because I wanted you to love me?"
               "No, sir; because I do love you, and you bring me only wretchedness. I have never
                  been happy since the miserable day I first saw you."
               "Then, Ivy, I have utterly failed in what it has been my constant endeavor to
                  do."
               "No, sir, you have succeeded in what you endeavored to do. You have taught me. You
                  have given me knowledge and thought, and showed me the source of knowledge. But I
                  had better have been the ignorant girl you found me. You have taken from me what I
                  can never find again. I have made a bitter exchange. I was ignorant and stupid, I
                  know,—but I was happy and contented; and now I am wretched and miserable and
                  wicked. You have come between me and my home and my father and mother,—between
                  tween me and all the bliss of my past and all my hope for the future."
               "And thus, Ivy, have you come between me and my past and my future;—yet not thus.
                  You shut out from my heart all the sorrow and vexation and strife that have
                  clouded my life, and fill it with your own dear presence. You come between me and
                  my future, because, in looking forward, I see only you. I should have known
                  better. There is a gulf between us; but if I could make you happy—"
               "I don't want you to make me happy. I know there is a gulf between us. I saw it
                  while you were gone. I measured it and fathomed it. I shall not leap across. Stay
                  you on your side quietly; I shall stay as quietly on mine."
               "It is too late for that, Ivy,—too late now. But you are not to blame, my child.
                  Little sunbeam that you are, I will not cloud you. Go shine upon other lives as
                  you have shone upon mine! light up other hearths as you have mine! and I will
                  bless you forever, though mine—"
               He turned away with an expression on his face that Ivy could not read. Her passion
                  was gone. She hesitated a moment, then went to his side and laid her hand softly
                  on his arm. There was a strange moistened gleam in his eyes as he turned them upon
                  her.
               "Mr. Clerron, I do not understand you."
               "My dear, you never can understand me."
               "I know it," said Ivy, with her old humility; "but, at least, I might understand
                  whether I have vexed you."
               "You have not vexed me."
               "I spoke proudly and rudely to you. I was angry, and so unhappy. I shall always be
                  so; I shall never be happy again; but I want you to be, and you do not look as if
                  you were."
               If Ivy had not been a little fool, she would not have spoken so; but she was, so
                  she did.
               "I beg your pardon, little tendril. I was so occupied with my own preconceived ideas that I forgot to
                  sympathize with you. Tell me why or how I have made you unhappy. But I know; you
                  need not. I assure you, however, that you are entirely wrong. It was a prudish and
                  whimsical notion of my good old housekeeper's. You are never to think of it again.
                     I never attributed such a thought or feeling to you."
               "Did you suppose that was all that made me unhappy?"
               "Can there be anything else?"
               "I am glad you think so. Perhaps I should not have been unhappy but for that, at
                  least not so soon; but that alone could never have made me so."
               Little fool again! She was like a chicken thrusting its head into a corner and
                  thinking itself out of danger because it cannot see the danger. She had no notion
                  that she was giving him the least clew to the truth, but considered herself
                  speaking with more than Delphic prudence. She rather liked to coast along the
                  shores of her trouble and see how near she could approach without running aground;
                  but she struck before she knew it.
               Mr. Clerron's face suddenly changed. He took both her hands, and drew her towards
                  him.
               "Ivy, perhaps I have been misunderstanding you. I will at least find out the
                  truth. Ivy, do you know that I love you, that I have loved you almost from the
                  first, that I would gladly here and now take you to my heart and keep you here
                  forever?"
               "I do not know it," faltered Ivy, half beside herself.
               "Know it now, then! I am older than you, and I seem to myself so far removed from
                  you that I have feared to ask you to trust your happiness to my keeping, lest I
                  should lose you entirely; but sometimes you say or do something which gives me
                  hope. My experience has been very different from yours. I am not worthy to clasp
                  your purity and loveliness. Still I would do it if—Tell me, Ivy, does it give you
                  pain or pleasure?"
               Ivy took his hands, as he had before held hers, gazed steadily into his eyes, and
                  said,—
               "Mr. Clerron, are you in earnest? Do you love me?"
               "I am, Ivy. I do love you."
               "How do you love me?"
               "I love you with all the strength and power that God has given me."
               "You do not simply pity me? You have not, because you heard from Mrs. Simm, or
                  suspected, yourself, that I was weak enough to mistake your kindness and
                  nobleness,—you have not in pity resolved to sacrifice your happiness to mine?"
               "No, Ivy,—nothing of the kind. I pity only myself. I reverence you. I think—I have
                  hoped that you loved me as a teacher and friend. I dared not believe you could
                  ever do more; now something within tells me that you can. Can you, Ivy? If the
                  love and tenderness and devotion of my whole life can make you happy, happiness
                  shall not fail to be yours."
               Ivy's gaze never for a moment drooped under his, earnest and piercing though it
                  was.
               "Now I am happy," she said, slowly and distinctly. "Now I am blessed. I can never
                  ask anything more."
               "But I ask something more," he replied, bending forward eagerly. "I ask much more.
                  I want your love. Shall I have it? And I want you."
               "My love?" She blushed slightly, but spoke without hesitation. "Have I not given
                  it,—long, long before you asked it, before you even cared for my friendship? Not
                  love only, but life, my very whole being, centred in you, does now, and will
                  always. Is it right to say this?—But I am not ashamed. I shall always be proud to
                  have loved you, though only to lose you,—and to be loved by you is glory enough
                  for all my future."
               One moment Ivy rested in the arms that clasped her; but as he whispered, "Thus you
                  answer the second question? You give me yourself too?" she hastily freed
                  herself.
               "Never!"
               "Ivy!"
               
               "Never!" more firmly than before.
               "What does this mean?" he said, sternly. "Are you trifling?"
               There was such a frown on his brow as Ivy had never seen. She quailed before
                  it.
               "Do not be angry! Alas! I am not trifling. Life itself is not worth so much as
                  your love. But the impassable gulf is between us just the same."
               "What is it? Who put it there?
               "God put it there. Mrs. Simm showed it to me."
               "Mrs. Simm be—! A prating gossip! Ivy, I told you you were never to mention that
                  again,—never to think of it; and you must obey me."
               "I will try to obey you in that."
               "And very soon you shall promise to obey me in all things. But I will not be hard
                  with you. The yoke shall rest very lightly,—so lightly you shall not feel it. You
                  will not do as much, I dare say. You will make me acknowledge your power every
                  day, dear little vixen! Ivy, why do you draw back? Why do you not come to me?"
               "I cannot come to you, Mr. Clerron, any more. I must go home now, and stay at
                  home."
               "When your home is here, Ivy, stay at home. For the present, don't go. Wait a
                  little."
               "You do not understand me. You will not understand me," said Ivy, bursting into
                  tears. "I must leave you. Don't make the way so difficult."
               "I will make it so difficult that you cannot walk in it. Why do you wish to leave
                  me? Have you not said that you loved me?"
               "It is because I love you that I go. I am not fit for you. I was not made for you.
                  I can never make you happy. I cannot go among your friends, your sisters. I am
                  ignorant. You would be ashamed of me, and then you would not love me; you could
                  not; and I should lose the thing I most value. No, Mr. Clerron,—I would rather
                  keep your love in my own heart and my own home."
               "Ivy, can you be happy without me?"
               "I shall not be without you. My heart is full of lifelong joyful memories. You
                  need not regret me. Yes, I shall be happy. I shall work with mind and hands. I
                  shall not pine away in a mean and feeble life. I shall be strong, and cheerful,
                  and active, and helpful; and I think I shall not cease to love you in heaven."
               "But there is, maybe, a long road for us to travel before we reach heaven, and I
                  want you to help me along. Ivy, I am not so spiritual as you. I cannot live on
                  memory, I want you before me all the time. I want to see you and talk with you
                  every day. Why do you speak of such things? Is it the soul or its surroundings
                  that you value? Do you respect or care for wealth and station? Do
                     you consider a woman your superior because she wears a finer dress
                  than you?"
               "I? No, sir! No, indeed! you very well know. But the world does, and you move in
                  the world; and I do not want the world to pity you because you have an uncouth,
                  ignorant wife. I don't want to be despised by those who are above me
                  only in station."
               "Little aristocrat, you are prouder than I. Will you sacrifice your happiness and
                  mine to your pride?"
               "Proud perhaps I am, but it is not all pride. I think you are noble, but I think
                  also you could not help losing patience when you found that I could not
                  accommodate myself to the station to which you had raised me. Then you would not
                  respect me. I am, indeed, too proud to wish to lose that; and losing your respect,
                  as I said before, I should not long keep your love."
               "But you will accommodate yourself to any station. My dear, you are young, and
                  know so little about this world, which is such a bugbear to you. Why, there is
                  very little that will be greatly unlike this. At first you might be a little
                  bewildered, but I shall be by you all the time, and you shall feel and fear
                  nothing, and gradually you will learn what little you need to know; and most of
                  all, you will be yourself the best and
                  the loveliest of women. Dear Ivy, I would not part with your sweet, unconscious
                  simplicity for all the accomplishments and acquired elegancies of the finest lady
                  in the world." (What men always say.) "You are not ignorant of anything you ought
                  to know, and your ignorance of the world is an additional charm to one who knows
                  so much of its wickedness as I. But we will not talk of it. There is no need. This
                  shall be our home, and here the world will not trouble us."
               "And I cannot give up my dear father and mother. You and your friends—"
               "They are my friends, valued and dear to me, and dearer still they shall be as the
                  parents of my dear little wife—"
               "I was going to say—"
               "But you shall not say it. I utterly forbid you ever to mention it again. You are
                  mine, all my own. Your friends are my friends, your honor my honor, your happiness
                  my happiness henceforth; and what God joins together let not man or woman put
                  asunder."
               "Ah!" whispered Ivy, faintly; for she was yielding, and just beginning to receive
                  the sense of great and unexpected bliss, "but if you should be wrong,—if you
                  should ever repent of this, it is not your happiness alone, but mine, too, that
                  will be destroyed."
               "Ivy, am I a mere school-boy to swear eternal fidelity for a week? Have I not been
                  tossing hither and thither on the world's tide ever since you lay in your cradle,
                  and do I not know my position and my power and my habits and my love? And knowing
                  all this, do I not know that this dear head"—etc., etc., etc., etc.
               But I said I was not going to marry my man and woman, did I not? Nor have I. To be
                  sure, you may have detected premonitory symptoms, but I said nothing about that. I
                  only promised not to marry them, and I have not married them.
               And that is the end of my story.
            
            
               A RAFT THAT NO MAN MADE.
               I AM a soldier: but my tale, this time, is not of war.
               The man of whom the Muse talked to the blind bard of old had grown wise in
                  wayfaring. He had seen such men and cities as the sun shines on, and the great
                  wonders of land and sea; and he had visited the farther countries, whose
                  indwellers, having been once at home in the green fields and under the sky and
                  roofs of the cheery earth, were now gone forth and forward into a dim and shadowed
                  land, from which they found no backward path to these old haunts, and their old
                  loves:— 
                     
                        
                           
                              'Ηέρι καί νεφέλη κεκαλυμμένοι ονδέ ποτ
                                 αντους
                           
                           
                              'Ηέλιος Φαέθων καταδέρκεται
                                 άκτίνεσσιν
                           
                        
                     
                     
                        Od. XI.
                  
               
               At the Charter-House I learned the story of the King of Ithaca, and read it for
                  something better than a task; and since, though I have never seen so many cities
                  as the much-wandering man, nor grown so wise, yet have heard and seen and
                  remembered, for myself, words and things from crowded streets and fairs and shows
                  and wave-washed quays and murmurous market-places, in many lands; and for his
                     Κιμμερίων άνδρήμος,—his people wrapt in cloud
                  and vapor, whom "no glad sun finds with his beams,"—have been borne along a
                  perilous path through thick mists, among the crashing ice of the Upper Atlantic,
                  as well as sweltered upon a Southern sea, and have learned something of men and
                  something of God.
               
               I was in Newfoundland, a lieutenant of Royal Engineers, in Major Gore's time, and
                  went about a good deal among the people, in surveying for Government. One of my
                  old friends there was Skipper Benjie Westham of Brigus, a shortish, stout, bald
                  man, with a cheerful, honest face and a kind voice; and he, mending a caplin-seine
                  one day, told me this story, which I will try to tell after him.
               We were upon the high ground, beyond where the church stands now, and Prudence,
                  the fisherman's daughter, and Ralph Barrows, her husband, were with Skipper Benjie
                  when he began; and I had an hour by the watch to spend. The neighborhood, all
                  about, was still; the only men who were in sight were so far off that we heard
                  nothing from them; no wind was stirring near us, and a slow sail could be seen
                  outside. Everything was right for listening and telling.
               "I can tell 'ee what I sid*
                   myself, sir," said Skipper Benjie. "It is n' like a story that's put down
                  in books: it's on'y like what we planters†
                   tells of a winter's night or sech; but it's feelun, mubbe,
                  an' 'ee won't expect much off a man as could n' never read,—not so much as Bible
                  or Prayer-Book, even."
               
                   *Saw.
               
               
                  †Fishermen.
               
               Skipper Benjie looked just like what he was thought: a true-hearted, healthy man,
                  a good fisherman, and a good seaman. There was no need of any one's saying it. So
                  I only waited till he went on speaking.
               "'T was one time I goed to th' Ice, sir. I never goed but once, an' 't was a'most
                  the first v'yage ever was, ef 't was n' the very first; an' 't was
                  the last for me, an' worse agen for the rest-part o' that crew, that never goed no
                  more! 'T was tarrible sad douns wi' they!"
               This preface was accompanied by some preliminary handling of the caplin-seine,
                  also, to find out the broken places and get them about him. Ralph and Prudence
                  deftly helped him. Then, making his story wait, after this opening, he took one
                  hole to begin at in mending, chose his seat, and drew the seine up to his knee. At
                  the same time I got nearer to the fellowship of the family by persuading the
                  planter (who yielded with a pleasant smile) to let me try my hand at the netting.
                  Prudence quietly took to herself a share of the work, and Ralph alone was
                  unbusied.
               "They calls th' Ice a wicked place,—Sundays an' weekin days all alike; an' to my
                  seemun it's a cruel, bloody place, jes' so well,—but not all thinks alike,
                  surely.—Rafe, lad, mubbe 'ee 'd ruther go down cove-ways, an' overhaul the punt a
                  bit."
               Ralph, who perhaps had stood waiting for the very dismissal that he now got,
                  assented and left us three. Prudence, to be sure, looked after him as if she would
                  a good deal rather go with him than stay; but she stayed, nevertheless, and worked
                  at the seine. I interpreted to myself Skipper Benjie's sending away of one of his
                  hearers by supposing that his son-in-law had often heard his tales; but the
                  planter explained himself:—
               "'Ee sees, sir, I knocked off goun to th' Ice becase 't was sech a tarrible cruel
                  place, to my seemun. They swiles*
                   be so knowun like,—as knowun as a dog, in a manner, an' lovun to their
                  own, like Christens, a'most, more than bastes; an' they 'm got red blood, for all
                  they lives most-partly in water; an' then I found 'em so friendly, when I was
                  wantun friends badly. But I s'pose the swile-fishery's needful; an' I knows, in
                  course, that even Christens' blood 's got to be taken sometimes, when it's bad
                  blood, an' I would n' be childish about they things; on'y,—ef it's me,—when I can
                  live by fishun, I don' want to go an' club an' shoot an' cut an' slash among poor
                  harmless things that 'ould never harm man or 'oman, an' 'ould cry great tears down
                  for pity-sake, an got a sound like a Christen; I 'ould n' like to go a-swilun for
                  gain,—not after beun among 'em, way I was, anyways."
               
                  
                  *Seals.
               
               This apology made it plain that Skipper Benjie was large-hearted hearted enough, or indulgent enough, not to seek to
                  strain others, even his own family, up to his own way in everything; and it might
                  easily be thought that the young fisherman had different feelings about sealing
                  from those that the planter's story was meant to bring out. All being ready, he
                  began his tale again:—
               "I shipped wi' Skipper Isra'l Gooden, from Carbonear: the schooner was the
                  Baccaloue, wi' forty men, all told. 'T was of a Sunday morn'n 'e 'ould sail,
                  twel'th day o' March, wi' another schooner in company,—the Sparrow. There was a
                  many of us was n' too good, but we thowt wrong of 'e's takun the Lord's Day to
                  'e'sself.—Wull, sir, afore I comed 'ome, I was in a great desert country, an'
                  floated on sea wi' a monstrous great raft that no man never made, creakun an'
                  crashun an' groanun an' tumblun an' wastun an' goun to pieces, an' no man on her
                  but me, an' full o' livun things,—dreadful!
               "About a five hours out, 't was, we first sid the blink,*
                   an' comed up wi' th' Ice about off Cape Bonavis'. We fell in wi' it south,
                  an worked up nothe along: but we did n' see swiles for two or three days yet; on'y
                  we was workun along; pokun the cakes of ice away, an' haulun through wi' main
                  strength sometimes, holdun on wi' bights o' ropes out o' the bow; an' more times,
                  agen, in clear water: sometimes mist all round us, 'ee could n' see the ship's
                  len'th, sca'ce; an' more times snow, jes' so thick; an' then a gale o' wind,
                  mubbe, would a'most blow all the spars out of her, seemunly.
               
                  
                  *A dull glare on the horizon, from the immense masses of ice.
               
               "We kep' sight o' th' other schooner, most-partly; an' when we didn' keep it, we'd
                  get it agen. So one night 't was a beautiful moonlight night: I think I never sid
                  a moon so bright as that moon was; an' such lovely sights a body 'ould n' think
                  could be!. Little islands, an' bigger, agen, there was, on every hand, shinun so
                  bright, wi' great, awful-lookun shadows! an' then the sea all black, between! They
                  did look so beautiful as ef a body could go an' bide on em, in a manner; an' the
                  sky was jes' so blue, an' the stars all shinun out, an' the moon all so bright! I
                  never looked upon the like. An' so I stood in the bows; an' I don't know ef I
                  thowt o' God first, but I was thinkun o' my girl that I was troth-plight wi' then,
                  an' a many things, when all of a sudden we comed upon the hardest ice we'd a-had;
                  an' into it; an' then, wi' pokun an' haulun, workun along. An' there was a cry
                  goed up,—like the cry of a babby, 't was, an' I thowt mubbe 't was a somethun had
                  got upon one o' they islands; but I said, agen, 'How could it?' an' one John
                  Harris said'e thowt 't was a bird. Then another man (Moffis 'e's name was) started
                  off wi' what they calls a gaff, ('t is somethun like a short boat-hook,) over the
                  bows, an' run; an' we sid un strike, an' strike, an' we hard it go wump! wump! an'
                  the cry goun up so tarrible feelun, seemed as ef 'e was murderun some poor wild
                  Inden child 'e'd a-found, (on'y mubbe 'e would n' do so bad as that: but there 've
                  a-been tarrible bloody, cruel work wi' Indens in my time,) an' then 'e comed back
                  wi' a white-coat*
                   over 'e's shoulder; an' the poor thing was n' dead, but cried an' soughed
                   like any poor little babby."
               
                      *A young seal.
                   
               The young wife was very restless at this point, and, though she did not look up, I
                  saw her tears. The stout fisherman smoothed out the net a little upon his knee,
                  and drew it in closer, and heaved a great sigh: he did not look at his
                  hearers.
               "When 'e throwed it down, it walloped, an' cried, an' soughed,—an' its poor eyes
                  blinded wi' blood! ('Ee sees, sir," said the planter, by way of excusing his
                  tenderness, "they swiles were friends to I, after.) Dear, O dear! I could n' stand
                  it; for 'e might ha' killed un; an' so 'e goes for a quart o' rum,
                  for fetchun first swile, an' I went an' put the poor thing out o' pain. I did n'
                  want to look at they beautiful islands no more, somehow. Bumby it comed on thick,
                  an' then snow.
               "Nex' day swiles bawlun†
                   every way, poor things!(I
                  
                     
                     †Technical word for the crying of the seals.
                  
                  
                  knowed their voice, now,) but 't was blowun a gale o' wind, an' we under bare
                  poles, an' snow comun agen, so fast as ever it could come: but out the men 'ould
                  go, all mad like, an' my watch goed, an' so I mus' go. (I did n' think what I was
                  goun to!) The skipper never said no; but to keep near the schooner, an' fetch in
                  first we could, close by; an' keep near the schooner.
               "So we got abroad, an' the men that was wi' me jes began to knock right an' left:
                  't was heartless to see an' hear it. They laved two old uns an' a young whelp to
                  me, as they runned by. The mother did cry like a Christen, in a manner, an' the
                  big tears 'ould run down, an' they 'ould both be so brave for the poor whelp that
                  'ould cuddle up an' cry; an' the mother looked this way an' that way, wi' big,
                  pooty, black eyes, to see what was the manun of it, when they 'd never doned any
                  harm in God's world that 'E made, an' would n', even ef you killed 'em: on'y the
                  poor mother baste ketched my gaff, that I was goun to strike wi', betwixt her
                  teeth an' I could n' get it away. 'T was n' like fishun! (I was weak hearted like:
                  I s'pose 't was wi' what was comun that I did n' know.) Then comed a hail, all of
                  a sudden, from the schooner; (we had n' been gone mor n' a five minutes, ef 't was
                  so much,—no, not mor'n a three:) but I was glad to hear it come then, however: an'
                  so every man ran, one afore t' other. There the schooner was, tearun through all,
                  an' we runnun for dear life. I falled among the slob,*
                   and got out agen. 'T was another man pushun agen me doned it. I could n'
                  'elp myself from goun in, an' when I got out I was astarn of all, an' there was
                  the schooner carryun on, right through to clear water! So, hold of a bight o'
                  line, or anything! an' they swung up in over bows an' sides! an' swash! she struck
                  the water, an' was out o' sight in a minute an' the snow drivun as ef 't would
                  bury her, an' a man laved behind on a pan of ice, an' the great black say two
                  fathom ahead, an' the storm-wind blowun 'im into it!"
               
                  
                  *Broken ice, between large cakes, or against the shore.
               
               The planter stopped speaking. We had all gone along so with the story, that the
                  stout seafarer, as he wrought the whole scene up about us, seemed instinctively to
                  lean back and brace his feet against the ground, and clutch his net. The young
                  woman looked up, this time; and the cold snow-blast seemed to howl through that
                  still summer's noon, and the terrific ice-fields and hills to be crashing against
                  the solid earth that we sat upon, and all things round changed to the far-off
                  stormy ocean and boundless frozen wastes.
               The planter began to speak again:—
               "So I falled right down upon th'ice, sayun, 'Lard, help me! Lard, help me!' an'
                  crawlun away, wi' the snow in my face, (I was afeard, a'most, to stand,) 'Lard,
                  help me! Lard, help me!'
               "'T was n' all hard ice, but many places lolly;*
                   an' once I goed right down wi' my hand-wristès an' my armes in cold water,
                  part-ways to the bottom o' th' ocean; and a'most head-first into un, as I 'd
                  a-been in wi' my legs afore: but, thanks be to God! 'E helped me out of un, but
                  colder an' wetter agen.
                     
                     *Snow in water, not yet frozen, but looking like the white ice.
                  
               "In course I wanted to folly the schooner; so I runned up along, a little ways
                  from the edge, an' then I runned down along; but 't was all great black ocean
                  outside, an' she gone miles an' miles away; an' by two hours' time, even ef she'd
                  come to, itself, an' all clear weather, I could n' never see her; an' ef she could
                  come back, she could n' never find me, more 'n I could find any one o' the flakes
                  o' snow. The schooner was gone, an' I was laved out o' the world!
               "Bumby, when I got on the big field agen, I stood up on my feet, an' I sid that
                  was my ship! She had n' e'er a sail, an' she had n' e'er a spar, an' she had n'
                  e'er a compass, an' she had n' e'er a helm, an' she had n' no hold, an' she hadn'
                  no cabin. I couldn' sail her, nor I could n' steer her, nor I could n' anchor her,
                  nor bring her to, but she would go,
                  wind or calm, an' she'd never come to port, but out in th' ocean she'd go to
                  pieces! I sid 't was so, an' I must take it, an' do my best wi' it. 'T was jest a
                  great, white, frozen raft, driftun bodily away, wi' storm blowun over, an' current
                  runnun under, an' snow comun down so thick, an' a poor Christen laved all alone
                  wi' it. 'T would drift as long as anything was of it, an' 't was n' likely there'd
                  be any life in the poor man by time th' ice goed to nawthun; an' the swiles 'ould
                  swim back agen up to the Nothe!
               "I was th' only one, seemunly, to be cast out alive, an' wi' the dearest maid in
                  the world (so I thought) waitun for me. I s'pose 'ee might ha' knowed somethun
                  better, sir; but I wasn' larned, an' I ran so fast as ever I could up the way I
                  thowt home was, an' I groaned, an' groaned, an' shook my handès, an' then I thowt,
                  'Mubbe I may be goun wrong way.' So I groaned to the Lard to stop the snow. Then I
                  on'y ran this way an' that way, an' groaned for snow to knock off.*
                   I knowed we was driftun mubbe a twenty leagues a day, and anyways I wanted
                  to be doun what I could, keepun up over th' Ice so well as I could,
                  Noofoundland-ways, an' I might come to somethun,—to a schooner or somethun;
                  anyways I 'd get up so near as I could. So I looked for a lee. I s'pose 'ee 'd ha'
                  knowed better what to do, sir," said the planter, here again appealing to me, and
                  showing by his question that he understood me, in spite of my pea-jacket.
               
                  
                  *To stop.
               
               I had been so carried along with his story that I had felt as if I were the man on
                  the Ice myself, and assured him that, though I could get along pretty well on
                  land, and could even do something at netting, I should have been very
                  awkward in his place.
               "Wull, sir, I looked for a lee. ('T would n' ha' been so cold, to say cold, ef it
                  hadn' a-blowed so tarrible hard.) First step, I stumbled upon somethun in the
                  snow, seemed soft, like a body! Then I comed all together, hopun an' fearun an'
                  all together. Down I goed upon my knees to un, an' I smoothed away the snow, all
                  tremblun, an' there was a moan, as ef 't was a-livun.
               "'O Lard!' I said, 'who's this? Be this one of our men?'
               "But how could it? So I scraped the snow away, but 't was easy to see 't was
                  smaller than a man. There was n' no man on that dreadful place but me! Wull, sir,
                  't was a poor swile, wi' blood runnun all under; an' I got my cuffs*
                   an' sleeves all red wi' it. It looked like a fellow-creatur's blood,
                  a'most, an' I was a lost man, left to die away out there in th' Ice, an' I said,
                  'Poor thing! poor thing!' an' I did n' mind about the wind, or th' ice, or the
                  schooner goun away from me afore a gale (I would n' mind about 'em),
                  an' a poor lost Christen may show a good turn to a hurt thing, ef't was on'y a
                  baste. So I smoothed away the snow wi' my cuffs, an' I sid 't was a poor thing wi'
                  her whelp close by her, an' her tongue out, as ef she 'd a-died fondlun an' lickun
                  it; an' a great puddle o' blood,—it looked tarrible heartless, when I was so nigh
                  to death, an' was n' hungry. An' then I feeled a stick, an' I thowt, 'It may be a
                  help to me,' an' so I pulled un, an' it would n' come, an' I found she was lyun on
                  it so I hauled agen, an', when it comed, 't was my gaff the poor baste had got
                  away from me, an' got it under her, an' she was a-lyun on it. Some o' the men,
                  when they was runnun for dear life, must ha' struck 'em, out o' madness like, an'
                  laved 'em to die where they was. 'T was the whelp was n' quite dead. 'Ee'll think
                  't was foolish, sir, but it seemed as though they was somethun to me, an' I 'd
                  a-lost the last friendly thing there was.
               
                  
                  *Mittens.
               
               "I found a big hummock an' sheltered under it, standun on my feet, wi' nawthun to
                  do but think, an' think, an' pray to God; an' so I doned. I could n' help feelun
                  to God then, surely. Nawthun to do, an' no place to go, tull snow cleared away;
                  but jes' drift wi' the great Ice down from the Nothe, away down over the say, a
                  sixty mile a day, mubbe. I was n' a good Christen, an' I could n' help a-thinkun o' home an' she I was
                  troth-plight wi', an' I doubled over myself an' groaned,—I could n' help it: but
                  bumby it comed into me to say my prayers, an' it seemed as thof she was askun me
                  to pray, (an' she was good, sir, al'ays,) an' I seemed all opened,
                  somehow, an' I knowed how to pray."
               While the words were coming tenderly from the weather-beaten fisherman, I could
                  not help being moved, and glanced over toward the daughter's seat; but she was
                  gone, and, turning round, I saw her going quietly, almost stealthily, and very
                  quickly, toward the cove.
               
               The father gave no heed to her leaving, but went on with his tale:—
               "Then the wind began to fall down, an' the snow knocked off altogether, an' the
                  sun comed out; an' I sid th' Ice, field-ice an' icebargs, an' every one of 'em
                  flashun up as ef they'd kendled up a bonfire, but no sign of a schooner! no sign
                  of a schooner! nor no sign o' man's douns, but on'y ice, every way, high an' low,
                  an' some places black water, in-among; an' on'y the poor swiles bawlun all over,
                  an' I standun amongst 'em.
               "While I was lookun out, I sid a great icebarg (they calls 'em) a quarter of a
                  mile away, or thereabouts, standun up,—one end a twenty fathom out o' water, an'
                  about a forty fathom across, wi' hills like, an' houses,—an' then, jest as ef 'e
                  was alive an' had tooked a notion in 'e'sself, seemunly, all of a sudden 'e rared
                  up, an' turned over an' over, wi' a tarrible thunderun noise, an' comed right on,
                  breakun everything an' throwun up great seas: 't was fright-some for a lone body
                  away out among 'em! I stood an' looked at un, but then agen I thowt I may jes' so
                  well be goun to thick ice an' over Noofoundland-ways a piece, so well as I could.
                  So I said my bit of a prayer, an' told Un I could n' help myself; an' I made my
                  confession how bad I'd been, an' I was sorry, an' ef 'E'd be so pitiful an'
                  forgive me; an' ef I mus' loss my life, ef 'E'd be so good as make me a good
                  Christen first,—an' make they happy, in course.
               "So then I started; an' first I goed to where my gaff was, by the mother-swile an'
                  her whelp. There was swiles every two or three yards a'most, old uns an' young
                  uns, all round, everywhere; an' I feeled shamed in a manner: but I got my gaff,
                  an' cleaned un, an' then, in God's name, I took the big swile, that was dead by
                  its dead whelp, an' hauled it away, where the t' other poor things could n' si'
                  me, an' I sculped*
                   it, an' took the pelt;—for I thowt I'd wear un, now the poor dead thing
                  did n' want to make oose of un no more,—an' partly because 't was sech a lovun
                  thing. An' so I set out, walkun this way, for a spurt, an' then t' other way,
                  keepun up mostly a Nor-norwest, so well as I could: sometimes away round th' open,
                  an' more times round a lump of ice, an' more times, agen, off from one an' on to
                  another, every minute. I did n' feel hungry, for I drinked fresh water off th'
                  ice. No schooner! no schooner!
               
                  *Skinned.
               
               "Bumby the sun was goun down: 't was slow work feelun my way along, an' I did n'
                  want to look about: but then agen I thowt God 'ad made it to be sid; an' so I come
                  to, an' turned all round, an' looked; an' surely it seemed like another world,
                  some way, 't was so beautiful,—yellow, an' different sorts o' red, like the sky
                  itself in a manner, an' flashun like glass. So then it comed night: an' I thowt I
                  should n' go to bed, an' I may forget my prayers, an' so I'd, mubbe, best say 'em
                  right away; an' so I doned: 'Lighten our darkness,' and others we was oosed to
                  say: an' it comed into my mind the Lard said to Saint Peter, 'Why did n' 'ee have
                  faith?' when there was nawthun on the water for un to go on; an' I had ice under
                  foot,—'t was but frozen water, but 't was frozen,—an' I thanked Un.
               "I could n' help thinkun o' Brigus an' them I'd laved in it, an' then I prayed for
                  'em; an' I could n' help cryun, a'most: but then I give over agen, an' would n'
                  think, ef I could help it; on'y tryun to say an odd psalm, all through
                  singun-psalms an' other, for I knowed a many of 'em by singun wi' Patience, on'y now I cared more about
                  'em: I said that one,— 
                     
                        'Sech as in ships an' brickle barks
                        Into the seas descend,
                        Their merchantun, through fearful floods,
                        To compass an' to end:
                        They men are force-put to behold
                        The Lard's works, what they be;
                        An' in the dreadful deep the same
                        Most marvellous they see.'
                     
                   An' I said a many more, (I can't be accountable how many I said,) an' same
                  uns many times over: for I would keep on; an' 'ould sometimes sing 'em very loud
                  in my poor way.
               "A poor baste (a silver fox 'e was) comed an' looked at me; an' when I turned
                  round, he walked away a piece, an' then 'e comed back, an' looked.
               "So I found a high piece, wi' a wall of ice atop for shelter, ef it comed on to
                  blow; an' so I stood, an' said, an' sung. I knowed well I was on'y driftun
                  away.
               "It was tarrible lonely in the night, when night comed: it's no use! 'T was
                  tarrible lonely: but I 'ould n' think, ef I could help it; an' I prayed a bit, an'
                  kep' up my psalms, an' varses out o' the Bible, I 'd a-larned. I had n' a-prayed
                  for sleep, but for wakun all night, an' there I was standun.
               "The moon was out agen, so bright; an' all the hills of ice shinun up to her; an'
                  stars twinklun, so busy, all over; an' No'ther' Lights goun up wi' a faint blaze,
                  seemunly, from th' ice, an' meetun up aloft; an' sometimes a great groanun, an'
                  more times tarrible loud shriekun! There was great white fields, an' great white
                  hills, like countries, comun down to be destroyed; an' some great bargs a-goun
                  faster, an' tearun through, breakun others to pieces; an' the groanun an'
                  screechun,—ef all the dead that ever was, wi' their white clothès—But no!" said
                  the stout fisherman, recalling himself from gazing, as he seemed to be, on the
                  far-off ghastly scene, in memory.
               "No!—an' thank 'E's marcy, I'm sittun by my own room. 'E took me off: but 't was a
                  dreadful sight,—it's no use,—ef a body'd let 'e'sself think! I sid a great black
                  bear, an' hard un growl; an' 't was feelun, like, to hear un so bold an' so stout,
                  among all they dreadful things, an' bumby the time 'ould come when 'e could n'
                  save 'e'sself, do what 'e woul'.
               "An' more times 't was all still: on'y swiles bawlun, all over. Ef it had n'
                  a-been for they poor swiles, how could I stan' it? Many's the one I'd a-ketched,
                  day-time, an' talked to un, an' patted un on the head, as ef they'd a-been dogs by
                  the door, like; an' they'd oose to shut their eyes, an' draw their poor foolish
                  faces together. It seemed neighbor-like to have some live thing.
               "So I kep' awake, sayun an' singun, an' it was n' very cold; an' so—first thing I
                  knowed, I started, an there I was lyun in a heap; an' I must have been asleep, an'
                  did n' know how 't was, nor how long I'd a-been so: an' some sort o' baste started
                  away, an' 'e must have waked me up; I could n' rightly see what 't was, wi'
                  sleepiness: an' then I hard a sound, sounded like breakers; an' that waked me
                  fairly. 'T was like a lee-shore; an' 't was a comfort to think o' land, ef 't was
                  on'y to be wrecked on itself; but I did n' go, an' I stood an' listened to un; an'
                  now an' agen I'd walk a piece, back an' forth, an' back an' forth; an' so I passed
                  a many, many longsome hours, seemunly, tull night goed down tarrible slowly, an'
                  it comed up day o' t' other side: an' there was n' no land; nawthun but great
                  mountains meltun an' breakun up, an' fields wastun away. I sid 't was a rollun
                  barg made the noise like breakers, throwun up great seas o' both sides of un; no
                  sight nor sign o' shore, nor ship, but dazun white,—enough to blind a body,—an' I
                  knowed 't was all floatun away, over the say. Then I said my prayers, an' tooked a
                  drink o' water, an' set out agen for Nor-norwest: 't was all I could do. Sometimes
                  snow, an' more times fair agen; but no sign o' man's things, an' no sign o' land,
                  on'y white ice an' black water; an' ef
                  a schooner was n' into un a'ready, 't wasn' likely they woul', for we was gettun
                  furder an' furder away. Tired I was wi' goun, though I had n' walked more n' a
                  twenty or thirty mile, mubbe, an' it all comun down so fast as I could go up, an'
                  faster, an' never stoppun! 'T was a tarrible long journey up over the driftun ice,
                  at sea! So, then I went on a high bit to wait tull all was done: I thowt 't would
                  be last to melt, an' mubbe, I thowt, 'e may capsize wi' me, when I did n' know
                  (for I don't say I was stouthearted): an' I prayed Un to take care o' them I
                  loved; an' the tears comed. Then I felt somethun tryun to turn me round like, an'
                  it seemed as ef she was doun it, somehow, an' she seemed to be very
                  nigh, somehow, an' I did n' look.
               "After a bit, I got up to look out where most swiles was, for company, while I was
                  livun: an' the first look struck me a'most like a bullet! There I sid a sail!
                     'T was a sail, an' 't was like heaven openun, an' God settun her
                  down there. About three mile away she was, to nothe'ard, in th' Ice.
               "I could ha' sid, at first look, what schooner 't was; but I did n' want to look
                  hard at her. I kep' my peace, a spurt, an' then I runned an' bawled out. 'Glory be
                  to God!' an' then I stopped an' made proper thanks to Un. An' there she was, same
                  as ef I'd a-walked off from her an hour ago! It felt so long as ef I'd been livun
                  years, an' they would n' know me, sca'ce. Somehow I did n' think I could come up
                  wi' her.
               "I started, in the name o' God, wi' all my might, an' went, an' went,—'t was a
                  five mile, wi' goun round,—an' got her, thank God! 'T was n' the Baccaloue, (I sid
                  that long before,) 't was t' other schooner, the Sparrow, repairun damages they'd
                  got day before. So that kep' 'em there, an' I'd a-been took from one an' brought
                  to t' other.
               "I could n' do a hand's turn tull we got into the Bay agen,—I was so clear beat
                  out. The Sparrow kep' her men, an' fotch home about thirty-eight hundred swiles,
                  an' a poor man off th' Ice: but they, poor fellows, that I went out wi' never
                  comed no more; an' I never went agen.
               "I kep' the skin o' the poor baste, sir: that's 'e on my cap."
               When the planter had fairly finished his tale, it was a little while before I
                  could teach my eyes to see the things about me in their places. The slow-going
                  sail, outside, I at first saw as the schooner that brought away the lost man from
                  the Ice; the green of the earth would not, at first, show itself through the white
                  with which the fancy covered it; and at first I could not quite feel that the
                  ground was fast under my feet. I even mistook one of my own men (the sight of whom
                  was to warn me that I was wanted elsewhere) for one of the crew of the schooner
                  Sparrow of a generation ago.
               I got the tale and its scene gathered away, presently, inside my mind, and shook
                  myself into a present association with surrounding things, and took my leave. I
                  went away the more gratified that I had a chance of lifting my cap to a matron,
                  dark-haired and comely, (who, I was sure, at a glance, had once been the maiden of
                  Benjie West-ham's "troth-plight,") and receiving a handsome courtesy in
                  return.
            
            
               
               WHY THOMAS WAS DISCHARGED.
               BRANT Beach is a long promontory of rock and sand, jutting out at an acute angle
                  from a barren portion of the coast. Its farthest extremity is marked by a pile of
                  many-colored, wave-washed bowlders; its junction with the mainland is the site of
                  the Brant House, a watering-place of excellent repute.
               The attractions of this spot are not numerous. There is surf-bathing all along the
                  outer side of the beach, and good swimming on the inner. The fishing is fair; and
                  in still weather, yachting is rather a favorite amusement. Further than this,
                  there is little to be said, save that the hotel is conducted upon liberal
                  principles, and the society generally select.
               But to the lover of Nature,—and who has the courage to avow himself aught
                  else?—the sea-shore can never be monotonous. The swirl and sweep of ever-shifting
                  waters,—the flying mist of foam breaking away into a gray and ghostly distance
                  down the beach,—the eternal drone of ocean, mingling itself with one's talk by day
                  and with the light dance-music in the parlors by night,—all these are active
                  sources of a passive pleasure. And to lie at length upon the tawny sand, watching,
                  through half-closed eyes, the heaving waves, that mount against a dark-blue sky
                  wherein great silvery masses of cloud float idly on, whiter than the sunlit sails
                  that fade and grow and fade along the horizon, while some fair damsel sits close
                  by, reading ancient ballads of a simple metre, or older legends of love and
                  romance,—tell me, my eater of the fashionable lotos, is not this a diversion well
                  worth your having?
               There is an air of easy sociality among the guests at the Brant House, a
                  disposition on the part of all to contribute to the general amusement, that makes
                  a summer sojourn on the beach far more agreeable than in certain larger, more
                  frequented watering-places, where one is always in danger of discovering that the
                  gentlemanly person with whom he has been fraternizing is a faro-dealer, or that
                  the lady who has half fascinated him is Anonyma herself. Still, some consider the
                  Brant rather slow, and many good folk were a trifle surprised when Mr. Edwin
                  Salisbury and Mr. Charles Burnham arrived by the late stage from Wikahasset
                  Station, with trunks enough for two first-class belles, and a most unexceptional
                  man-servant in gray livery, in charge of two beautiful setter-dogs.
               These gentlemen seemed to have imagined that they were about visiting some
                  backwoods wilderness, some savage tract of country, "remote, unfriended,
                  melancholy, slow"; for they brought almost everything with them that men of
                  elegant leisure could require, as if the hotel were but four walls and a roof,
                  which they must furnish with their own chattels. I am sure it took Thomas, the
                  man-servant, a whole day to unpack the awnings, the bootjacks, the game-bags, the
                  cigar-boxes, the guns, the camp-stools, the liquor-cases, the bathing-suits, and
                  other paraphernalia that these pleasure-seekers brought. It must be owned,
                  however, that their room, a large one in the Bachelor's Quarter, facing the sea,
                  wore a very comfortable, sportsmanlike look, when all was arranged.
               Thus surrounded, the young men betook themselves to the deliberate pursuit of idle
                  pleasures. They arose at nine and went down to the shore, invariably returning at
                  ten with one unfortunate snipe, which was preserved on ice, with much ceremony,
                  till wanted. At this rate, it took them a week to shoot a breakfast; but to see
                  them sally forth, splendid in velveteen and corduroy, with top-boots and a complete harness of green cord and
                  patent-leather straps, you would have imagined that all game-birds were about to
                  become extinct in that region. Their dogs, even, recognized this
                  great-cry-and-little-wool condition of things, and bounded off joyously at the
                  start, but came home crest-fallen, with an air of canine humiliation that would
                  have aroused Mr. Mayhew's tenderest sympathies.
               After breakfasting, usually in their room, the friends enjoyed a long and
                  contemplative smoke upon the wide piazza in front of their windows, listlessly
                  regarding the ever-varied marine view that lay before them in flashing breadth and
                  beauty. Their next labor was to array themselves in wonderful morning-costumes of
                  very shaggy English cloth, shiny flasks and field-glasses about their shoulders,
                  and loiter down the beach, to the point and back, making much unnecessary effort
                  over the walk,—a brief mile,—which they spoke of with importance, as their
                  "constitutional." This killed time till bathing-hour, and then came another smoke
                  on the piazza, and another toilet, for dinner. After dinner, a siesta: in the
                  room, when the weather was fresh; when otherwise, in hammocks, hung from the
                  rafters of the piazza. When they had been domiciled a few days, they found it
                  expedient to send home for what they were pleased to term their "crabs" and
                  "traps," and excited the envy of less fortunate guests by driving up and down the
                  beach at a racing gait to dissipate the languor of the after-dinner sleep.
               This was their regular routine for the day,—varied, occasionally, when the tide
                  served, by a fishing-trip down the narrow bay inside the point. For such
                  emergencies, they provided themselves with a sail-boat and skipper, hired for the
                  whole season, and arrayed themselves in a highly nautical rig. The results were,
                  large quantities of sardines and pale sherry consumed by the young men, and a
                  reasonable number of sea-bass and black-fish caught by their skipper.
               There were no regular "hops" at the Brant House, but dancing in a quiet way every
                  evening, to a flute, violin, and violoncello, played by some of the waiters. For a
                  time, Burnham and Salisbury did not mingle much in these festivities, but loitered
                  about the halls and piazzas, very elegantly dressed and barbered, (Thomas was an
                  unrivalled coiffeur,) and apparently somewhat
                     ennuyé.
               
               That two well-made, full-grown, intelligent, and healthy young men should lead
                  such a life as this for an entire summer might surprise one of a more active
                  temperament. The aimlessness and vacancy of an existence devoted to no earthly
                  purpose save one's own comfort must soon weary any man who knows what is the
                  meaning of real, earnest life,—life with a battle to be fought and a victory to be
                  won. But these elegant young gentlemen comprehended nothing of all that: they had
                  been born with golden spoons in their mouths, and educated only to swallow the
                  delicately insipid lotos-honey that flows inexhaustibly from such shining spoons.
                  Clothes, complexions, polish of manner, and the avoidance of any sort of shock,
                  were the simple objects of their solicitude.
               I do not know that I have any serious quarrel with such fellows, after all. They
                  have some strong virtues. They are always clean; and your rough diamond, though
                  manly and courageous as Cœur-de-Lion, is not apt to be scrupulously nice in his
                  habits. Affability is another virtue. The Salisbury and Burnham kind of man bears
                  malice toward no one, and is disagreeable only when assailed by some
                  hammer-and-tongs utilitarian. All he asks is to be permitted to idle away his
                  pleasant life unmolested. Lastly, he is extremely ornamental. We all like to see
                  pretty things; and I am sure that Charley Burnham, in his fresh white duck suit,
                  with his fine, thoroughbred face—gentle as a girl's—shaded by a snowy Panama, his
                  blonde moustache carefully pointed, his golden hair clustering in the most
                  picturesque possible waves, his little red neck-ribbon—the only bit of color in
                  his dress—tied in a studiously careless knot, and his pure, untainted gloves of
                  pearl-gray or lavender, was, if I may
                  be allowed the expression, just as pretty as a picture. And Ned Salisbury was not
                  less "a joy forever," according to the dictum of the late Mr. Keats. He was darker
                  than Burnham, with very black hair, and a moustache worn in the manner the French
                  call triste, which became him, and increased the
                  air of pensive melancholy that distinguished his dark eyes, thoughtful attitudes,
                  and slender figure. Not that he was in the least degree pensive or melancholy, or
                  that he had cause to be; quite the contrary; but it was his style, and he did it
                  well.
               These two butterflies sat, one afternoon, upon the piazza, smoking very large
                  cigars, lost, apparently, in profoundest meditation. Burnham, with his graceful
                  head resting upon one delicate hand, his clear blue eyes full of a pleasant light,
                  and his face warmed by a calm unconscious smile, might have been revolving some 
                     splended
                     splendid
                   scheme of universal philanthropy. The only utterance, however, forced
                  from him by the sublime thoughts that permeated his soul, was the emission of a
                  white rolling volume of fragrant smoke, accompanied by two words:
               "Doocèd hot!"
               Salisbury did not reply. He sat, leaning back, with his fingers interlaced behind
                  his head, and his shadowy eyes downcast, as in sad remembrance of some long-lost
                  love. So might a poet have looked, while steeped in mournfully rapturous
                  day-dreams of remembered passion and severance. So might Tennyson's hero have
                  mused, when he sang,— 
                     
                        "O, that't were possible,
                        After long grief and pain,
                        To find the arms of my true love
                        Round me once again!"
                     
                   But the poetic lips opened not to such numbers. Salisbury gazed, long and
                  earnestly, and finally gave vent to his emotions, indicating, with the amber tip
                  of his cigar-tube, the setter that slept in the sunshine at his feet.
               "Shocking place, this, for dogs!"—I regret to say he pronounced it "dawgs."—"Why,
                  Carlo is as fat—as fat as—as a—"
               His mind was unequal to a simile, even, and he terminated the sentence in a
                  murmur.
               More silence; more smoke; more profound meditation. Directly, Charley Burnham
                  looked around with some show of vitality.
               "There comes the stage," said he.
               The driver's bugle rang merrily among the drifted sand-hills that lay warm and
                  glowing in the orange light of the setting sun. The young men leaned forward over
                  the piazza-rail, and scrutinized the occupants of the vehicle, as it appeared.
               "Old gentleman and lady, aw, and two children," said Ned Salisbury; "I hoped there
                  would be some nice girls."
               This, in a voice of ineffable tenderness and poetry, but with that odd, tired
                  little drawl, so epidemic in some of our universities.
               "Look there, by Jove!" cried Charley, with a real interest at last; "now that's
                  what I call the regular thing!"
               The "regular thing" was a low, four-wheeled pony-chaise of basket-work, drawn by
                  two jolly little fat ponies, black and shiny as vulcanite, which jogged rapidly
                  in, just far enough behind the stage to avoid its dust.
               This vehicle was driven by a young lady of decided beauty, with a spice of
                  Amazonian spirit. She was rather slender and very straight, with a jaunty little
                  hat and feather perched coquettishly above her dark-brown hair, which was arranged
                  in one heavy mass and confined in a silken net. Her complexion was clear, without
                  brilliancy; her eyes blue as the ocean horizon, and spanned by sharp,
                  characteristic brows; her mouth small and decisive; and her whole cast of features
                  indicative of quick talent and independence.
               Upon the seat beside her sat another damsel, leaning indolently back in the corner
                  of the carriage. This one was a little fairer than the first, having one of those
                     beautiful ful English complexions of
                  mingled rose and snow, and a dash of gold-dust in her hair, where the sun touched
                  it. Her eyes, however, were dark hazel, and full of fire, shaded and intensified
                  by their long, sweeping lashes. Her mouth was a rose-bud, and her chin and throat
                  faultless in the delicious curve of their lines. In a word, she was some-what of
                  the Venus-di-Milo type: her companion was more of a Diana. Both were neatly
                  habited in plain travelling-dresses and cloaks of black and white plaid, and both
                  seemed utterly unconscious of the battery of eyes and eyeglasses that enfiladed
                  them from the whole length of the piazza, as they passed.
               "Who are they?" asked Salisbury; "I don't know them."
               "Nor I," said Burnham; "but they look like people to know. They must be
                  somebody."
               Half an hour later, the hotel-office was besieged by a score of young men, all
                  anxious for a peep at the last names upon the register. It is needless to say that
                  our friends were not in the crowd. Ned Salisbury was no more the man to exhibit
                  curiosity than Charley Burnham was the man to join in a scramble for anything
                  under the sun. They had educated their emotions clear down, out of sight, and
                  piled upon them a mountain of well-bred inertia.
               But, somehow or other, these fellows who take no trouble are always the first to
                  gain the end. A special Providence seems to aid the poor, helpless creatures. So,
                  while the crowd still pressed at the office-desk, Jerry Swayne, the head clerk,
                  happened to pass directly by the piazza where the inert ones sat, and, raising a
                  comical eye, saluted them.
               "Heavy arrivals to-night. See the turn-out?"
               "Y-e-s," murmured Ned.
               "Old Chapman and family. His daughter drove the pony-phaëton, with her friend, a
                  Miss Thurston. Regular nobby ones. Chapman's the steamship-man, you know. Worth
                  thousands of millions! I'd like to be connected with his family—by marriage,
                  say!"—and Jerry went off, rubbing his cropped head, and smiling all over, as was
                  his wont.
               "I know who they are now," said Charley. "Met a cousin of theirs, Joe Faulkner,
                  abroad, two years ago. Doocèd fine fellow. Army."
               The manly art of wagoning is not pursued very vigorously at Brant Beach. The roads
                  are too heavy back from the water, and the drive is confined to a narrow strip of
                  wet sand along the shore; so carriages are few, and the pony-chaise became a
                  distinguished element at once. Salisbury and Burnham whirled past it in their
                  light trotting-wagons at a furious pace, and looked hard at the two young ladies
                  in passing, but without eliciting even the smallest glance from them in
                  return.
               "Confounded distingué-looking girls, and all
                  that," owned Ned; "but, aw, fearfully unconscious of a fellow!"
               This condition of matters continued until the young men were actually driven to
                  acknowledge to each other that they should not mind knowing the occupants of the
                  pony-carriage. It was a great concession, and was rewarded duly. A bright,
                  handsome boy of seventeen, Miss Thurston's brother, came to pass a few days at the
                  seaside, and fraternized with everybody, but was especially delighted with Ned
                  Salisbury, who took him out sailing and shooting, and, I am afraid, gave him
                  cigars stealthily, when out of range of Miss Thurston's fine eyes. The result was,
                  that the first time the lad walked on the beach with the two girls, and met the
                  young men, introductions of an enthusiastic nature were instantly sprung upon
                  them. An attempt at conversation followed.
               "How do you like Brant Beach?" asked Ned.
               "O, it is a pretty place," said Miss Chapman, "but not lively enough."
               "Well, Burnham and I find it pleasant; aw, we have lots of fun."
               "Indeed! Why, what do you do?"
               "O, I don't know. Everything."
               
               "Is the shooting good? I saw you with your guns, yesterday."
               "Well, there is n't a great deal of game. There is some fishing, but we have n't
                  caught much."
               "How do you kill time, then?"
               Salisbury looked puzzled.
               "Aw—it is a first-rate air, you know. The table is good, and you can sleep like a
                  top. And then, you see, I like to smoke around, and do nothing, on the sea-shore.
                  It is real jolly to lie on the sand, aw, with all sorts of little bugs running
                  over you, and listen to the water swashing about!"
               "Let's try it!" cried vivacious Miss Chapman; and down she sat on the sand. The
                  others followed her example, and in five minutes they were picking up pretty
                  pebbles and chatting away as sociably as could be. The rumble of the warning gong
                  surprised them.
               At dinner, Burnham and Salisbury took seats opposite the ladies, and were honored
                  with an introduction to papa and mamma, a very dignified, heavy, rosy, old-school
                  couple, who ate a good deal, and said very little. That evening, when flute and
                  viol wooed the lotos-eaters to agitate the light fantastic toe, these young
                  gentlemen found themselves in dancing humor, and revolved themselves into a
                  grievous condition of glow and wilt, in various mystic and intoxicating measures
                  with their new-made friends.
               On retiring, somewhat after midnight, Miss Thurston paused, while "doing her
                  hair," and addressed Miss Chapman.
               "Did you observe, Hattie, how very handsome those gentlemen are? Mr. Burnham looks
                  like a prince of the sang azur, and Mr.
                  Salisbury like his poet-laureate."
               "Yes, dear," responded Hattie; "I have been considering those flowers of the field
                  and lilies of the valley."
               "Ned," said Charley, at about the same time, "we won't find anything nicer here,
                  this season, I think."
               "They're pretty well worth while," replied Ned; "and I'm rather pleased with
                  them."
               "Which do you like best?"
               "O, bother! I have n't thought of that yet."
               The next day the young men delayed their "constitutional" until the ladies were
                  ready to walk, and the four strolled off together, mamma and the children
                  following in the pony-chaise. At the rocks on the end of the point, Ned got his
                  feet very wet, fishing up specimens of seaweed for the damsels; and Charley
                  exerted himself super-humanly in assisting them to a ledge which they considered
                  favorable for sketching purposes.
               In the afternoon a sail was arranged, and they took dinner on board the boat, with
                  any amount of hilarity and a good deal of discomfort. In the evening, more
                  dancing, and vigorous attentions to both the young ladies, but without a shadow of
                  partiality being shown by either of the four.
               This was very nearly the history of many days. It does not take long to get
                  acquainted with people who are willing, especially at a watering-place; and in the
                  course of a few weeks, these young folks were, to all intents and purposes, old
                  friends,—calling each other by their given names, and conducting themselves with
                  an easy familiarity quite charming to behold. Their amusements were mostly in
                  common now. The light wagons were made to hold two each, instead of one, and the
                  matinal snipe escaped death, and was happy over his early worm.
               One day, however, Laura Thurston had a headache, and Hattie Chapman stayed at home
                  to take care of her; so Burnham and Salisbury had to amuse themselves alone. They
                  took their boat, and idled about the water, inside the point, dozing under an
                  awning, smoking, gaping, and wishing that headaches were out of fashion, while the
                  taciturn and tarry skipper instructed the dignified and urbane Thomas in the
                  science of trolling for blue-fish.
               At length Ned tossed his cigar-end overboard, and braced himself for an
                  effort.
               "I say, Charley," said he, "this sort of thing can't go on forever, you know. I've
                  been thinking, lately."
               
               "Phenomenon!" replied Charley; "and what have you been thinking about?"
               "Those girls. We've got to choose."
               "Why? Is n't it well enough as it is?"
               "Yes,—so far. But I think, aw, that we don't quite do them justice. They're
                     grands partis, you see. I hate to see clever
                  girls wasting themselves on society, waiting and waiting,—and we fellows swimming
                  about just like fish round a hook that is n't baited properly."
               Charley raised himself upon his elbow.
               "You don't mean to tell me, Ned, that you have matrimonial intentions?"
               "O, no! Still, why not? We've all got to come to it, some day, I suppose."
               "Not yet, though. It is a sacrifice we can escape for some years yet."
               "Yes,—of course,—some years; but we may begin to look about us a bit. I'm, aw, I'm
                  six-and-twenty, you know."
               "And I'm very near that. I suppose a fellow can't put off the yoke too long. After
                  thirty, chances are n't so good. I don't know, by Jove! but what we ought to begin
                  thinking of it."
               "But it is a sacrifice. Society must lose a fellow, though, one time
                  or another. And I don't believe we will ever do better than we can now."
               "Hardly, I suspect."
               "And we're keeping other fellows away, maybe. It is a shame!"
               Thomas ran his line in rapidly, with nothing on the hook.
               "Capt'n Hull," he said, gravely, "I had the biggest kind of a fish then, I'm sure;
                  but d'rectly I went to pull him in, sir, he took and let go."
               "Yaäs," muttered the taciturn skipper, "the biggest fish allers falls back inter
                  the warter."
               "I've been thinking a little about this matter, too," said Charley, after a pause,
                  "and I had about concluded we ought to pair off. But I'll be confounded, if I know
                  which I like best! They 're both nice girls."
               "There is n't much choice," Ned replied. "If they were as different, now, as you
                  and me, I'd take the blonde, of course; aw, and you'd take the brunette. But
                  Hattie Chapman's eyes are blue, and her hair is n't black, you know; so you can't
                  call her dark, exactly."
               "No more than Laura is exactly light. Her hair is brown, more than golden, and her
                  eyes are hazel. Has n't she a lovely complexion, though? By Jove!"
               "Better than Hattie's. Yet I don't know but Hattie's features are a little the
                  best."
               "They are. Now, honest, Ned, which do you prefer? Say either; I'll take the one
                  you don't want. I have n't any choice."
               "Neither have I."
               "How will we settle?"
               "Aw—throw for it?"
               "Yes. Is n't there a backgammon-board forward, in that locker, Thomas?"
               The board was found, and the dice produced.
               "The highest takes which?"
               "Say, Laura Thurston."
               "Very good; throw."
               "You first."
               "No. Go on."
               Charley threw, with about the same amount of excitement he might have exhibited in
                  a turkey-raffle.
               "Five-three," said he. "Now for your luck."
               "Six-four! Laura's mine. Satisfied?"
               "Perfectly,—if you are. If not, I don't mind exchanging."
               "O, no. I'm satisfied."
               Both reclined upon the deck once more, with a sigh of relief, and a long silence
                  followed.
               "I say," began Charley, after a time, "it is a comfort to have these little
                  matters arranged without any trouble, eh?"
               
               "Y-e-s."
               "Do you know, I think I'll marry mine?"
               "I will, if you will."
               "Done! it is a bargain."
               This "little matter" being arranged, a change gradually took place in the
                  relations of the four. Ned Salisbury began to invite Laura Thurston out driving
                  and in bathing somewhat oftener than before, and Hattie Chapman somewhat less
                  often; while Charley Burnham followed suit with the last-named young lady. As the
                  line of demarcation became fixed, the damsels recognized it, and accepted with
                  gracious readiness the cavaliers that Fate, through the agency of a chance-falling
                  pair of dice, had allotted to them.
               The other guests of the house remarked the new position of affairs, and passed
                  whispers about, to the effect that the girls had at last succeeded in getting
                  their fish on hooks instead of in a net. No suitors could have been more devoted
                  than our friends. It seemed as if each now bestowed upon the chosen one all the
                  attentions he had hitherto given to both; and whether they went boating,
                  sketching, or strolling upon the sands, they were the very picture of a partie carrée of lovers.
               Naturally enough, as the young men became more in earnest, with the reticence
                  common to my sex, they spoke less freely and frequently on the subject. Once,
                  however, after an unusually pleasant afternoon, Salisbury ventured a few
                  words.
               "I say, we're a couple of lucky dogs! Who'd have thought, now, aw, that our summer
                  was going to turn out so well? I'm sure I didn't. How do you get along, Charley,
                  boy?"
               "Deliciously. Smooth sailing enough! Was n't it a good idea, though, to pair off?
                  I'm just as happy as a bee in clover. You seem to prosper, too, heh?"
               "Could n't ask anything different. Nothing but devotion, and all that. I'm
                  delighted. I say, when are you going to pop?"
               "O, I don't know. It is only a matter of form. Sooner the better, I suppose, and
                  have it over."
               "I was thinking of next week. What do you say to a quiet picnic down on the rocks,
                  and a walk afterward? We can separate, you know, and do the thing up
                  systematically."
               "All right. I will, if you will."
               "That's another bargain. I notice there is n't much doubt about the result,
                  though."
               "Hardly!"
               A close observer might have seen that the gentlemen increased their attentions a
                  little from that time. The objects of their devotion perceived it, and smiled more
                  and more graciously upon them.
               The day set for the picnic arrived duly, and was radiant. It pains me to confess
                  that my heroes were a trifle nervous. Their apparel was more gorgeous and
                  wonderful than ever, and Thomas, who was anxious to be off, courting Miss
                  Chapman's lady's-maid, found his masters dreadfully exacting in the matter of
                  hair-dressing. At length, however, the toilet was over, and "Solomon in all his
                  glory" would have been vastly astonished at finding himself "arrayed as one of
                  these."
               The boat lay at the pier, receiving large quantities of supplies for the trip,
                  stowed by Thomas, under the supervision of the grim and tarry skipper. When all
                  was ready, the young men gingerly escorted their fair companions aboard, the lines
                  were cast off, and the boat glided gently down the bay, leaving Thomas free to fly
                  to the smart presence of Susan Jane, and to draw glowing pictures for her of a
                  neat little porter-house in the city, wherein they should hold supreme sway, be
                  happy with each other, and let rooms up-stairs for single gentlemen.
               The brisk land-breeze, the swelling sail, the fluttering of the gay little flag at
                  the gaff, the musical rippling of water under the counter, and the spirited motion
                  of the boat, combined with the bland air and pleasant sunshine to inspire the party with much vivacity. They had not
                  been many minutes afloat before the guitar-case was opened, and the girls'
                  voices—Laura's soprano and Hattie's contralto—rang melodiously over the waves,
                  mingled with feeble attempts at bass accompaniment from their gorgeous
                  guardians.
               Before these vocal exercises wearied, the skipper hauled down his jib, let go his
                  anchor, and brought the craft to, just off the rocks; and bringing the yawl
                  along-side, unceremoniously plumped the girls down into it, without giving their
                  cavaliers a chance for the least display of agile courtliness. Rowing ashore, this
                  same tarry person left them huddled upon the beach with their hopes, their
                  hampers, their emotions, and their baskets, and returned to the vessel to do a
                  little private fishing on his own account till wanted.
               The maidens gave vent to their high spirits by chasing each other among the rocks,
                  gathering shells and sea-weed for the construction of those ephemeral little
                  ornaments—fair, but frail—in which the sex delights, singing, laughing, quoting
                  poetry, attitudinizing upon the peaks and ledges of the fine old bowlders,—mossy
                  and weedy and green with the wash of a thousand storms, worn into strange shapes,
                  and stained with the multitudinous dyes of mineral oxidization,—and, in brief,
                  behaved themselves with all the charming abandon
                  that so well becomes young girls, set free, by the entourage of a holiday ramble, from the buckram and clear-starch of
                  social etiquette.
               Meanwhile Ned and Charley smoked the pensive cigar of preparation in a sheltered
                  corner, and gazed out seaward, dreaming and seeing nothing.
               Erelong the breeze and the romp gave the young ladies not only a splendid color
                  and sparkling eyes, but excellent appetites also. The baskets and hampers were
                  speedily unpacked, the table-cloth laid on a broad, flat stone, so used by
                  generations of Brant-House picnickers, and the party fell to. Laura's beautiful
                  hair, a little disordered, swept her blooming cheek, and cast a pearly shadow upon
                  her neck. Her bright eyes glanced archly out from under her half-raised veil, and
                  there was something inexpressibly naïve in the
                  freedom with which she ate, taking a bird's wing in her little fingers, and boldly
                  attacking it with teeth as white and even as can be imagined. Notwithstanding all
                  the mawkish nonsense that has been put forth by sentimentalists concerning
                  feminine eating, I hold that it is one of the nicest things in the world to see a
                  pretty woman enjoying the creature comforts; and Byron himself, had he been one of
                  this picnic party, would have been unable to resist the admiration that filled the
                  souls of Burnham and Salisbury. Hattie Chapman stormed a fortress of boned turkey
                  with a gusto equal to that of Laura, and made highly successful raids upon certain
                  outlying salads and jellies. The young men were not in a very ravenous condition;
                  they were, as I have said, a little nervous, and bent their energies principally
                  to admiring the ladies and coquetting with pickled oysters.
               When the repast was over, with much accompanying chat and laughter, Ned glanced
                  significantly at Charley, and proposed to Laura that they should walk up the beach
                  to a place where, he said, there were "some pretty rocks and things, you know."
                  She consented, and they marched off. Hattie also arose, and took her parasol, as
                  if to follow, but Charley remained seated, tracing mysterious diagrams upon the
                  table-cloth with his fork, and looking sublimely unconscious.
               "Sha'n't we walk, too?" Hattie asked.
               "O, why, the fact is," said he, hesitantly, "I—I sprained my ankle, getting out of
                  that confounded boat; so I don't feel much like exercise just now."
               The young girl's face expressed concern.
               "That is too bad! Why didn't you tell us of it before? Is it painful? I'm so
                  sorry!"
               "N-no,—it doesn't hurt much. I dare say it will be all right in a minute. And then—I'd just as soon
                  stay here—with you—as to walk anywhere."
               This, very tenderly, with a little sigh.
               Hattie sat down again, and began to talk to this factitious cripple, in the
                  pleasant, purring way some damsels have, about the joys of the sea-shore,—the
                  happy summer that was, alas! drawing to a close,—her own enjoyment of life,—and
                  kindred topics,—till Charley saw an excellent opportunity to interrupt with some
                  aspirations of his own, which, he averred, must be realized before his life could
                  be considered a satisfactory success.
               If you have ever been placed in analogous circumstances, you know, of course, just
                  about the sort of thing that was being said by the two gentlemen at nearly the
                  same moment: Ned, loitering slowly along the sands with Laura on his arm,—and
                  Charley, stretched in indolent picturesqueness upon the rocks, with Hattie sitting
                  beside him. If you do not know from experience, ask any candid friend who has been
                  through the form and ceremony of an orthodox proposal.
               When the pedestrians returned, the two couples looked very hard at each other. All
                  were smiling and complacent, but devoid of any strange or unusual expression.
                  Indeed, the countenance is subject to such severe education in good society, that
                  one almost always looks smiling and complacent. Demonstration is not fashionable;
                  and a man must preserve the same demeanor over the loss of a wife or a
                  glove-button, over the gift of a heart's whole devotion or a bundle of cigars.
                  Under all these visitations, the complacent smile is in favor, as the neatest,
                  most serviceable, and convenient form of non-committalism.
               The sun was approaching the blue range of misty hills that bounded the mainland
                  swamps by this time; so the skipper was signalled, the dinner paraphernalia
                  gathered up, and the party were soon en route
                  for home once more. When the young ladies were safely in, Ned and Charley met in
                  their room, and each caught the other looking at him stealthily. Both smiled.
               "Did I give you time, Charley?" asked Ned; "we came back rather soon."
               "O, yes,—plenty of time."
               "Did you—aw, did you pop?"
               "Y-es. Did you?"
               "Well—yes."
               "And you were—"
               "Rejected, by Jove!"
               "So was I!"
               The day following this disastrous picnic, the baggage of Mr. Edwin Salisbury and
                  Mr. Charles Burnham was sent to the depot at Wikahasset Station, and they
                  presented themselves at the hotel-office with a request for their bill. As Jerry
                  Swayne deposited their key upon its hook, he drew forth a small tri-cornered
                  billet from the pigeon-hole beneath, and presented it.
               "Left for you, this morning, gentlemen."
               It was directed to both, and Charley read it over Ned's shoulder. It ran
                  thus:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "DEAR BOYS,—The next time you divert yourselves by throwing dice for
                              two young ladies, we pray you not to do so in the presence of a valet
                              who is upon terms of intimacy with the maid of one of them.
                           "With many sincere thanks for the amusement you have given us,—often
                              when you least suspected it,—we bid you a lasting adieu, and remain,
                              with the best wishes,
                           
                              HATTIE CHAPMAN.
                              LAURA THURSTON."
                              "Brant House, Wednesday.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "It is all the fault of that, aw, that confounded Thomas!" said Ned.
               So Thomas was discharged.
               
            
            
            
               
               VICTOR AND JACQUELINE.
               
                  I.
                  JACQUELINE GABRIE and Elsie Méril could not occupy one room, and remain, either
                     of them, indifferent to so much as might be manifested of the other's inmost
                     life. They could not emigrate together, peasants from Domrémy,—Jacqueline so
                     strong, Elsie so fair;—could not labor in the same harvest-fields, children of
                     old neighbors, without each being concerned in the welfare and affected by the
                     circumstances of the other.
                  It was near ten o'clock, one evening, when Elsie Méril ran up the common
                     stairway, and entered the room in the fourth story where she and Jacqueline
                     lodged.
                  Victor Le Roy, student from Picardy, occupied the room next theirs, and was
                     startled from his slumber by the voices of the girls. Elsie was fresh from the
                     theatre, from the first play she had ever witnessed; she came home excited and
                     delighted, ready to repeat and recite, as long as Jacqueline would listen.
                  And here was Jacqueline.
                  Early in the evening Elsie had sought her friend with a good deal of anxiety. A
                     fellow-lodger and field-laborer had invited her to see the play,—and Jacqueline
                     was far down the street, nursing old Antonine Duprè. To seek her, thus
                     occupied, on such an errand, Elsie had the good taste and the selfishness to
                     refrain from doing.
                  Therefore, after a little deliberation, she had gone to the theatre, and there
                     forgot her hard day-labor in the wonders of the stage,—forgot Jacqueline, and
                     Antonine, and every care and duty. It was hard for her, when all was ended, to
                     come back to compunction and explanation, yet to this she had come back.
                  Neither of the girls was thinking of the student, their neighbor; but he was
                     not only wakened by their voices, he amused himself by comparing them and their
                     utterances with his preconceived notions of the girls. They might not have
                     recognized him in the street, though they had often passed him on the stairs;
                     but he certainly could have distinguished the pretty face of Elsie, or the
                     strange face of Jacqueline, wherever he might meet them.
                  Elsie ran on with her story, not careful to inquire into the mood of
                     Jacqueline,—suspicious of that mood, no doubt,—but at last, made breathless by
                     her haste and agitation, she paused, looked anxiously at Jacqueline, and
                     finally said,—
                  "You think I ought not to have gone?"
                  "O, no,—it gave you pleasure."
                  A pause followed. It was broken at length by Elsie, exclaiming, in a voice
                     changed from its former speaking,—
                  "Jacqueline Gabrie, you are homesick! horribly homesick, Jacqueline!"
                  "You do not ask for Antonine: yet you know I went to spend the day with her,"
                     said Jacqueline, very gravely.
                  "How is Antonine Duprè?" asked Elsie.
                  "She is dead. I have told you a good many times that she must die. Now she is
                     dead."
                  "Dead?" repeated Elsie.
                  "You care as much as if a candle had gone out," said Jacqueline.
                  "She was as much to me as I to her," was the quick answer. "She never liked me.
                     She did not like my mother before me. When you told her my name, the day we saw
                     her first, I knew what she thought. So let that go. If I could have done her
                     good, though, I would, Jacqueline."
                  
                  "She has everything she needs,—a great deal more than we have. She is very
                     happy, Elsie."
                  "Am not I? Are not you, in spite of your dreadful look? Your look is more
                     terrible than the lady's in the play, just before she killed herself. Is that
                     because Antonine is so well off?"
                  "I wish that I could be where she is," sighed Jacqueline.
                  "You? You are tired, Jacqueline. You look ill. You will not be fit for
                     to-morrow. Come to bed. It is late."
                  As Jacqueline made no reply to this suggestion, Elsie began to reflect upon her
                     words, and to consider wherefore and to whom she had spoken. Not quite
                     satisfied with herself could she have been, for at length she said in quite
                     another manner,—
                  "You always said, till now, you wished that you might live a hundred years. But
                     it was not because you were afraid to die, you said so, Jacqueline."
                  "I don't know," was the answer,—sadly spoken. "Don't remind me of things I have
                     said. I seem to have lost myself."
                  The voice and the words were effectual, if they were intended as an appeal to
                     Elsie. Fain would she now exclude the stage and the play from her
                     thoughts,—fain think and feel with Jacqueline, as it had long been her habit to
                     do.
                  Jacqueline, however, was not eager to speak. And Elsie must draw yet nearer to
                     her, and make her nearness felt, ere she could hope to receive the thought of
                     her friend. By and by these words were uttered, solemn, slow, and
                     dirge-like:—
                  "Antonine died just after sundown. I was alone with her. She did not think that
                     she would die so soon. I did not. In the morning, John Leclerc came in to
                     inquire how she spent the night. He prayed with her. And a hymn,—he read a hymn
                     that she seemed to know, for all day she was humming it over. I can say some of
                     the lines."
                  "Say them, Jacqueline," said the softened voice of Elsie.
                  Slowly, and as one recalls that of which he is uncertain, Jacqueline repeated
                     what I copy more entire:— 
                        
                           "In the midst of life, behold,
                           Death hath girt us round!
                           Whom for help, then, shall we pray?
                           Where shall grace be found?
                           In thee, O Lord, alone!
                           We rue the evil we have done,
                           That thy wrath on us hath drawn.
                           Holy Lord and God!
                           Strong and holy God!
                           Merciful and holy Saviour!
                           Eternal God!
                           Sink us not beneath
                           Bitter pains of endless death!
                           Kyrie, eleison!"
                        
                     
                  
                  "Then he went away," she continued. "But he did not think it was the last time
                     he should speak to Antonine. In the afternoon I thought I saw a change, and I
                     wanted to go for somebody. But she said, 'Stay with me. I want nothing.' So I
                     sat by her bed. At last she said, 'Come, Lord Jesus! come quickly!' and she
                     started up in her bed, as if she saw him coming. And as if he were coming
                     nearer, she smiled. That was the last,—without a struggle, or as much as a
                     groan."
                  "No priest there?" asked Elsie.
                  "No. When I spoke to her about it, she said her priest was Jesus Christ the
                     Righteous,—and there was no other,—the High-Priest. She gave me her Bible. See
                     how it has been used! 'Search the Scriptures,' she said. She told me I was able
                     to learn the truth. 'I loved your mother,' she said; 'that is the reason I am
                     so anxious you should know. It is by my spirit, said the Lord. Ask for that
                     spirit,' she said. 'He is more willing to give than earthly parents are to give
                     good gifts to their children.' She said these things, Elsie. If they are true,
                     they must be better worth believing than all the riches of the world are worth
                     the having."
                  The interest manifested by the student in this conversation tion had been on the increase since Jacqueline
                     began to speak of Antonine Duprè. It was not, at this point of the
                     conversation, waning.
                  "Your mother would not have agreed with Antonine," said Elsie, as if there were
                     weight in the argument; for such a girl as Jacqueline could not speak earnestly
                     in the hearing of a girl like Elsie without result, and the result was at this
                     time resistance.
                  "She believed what she was taught in Domrémy," answered Jacqueline. "She
                     believed in Absolution, Extreme Unction, in the need of another priest than
                     Jesus Christ,—a representative they call it." She spoke slowly, as if
                     interrogating each point of her speech.
                  "I believe as they believed before us," answered Elsie, coldly.
                  "We have learned many things since we came to Meaux," answered Jacqueline, with
                     a patient gentleness, that indicated the perplexity and doubt with which the
                     generous spirit was departing from the old dominion. She was indeed departing,
                     with that reverence for the past which is not incompatible with the highest
                     hope for the future. "Our Joan came from Domrémy, where she must crown the
                     king," she continued. "We have much to learn."
                  "She lost her life," said Elsie, with vehemence.
                  "Yes, she did lose her life," Jacquelin quietly acquiesced.
                  "If she had known what must happen, would she have come?"
                  "Yes, she would have come."
                  "How late it is!" said Elsie, as if in sleep were certain rest from these
                     vexatious thoughts.
                  Victor Le Roy was by this time lost in his own reflections. These girls had
                     supplied an all-sufficient theme; whether they slept or wakened was no affair
                     of his. He had somewhat to argue for himself about extreme unction, priestly
                     intervention, confession, absolution,—something to say to himself about
                     Leclerc, and the departed Antonine.
                  Late into the night he sat thinking of the marvel of Domrémy and of Antonine
                     Duprè, of Picardy and of Meaux, of priests and of the High-Priest. Brave and
                     aspiring, Victor Le Roy could not think of these things, involved in the names
                     of things above specified, as more calculating, prudent spirits might have
                     done. It was his business, as a student, to ascertain what powers were working
                     in the world. All true characters, of past time or present, must be weighed and
                     measured by him. Result was what he aimed at.
                  Jacqueline's words had not given him new thoughts, but unawares they did summon
                     him to his appointed labor. He looked to find the truth. He must stand to do
                     his work. He must haste to make his choice. Enthusiastic, chivalrous, and
                     strong, he was seeking the divine right, night and day; and to ascertain that,
                     as it seemed, he had come from Picardy to Meaux.
                  Elsie Méril went to bed, as she had invited Jacqueline to do; to sleep, to
                     dream, she went,—and to smile, in her dreaming, on the world that smiled on
                     her.
                  Jacqueline sat by the window; leaned from the window, and prayed; her own
                     prayer she prayed, as Antonine had said she must, if she would discover what
                     she needed, and obtain an answer.
                  She thought of the dead,—her own. She pondered on the future. She recalled some
                     lines of the hymn Antonine had repeated, and she wished—oh, how she
                     wished!—that, while the woman lived, and could reason and speak, she had told
                     her about the letter she had received from the priest of Domrémy. Many a time
                     it had been on her lips to tell, but she failed in courage to bring her poor
                     affairs into that chamber and disturb that dying hour. Now she wished that she
                     had done it. Now she felt that speech had been the merest act of justice to
                     herself.
                  But there was Leclerc, the wool-comber, and his mother; she might rely on them
                     for the instruction she needed.
                  Old Antonine's faith had made a deep impression on the strong-hearted and deep-thinking girl; as also
                     had the prayers of John Leclerc,—especially that last prayer offered for
                     Antonine. It seemed to authenticate, by its strong, unfaltering utterance, the
                     poor old woman's evidence. "Jesus Christ, the same yesterday, to-day, and
                     forever," were strong words that seemed about to take possession of the heart
                     of Jacqueline.
                  Therefore, while Elsie slept, she prayed,—looking farther than the city-streets
                     and darkness,—looking farther than the shining stars. What she sought, poor
                     girl, stood in her silent chamber, stood in her waiting heart. But she knew Him
                     not, and her ear was heavy; she did not hear the voice, that she should answer
                     Him, "Rabboni!"
               
               
                  II.
                  A FORTNIGHT from this night, after the harvesters had left the fields of M.
                     Flaval, Jacqueline was lingering in the twilight.
                  The instant the day's work was done, the laborers set out for Meaux. Their
                     haste suggested some unusual cause.
                  John Leclerc, wool-comber, had received that day his sentence. Report of the
                     sentence had spread among the reapers in the field and all along the vineyards
                     of the hillsides. Not a little stir was occasioned by this sentence: three days
                     of whipping through the public streets, to conclude with branding on the
                     forehead. For this Leclerc, it seemed, had profanely and audaciously declared
                     that a man might in his own behalf deal with the invisible God, by the
                     mediation of Christ, the sole Mediator 
                        beween
                        between
                      God and man. Viewed in the light of his offence, his punishment
                     certainly was of the mildest. Tidings of his sentence were received with
                     various emotion; by some as though they were maddened with new wine; others
                     wept openly; many more were pained at heart; some brutally rejoiced; some were
                     incredulous.
                  But now they were all on their way to Meaux; the fields were quite deserted.
                     Urged by one desire, to ascertain the facts of the trial, and the time when the
                     sentence would be executed, the laborers were returning to the town.
                  Without demonstration of any emotion, Jacqueline Gabrie, quiet, silent, walked
                     along the river-bank, until she came to the clump of chestnut-trees, whose
                     shadow fell across the stream. Many a time, through the hot, dreadful day, her
                     eyes turned wistfully to this place. In the morning Elsie Méril had promised
                     Jacqueline that at twilight they would read together here the leaves the poor
                     old mother of Leclerc gave Jacqueline last night: when they had read them, they
                     would walk home by starlight together. But now the time had come, and
                     Jacqueline was alone. Elsie had returned to town with other young
                     harvesters.
                  "Very well," said Jacqueline, when Elsie told her she must go. It was not,
                     indeed, inexplicable that she should prefer the many voices to the
                     one,—excitement and company, rather than quiet, dangerous thinking.
                  But, thus left alone, the face of Jacqueline expressed both sorrow and
                     indignation. She would exact nothing of Elsie; but latterly how often had she
                     expected of her companion more than she gave or could give!
                  Of course the young girl was equal to others in pity and surprise; but there
                     were people in the world beside the wool-comber and his mother. Nothing of
                        vast import was suggested by his sentence to her mind. She did
                     not see that spiritual freedom was threatened with destruction. If she heard
                     the danger questioned, she could not apprehend it. Though she had listened to
                     the preaching of Leclerc and had been moved by it, her sense of truth and of
                     justice was not so acute as to lead her willingly to incur a risk in the
                     maintaining of the same.
                  She would not look into Antonine's Bible, which Jacqueline had read so much
                     during the last fortnight. She was not the girl to torment herself about her
                     soul, when the Church would save it
                     for her by mere compliance with a few easy regulations.
                  More and more was Elsie disappointing Jacqueline. Day by day these girls were
                     developing in ways which bade fair to separate them in the end. When now they
                     had most need of each other, their estrangement was becoming more apparent and
                     decided. The peasant-dress of Elsie would not content her always, Jacqueline
                     said sadly to herself.
                  Jacqueline's tracts, indeed, promised poorly as entertainment for an hour of
                     rest, rest gained by hours of toil. The confusion of tongues and the excitement
                     of the city pleased Elsie better. So she went along the road to Meaux, and was
                     not talking, neither thinking, all the way, of the wrongs of John Leclerc, and
                     the sorrows of his mother,—neither meditating constantly, and with deep-seated
                     purpose, "I will not let thee go, except thou bless me!"—neither on this
                     problem, agitated then in so many earnest minds, "What shall a man give in
                     exchange for his soul?"
                  Thus Jacqueline sat alone and thought that she would read by herself the tracts
                     Leclerc had found it good to study. But unopened she held the little printed
                     scroll, while she watched the home-returning birds, whose nests were in the
                     mighty branches of the chestnut-trees.
                  She needed the repose more than the teaching even; for all day the sun had
                     fallen heavily on the harvesters,—and toiling with a troubled heart, under a
                     burning sun, will leave the laborer not in the best condition for such work as
                     Jacqueline believed she had to do.
                  But she had promised the old woman she would read these tracts, and this was
                     her only time, for they must be returned that night: others were waiting for
                     them with an eagerness and longing of which, haply, tract-dispensers see little
                     now. Still she delayed in opening them. The news of Leclerc's sentence had
                     filled her with dismay.
                  Did she dread to read the truth,—"the truth of Jesus Christ," as his mother
                     styled it? The frightful image of the bleeding, lacerated wool-comber would
                     come between her and the book in which that faith was written, for maintaining
                     which this man must suffer. Strange contrast between the heavy gloom and terror
                     of her thoughts and the peaceful "river flowing on"! How tranquil were the
                     fields that spread beyond her sight! But there is no rest or joy in Nature to
                     the agitated and foreboding spirit. Must we not have conquered the world, if we
                     serenely enter into Nature's rest?
                  Fain would Jacqueline have turned her face and steps in another direction that
                     night than toward the road that led to Meaux: to the village on the border of
                     the Vosges,—to the ancient Domrémy. Once her home was there; but Jacqueline had
                     passed forth from the old, humble, true defences: for herself must live and
                     die.
                  Domrémy had a home for her no more. The priest, on whom she had relied when all
                     failed her, was still there, it is true; and once she had thought, that, while
                     he lived, she was not fatherless, not homeless: but his authority had ceased to
                     be paternal, and she trusted him no longer.
                  She had two graves in the old village, and among the living a few faces she
                     never could forget. But on this earth she had no home.
                  Musing on these dreary facts, and on the bleeding, branded image of Leclerc, as
                     her imagination rendered him back to his friends, his fearful trial over, a
                     vision more familiar to her childhood than her youth opened to Jacqueline.
                  There was one who used to wander through the woods that bordered the mountains
                     in whose shadow stood Domrémy,—one whose works had glorified her name in the
                     England and the France that made a martyr of her. Jeanne d'Arc had ventured all
                     things for the truth's sake: was she, who also came forth from that village, by
                     any power commissioned?
                  Jacqueline laid the tracts on the grass. Over them she placed a stone. She
                     bowed her head. She hid her face. She saw no more the river, trees, or
                     home-returning birds; heard not the
                     rush of water or of wind,—nor, even now, the hurry and the shout that possibly
                     to-morrow would follow the poor wool-comber through the streets of Meaux,—and
                     on the third day they would brand him!
                  She remembered an old cottage in the shadow of the forest-covered mountains.
                     She remembered one who died there suddenly, and without remedy,—her father,
                     unabsolved and unanointed, dying in fear and torment, in a moment when none
                     anticipated death. She remembered a strong-hearted woman who seemed to die with
                     him,—who died to all the interests of this life, and was buried by her husband
                     ere a twelvemonth had passed,—her mother, who was buried by her father's
                     side.
                  Burdened with a solemn care they left their child. The priest of Domrémy, and
                     none beside him, knew the weight of this burden. How had he helped her bear it?
                     since it is the business of the shepherd to look after the
                     younglings of the flock. Her hard earnings paid him for the prayers he offered
                     for the deliverance of her father from his purgatorial woes. Burdened with a
                     dire debt of filial love, the priest had let her depart from Domrémy; his
                     influence followed her as an oppression and a care,—a degradation also.
                  Her life of labor was a slavish life. All she did, and all she left undone, she
                     looked at with sad-hearted reference to the great object of her life. Far away
                     she put all allurement to tempting, youthful joy. What had she to do with
                     merriment and jollity, while a sin remained unexpiated, or a moment of her
                     father's suffering and sorrow could be anticipated?
                  How, probably, would these new doctrines, held fast by some through persecution
                     and danger, these doctrines which brought liberty to light, be received by one
                     so fast a prisoner of Hope as she? She had pledged herself, with solemn vows
                     had promised, to complete the work her mother left unfinished when she
                     died.
                  Some of the laborers in the field, Elsie among them, had hoped, they said, that
                     the wool-comber would retract from his dangerous position. Recalling their
                     words, Jacqueline asked herself would she choose to have him
                     retract? She reminded herself of the only martyr whose memory she loved, the
                     glorious girl from Domrémy; and a lofty and stern spirit seemed to rouse within
                     her as she answered that question. She believed that John had found and taught
                     the truth; and was Truth to be sacrificed to Power that hated it? Not by a
                     suicidal act, at least.
                  She took the tracts, so judging, from underneath the stone, wistfully looked
                     them over, and, as she did so, recalled these words: "You cannot buy your
                     pardon of a priest; he has no power to sell it; he cannot even give it. Ask of
                     God, who giveth to all men liberally, upbraiding not. 'If ye, being evil, know
                     how to give good gifts to your children, how much more shall your Heavenly
                     Father give his Holy Spirit to them that ask him!'"
                  She could never forget these words. She could never forget the preacher's look
                     when he used them; nor the solemnity of the assenting faith, as attested by the
                     countenances of those around her in that "upper room."
                  But her father! What would this faith do for the departed?
                  Yet again she dared to pray,—here in this solitude, to ask for that Holy
                     Spirit, the Enlightener. And it was truly with trembling, in the face of all
                     presentiments of what the gift might possibly, must certainly, import to her.
                     But what was she, that she could withstand God, or His gift, for any fear of
                     the result that might attend the giving of the gift?
                  Divinely she seemed to be inspired with that courageous thought. She rose up,
                     as if to follow the laborers who had already gone to Meaux. But she had not
                     passed out from the shadow of the great trees when another shadow fell along
                     her path.
               
               
                  
                  III.
                  IT was Victor Le Roy who was so close at hand. He recognized Jacqueline; for,
                     as he came down the road, now and then he caught a glimpse of her red
                     peasant-dress. And he accepted his persuasion as it had been an assurance; for
                     he believed that on such a night no other girl would linger alone near the
                     place of her day's labor. Moreover, while passing the group of harvesters, he
                     had observed that she was not among them.
                  The acquaintance of these young persons was but slight; yet it was of such a
                     character as must needs increase. Within the last fortnight they had met
                     repeatedly in the room of Leclerc's mother. On the last night of her son's
                     preaching they had together listened to his words. The young student with manly
                     aspirations, ambitious, courageous, inquiring, and the peasant girl who toiled
                     in fields and vineyards, were on the same day hearkening to the call, "Ho,
                     every one that thirsteth!" with the consciousness that the call was meant for
                     them.
                  When Victor Le Roy saw that Jacqueline perceived and recognized him, he also
                     observed the tracts in her hand and the trouble in her countenance, and he
                     wondered in his heart whether she could be ignorant of what had passed that day
                     at Meaux, and if it could be possible that her manifest disturbance arose from
                     any perplexity or disquietude independent of the sentence that had been passed
                     on John Leclerc. His first words brought an answer that satisfied his
                     doubt.
                  "She has chosen that good part which shall not be taken from her," said he, as
                     he came near. "The country is so fair, could no one of them all except
                     Jacqueline see that? Were they all drawn away by the bloody fascination of
                     Meaux? even Elsie?"
                  "It was the news that hurried her home with the rest," answered she, almost
                     pleased at this disturbance of the solitude.
                  "Did that keep you here, Jacqueline?" he asked. "It sent me out of the city.
                     The dust choked me. Every face looked like a devil's. To-morrow night,
                     to-morrow night, the harvesters will hurry all the faster. Terrible curiosity!
                     And if they find traces of his blood along the streets, there will be enough to
                     talk about through the rest of the harvesting. Jacqueline, if the river could
                     be poured through those streets, the sacred blood could never be washed out. 'T
                     is not the indignity, nor the cruelty, I think of most, but the barbarous, wild
                     sin. Shall a man's truest liberty be taken from him, as though, indeed, he were
                     not a man of God, but the spiritual subject of his fellows? If that is their
                     plan, they may light the fires,—there are many who will not shrink from sealing
                     their faith with their blood."
                  These words, spoken with vehemence, were the first free utterance Victor Le Roy
                     had given to his feelings all day. All day they had been concentrating, and now
                     came from him fiery and fast.
                  It was time for him to know in whom and in what he believed.
                  Greatly moved by his words, Jacqueline said, giving him the tracts,—
                  "I came from Domrémy. I am free. No one can be hurt by what befalls me. I want
                     to know the truth. I am not afraid. Did John Leclerc never give way for a
                     moment? Is he really to be whipped through the streets, and on the third day to
                     be branded? Will he not retract?"
                  "Never!" was the answer,—spoken not without a shudder. "He did not flinch
                     through all the trial, Jacqueline. And his old mother says, 'Blessed be Jesus
                     Christ and his witnesses!'"
                  "I came from Domrémy," seemed to be in the girl's thought again; for her eyes
                     flashed when she looked at Victor Le Roy, as though she could believe the
                     heavens would open for the enlightening of such believers.
                  
                  "She gave me those to read," said she, pointing to the tracts she had given
                     him.
                  "And have you been reading them here by yourself?"
                  "No. Elsie and I were to have read them together; but I fell to thinking."
                  "You mean to wait for her, then?"
                  "I was afraid I should not make the right sense of them."
                  "Sit down, Jacqueline, and let me read aloud. I have read them before. And I
                     understand them better than Elsie does, or ever will."
                  "I am afraid that is true, sir. If you read, I will listen."
                  But he did not, with this permission, begin instantly.
                  "You came from Domrémy, Jacqueline," said he. "I came from Picardy. My home was
                     within a stone's throw of the castle where Jeanne d'Arc was a prisoner before
                     they carried her to Rouen. I have often walked about that castle and tried to
                     think how it must have been with her when they left her there a prisoner. God
                     knows, perhaps we shall all have an opportunity of knowing, how she felt when a
                     prisoner of Truth. Like a fly in a spider's net she was, poor girl! Only
                     nineteen! She had lived a life that was worth the living, Jacqueline. She knew
                     she was about to meet the fate her heart must have foretold. Girls do not run
                     such a course and then die quietly in their beds. They are attended to their
                     rest by grim sentinels, and they light fagots for them. I have read the story
                     many a time, when I could look at the window of the very room where she was a
                     prisoner. It was strange to think of her witnessing the crowning of the King,
                     with the conviction that her work ended there and then,—of the women who
                     brought their children to touch her garments or her hands, to let her smile on
                     them, or speak to them, or maybe kiss them. And the soldiers deemed their
                     swords were stronger when they had but touched hers. And they knelt down to
                     kiss her standard, that white standard, so often victorious! I have read many a
                     time of that glorious day at Rheims."
                  "And she said, that day, 'O, why can I not die here?'" said
                     Jacqueline, with a low voice.
                  "And when the Archbishop asked her," continued Victor, "'Where do you, then,
                     expect to die?' she answered, 'I know not. I shall die where God pleases. I
                     have done what the Lord my God commanded me; and I wish that He would now send
                     me to keep my sheep with my mother and sister.'"
                  "Because she loved Domrémy, and her work was done," said Jacqueline, sadly.
                     "And so many hated her! But her mother would be sure to love. Jeanne would
                     never see an evil eye in Domrémy, and no one would lie in wait to kill her in
                     the Vosges woods."
                  "It was such as you, Jacqueline, who believed in her, and comforted her. And to
                     every one that consoled her Christ will surely say, 'Ye blessed of my Father,
                     ye did it unto me!' Yes, to be sure, there were too many who stood ready to
                     kill her in all France,—besides those who were afraid of her, and fought
                     against our armies. Even when they were taking her to see the Dauphin, the
                     guard would have drowned her, and lied about it, but they were restrained. It
                     is something to have been born in Domrémy,—to have grown up in the very place
                     where she used to play, a happy little girl. You have seen that fountain, and
                     heard the bells she loved so much. It was good for you, I know."
                  "Her prayers were everywhere," Jacqueline replied. "Everywhere she heard the
                     voices that called her to come and deliver France. But her father did not
                     believe in her. He persecuted Jeanne."
                  "A man's foes are of his own household," said Victor. "You see the same thing
                     now. It is the very family of Christ—yes! so they dare call it—who are going to
                     tear and rend Leclerc to-morrow for believing the words of Christ. A hundred
                     judges settled that Jeanne should be burned; and for believing such words as
                     are in these books—"
                  
                  "Read me those words," said Jacqueline.
                  So they turned from speaking of Joan and her work, to contemplate another style
                     of heroism, and to question their own hearts.
                  Jacqueline Gabrie had lived through eighteen years of hardship and exposure.
                     She was strong, contented, resolute. Left to herself, she would probably have
                     suffered no disturbance of her creed,—would have lived and died conforming to
                     the letter of its law. But thrown under the influence of those who did agitate
                     the subject, she was brave and clear-headed. She listened now, while, according
                     to her wish, her neighbor read,—listened with clear intelligence, intent on the
                     truth. That, or any truth, accepted, she would hardly shrink from whatever it
                     involved. This was the reason why she had really feared to ask the Holy Ghost's
                     enlightenment! So well she understood herself! Truth was truth, and, if
                     received, to be abided by. She could not hold it loosely. She could not trifle
                     with it. She was born in Domrémy. She had played under the Fairy Oak. She knew
                     the woods where Joan wandered when she sought her saintly solitude. The fact
                     was acting on her as an inspiration, when Domrémy became a memory, when she
                     labored far away from the wooded Vosges and the meadows of Lorraine.
                  She listened to the reading, as girls do not always listen when they sit in the
                     presence of a reader such as young Le Roy.
                  And let it here be understood—that the conclusion bring no sorrow, and no sense
                     of wrong to those who turn these pages, thinking to find the climax dear to
                     half-fledged imagination, incapable from inexperience of any deeper truth, (I
                     render them all homage!)—this story is not told for any sake but truth's.
                  This Jacqueline did listen to this Victor, thinking actually of the words he
                     read. She looked at him really to ascertain whether her apprehension of these
                     things was all the same as his. She questioned him, with the simple desire to
                     learn what he could tell her. Her hands were very hard, so constant had been
                     her dealing with the rough facts of this life; but the hard hand was firm in
                     its clasp, and ready with its helpfulness. Her eyes were open, and very clear
                     of dreams. There was room in them for tenderness as well as truth. Her voice
                     was not the sweetest of all voices in this world; but it had the quality that
                     would make it prized by others when heart and flesh were failing; for it would
                     be strong to speak then with cheerful faith and an unfaltering courage.
                  Jacqueline sat there under the chestnut-trees, upon the river-bank,
                     strong-hearted, high-hearted, a brave, generous woman. What if her days were
                     toilsome? What if her peasant-dress was not the finest woven in the looms of
                     Paris or of Meaux? Her prayers were brief, her toil was long, her sleep was
                     sound,—her virtue firm as the everlasting mountains. Jacqueline, I have singled
                     you from among hordes and tribes and legions upon legions of women, one among
                     ten thousand, altogether lovely,—not for dalliance, not for idleness, not for
                     dancing, which is well; not for song, which is better; not for beauty, which,
                     perhaps, is best; not for grace, or power, or passion. There is an attribute of
                     God which is more to His universe than all evidence of power. It is His truth.
                     Jacqueline, it is for this your name shall shine upon my page.
                  And, manifestly, it is by virtue of this quality that her reader is moved and
                     attracted at this hour of twilight on the river-bank.
                  Her intelligence is so quick! her apprehension so direct! her conclusions so
                     true! He intended to aid her; but Mazurier himself had never uttered comments
                     so entirely to the purpose as did this young girl, speaking from heart and
                     brain. Better fortune, apparently, could not have befallen him than was his in
                     this reading; for with every sentence almost came her comment, clear, earnest,
                     to the point.
                  He had need of such a friend as Jacqueline seemed able to prove herself. His
                     nearest living relative was an uncle, who had sent the ambitious and capable young student to Meaux; for he gave
                     great promise, and was worth an experiment, the old man thought,—and was strong
                     to be thrown out into the world, where he might ascertain the power of
                     self-reliance. He had need of friends, and, of all friends, one like
                     Jacqueline.
                  From the silence and retirement of his home in Picardy he had come to
                     Meaux,—the town that was so astir, busy, thoroughly alive! Inexperienced in
                     worldly ways he came. His face was beautiful with its refinement and power of
                     expression. His eyes were full of eloquence; so also was his voice. When he
                     came from Picardy to Meaux, his old neighbors prophesied for him. He knew their
                     prophecies, and purposed to fulfil them. He ceased from dreaming, when he came
                     to Meaux. He was not dreaming, when he looked on Jacqueline. He was aware of
                     what he read, and how she listened, under those chestnut-trees.
                  The burden of the tracts he read to Jacqueline was salvation by faith, not of
                     works,—an iconoclastic doctrine, that was to sweep away the great mass of
                     Romish superstition, invalidating Papal power. Image-worship,
                     shrine-frequenting sacrifices, indulgences, were esteemed and proved less than
                     nothing worth in the work of salvation.
                  "Did you understand John, when he said that the priests deceived us and were
                     full of robberies, and talked about the masses for the dead, and said the only
                     good of them was to put money into the Church?" asked Jacqueline.
                  "I believe it," he replied, with spirit.
                  "That the masses are worth nothing?" she asked,—far from concealing that the
                     thought disturbed her.
                  "What can they be worth, if a man has lived a bad life?"
                  "That my father did not!" she exclaimed.
                  "If a man is a bad man, why, then he is. He has gone where he must be judged.
                     The Scripture says, As a tree falls, it must lie."
                  "My father was a good man, Victor. But he died of a sudden, and there was no
                     time."
                  "No time for what, Jacqueline? No time for him to turn about, and be a bad man
                     in the end?"
                  "No time for confession and absolution. He died praying God to forgive him all
                     his sins. I heard him. I wondered, Victor, for I never thought of his
                     committing sins. And my mother mourned for him as a good wife should not mourn
                     for a bad husband."
                  "Then what is your trouble, Jacqueline?"
                  "Do you know why I came here to Meaux? I came to get money,—to earn it. I
                     should be paid more money here than I got for any work at home, they said: that
                     was the reason. When I had earned so much,—it was a large sum, but I knew I
                     should get it, and the priest encouraged me to think I should,—he said that my
                     heart's desire would be accomplished. And I could earn the money before winter
                     is over, I think. But now if—"
                  "Throw it into the Seine, when you get it, rather than pay it to the liar for
                     selling your father out of a place he was never in! He is safe, believe me, if
                     he was the good man you say. Do not disturb yourself, Jacqueline."
                  "He never harmed a soul. And we loved him that way a bad man could not be
                     loved."
                  As Jacqueline said this, a smile more sad than joyful passed over her face, and
                     disappeared.
                  "He rests in peace," said Victor Le Roy.
                  "It is what I must believe. But what if there should be a mistake about it? It
                     was all I was working for."
                  "Think for yourself, Jacqueline. No matter what Leclerc thinks or I think. Can
                     you suppose that Jesus Christ requires any such thing as this of you, that you
                     should make a slave of yourself for the expiation of your father? It is a
                     monstrous thought. Doubt not it was love that took him away so quickly. And
                     love can care for him. Long before this, doubtless, he has heard the words,
                     'Come, ye blessed of my father!' And what is required of you, do you ask? You
                     shall be merciful to them that live; and trust Him that He will care for those
                     who have gone beyond yond your
                     reach. Is it so? Do I understand you? You have been thinking to
                        buy this good gift of God, eternal life for your
                     father, when of course you could have nothing to do with it. You have been
                     imposed upon, and robbed all this while, and this is the amount of it."
                  "Well, do not speak so. If what you say is true,—and I think it may be,—what is
                     past is past."
                  "But won't you see what an infernal lie has been practised on you, and all the
                     rest of us who had any conscience or heart in us, all this while? There
                        is no purgatory; and it is nonsense to think, that, if there
                     were, money could buy a man out of it. Jesus Christ is the one sole atonement
                     for sin. And by faith in Him shall a man save his soul alive. That is the only
                     way. If I lose my soul, and am gone, the rest is between me and God. Do you see
                     it should be so, and must be so, Jacqueline?"
                  "He was a good man," said Jacqueline.
                  She did not find it quite easy to make nothing of all this matter, which had
                     been the main-spring of her effort since her father died. She could not in one
                     instant drop from her calculations that on which she had heretofore based all
                     her activity. She had labored so long, so hard, to buy the rest and peace and
                     heavenly blessedness of the father she loved, it was hardly to be expected that
                     at once she would choose to see that in that rest and peace and blessedness,
                     she, as a producing power, had no part whatever.
                  As she more than hinted, the purpose of her life seemed to be taken from her.
                     She could not perceive that fact without some consternation; could not
                     instantly connect it with another, which should enable her to look around her
                     with the deliberation of a liberated spirit, choosing her new work. And in this
                     she was acted upon by more than the fear arising from the influences of her old
                     belief. Of course she should have been, and yet she was not, able to drop
                     instantly and forever from recollection the constant sacrifices she had made,
                     the deprivation she had endured, with heroic persistence,—the putting far away
                     every personal sonal indulgence whose price had a market value. Her father was
                     not the only person concerned in this work; the priest; herself. She had
                     believed in the pastor of Domrémy. Yet he had deceived her. Else he was
                     self-deceived; and what if the blind should strive to lead the blind?
                        Could she accept the new faith, the great freedom, with perfect
                     rejoicing?
                  Victor Le Roy seemed to have some suspicion of what was passing in her
                     thoughts. He did not need to watch her changeful face in order to understand
                     them.
                  "I advise you to still think of this," said he. "Recall your father's life, and
                     then ask yourself if it is likely that He who is Love requires the sacrifice of
                     your youth and your strength before your father shall receive from Him what He
                     has promised to give to all who trust in Him. Take God at his word, and you
                     will be obliged to give up all this priest-trash."
               
               
                  IV.
                  VICTOR LE ROY spoke these words quietly, as if aware that he might safely leave
                     them, as well as any other true words, to the just sense of Jacqueline.
                  She was none the happier for them when she returned that night to the little
                     city room, the poor lodging whose high window overlooked both town and country,
                     city streets and harvest-fields, and the river flowing on beyond the borders of
                     the town,—no happier through many a moment of thinking, until, as it were by an
                     instant illumination, she began to see the truth of the matter, as some might
                     wonder she did not instantly perceive it, if they could omit from observation
                     this leading fact, that the orphan girl was Jacqueline Gabrie, child of the
                     Church, and not a wise and generous person, who had never been in bondage to
                     superstitions.
                  For a long time after her return to her lodging she was alone. Elsie was in the
                     street with the rest of the town,
                     talking, as all were talking, of the sight that Meaux should see to-morrow.
                  Besides Jacqueline, there was hardly another person in this great building, six
                     stories high, every room of which had usually a tenant at this hour. She sat by
                     her window, and looked at the dusky town, over which the moon was rising. But
                     her thoughts were far away; over many a league they wandered.
                  Once more she stood on the play-ground of her toilsome childhood. She recalled
                     many a year of sacrificing drudgery, which now she could not name such,—for
                     another reason than that which had heretofore prevented her from calling it a
                     sacrifice. She remembered these years of wrong and of extortion,—they received
                     their proper name now,—years whose mirth and leisure she had quietly foregone,
                     but during which she had borne a burden that saddened youth, while it also
                     dignified it,—a burden which had made her heart's natural cheerfulness the
                     subject of self-reproach, and her maiden dreams and wishes matter for tears,
                     for shame, for confession, for prayer.
                  Now Victor Le Roy's words came to her very strangely; powerfully they moved
                     her. She believed them in this solitude, where at leisure she could meditate
                     upon them. A vision more fair and blessed than she had ever imagined rose
                     before her. There was no suffering in it, and no sorrow; it was full of peace.
                     Already, in the heaven to which she had hoped her toil would give him at length
                     admission, her father had found his home. There was a glory in his rest not
                     reflected from her filial love, but from the all-availing love of Christ.
                  Then—delay the rigor of your judgment!—she began,—yes, she, this Jacqueline,
                     began to count the cost of what she had done. She was not a sordid soul, she
                     had not a miserly nature. Before she had gone far in that strange computation,
                     she paused abruptly, with a crimsoned face, and not with tearless eyes.
                     Counting the cost! Estimating the sacrifice! Had, then, her purpose been less
                     holy because excited by falsehood and sustained through delusion? Was she less
                     loving and less true, because deceived? And was she to lament that Christ, the
                     one and only Priest, rather than another instrumentality, was the deliverer of
                     her beloved from the power of death?
                  No ritual was remembered, and no formula consulted, when she cried out,—"It is
                     so! and I thank Thee! Only give me now, my Jesus, a purpose as holy as that
                     Thou hast taken away!"
                  But she had not come into her chamber to spend a solitary evening there.
                     Turning away from the window, she bestowed a little care upon her person,
                     smoothed away the traces of her day's labor, and after all was done she
                     lingered yet longer. She was going out, evidently. Whither? To visit the mother
                     of John Leclerc. She must carry back the tracts the good woman had lent her.
                     Their contents had firm lodgment in her memory.
                  Others might run to and fro in the streets, and talk about the corners, and
                     prognosticate with passion, and defy, in the way of cowardice, where safety
                     rather than the truth is well assured. If one woman could console another,
                     Jacqueline wished that she might console Leclerc's mother. And if any words of
                     wisdom could drop from the poor old woman's lips while her soul was in this
                     strait, Jacqueline desired to hear those words.
                  Down the many flights of stairs she went across the court, and then along the
                     street, to the house where the wool-comber lived.
                  A brief pause followed her knock for admittance. She repeated it. Then was
                     heard a sound from within,—a step crossing the floor. The door opened, and
                     there stood the mother of Leclerc, ready to face any danger, the very Fiend
                     himself.
                  But when she saw that it was Jacqueline, only Jacqueline,—an angel, as one
                     might say, and not a devil,—the terrible look passed from her face; she opened
                     the door wide.
                  "Come in, child! come in!"
                  
                  So Jacqueline went into the room where John had worked and thought, reasoned,
                     argued, prayed.
                  This is the home of the man because of whom many are this night offended in the
                     city of Meaux. This is the place whence issued the power that has set the
                     tongues to talking, and the minds to thinking, and the hearts to hoping, and
                     the authorities to avenging.
                  A grain of mustard-seed is the kingdom of heaven in a figure; the wandering
                     winds a symbol of the Pentecostal power: a dove did signify the descent of God
                     to man. This poor chamber, so pent in, and so lowly, so obscure, has its
                     significance. Here has a life been lived; and not the least does it import,
                     that walls are rough and the ceiling low.
                  But the life of John Leclerc was not to be limited. A power has stood here
                     which by its freedom has set at defiance the customary calculation of the
                     worldly-wise. In high places and in low the people are this night disturbed
                     because of him who has dared to lift his voice in the freedom of the speech of
                     God. In drawing-rooms odorous with luxury the man's name has mention, and the
                     vulgarity of his liberated speech and courageous faith is a theme to move the
                     wonder and excite the reprobation of hearts whose languid beating keeps up
                     their show of life,—to what sufficient purpose expect me not to tell. His voice
                     is loud and harsh to echo through these music-loving halls; it rends and tears,
                     with almost savage strength, the dainty silences.
                  But busier tongues are elsewhere more vehement in speech; larger hearts beat
                     faster indignation; grief and vulgarest curiosity are all manifesting
                     themselves after their several necessity. In solitary places heroes pray
                     throughout the night, wrestling like Jacob, agonizing like Saul, and with some
                     of them the angel left his blessing; for some the golden harp was struck that
                     soothed their souls to peace. Angels of heaven had work to do that night.
                     Angels of heaven and hell did prove themselves that night in Meaux; night of
                     unrest and sleeplessness, or of cruel dreaming; night of bloody visions,
                     tortured by the apprehension of a lacerated body driven through the city
                     streets, and of the hooting shouts of Devildom; night-haunted by a gory
                     image,—the defiled temple of the Holy Ghost.
                  Did the prospect of torture keep him wakeful? Could the man bear
                     the disgrace, the derision, shouting, agony? Was there nothing in this thought,
                     that as a witness of Jesus Christ he was to appear next day, that should soothe
                     him even unto slumber? Upon the silence of his guarded chamber let none but
                     ministering angels break. Sacred to him, and to Him who watched the hours of
                     the night, let the night go!
                  But here—his mother, Jacqueline with her—we may linger with these.
               
               
                  V.
                  WHEN the old woman saw that it was Jacqueline Gabrie who stood waiting
                     admittance, she opened the door wider, as I said; and the dark solemnity of her
                     countenance seemed to be, by so much as a single ray, enlivened for an
                     instant.
                  She at once perceived the tracts which Jacqueline had brought. Aware of this,
                     the girl said,—
                  "I stayed to hear them read, after I heard that for the sake of the truth in
                     them"—she hesitated—"this city will invite God's wrath to-morrow."
                  And she gave the papers to the old woman, who took them in silence.
                  By and by she asked,—
                  "Are you just home, Jacqueline?"
                  "Since sunset, though it was nearly dark when I came in," she answered. "Victor
                     Le Roy was down by the river-bank, and he read them for me."
                  "He wanted to get out of town, may be. You would surely have thought it was a
                     holiday, Jacqueline, if you could
                     have seen the people. Anything for a show; but some of them might well lament.
                     Did you want to know the truth he pays so dear for teaching? But you have heard
                     it, my child."
                  "We all heard what he must pay for it, in the fields at noon. Yes; mother, I
                     wanted to know."
                  "But if you shall believe it, Jacqueline, it may lead you into danger, into sad
                     straits," said the old woman, looking at the young girl with earnest pity in
                     her eyes.
                  She loved this girl, and shuddered at the thought of exposing her to
                     danger.
                  Jacqueline had nursed her neighbor, Antonine, and more than once, after a hard
                     day's labor, which must be followed by another, she had sat with her through
                     the night; and she could pay this service only with love, and the best gift of
                     her love was to instruct her in the truth. John and she had proved their
                     grateful interest in her fortunes by giving her that which might expose her to
                     danger, persecution, and they could not foresee to what extremity of evil.
                  And now the old woman felt constrained to say this to her, even for her love's
                     sake,—"It may lead you into danger."
                  "But if truth is dangerous, shall I choose to be safe?" answered Jacqueline,
                     with stately courage.
                  "It is truth. It will support him. Blessed be Jesus
                     Christ and His witnesses! To-night, and to-morrow, and the third day, our Jesus
                     will sustain him. They think John will retract. They do not know my son. They
                     do not know how he has waited, prayed, and studied to learn the truth, and how
                     dear it is to him. No, Jacqueline, they do not. But when they prove him, they
                     will know. And if he is willing to witness, shall I not be glad? The people
                     will understand him better afterward,—and the priests, maybe. 'I can do all
                     things,' said he, 'Christ strengthening me'; and that was said long ago by one
                     who was proved. Where shall you be, Jacqueline?"
                  "O," groaned Jacqueline, "I shall be in the fields at work, away from these
                     cruel people, and the noise and the sight. But, mother, where shall you
                     be?"
                  "With the people, child. With him, if I live. Yes, he is my son; and I have
                     never been ashamed of the brave boy. I will not be ashamed to-morrow. I will
                     follow John; and when they bind him, I will let him see his mother's eyes are
                     on him,—blessing him, my child!—Hark! how they talk through the
                     streets!—Jacqueline, he was never a coward. He is strong, too. They will not
                     kill him, and they cannot make him dumb. He will hold the truth the faster for
                     all they do to him. Jesus Christ on his side, do you think he will fear the
                     city, or all Paris, or all France? He does not know what it is to be afraid.
                     And when God opened his eyes to the truth of his Gospel, which the priests had
                     hid, he meant that John should work for it; for he is a working-man, whatever
                     he sets about."
                  So this old woman tried, and not without success, to comfort herself, and
                     sustain her tender, proud, maternal heart. The dire extremity into which she
                     and her son had fallen did not crush her; few were the tears that fell from her
                     eyes as she recalled for Jacqueline the years of her son's boyhood,—told her of
                     his courage, as in various ways it had made itself manifest: how he had always
                     been fearless in danger,—a conqueror of pain,—seemingly regardless of
                     comfort,—fond of contemplation,—contented with his humble state,—kindly,
                     affectionate, generous, but easily stirred to wrath by injustice, when
                     manifested by the strong toward the weak, or by cruelty, or by falsehood.
                  Many an anecdote of his career might she relate; for his character, under the
                     pressure of this trial, which was as searching and severe a test of her faith
                     as of his, seemed to illustrate itself in manifold heroic ways, all now of the
                     highest significance. With more majesty and grandeur his character arose before
                     her; for now in all the past, as she surveyed it, she beheld a living power, a
                     capability, and a necessity of new and grand significance, and her heart
                     reverenced the spirit she had nursed into being.
                  
                  Removed to the distance of a prison from her sight, separated from her love by
                     bolts and bars, and the wrath of tyranny and close-banded bigotry, he became a
                     power, a hero, who moved her, as she recalled his sentence, and prophesied the
                     morrow, to a feeling tears could not explain.
                  They passed the night together, the young woman and the old. In the morning,
                     Jacqueline must go into the field again. She was in haste to go. Leaving a kiss
                     on the old woman's cheek, she was about to steal away in silence; but as she
                     laid her hand upon the latch, a thought arrested her, and she did not open the
                     door, but went back and sat beside the window, and watched the mother of
                     Leclerc through the sleep that must be brief. It was not in her heart to go
                     away and leave those eyes to waken upon solitude. She must see a helpful hand
                     and hopeful face, and, if it might be, hear a cheerful human voice, in the
                     dawning of that day.
                  She had not long to wait; and the time she may have lost in waiting Jacqueline
                     did not count or reckon, when she heard her name spoken, and could answer,
                     "What wilt thou? here am I."
                  Not in vain had she lingered. What were wages, more or less, that they should
                     be mentioned, thought of, when she might give and receive here what the world
                     gives not, and never has to give, and what a mortal cannot buy, the treasure
                     being priceless? Through the quiet of that morning hour, soothing words, and
                     strong, she felt and knew to speak; and when at last she hurried away from the
                     city to the fields, she was stronger than of nature, able to bear witness to
                     the faith that speaks from the bewilderment of its distresses, "Though He slay
                     me, yet will I trust in Him."
                  Not alone had her young, frank, loving eyes enlivened the dreary morning to the
                     heart of Leclerc's mother. Grace for grace had she received. And words of the
                     hymn that were always on John's lips had found echo from his mother's memory
                     this morning: they lodged in the heart of Jacqueline. She went away repeating,— 
                        
                           "In the midst of death, the jaws
                           Of hell against us gape.
                           Who from peril dire as this
                           Openeth us escape?
                           'T is thou, O Lord, alone!
                           Our bitter suffering and our sin
                           Pity from thy mercy win,
                           Holy Lord and God!
                           Strong and holy God!
                           Merciful and holy Saviour!
                           Eternal God!
                           Let us not despair
                           For the fire that burneth there!
                           Kyrie, eleison!"
                        
                     
                  
                  Jacqueline met Elsie on her way to the fields. But the girls had not much to
                     say to each other that morning in their walk. Elsie was manifestly conscious of
                     some great constraint; she might have reported to her friend what she had heard
                     in the streets last night, but she felt herself prevented from such
                     communication,—seemed to be intent principally on one thing: she would not
                     commit herself in any direction. She was looking with suspicion upon
                     Jacqueline. Whatever became of her soul, her body she would save alive. She was
                     waking to this world's enjoyment with vision alert, senses keen. Martyrdom in
                     any degree was without attraction to her, and in Truth she saw no beauty that
                     she should desire it. It was a root out of dry ground indeed, that gave no
                     promise of spreading into goodly shelter and entrancing beauty.
                  As to Jacqueline, she was absorbed in her heroic and exalted thoughts. Her
                     heart had almost failed her when she said farewell to John's mother; tearfully
                     she had hurried on her way. One vast cloud hung between her and heaven; darkly
                     rolled the river; every face seemed to bear witness to the tragedy that day
                     should witness.
                  Not the least of her affliction was the consciousness of the distance
                     increasing between herself and Elsie Méril. She knew that Elsie was rejoicing that she had
                     in no way endangered herself yet; and sure was she that in no way would Elsie
                     invite the fury of avenging tyranny and reckless superstition.
                  Jacqueline asked her no questions,—spoke few words to her,—was absorbed in her
                     own thoughts. But she was kindly in her manner, and in such words as she spoke.
                     So Elsie perceived two things,—that she should not lose her friend, neither was
                     in danger of being seized by the heretical mania. It was her way of drawing
                     inferences. Certain that she had not lost her friend, because Jacqueline did
                     not look away, and refuse to recognize her; congratulating herself that she was
                     not the object of suspicion, either justly or unjustly, among the dreadful
                     priests.
                  But that friend whose steady eye had balanced Elsie was already sick at heart,
                     for she knew that never more must she rely upon this girl who came with her
                     from Domrémy.
                  As they crossed the bridge, lingering thereon a moment, the river seemed to
                     moan in its flowing toward Meaux. The day's light was sombre; the birds' songs
                     had no joyous sound,—plaintive was their chirping; it saddened the heart to
                     hear the wind,—it was a wind that seemed to take the buoyancy and freshness out
                     of every living thing, an ugly southeast wind. They went on together,—to the
                     wheat-fields together. It was to be day of minutes to poor Jacqueline.
                  To be away from Meaux bodily was, it appeared, only that the imagination might
                     have freer exercise. Yes,—now the people must be moving through the streets;
                     shop-men were not so intent on profits this day as they were on other days. The
                     priests were thinking with vengeful hate of the wrong to themselves which
                     should be met and conquered that day. The people should be swiftly brought into
                     order again! John in his prison was preparing, as all without the prison
                     were.
                  The crowd was gathering fast. He would soon be led forth. The shameful march
                     was forming. Now the brutal hand of Power was lifted with scourges. The bravest
                     man in Meaux was driven through the streets,—she saw with what a visage,—she
                     knew with what a heart. Her heart was awed with thinking thereupon. A bloody
                     mist seemed to fall upon the environs of Meaux; through that red horror she
                     could not penetrate; it shrouded and it held poor Jacqueline.
                  Of the faith that would sustain him she began once more to inquire. It is not
                     by a bound that mortals ever clear the heights of God. Step by step they scale
                     the eminences, toiling through the heavenly atmosphere. Only around the summit
                     shines the eternal sun.
                  So she must now recall the words that Victor Le Roy read for her last night;
                     and the words he spoke from out his heart,—these also. And she did not fear
                     now, as yesterday, to ask for light. Let the light dawn,—oh, let it shine on
                     her!
                  The mother of Leclerc had uttered mysterious words which Jacqueline took for
                     truth; the light was joyful and blessed, and of all things to be desired,
                     though it smote the life from one like lightning. She waited alone with faith,
                     watching till it should come,—left alone with this beam glimmering like a moth
                     through darkness!—for thus was a believer, or one who resolved on believing,
                     left in that day, when he turned from the machinery of the Church, and stood
                     alone, searching for God without the aid of priestly intervention.
               
               
                  VI.
                  THERE was something awful in such loneliness.
                  Jacqueline knew little of it until now, as she walked toward the fields, by the
                     side of Elsie Méril.
                  She saw how she had depended on the priest of Domrémy, as he had been the
                     lawgiver and the leader of her life. A spiritual life, to be sustained only by
                     the invisible spirit, to be lived by
                     faith, not in man, but in God, without intervention of saint or angel or
                     Blessed Virgin,—was the world's life liberated by such freedom?
                  By faith, and not by sight, the just must live. Would He bow his heavens and
                     come down to dwell with the contrite and the humble?
                  Wondrous strange it seemed,—incomprehensible,—more than she could manage or
                     control. There are prisoners whose pardon proves the world too large for them:
                     they find no rest until their prison-door is opened for them again.
                  Of this class was Elsie,—not Jacqueline. Elsie was afraid of freedom,—not equal
                     to it,—unable to deal with it; satisfied with being a child, with being a
                     slave, when it came to be a question whether she should accept and use her
                     highest privilege and dignity. At this hour, and among all persuasions, you
                     will find that Elsie does not stand alone. Little children there are, long as
                     the world shall stand,—though not precisely such as we think of when we
                     remember, "Of such is the kingdom of heaven."
                  It was enough for Elsie—it is enough for multitudes through all the
                     reformations—that she had an earthly defence, even such as she relied on
                     without trouble. She lived in the hour. She had never toiled to deliver her
                     darling from the lions,—to redeem a soul from purgatory. She eased her
                     conscience, when it was troubled, by such shallow discovery of herself as she
                     deemed confession. She loved dancing, and all other amusements,—hated solitude,
                     knew not the meaning of self-abnegation. And let her dance and enjoy
                     herself!—some service to the body is rendered thereby. She might do greatly
                     worse, and is incapable of doing greatly better. Will you stint the idiots of
                     comfort,—or rather build them decent habitations, and even vex yourself to feed
                     and clothe them, in reverent confidence that the Future shall surely take them
                     up and bless them, unstop their ears, open their eyes, give speech to them and
                     absolute deliverance?
                  There are others beside Elsie who congratulate themselves selves on
                     non-committal,—they covet not the advanced and dangerous positions. Honorable,
                     but dangerous positions! The head might be taken off, do you not see? And could
                     all eternity compensate for the loss of time? Ah, the body might be
                     mutilated,—the liberty restrained: as if, indeed, a man's freedom were not
                     eternally established, when his enemies, howling around, must at least crucify
                     him! as if a divine voice were not ever heard through the raging of the people,
                     saying, "Come up higher!"
                  But a fern-leaf cannot grow into a mighty hemlock-tree. From the ashes of a
                     sparrow the phoenix shall not rise. You will not to all eternity, by any
                     artificial means, nor by a miracle, bring forth an eagle from a mollusk.
                  There was not a sadder heart in all those fields of Meaux than the heart of
                     Jacqueline Gabrie. There was not a stronger heart. Not a hand labored more
                     diligently. Under the broad-brimmed peasant-hat was a sad countenance,—under
                     the peasant-dress a heavily burdened spirit. Silent, all day, she labored. She
                     was alone at noon under the river-bordered trees, eating her coarse fare
                     without zest, but with a conscience,—to sustain the body that was born to toil.
                     But in the maelstrom of doubt and anxiety was she tossed and whirled, and she
                     cared not for her life. To be rid of it, now for the first time, she felt might
                     be a blessing. What purpose, indeed, had she? She turned her thought from this
                     question, but it would not let her alone. Again and yet again she turned to
                     meet it, and thus would surely have at length its satisfying answer.
                  John Leclerc might pass through this ordeal, as from the first she had expected
                     of him. But she listened to the speech of many of her fellow-laborers. Some
                     prophecies which had a sound incredible escaped them. She did not credit them,
                     but they tormented her. They contended with one another. John, some foretold,
                     would certainly retract. One day of public whipping would suffice. When the
                     blood began to flow, he would see his duty clearer! The men were prophesying
                     from the depths and the abundance of
                     their self-consciousness. Others speculated on the final result of the executed
                     sentence. They believed that the "obstinacy" and courage of the man would
                     provoke his judges, and the executors of his sentence; that with rigor they
                     would execute it; and that, led on by passion, and provoked by such as would
                     side with the victim, the sentence would terminate in his destruction. Sooner
                     or later, nothing but his life would be found ultimately to satisfy his
                     enemies.
                  It might be so, thought Jacqueline Gabrie. What then? What then?—she thought.
                     There was inspiration to the girl in that cruel prophecy. Her life-work was not
                     ended. If Christ was the One Ransom, and it did truly fall on Him, and not on
                     her, to care for those beloved, departed from this life, her work was still for
                     love.
                  John Leclerc disabled or dead, who should care then for his aged mother? Who
                     should minister to him? Who, indeed, but Jacqueline?
                  Living or dying, she said to herself, with grand enthusiasm,—living or dying,
                     let him do the Master's pleasure! She also was here to serve that Master; and
                     while in spiritual things he fed the hungry, clothed the naked, gave the cup of
                     living water, visited the imprisoned, and the sick of sin, she would bind
                     herself to minister to him and his old mother in temporal things; so should he
                     live above all cares save those of heavenly love. She could support them all by
                     her diligence, and in this there would be joy.
                  She thought this through her toil; and the thought was its own reward. It
                     strengthened her like an angel,—strengthened heart and faith. She labored as no
                     other peasant-woman did that day,—like a beast of burden, unresisting,
                     patient,—like a holy saint, so peaceful and assured, so conscious of the
                     present very God!
               
               
                  VII.
                  THE three days passed away. And every hour's progress was marked as it passed
                     over the citizens of Meaux. Leclerc, and the doctrines for which he suffered,
                     filled the people's thought; he was their theme of speech. Wonder softened into
                     pity; unbelief was goaded by his stripes to cruelty; faith became transfigured,
                     while he, followed by the hooting crowd, endured the penalty of faith. Some men
                     looked on with awe that would become adoring; some with surprise that would
                     take refuge in study and conviction. There were tears as well as exultation,
                     solemn joy as well as execration, in his train. The mother of Leclerc followed
                     him with her undaunted testimony, "Blessed be Jesus Christ and His
                     Witnesses!"
                  By day, in the field, Jacqueline Gabrie thought over the reports she heard,
                     through the harvesters, of the city's feeling, of its purpose, of its judgment;
                     by night she prayed and hoped, with the mother of Leclerc; and wondrous was the
                     growth her faith had in those days.
                  On the evening of the third day, Jacqueline and Elsie walked into Meaux
                     together. This was not invariably their habit. Elsie had avoided too frequent
                     conversation with her friend of late. She knew their paths were separate, and
                     was never so persuaded of the fact as this night, when, of her own will, she
                     sought to walk with Jacqueline. The sad face of her friend troubled her; it
                     moved her conscience that she did not deeply share in her anxiety. When they
                     came from Domrémy, she had relied on Jacqueline: there was safety in her
                     counsel,—there was wisdom in it: but now, either?
                  "It made me scream outright, when I saw the play," said she; "but it is worse
                     to see your face now-a-days,—it is more terrible, Jacqueline."
                  Jacqueline made no reply to this; and Elsie regarded the silence as sufficient
                     provocation.
                  
                  "You seem to think I have no feeling," said she. "I am as sorry about the poor
                     fellows as you can be. But I cannot look as if I thought the day of judgment
                     close at hand, when I don't, Jacqueline."
                  "Very well, Elsie. I am not complaining of your looks."
                  "But you are,—or you might as well."
                  "Let not that trouble you, Elsie. Your face is smooth, at least; and your voice
                     does not sound like the voice of one who is in grief. Rejoice,—for, as you say,
                     you have a right to yourself, with which I am not to interfere. We are old
                     friends,—we came away from Lorraine together. Do not forget that. I never will
                     forget it."
                  "But you are done with me. You say nothing to me. I might as well be dead, for
                     all you care."
                  "Let us not talk of such things in this manner," said Jacqueline, mildly. But
                     the dignity of her rebuke was felt, for Elsie said,—
                  "But I seem to have lost you,—and now we are alone together, I may say it. Yes,
                     I have lost you, Jacqueline!"
                  "This is not the first time we have been alone together in these dreadful three
                     days."
                  "But now I cannot help speaking."
                  "You could help it before. Why, Elsie? You had not made up your mind. But now
                     you have, or you would not speak, and insist on speaking. What have you to say,
                     then?"
                  "Jacqueline! Are you Jacqueline?"
                  "Am I not?"
                  "You seem not to be."
                  "How is it, Elsie?"
                  "You are silent and stern, and I think you are very unhappy, Jacqueline."
                  "I do not know,—not unhappy, I think. Perhaps I am silent,—I have been so busy.
                     But for all it is so dreadful—no! not unhappy, Elsie."
                  "Thinking of Leclerc all the while?"
                  "Of him? O, no! I have not been thinking of him,— not constantly. Jesus Christ
                     will take care of him. His mother is quiet, thinking that. I, at least, can be
                     as strong as she. I'm not thinking of the shame and cruelty,—but of what that
                     can be worth which is so much to him, that he counts this punishment, as they
                     call it, as nothing, as hardly pain, certainly not disgrace. The Truth,
                     Elsie!—if I have not as much to say, it is because I have been trying to find
                     the Truth."
                  "But if you have found it, then I hope I never shall,—if it is the Truth that
                     makes you so gloomy. I thought it was this business in Meaux."
                  "Gloomy? when it may be I have found, or shall find—"
                  Here Jacqueline hesitated,—looked at Elsie. Grave enough was that look to expel
                     every frivolous feeling from the heart of Elsie,—at least, so long as she
                     remained under its influence. It was something to trust another as Jacqueline
                     intended now to trust her friend. It was a touching sight to see her seeking
                     her old confidence, and appearing to rely on it, while she knew how frail the
                     reed was. But this girl, frivolous as was her spirit, this girl had come with
                     her from the distant native village; their childhood's recollections were the
                     same. And Jacqueline determined now to trust her. For in times of blasting heat
                     the shadow even of the gourd is not to be despised.
                  "You know what I have looked for so long, Elsie," she said; "you ought to
                     rejoice with me. I need work for that no longer."
                  "What is that, Jacqueline?"
                  Even this question, betraying no such apprehension as Jacqueline's words seemed
                     to intimate, did not disturb the girl. She was in the mood when,
                     notwithstanding her show of dependence, she was really in no such necessity.
                     Never was she stronger than now when she put off all show of strength. Elsie
                     stood before her in place of the opposing world. To Elsie's question she
                     replied as readily as though she anticipated the word, and had no expectation
                     of better recollection,—not to speak of better apprehension.
                  
                  "To bring him out of suffering he has never been made to endure, as surely as
                     God lives. As if the Almighty judged men so! I shall send back no more money to
                     Father La Croix. It is not his prayer, nor my earnings, that will have to do
                     with the eternity of John Gabrie.—Do you hear me, Elsie?"
                  "I seem to, Jacqueline."
                  "Have I any cause for wretched looks, then? I am in sight of better fortune
                     than I ever hoped for in this world."
                  "Then don't look so fearful. It is enough to scare one. You are not a girl to
                     choose to be a fright,—unless this dreadful city has changed you altogether
                     from what you were. You would frighten the Domrémy children with such a face as
                     that; they used not to fear Jacqueline."
                  "I shall soon be sailing on a smoother sea. As it is, do not speak of my looks.
                     That is too foolish."
                  "But, O, I feel as if I must hold you,—hold you!—you are leaving me!"
                  "Come on, Elsie!" exclaimed Jacqueline, as though she almost hoped this of her
                     dear companion.
                  "But where?" asked Elsie, not so tenderly.
                  "Where God leads. I cannot tell."
                  "I do not understand."
                  "You would not think the Truth worth buying at the price of your life?"
                  "My life?"
                  "Or such a price as he pays who—has been branded to-day?"
                  "It was not the truth to your mother,—or to mine. It was not the truth to any
                     one we ever knew, till we came here to Meaux."
                  "It is true to my heart, Elsie. It is true to my conscience. I know that I can
                     live for it. And it may be—"
                  "Hush!—do not! O, I wish that I could get you back to Domrémy! What is going to
                     come of this? Jacqueline, let us go home. Come, let us start to-night. We shall
                     have the moon all night to walk by. There is nothing in Meaux for us. O, if we
                     had never come away! It would have been better for you to work there for what
                     you wanted,—for what you came here to do."
                  "No, let God's Truth triumph! What am I? Less than that rush! But if His breath
                     is upon me, I will be moved by it,—I am not a stone."
                  Then they walked on in silence. Elsie had used her utmost of persuasion, but
                     Jacqueline not her utmost of resistance. Her companion knew this, felt her
                     weakness in such a contest, and was silent.
                  On to town they went together. They walked together through the streets,
                     passing constantly knots of people who stood about the corners and among the
                     shops, discussing what had taken place that day. They crossed the square where
                     the noonday sun had shone on crowds of people, men and women, gathered from the
                     four quarters of the town and the neighboring country, assembled to witness the
                     branding of a heretic. They entered their court-yard together,—ascended the
                     stairway leading to their lodging. But they were two,—not one.
                  Elsie's chief desire had been to get Jacqueline safely into the house ere she
                     could find opportunity for expression of what was passing in her mind. Her fear
                     was even greater than her curiosity. She had no desire to learn, under these
                     present circumstances, the arguments and incidents which the knots of men and
                     women were discussing with so much vehemence as they passed by. She could guess
                     enough to satisfy her. So she had hurried along, betraying more eagerness than
                     was common with her to get out of the street. Not often was she so overcome of
                     weariness,—not often so annoyed by heat and dust. Jacqueline, without
                     remonstrance, followed her. But they were two,—not one.
                  Once safe in their upper room, Elsie appeared to be, after all, not so devoid
                     of interest in what was passing in the street as her hurried walk would seem to
                     betoken. She had not quite yet lost
                     her taste for excitement and display. For immediately she seated herself by the
                     window, and was all eye and ear to what went on outside.
                  Jacqueline's demonstrations also were quite other than might have been
                     anticipated. Each step she took in her chamber gave an indication that she had
                     a purpose, and that she would perform it.
                  She removed from her dress the dust and stain of toil, arranged her hair, made
                     herself clean and decent, to meet the sober gaze of others. Then she placed
                     upon the table the remains of their breakfast; but she ate nothing.
               
               
                  VIII.
                  IT was nearly dark when Jacqueline said to Elsie,—
                  "I am now going to see John and his mother. I must see with my own eyes, and
                     hear with my own ears. I may be able to help them,—and I know they will be able
                     to help me. John's word will be worth hearing,—and I want to hear it. He must
                     have learned in these days more than we shall ever be able to learn for
                     ourselves. Will you go with me?"
                  "No," cried Elsie,—as though she feared she might against her will be taken
                     into such company. Then, not for her own sake, but for Jacqueline's, she added,
                     almost as if she hoped that she might prove successful in
                     persuasion, "I remember my father and mother. What they taught me I believe.
                     And that I shall live by. I shall never be wiser than they were. And I know I
                     never can be happier. They were good and honest. Jacqueline, we shall never be
                     as happy again as we were in Domrémy, when the pastor blessed us, and we hunted
                     flowers for the altar,—never!—never!" And Elsie Méril, overcome by her
                     recollections and her presentiments, burst into tears.
                  "It was the happiness of ignorance," said Jacqueline, after a solemn silence,
                     full of hurried thought. "No,—I, for one, shall never be as happy
                     as I was then. But my joy will be full of peace and bliss. It will be full of
                     satisfaction,—very different, but such as belongs to me, such as I must not do
                     without. God led us from Domrémy, and with me shall He do as seemeth good to
                     Him. We were children then, Elsie; but now may we be children no longer!"
                  "I will be faithful to my mother. Go, Jacqueline,—let me alone."
                  Elsie said this with so much spirit that Jacqueline answered quickly, and yet
                     very kindly,—
                  "I did not mean to trouble you, dear,—but—no matter now."
                  No sooner had Jacqueline left the house than Elsie went down to a church near
                     by, where she confessed herself to the priest, and received such goodly counsel
                     as was calculated to fortify her against Jacqueline in the future.
                  Jacqueline went to the house of the wool-comber, as of late had been her
                     nightly custom,—but not, as heretofore, to lighten the loneliness and anxiety
                     of the mother of Leclerc. Already she had said to the old woman,—
                  "I need not work now for my father's redemption. Then I will work for you, if
                     your son is disabled. Let us believe that God brought me here for this. I am
                     strong. You can lean on me. Try it."
                  Now she went to make repetition of the promise to Leclerc, if, perchance, he
                     had come back to his mother sick and sore and helpless. For this reason, when
                     she entered the humble home of the martyr, his eyes fell on her, and he saw her
                     as she had been an angel; how serene was her countenance; and her courage was
                     manifestly such as no mortal fear, no human affliction, could dismay.
                  Already in that room faithful friends had gathered to congratulate the living
                     man, and to refresh their strength from the abounding richness of his.
                  Martial Mazurier, the noted preacher, was there, and Victor Le Roy; besides these, others, unknown by
                     name or presence to Jacqueline.
                  Among them was the wool-comber,—wounded with many stripes, branded, a heretic!
                     But a man still, it appeared,—a living man,—brave as any hero, determined as a
                     saint,—ready to proclaim now the love of God, and from the couch where he was
                     lying to testify to Jesus and his Truth.
                  It was a goodly sight to see the tenderness of these men here gathered; how
                     they were forgetful of all inequalities of station, such as worldlings live
                     by,—meeting on a new ground, and greeting one another in a new spirit.
                  They had come to learn of John. A halo surrounded him; he was transfigured; and
                     through that cloud of glory they would fain penetrate. Perchance his eyes, as
                     Stephen's, had seen heaven open, when men had tried their torments. At least,
                     they had witnessed, when they followed the crowd, that his face, in contrast
                     with theirs who tormented, shone, as it had been the face of an angel. They had
                     witnessed his testimony given in the heroic endurance of physical pain. There
                     was more to be learned than the crowd were fit to hear or could
                     hear. Broken strains of the Lord's song they heard him singing through the
                     torture. Now they had come longing for the full burden of that divinest
                     melody.
                  Jacqueline entered the room quietly, scarcely observed. She sat down by the
                     door, and it chanced to be near the mother of Leclerc, near Victor Le Roy.
                  To their conversation she listened as one who listens for his life,—to the
                     reading of the Scripture,—to the singing of the psalm,—that grand old version,— 
                        
                           "Out of the depths I cry to thee,
                           Lord God! O, hear my prayer!
                           Incline a gracious ear to me,
                           And bid me not despair.
                           If thou rememberest each misdeed,
                           If each should have its rightful meed,
                           Lord, who shall stand before thee?
                        
                        
                           "Lord, through thy love alone we gain
                           The pardon of our sin:
                           The strictest life is but in vain,
                           Our works can nothing win,
                           That man should boast himself of aught,
                           But own in fear thy grace hath wrought
                           What in him seemeth righteous.
                        
                        
                           "Wherefore my hope is in the Lord,
                           My works I count but dust;
                           I build not there, but on his word,
                           And in his goodness trust.
                           Up to his care myself I yield;
                           He is my tower, my rock, my shield;
                           And for his help I tarry."
                        
                     
                  
                  To the praying of the broken voice of John Leclerc she listened. In his prayer
                     she joined. To the eloquence of Mazurier, whose utterances she laid up in her
                     heart,—to the fervor of Le Roy, which left her eyes not dry, her soul not calm,
                     but strong in its commotion, grasping fast the eternal truths which he, too,
                     would proclaim, she listened.
                  She was not only now among them, she was of them,—of them forevermore. Though
                     she should never again look on those faces, nor listen to those voices, of
                     them, of all they represented, was she forevermore. Their God was hers,—their
                     faith was hers; their danger would she share,—their work would aid.
                  Their talk was of the Truth, and of the future of the Truth. Well they
                     understood that the spirit roused among the people would not be quieted
                     again,—that what of ferocity in the nature of the bigot and the powerful had
                     been appeased had but for the moment been satisfied. There would be unremitting
                     watch for victims; everywhere the net for the unwary and the fearless would be
                     laid. Blood-thirstiness and lust and covetousness would make grand their
                     disguises,—broad would their phylacteries be made,—shining with sacred gems,
                     their breastplates.
                  Of course it was of the great God's honor these men would be jealous. This
                     heresy must needs be uprooted, or no
                     knowing where would be the end of the wild growth. And, indeed, there was no
                     disputing the fact that there was danger in open acceptance of such doctrines
                     as defy the authority of priestcraft,—ay, danger to falsehood, and death to
                     falsehood!
                  Fanaticism, cowardice, cruelty, the spirit of persecution, the spirit of
                     authority aroused, ignorance and vanity and foolishness would make themselves
                     companions, no doubt. Should Truth succumb to these? Should Love retreat before
                     the fierce onset of Hate? These brave men said not so. And they looked above
                     them and all human aid for succor,—Jacqueline with them.
                  When Mazurier and Victor Le Roy went away, they left Jacqueline with the
                     wool-comber's mother, but they did not pass by her without notice. Martial
                     lingered for a moment, looking down on the young girl.
                  "She is one of us," said the old woman.
                  Then the preacher laid his hand upon her head, and blessed her.
                  "Continue in prayer, and listen to the testimony of the Holy Ghost," said he.
                     "Then shall you surely come deep into the blessed knowledge and the dear love
                     of Jesus Christ."
                  When he had passed on, Victor paused in turn.
                  "It is good to be here, Jacqueline," said he. "This is the house of God; this
                     is the gate of heaven."
                  And he also went forth, whither Mazurier had gone.
                  Then beside the bed of the poor wool-comber, women like angels ministered,
                     binding up his wounds, and soothing him with voices soft as ever spoke to man.
                     And from the peasant whose toil was in harvest-fields and vineyards came offers
                     of assistance which the poor can best give the poor.
                  But the wool-comber did not need the hard-earned pence of Jacqueline. When she
                     said, "Let me serve you now, as a daughter and a sister, you two,"—he made no
                     mistake in regard to her words and offer. But he had no need of just such
                     service as she stood prepared to render. In his toil he had looked forward to
                     the seasons of adversity, had provided for a dark day's disablement; and he was
                     able now to smile upon his mother and on Jacqueline, and to say,—
                  "I will, indeed, be a brother to you, and my mother will love you as if you
                     were her child. But we shall not take the bread from your mouth to prove it.
                     Our daughter and our sister in the Lord, we thank you and love you, Jacqueline.
                     I know what you have been doing since I went away. The Lord love you,
                     Jacqueline! You will no longer be a stranger and friendless in Meaux, while
                     John Leclerc and his mother are alive,—nay, as long as a true man or woman
                     lives in Meaux. Fear not."
                  "I will not fear," said Jacqueline.
                  And she sat by the side of the mother of Leclerc, and thought of her own mother
                     in the heavens, and was tranquil, and prepared, she said to herself, to walk,
                     if indeed she must, through the valley of the shadow of death, and would still
                     fear no evil.
               
               
                  IX.
                  STRENGTHENED and inspired by the scenes of the last three days, Martial
                     Mazurier began to preach with an enthusiasm, bravery, and eloquence unknown
                     before to his hearers. He threw himself into the work of preaching the new
                     revelation of the ancient eternal Truth, with an ardor that defied authority,
                     that scorned danger, and with a recklessness that had its own reward.
                  Victor Le Roy was his ardent admirer, his constant follower, his loving friend,
                     his servant. Day by day this youth was studying with indefatigable zeal the
                     truths and doctrines adopted by his teacher. Enchanted by the wise man's
                     eloquence, already a convert to the faith he magnified, he was prepared to
                     follow wherever the preacher led. The fascination of danger he felt, and was allured by. Frowning faces had for
                     him no terrors. He could defy evil.
                  Jacqueline and he might be called most friendly students. Often in the cool of
                     the day the young man walked out from Meaux along the country-roads, and his
                     face was always toward the setting sun, whence towards the east Jacqueline at
                     that hour would be coming. The girls were living in the region of the vineyards
                     now, and among the vines they worked.
                  It began to be remarked by some of their companions how much Jacqueline Gabrie
                     and the young student from the city walked together. But the subject of their
                     discourse, as they rested under the trees that fringed the river, was not
                     within the range of common speculation; far enough removed from the ordinary
                     use to which the peasants put their thought was the thinking of Le Roy and
                     Jacqueline.
                  Often Victor went, carefully and with a student's precision, over the grounds
                     of Martial's arguments, for the satisfaction of Jacqueline. Much pride as well
                     as joy had he in the service; for he reverenced his teacher, and feared nothing
                     so much, in these repetitions, as that this listener, this animated, thinking,
                     feeling Jacqueline, should lose anything by his transmission of the preacher's
                     arguments and eloquence.
                  And sometimes, on those special occasions which were now constantly occurring,
                     she walked with him to the town, and hearkened for herself in the assemblages
                     of those who were now one in the faith.
                  Elsie looked on and wondered, but did not jest with Jacqueline, as girls are
                     wont to jest with one another on such points as seemed involved in this
                     friendship between youth and youth, between man and woman.
                  Towards the conclusion of the girl's appointed labor in the vineyard, a week
                     passed in which Victor Le Roy had not once come out from Meaux in the direction
                     of the setting sun. He knew the time when the peasants' labor in the vineyard
                     would be done; Jacqueline had told him; and with wonder, and with trouble, she
                     lived through the days that brought no word from him.
                  At work early and late, Jacqueline had no opportunity of discovering what was
                     going on in Meaux. But it chanced, on the last day of the last week in the
                     vineyard, tidings reached her: Martial Mazurier had been arrested, and would be
                     tried, the rumor said, as John Leclerc had been tried; and sentence would be
                     pronounced, doubtless, said conjecture, severe in proportion to the influence
                     the man had acquired, to the position he held.
                  Hearing this, oppressed, troubled, yet not doubting, Jacqueline determined that
                     she would go to Meaux that evening, and so ascertain the truth. She said
                     nothing to Elsie of her purpose. She was careful in all things to avoid that
                     which might involve her companion in peril in an unknown future; but at
                     nightfall she had made herself ready to set out for Meaux, when her purpose was
                     changed in the first steps by the appearance of Victor Le Roy.
                  He had come to Jacqueline,—had but one purpose in his coming; yet it was she
                     who must say,—
                  "Is it true, Victor, that Martial Mazurier is in prison?"
                  His answer surprised her.
                  "No, it is not true."
                  But his countenance did not answer the glad expression of her face with an
                     equal smile. His gravity almost communicated itself to her. Yet this rebound
                     from her recent dismay surely might demand an opportunity.
                  "I believe you," said she. "But I was coming to see if it could be true. It was
                     hard to believe, and yet it has cost me a great deal to persuade myself against
                     belief, Victor."
                  "It will cost you still more, Jacqueline. Martial Mazurier has recanted."
                  "He has been in prison, then?"
                  "He has retracted, and is free again,—has denied himself. No more glorious
                     words from him, Jacqueline, such as
                     we have heard! He has sold himself to the Devil, you see."
                  "Mazurier?"
                  "Mazurier has thought raiment better than life. He has believed a
                     man's life to consist in the abundance of the things he possesseth," said the
                     youth, bitterly. He continued, looking steadfastly at Jacqueline, "Probably I
                     must give up the Truth also. My uncle is dead: must I not secure my
                     possessions?—for I am no longer a poor man; I cannot afford to let my life fall
                     into the hands of those wolves."
                  "Mazurier retracted? I cannot believe it, Victor Le Roy!"
                  "Believe, then, that yesterday the man was in prison, and to-day he is at
                     large. Yes, he says that he can serve Jesus Christ more favorably, more
                     successfully, by complying with the will of the bishop and the priests. You see
                     the force of his argument. If he should be silenced, or imprisoned long, or his
                     life should be cut off, he would then be able to preach no more at all in any
                     way. He only does not believe that whosoever will save his life, in opposition
                     to the law of the everlasting Gospel, must lose it."
                  "O, do you remember what he said to John,—what he prayed in that room? O,
                     Victor, what does it mean?"
                  "It means what cannot be spoken,—what I dare not say or think."
                  "Not that we are wrong, mistaken, Victor?"
                  "No, Jacqueline, never! it can never mean that! Whatever we may do with the
                     Truth, we cannot make it false. We may act like cowards, unworthy, ungrateful,
                     ignorant; but the truth will remain, Jacqueline."
                  "Victor, you could not desert it."
                  "How can I tell, Jacqueline? The last time I saw Martial Mazurier, he would
                     have said nobler and more loving words than I can command. But with my own eyes
                     I saw him walking at liberty in streets where liberty for him to walk could be
                     bought only at an infamous price."
                  "Is there such danger for all men who believe with John Leclerc, and with—with
                     you, Victor?"
                  "Yes, there is danger, such danger."
                  "Then you must go away. You must not stay in Meaux," she said, quickly, in a
                     low, determined voice.
                  "Jacqueline, I must remain in Meaux," he answered, as quickly, with flushed
                     face and flashing eyes. The dignity of conscious integrity, and the "fear of
                     fear," a beholder who could discern the tokens might have perceived in him.
                  "O, then, who can tell? Did he not pray that he might not be led into
                     temptation?"
                  "Yes," Victor replied, more troubled than scornful,—"yes, and allowed himself
                     to be led at last."
                  "But if you should go away—"
                  "Would not that be flying from danger?" he asked, proudly.
                  "Nay, might it not be doing with your might what you found to do, that you
                     might not be led into temptation?"
                  "And you are afraid, that, if I stay here, I shall yield to them."
                  "You say you are not certain, Victor. You repeat Mazurier's words."
                  "Yet shall I remain. No, I will never run away."
                  The pride of the young fellow, and the consternation occasioned by the
                     recreancy of his superior, his belief in the doctrines he had confessed with
                     Mazurier, and the timeserving of the latter, had evidently thrown asunder the
                     guards of his peace, and produced a sad state of confusion.
                  "It were better to run away," said Jacqueline, not pausing to choose the
                     word,—"far better than to stay and defy the Devil, and then find that you could
                     not resist him, Victor. O, if we could go, as Elsie said, back to Domrémy,
                     anywhere away from this cruel Meaux!"
                  "Have you, then, gained nothing, Jacqueline?"
                  "Everything. But to lose it,—oh, I cannot afford that!"
                  "Let us stand together, then. Promise me, Jacqueline," he exclaimed, eagerly, as though he felt himself
                     among defences here, with her.
                  "What shall I promise, Victor?" she asked, with the voice and the look of one
                     who is ready for any deed of daring, for any work of love.
                  "I, too, have preached this word."
                  Her only comment was, "I know you preached it well."
                  "What has befallen others may befall me."
                  "Well."
                  So strongly, so confidently did she speak this word, that the young man went
                     on, manifestly influenced by it, hesitating no more in his speech.
                  "May befall me," he repeated.
                  "'Whosoever believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live,'" she
                     answered, with lofty voice, repeating the divine word. "What is our life, that
                     we should hold it at the expense of his Truth? Mazurier was wrong. He can never
                     atone for the wrong he has done."
                  "I believe it!" exclaimed Victor, with a brightening countenance. The clouds of
                     doubt rose from his face and floated away, as we see the mists ascending from
                     the heights, when we are so happy as to live in the wild hill-country. "You
                     prize Truth more than life. Stand with me in this, Jacqueline. Speak of this
                     Truth as it has come to me. You are all that I have left. I have lost Mazurier.
                     Jacqueline, you are a woman, but you never,—yes! yes! though I dare not say as
                     much of myself, I dare say it of you,—you never could have bought your liberty
                     at such a price as Martial has paid. I know not how, even with the opportunity,
                     he will ever gain the courage to speak of these things again,—those great
                     mysteries which are hidden from the eyes of the covetous and worldly and
                     unbelieving. Promise, stand with me, Jacqueline, and I will rely on you.
                     Forsake me not."
                  "Victor, has He not said, who can best say it, 'I will never leave you nor
                     forsake you'?"
                  "But, Jacqueline, I love you."
                  Having said these words, the face of the young man emerged wholly from the
                     eclipse of the former shadow.
                  "What is this?" said the brave peasant from Domrémy, manifestly doubting
                     whether she had heard aright; and her clear pure eyes were gazing full on
                     Victor Le Roy, actually looking for an explanation of his words.
                  "I love you, Jacqueline," he repeated. "And I do not involve you in danger, oh,
                     my friend! Only let me have it to believe that my life is dear to Jacqueline,
                     and I shall not be afraid then to lose it, if that testimony be required of me.
                     Shall we not stand side by side, soldiers of Christ, stronger in each other
                     than in all the world beside? Shall it not be so, Jacqueline? True heart,
                     answer me! And if you will not love me, at least say, say you are my friend,
                     you trust me. I will hold your safety sacred."
                  "I am your friend, Victor."
                  "Say my wife, Jacqueline. I honored you, that you came from Domrémy. You are my
                     very dream of Joan,—as brave and as true, as beautiful. Jacqueline, it is not
                     all for the Truth's sake, but for my love's sake. Is not our work one,
                     moreover? Are we not one in heart and purpose, Jacqueline? You are alone; let
                     me protect you."
                  He needed no other answer than he had while his eyes constantly sought hers.
                     Her calm look, the dignity and strength of her composure, assured him of all he
                     longed to learn,—assured him that their hearts, even as their purposes and
                     faith, were one.
                  "But speak one word," he urged.
                  The word she spoke was, "I can be true to you, Victor."
                  Won hardly by a word: too easily, you think? She loved the youth, my friends,
                     and she loved the Truth for which he dared not say that he could sacrifice
                     himself.
                  "We are one, then," said Victor Le Roy. "It concerned me above all things to
                     prove that, Jacqueline. So you shall have no more to do with these
                     harvest-fields and vineyards henceforth, except to eat of the fruits, if God
                     will. You have borne all the burden and heat of labor you shall ever bear. I can say that, with God's blessing.
                     We shall sit under our own vine. Death in one direction has prepared for life
                     in another. I inherit what my uncle can make use of no longer. We shall look
                     out on our own fields, our harvests; for I think this city will keep us no
                     longer than may be needful. We will go away into Picardy, and I will show you
                     where our Joan was a prisoner; and we will go back to Domrémy, and walk in the
                     places she loved, and pray God to bless us by that fountain, and in the
                     graveyard where your father and mother sleep. O, Jacqueline, is it not all
                     blessed and all fair?"
                  She could hardly comprehend all the brightness of this vision which Victor Le
                     Roy would fain bring before her. The paths he pointed out to her were new and
                     strange; but she could trust him, could believe that together they might walk
                     without stumbling.
                  She had nothing to say of her unfitness, her unworthiness, to occupy the place
                     to which he pointed. Not a doubt, not a fear, had she to express. He loved her,
                     and that she knew; and she had no thought of depreciating his choice, its
                     excellency, or its wisdom. Whatever excess of wonder she may have felt was not
                     communicated. How know I that she marvelled at her lover's choice,
                     though all the world might marvel?
                  Then remembering Mazurier, and thinking of her strength of faith, and her
                     high-heartedness, he was eager that Jacqueline should appoint their
                     marriage-day. And more than he, perhaps, supposed was betrayed by this haste.
                     He made his words profoundly good. Strong woman that she was, he wanted her
                     strength joined to his. He was secretly disquieted, secretly afraid to trust
                     himself, since this defection of Martial Mazurier.
                  What did hinder them? They might be married on Sunday, if she would: they might
                     go down together to the estate, which he must immediately visit.
                  Through the hurry of thought, and the agitation of heart, and the rush of
                     seeming impossibilities, he brought out at length in triumph her consent.
                  She did consent. It should all be as he wished. And so they parted outside that
                     town of Meaux on the fair summer evening,—plighted lovers,—hopeful man and
                     woman. For them the evening sky was lovely with the day's last light; for them
                     the serene stars of night arose.
                  So they parted under the open sky: he going forward to the city, strengthened
                     and refreshed in faith and holy courage; she, adorned with holy hopes which
                     never until now had found place among her visions. Neither was she prepared for
                     them, until he brought them to a heart which, indeed, could never be dismayed
                     by the approach and claim of love.
                  Love was no strange guest. Fresh and fair as Zephyrus, he came from the forest
                     depths, and she welcomed him; no stranger, though the breath that bore him was
                     all heavenly, and his aspiration was remote from earthly sources. Yes, she so
                     imagined.
                  She went back to the cottage where she and Elsie lodged now, to tell Elsie what
                     had happened,—to thankfulness,—to gazing forward into a new world,—to
                     aspiration, expectation, joy, humility,—to wonder, and to praise,—to all that
                     my best reader will perceive must be true of Jacqueline on this great evening
                     of her life.
               
               
                  X.
                  THAT same night Victor Le Roy was arrested on charge of heresy,—arrested and
                     imprisoned. Watchmen were on the look-out when the lover walked forward with
                     triumphant steps to Meaux.
                  "This fellow also was among the wool-comber's disciples," said they; and their
                     successful dealing with Mazurier encouraged the authorities to hope that soon
                     all this evil would be overcome, trampled in the dust. This impudent
                     insurrection of thought should certainly be stifled; youth and age, high
                     station, low, should be taught alike of Rome.
                  
                  Tidings reached Martial Mazurier next day of what had befallen Victor Le Roy,
                     and he went instantly to visit him in prison. It was an interview which the
                     tender-hearted officials would have invited, had he not forestalled them by
                     inviting himself to the duty. Mazurier had something to do in the matter of
                     reconciling his conscience to the part he had taken, in his recent opportunity
                     to prove himself equally a hero with Leclerc. He had recanted, done evil, in
                     short, that good might come; and was not content with having done this thing:
                     how should he be? Now that his follower was in the same position, he had but
                     one wish,—that he should follow his example. He did not, perhaps, entirely
                     ascertain his motive in this; but it is hardly to be supposed that Mazurier was
                     so persuaded of the justice of his course that he desired to have it imitated
                     by another under the same circumstances.
                  No! he was forever disgraced in his own eyes, when he remembered the valiant
                     John Leclerc; and it was not to be permitted that Victor Le Roy should follow
                     the example of the wool-comber in preference to that he had given,—that
                     politic, wise, blood-sparing, flesh-loving, truth-depreciating, God-defrauding
                     example.
                  Accordingly he lost no time in seeking Victor in his cell. It was the very cell
                     in which he himself had lately been imprisoned. Within those narrow walls he
                     had meditated, prayed, and made his choice. There he had stood face to face
                     with fate, with God, with Jesus, and had decided—not in favor of the flogging,
                     and the branding, and the glorious infamy. There, in spite of eloquence and
                     fervor and devotion, in spite of all his past vows and his hopes, he had
                     decided to take the place and part of a timeserver; for he feared disgrace and
                     pain, and the hissing and scoff and persecution, more than he feared the
                     blasting anger of insulted and forsaken Truth.
                  He found Victor within his cell, his bright face not overcast with gloom, his
                     eyes not betraying doubts, neither disappointed, astonished, nor in deep
                     dejection. The mood he deemed unfavorable for his special word,—poor, deceived,
                     self-deceiving Mazurier!
                  He was not merely surprised at these indications,—he was at a loss. A little
                     trepidation, doubt, suspicion would have better suited him. Alas! and was
                        his hour the extremity of another's weakness, not in the
                     elevation of another's spiritual strength? Once when he preached the Truth as
                     moved by the Holy Ghost, it was not to the prudence or the worldly wisdom of
                     his hearers he appealed, but to the higher feelings and the noblest powers of
                     men. Then he called on them to praise God by their faith in all that added to
                     His glory and dominion. But now his eloquence was otherwise directed; not full
                     of the old fire and enthusiasm; not trustful in God, but dependent on prudence,
                     as though all help were in man. He had to draw from his own experience now,
                     things new and old,—and was not, by confession of the result of such
                     experience, humiliated!
                  "You are under a mistake," was his argument. "You have not gone deep into these
                     matters; you have made acquaintance only with the agitated surface of them."
                     And he proceeded to make good all this assertion, it was so readily proven!
                        He also had been beguiled; ah, had he not? He had been beguiled
                     by the rude eloquence, the insensibility to pain, the pride of opposition, the
                     pride of poverty, the pride of a rude nature, exhibited by John Leclerc.
                  He acknowledged freely, with a fatal candor, that, until he came to consider
                     these things in their true light, when shut away from all outward influences,
                     until compelled to quiet meditation beyond the reach and influence of mere
                     enthusiasm, he had believed with Leclerc, even as Victor was believing now. He
                     could have gone on, who might tell to what fanatical length? had it not been
                     for that fortunate arrest which made a sane man of him!
                  Leclerc was not quite in the wrong; not absolutely,—but neither was he, as
                     Mazurier had once believed, gloriously riously in the right. It was clearly apparent to him, that Victor Le Roy,
                     having now also like opportunity for calm reflection, would come to like
                     conclusions.
                  With such confident prophecy, Mazurier left the young man. His visit was brief
                     and hurried,—no duty that could be waved should call him away from his friend
                     at such a time; but he would return; they would speak of this again; and he
                     kissed Victor, and blessed him, and went out to bid the authorities delay yet
                     before the lad was brought to trial, for he was confident, that, if left to
                     reflection, he would come to his senses, and choose wisely—between God and
                     Mammon? Mazurier expressed it in another way.
                  In the street, Elsie Méril heard of Victor's arrest, and she brought the news
                     to Jacqueline. They had returned to Meaux, to their old lodging, and a day had
                     passed, during which, moment by moment, his arrival was anticipated. Elsie went
                     out to buy a gift for Jacqueline, a bit of fine apparelling which she had
                     coveted from the moment she knew Jacqueline should be a bride. She stole away
                     on her errand without remark, and came back with the gift; but also with that
                     which made it valueless, unmentionable, though it was a costly offering,
                     purchased with the wages of more than a week's labor in the fields.
                  It was almost dark when she returned to Jacqueline. Her friend was sitting by
                     the window,—waiting,—not for her; and when she went in to her, it was silently,
                     with no mention of her errand or her love-gift. Quietly she sat down, thankful
                     that the night was falling, waiting for its darkness before she should speak
                     words which would make the darkness to be felt.
                  "He does not come," said Jacqueline, at length.
                  "Did you think it was he, when I came up the stairs?" inquired Elsie,
                     tenderly.
                  "O, no! I can tell your step from all the rest."
                  "His, too, I think."
                  "Yes, and his, too. My best friends. Strange, if I could not!"
                  "O, I'm glad you said that, Jacqueline!"
                  "My best friends," repeated Jacqueline; not merely to please Elsie. Love had
                     opened wide her heart; and Elsie, weak and foolish though she might be,—Elsie,
                     her old companion, her playmate, her fellow-laborer,—Elsie, who should be to
                     her a sister always, and share in her good-fortune,—Elsie had honorable place
                     there.
                  "Could anything have happened, Jacqueline?" said Elsie, trembling: her
                     tremulous voice betrayed it.
                  "O, I think not," was the answer.
                  "But he is so fearless; he might have fallen into—into trouble."
                  "What have you heard, Elsie?"
                  This question was quietly asked, but it struck to the heart of the questioned
                     girl. Jacqueline suspected!—and yet Jacqueline asked so calmly! Jacqueline
                     could hear it; and yet how could this be declared?
                  Her hesitation quickened what was hardly suspicion into a conviction.
                  "What have you heard?" Jacqueline again questioned, not so calmly as before;
                     and yet it was quite calm, even to the alarmed ear of Elsie Méril.
                  "They have arrested Victor, Jacqueline."
                  "For heresy?"
                  "I heard it in the street."
                  Jacqueline arose,—she crossed the chamber,—her hand was on the latch. Instantly
                     Elsie stood beside her.
                  "What will you do? I must go with you, Jacqueline."
                  "Where will you go?" said Jacqueline.
                  "With you. Wait,—what is it you will do? Or,—no matter, go on, I will follow
                     you,—and take the danger with you."
                  "Is there danger? For him there is! and there might be for you,—but none for
                     me. Stay, Elsie. Where shall I go, in truth?"
                  
                  Yet she opened the door, and began to descend the stairs even while she spoke;
                     and Elsie followed her.
                  First to the house of the wool-comber. John was not at home; and his mother
                     could tell them nothing, had heard nothing of the arrest of Victor. Then to the
                     place which Victor had pointed out to her as the home of Mazurier. Mazurier
                     likewise they failed to find. Where, then, was the prison of Le Roy's
                     captivity? That no man could tell them; so they came home to their lodging at
                     length in the dark night, there to wait through endless-seeming hours for
                     morning.
                  On the Sunday they had chosen for their wedding-day Mazurier brought word of
                     Victor to Jacqueline,—was really a messenger, as he announced himself, when she
                     opened for him the door of her room in the fourth story of the great
                     lodging-house. He had come on that day with a message; but it was not in all
                     things—in little beside the love it was meant to prove—the message Victor had
                     desired to convey. In want of more faithful, more trustworthy messenger, Le Roy
                     sent word by this man of his arrest,—and bade Jacqueline pray for him, and come
                     to him, if that were possible. He desired, he said, to serve his Master,—and,
                     of all things, sought the Truth.
                  To go to the prisoner, Mazurier assured Jacqueline, was impossible, but she
                     might send a message; indeed, he was here to serve his dear friends. Ah, poor
                     girl, did she trust the man by whom she sent into a prison words like
                     these?—
                  "Hold fast to the faith that is in you, Victor. Let nothing persuade you that
                     you have been mistaken. We asked for light,—it was given us,—let us walk in it;
                     and no matter where it leads,—since the light is from heaven. Do not think of
                     me, nor of yourself, but only of Jesus Christ, who said, 'Whosoever would save
                     his life shall lose it.'"
                  Mazurier took this message. What did he do with it? He tossed it to the
                     winds.
                  A week after, Le Roy was brought to trial,—and recanted; and so recanting, was
                     acquitted and set at liberty.
                  Mazurier supposed that he meant all kindly in the exertion he made to save his
                     friend. He would never have ceased from self-reproach, had he conveyed the
                     words of Jacqueline to Victor; for the effect of those words he could clearly
                     foresee. And so far from attempting to bring about an interview between the
                     pair, he would have striven to prevent it, had he seen a probability that it
                     would be allowed. He set little value on such words as Jacqueline spoke, when
                     her conscience and her love rose up against each other. The words she had
                     committed to him he could account for by no supposition acceptable and
                     reasonable to him. There was something about the girl he did not understand;
                     she was no fit guide for a man who had need of clear judgment, when such a
                     decision was to be made as the court demanded of Le Roy.
                  Elsie Méril, between hope and fear, was dumb in these days; but her presence
                     and her tenderness, though not heroic in action nor wise in utterance, had a
                     value of which neither she nor Jacqueline was fully aware.
                  When Jacqueline learned the issue of the trial, and that Victor had falsified
                     his faith, her first impulse was to fly, that she might never see his face
                     again. For, the instant she heard his choice, her heart told her what she had
                     been hoping during these days of suspense. She had tried to see Martial
                     Mazurier, but without success, since he conveyed, or promised to convey, her
                     message to the prisoner. Of purpose he had avoided her. He guessed what
                     strength she would by this time have attained; and he was determined to save
                     both to each other, though it might be against their will.
               
               
                  
                  XI.
                  VICTOR LE ROY'S first endeavor, on being liberated, was—of course to find
                     Jacqueline? Not so. That was far from his first design. His impulse was to
                     avoid the girl he had dared to love. Mazurier had, indeed, conveyed to his mind
                     an impression that would have satisfied him, if anything of this character
                     could do so. But this was impossible. The secret of his disquiet was far too
                     profound for such easy removal.
                  He had not in himself the witness that he had fulfilled the will of God. He was
                     disquieted, humiliated, wretched. He could not think of Leclerc, nor upon his
                     protestations, except with shame and remorse,—remorse, already. In his heart,
                     in spite of the impression Mazurier had contrived to convey, he believed not
                     that Jacqueline would bless him to such work as he could henceforth perform, no
                     longer a free man, no longer possessed of liberty of speech and thought.
                  He had no sooner renounced his liberty than he became persuaded, by an
                     overwhelming reasoning, as he had never been convinced before, of the
                     pricelessness of that he had sacrificed. When he went from the court-room, from
                     the presence of his judges, he was not a free man, though the dignitaries
                     called him so. Martial Mazurier walked arm in arm with him; but the world was a
                     den of horrors, a blackened and accursed world, to the young man who came from
                     prison, free to use his freedom—as the priests directed!
                  He went home from the prison with Mazurier. The world had conquered. Love had
                     conquered,—Love, that in the conquest felt itself disgraced. He had sold the
                     divine, he had received the human: it was the old pottage speculation over
                     again. This privilege of liberty from his dungeon had looked so fair!—but now
                     it seemed so worthless! This prospect of life so priceless in contemplation of
                     its loss,—O, the beggar who crept past him was an enviable man compared with
                     young Victor Le Roy, the heir of love and riches, the heir of liberty and
                     life!
                  Yes,—he went home with Mazurier. Where else should he go? Congratulations
                     attended him. He was compelled to receive them with a countenance not too
                     sombre, and a grace not all thankless, or—or—they would say it was of cowardice
                     he had saved his precious body from the sentence of the judges, and given his
                     precious LIFE up to the sentence of the JUDGE.
                  Yes,—Martial took him home. There they might talk at leisure of those
                     things,—and ask a blessing on the testimony of Jesus, made and kept by
                     them!
                  Victor Le Roy was too proud to complain now. He assented to all the preacher's
                     sophistry. He allowed himself to be cheered. But this was no such evening as
                     had been spent in the room of the wool-comber, when Leclerc's voice, strong,
                     even through his weakness, called on God, and blessed and praised Him, and the
                     spirit conquered the flesh gloriously,—the old mother of Leclerc sharing his
                     joy, as she had also shared his anguish. Here was no Jacqueline to say to
                     Victor, "Thou hast done well! 'Glory be to Jesus Christ and His
                     witnesses!'"
                  Mazurier thanked God for the deliverance of His servant! He dedicated himself
                     and Victor anew to the service of Truth, which they had shrunk from defending!
                     And his eloquence and fervor seemed to stamp the words with sincerity. He
                     seemed not in the least to suspect or fear himself.
                  With Victor Le Roy such self-deception, such sophistry, was simply
                     impossible.
                  Not of purpose did he meet Jacqueline that night. She had heard that Le Roy was
                     at liberty, and alone now she applied at the door of Martial Mazurier for
                     admittance, but in vain. The master had signified that his evening was not to
                     be interrupted. Therefore she returned, from waiting near his door, to the street where she
                     and Elsie lived.
                  Should her woman's pride have led her to her lofty lodging, and kept her there
                     without a sign, till Victor himself came seeking her? She knew nothing of such
                     pride,—but much of love; and her love took her back to the post where she had
                     waited many an hour since that disastrous arrest; she would wait there till
                     morning if she must,—at least, till one should enter, or come forth, who might
                     tell her of Victor Le Roy.
                  The light in the preacher's study she could see from the door-step in a
                     court-yard where she waited. Should Mazurier come with Victor, she would let
                     them pass; but if Victor came alone, she had a right to speak.
                  It was after midnight when the student came down from the preacher's study. She
                     heard his voice when the door opened,—by the street-lamp saw his face. And she
                     recognized also the voice of Mazurier, who, till the last moment of separation,
                     seemed endeavoring to dissuade his friend from leaving him that night.
                  He heard footsteps following him, as he passed along the pavement,—observed
                     that they gained on him. And could it be any other than Jacqueline who touched
                     his arm, and whispered, "Victor"?
                  His fast-beating heart told him it was she. He took her hand, and drew it
                     within his arm, and looked upon her face,—the face of his Jacqueline.
                  "Now where?" said he. "It is late. It is after midnight. Why are you alone in
                     the street?"
                  "Waiting for you, Victor. I heard you were at liberty, and I supposed you were
                     with him. I was safe."
                  "Yes, for you fear nothing. That is the only reason. You knew I was with the
                     preacher, Jacqueline. Why? Because—because I am with him, of
                     course."
                  "Yes," she said. "I heard it was so, Victor."
                  "Strange!—strange!—is it not? A prison is a better place to learn the truth
                     than the pure air of liberty, it seems," said he, bitterly.
                  "What is that?" she asked. She seemed not to understand his meaning.
                  "Nothing. I am acquitted of heresy, you know. It seems, what we talked so
                     bravely meant—nothing. O, I am safe now!"
                  "It was to preach none the less, to hold the truth none the less. But if he
                     lost his life, there was an end of all; or if he lost his liberty, it was as
                     bad. But he would keep both, and serve God so," said Jacqueline.
                  "Yes," cried Victor, "precisely what he said. I have said the same, you
                     think?"
                  "If you are quite clear that Leclerc and the rest of us are all wrong,
                     Victor."
                  "Jacqueline!"
                  "What is it, Victor?"
                  "'The rest of us,' you say. What would you have done in my
                     place?"
                  "God knows. I pretend not to know anything more."
                  "But 'the rest of us,' you said. You think that you at least are with
                     Leclerc?"
                  "That was the truth you taught me, Victor. But—I have not yet been tried."
                  "That is safe to say. What makes you speak so prudently, Jacqueline? Why do you
                     not declare, 'Though all men deny Thee, yet will I never deny Thee'? Ah, you
                     have not been tried! You are not yet in danger of the judgment,
                     Jacqueline!"
                  "Do not speak so; you frighten me; it is not like you. How can I tell? I do not
                     know but in this retirement, in this thought you have been compelled to, you
                     have obtained more light than any one can have until he comes to just such a
                     place."
                  "Ah, Jacqueline, why not say to me what you are thinking? Have you lost your
                     courage? Say, 'Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God.'"
                  "No,—oh, no! How could I say it, my poor Victor? How do you know?"
                  
                  "Surely you cannot know, as you say. But from where you stand, that is what you
                     are thinking. Jacqueline, confess! If you should speak your mind, it would be,
                     'Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God, poor coward!' O, Jacqueline,
                     Mazurier may deceive himself! I speak not for him; but what will you do with
                     your poor Victor, my poor Jacqueline?"
                  She did not linger in the answer,—she did not sob or tremble,—he was by her
                     side.
                  "Love him to the end. As He, when He loved His own."
                  "Your own, poor girl? No, no!"
                  "You gave yourself to me," she answered straightway, with resolute firmness
                     clinging to the all she had.
                  "I was a man then," he answered. "But I will never give a liar and a coward to
                     Jacqueline Gabrie. Everything but myself, Jacqueline! Take the old words and
                     the old memory. But for this outcast, him you shall forget. My God! thou hast
                     not brought this brave girl from Domrémy, and lighted her heart with a coal
                     from Thine altar, that she should turn from Thee to me! If you love a liar and
                     a coward, Jacqueline, you cannot help yourself,—he will make you one, too. And
                     what I loved you for was your truth and purity and courage. I have given you a
                     treasure which was greater than I could keep. Where is it that you live now,
                     Jacqueline? I am not yet such a poltroon that I am afraid to conduct you. I
                     think that I should have the courage to protect you to-night, if you were in
                     any immediate danger. Come, lead the way."
                  "No," said Jacqueline. "I am not going home. I could not sleep; and a roof over
                     my head—any save God's heaven—would suffocate me, I believe."
                  "Go, then, as you will. But where?"
                  Jacqueline did not answer, but walked quietly on; and so they passed beyond the
                     city-borders to the river-bank,—far away into the country, through the fields,
                     under the light of stars and of the waning moon.
                  "If I had been true!" said Victor,—"if I had not listened to him! But him I
                     will not blame. For why should I blame him? Am I an idiot? And his influence
                     could not have prevailed, had I not so chosen, when I stood before my judges
                     and they questioned me. No,—I acquit Mazurier. Perhaps what I have denied never
                     appeared to him so glorious as it did once to me; and so he was guiltless at
                     least of knowing what it was I did. But I knew. And I could not have been
                     deceived for a moment. No,—I think it impossible that for a moment I should
                     have been deceived. They would have made a notable example of me, Jacqueline. I
                     am rich,—I am a student. O, yes! Jesus Christ may die for me, and I accept the
                     benefit; but when it comes to suffering for His sake,—you could not have
                     expected that of such a poltroon, Jacqueline! We may look for it in brave men
                     like Leclerc, whose very living depends on their ability to earn their
                     bread,—to earn it by daily sweat; but men who need not toil, who have leisure
                     and education,—of course you would not expect such testimony to the truth of
                     Jesus from them! Bishop Briconnet recants,—and Martial Mazurier; and Victor Le
                     Roy is no braver man, no truer man than these!"
                  With bitter shame and self-scorning he spoke. Poor Jacqueline had not a word to
                     say. She sat beside him. She would help him bear his cross. Heavy-laden as he,
                     she awaited the future, saying, in the silence of her spirit's dismal solitude,
                     "O, teach us! O, help us!" But she called not on any name; her prayer went out
                     in search of a God whom in that hour she knew not. The dark cloud and shadow of
                     Satan that overshadowed him was also upon her.
                  "Mazurier is coming in the morning to take me with him, Jacqueline," said
                     Victor. "We are to make a journey."
                  "What is it, Victor?" she asked, quietly.
                  There was nothing left for her but patience,—that she clearly saw,—nothing but
                     patience, and quiet enduring of the will of God.
                  
                  "He is afraid of me,—or of himself,—or of both, I believe. He thinks a change
                     of scene would be good for both of us, poor lepers that we are."
                  "I must go with you, Victor Le Roy," said the resolute Jacqueline.
                  "Wherefore?" asked he.
                  "Because, when you were strong and happy, that was your desire, Victor; and now
                     that you are sick and sorrowing, I will not give you to another: no! not to
                     Mazurier, nor to any one that breathes, except myself, to whom you belong."
                  "I must stay here in Meaux, then?"
                  "That depends upon yourself, Victor."
                  "We were to have been married. We were going to look after our estate, now that
                     the hard summer and the hard years of work are ended."
                  "Yes, Victor, it was so."
                  "But I will not wrong you. You were to be the wife of Victor Le Roy. You are
                     his widow, Jacqueline. For you do not think that he lives any longer?"
                  "He lives, and he is free! If he has sinned, like Peter even, he weeps
                     bitterly."
                  "Like Peter? Peter denied his Lord. But he did weep, as you say,—bitterly.
                     Peter confessed again."
                  "And none served the Master with truer heart or greater courage afterward.
                     Victor, you remember."
                  "Even so,—O, Jacqueline!"
                  "Victor! Victor! it was only Judas who hanged himself."
                  "Come, Jacqueline!"
                  She arose and went with him. At dawn they were married. Love did lead and save
                     them.
                  I see two youthful students studying one page. I see two loving spirits walking
                     through thick darkness. Along the horizon flicker the promises of day. They
                     say, "O Holy Ghost, hast thou forsaken thine own temples?" Aloud they cry to
                     God.
                  I see them wandering among Domrémy woods and meadows,—around the castle of
                     Picardy,—talking of Joan. I see them resting by the graves they find in two
                     ancient villages. I see them walk in sunny places; they are not called to toil:
                     they may gather all the blossoms that delight their eyes. Their love grows
                     beyond childhood,—does not die before it comes to love's best estate. Happy
                     bride and bridegroom! But I see them as through a cloud whose fair hues are
                     transient.
                  From the meadow-lands and the vineyards and the dark forests of the mountains,
                     from study and from rest, I see them move with solemn faces and calm steps.
                     Brave lights are in their eyes, and flowers that are immortal they carry in
                     their hands. No distillation can exhaust the fragrance of those blooms.
                  What dost thou here, Victor? What dost thou here, Jacqueline?
                  This is the place of prisons. Here they light again, as they have often
                     lighted, torch and fagot;—life must pay the cost! Angry crowds and hooting
                     multitudes love this dreary square. O, Jacqueline and Victor, what is this I
                     behold?
                  They come together from their prison, hand in hand. "The testimony of Jesus!"
                     Stand back, Mazurier! Retire, Briconnet! Here is not your place,—this is not
                     your hour! Yet here incendiaries fire the temples of the Holy Ghost!
                  The judges do not now congratulate. Jacqueline waits not now at midnight for
                     the coming of Le Roy. Bride and bridegroom, there they stand; they face the
                     world to give their testimony.
                  And a woman's voice, almost I deem the voice of Elsie Méril, echoes the
                     mother's cry that followed John Leclerc when he fought the beasts at
                     Meaux,—
                  "Blessed be Jesus Christ, and His witnesses."
                  So of the Truth were they borne up that day in a blazing chariot to meet their
                     Lord in the air, to be forever with their Lord.
               
            
            
               
               ELKANAH BREWSTER'S TEMPTATION.
               
                  I WAS always of opinion that the fruit forbidden to our grandmother Eve was an
                     unripe apple. Eaten, it afflicted Adam with the first colic known to this
                     planet. He, the weaker vessel, sorrowed over his transgression; but I doubt if
                     Eve's repentance was thorough; for the plucking of unripe fruit has been, ever
                     since, a favorite hobby of her sons and daughters,—until now our mankind has
                     got itself into such a chronic state of colic, that even Dr. Carlyle declares
                     himself unable to prescribe any Morrison's Pill or other remedial measure to
                     allay the irritation.
                  Part of this irritation finds vent in a great cry about "legitimate ambition."
                     Somehow, because any American may be President of the United
                     States, almost every American feels himself bound to run for the office. A man
                     thinks small things of himself, and his neighbors think less, if he does not
                     find his heart filled with an insane desire, in some way, to attain to fame or
                     notoriety, riches or bankruptcy. Nevertheless, we are not purse-proud,—nor,
                     indeed, proud at all, more's the pity,—and receive a man just as readily whose
                     sands of life have been doled out to suffering humanity in the shape of patent
                     pills, as one who has entered Fifth Avenue by the legitimate way of pork and
                     cotton speculations, if only he have been successful,—which I call a very noble
                     trait in the American character.
                  Now this is all very well, and, granted that Providence has placed us here to
                     do what is best pleasing to ourselves, it is surely very noble and grand in us
                     to please to serve nothing less than our country or our age. But let us not
                     forget that the English language has such a little word as duty. A
                     man's talents, and, perhaps, once in a great while, his wishes, would make him
                     a great man (if wishes ever did such things, which I doubt), while duty
                     imperatively demands that he shall remain a little man. What then?
                     Let us see.
                  Elkanah Brewster was going to New York to-morrow.
                  "What for, boy?" asked old Uncle Shubael, meeting whom on the fish-wharf, he
                     had bid him a cheery good-bye.
                  "To make my fortune," was the bold reply.
                  "Make yer fortin? You 're a goose, boy! Stick to yer work here,—fishin' summers
                     an' shoemakin' winters. Why, there is n't a young feller on the hull Cape makes
                     as much as you. What's up? Gal gin ye the mitten? Or what?"
                  "I don't want to make shoes, nor fish neither, Uncle Shub," said Elkanah,
                     soberly, looking the old fellow in the face,—"goin' down to the Banks year
                     arter year in cold an' fish-gurry, an' peggin' away all winter, like mad. I
                     want to be rich, like Captain Crowell; I want to be a gentleman, like that
                     painter-chap that give me drawin'-lessons, last summer, when I stayed to
                     home."
                  "Phew! Want to be rich an' a gentleman, eh? Gittin' tu big for yer boots,
                     youngster? What's yer old man du but go down t' the Banks reg'lar every spring?
                     You're no better'n he, I guess! Keep yer trade, an' yer trade 'll keep you. A
                     rollin' stun gethers no moss. Dry bread tu home's better'n roast meat an' gravy
                     abroad."
                  "All feet don't tread in one shoe, Uncle Shub," said young Brewster, capping
                     the old fellow's proverbs with another. "Don't see why I should n't make money
                     as well's other fellers. It's a free country, an' if a feller wants to try
                     suthin' else 'sides fishin' uv it, what d'yer all want to be down on him fur? I
                     don't want to slave all my days, when other folks ken live in big houses an'
                     ride in 'kerriges, an' all that."
                  
                  "A'n't yer got bread enough to eat, an' a place to sleep? an' what more's any
                     on 'em got? You stay here; make yer money on the old Cape, where yer father an'
                     grand'ther made it afore you. Use yer means, an' God 'll give the blessin'. Yer
                     can't honestly git rich anywheres all tu once. Good an' quickly don't often
                     meet. One nail drives out another. Slow an' easy goes fur in a day. Honor an'
                     ease a'n't often bedfellows. Don't yer be a goose, I tell ye. What's to become
                     of Hepsy Ann?"
                  Having delivered himself of which last and hardest shot, Uncle Shubael
                     shouldered his cod-craft, and, without awaiting an answer, tugged across the
                     sand-beach for home.
                  Elkanah Brewster was a Cape-Cod boy, with a pedigree, if he had ever thought of
                     it, as long as any on the Cape,—and they are the longest in the land. His
                     forefathers had caught fish to the remotest generation known. The Cape boys
                     take to the water like young ducks; and are born with a hook and line in their
                     fists, so to speak, as the Newfoundland codfish and Bay Chaleur mackerel know,
                     to their cost. "Down on old Chatham" there is little question of a boy's
                     calling, if he only comes into the world with the proper number of fingers and
                     toes; he swims as soon as he walks, knows how to drive a bargain as soon as he
                     can talk, goes cook of a coaster at the mature age of eight years, and thinks
                     himself robbed of his birthright, if he has not made a voyage to the Banks
                     before his eleventh birthday comes round. There is good stuff in the Cape boys,
                     as the South-Street ship-owners know, who don't sleep easier than when they
                     have put a "Cape man" in charge of their best clipper. Quick of apprehension,
                     fertile in resource, shrewd, enterprising, brave, prudent, and above all,
                     lucky,—no better seamen sail the sea. Long may they keep their
                        prestige and their sand!
                  They are not rich on the Cape,—in the Wall-Street sense of the word, that is to
                     say. I doubt if Uncle Lew Baker, who was high line out of Dennis last year, and
                     who, by the same token, had to work himself right smartly to achieve that
                     honor,—I doubt if this smart and thoroughly wide-awake fellow took home more
                     than three hundred dollars to his wife and children when old Obed settled the
                     voyage. But then the good wife saves while he earns, and, what with a cow, and
                     a house and garden-spot of his own, and a healthy lot of boys and girls, who,
                     if too young to help, are not suffered to hinder, this man is more forehanded
                     and independent, gives more to the poor about him and to the heathen at the
                     other end of the world, than many a city man who makes, and spends, his tens of
                     thousands.
                  Uncle Abijah Brewster, the father of this Elkanah, was an old Banker,—which
                     signifies here, not a Wall-Street broker-man, but a Grand-Bank fisherman. He
                     had brought up a goodly family of boys and girls by his hook and line, and,
                     though now a man of some fifty winters, still made his two yearly fares to the
                     Banks, in his own trim little pinky, and prided himself on being the smartest
                     and jolliest man aboard. His boys had sailed with him till they got vessels of
                     their own, had learned from his stout heart and strong arm their seamanship,
                     their fisherman's acuteness, their honest daring, and childlike trust in God's
                     Providence. These poor fishermen are not rich, as I have said; a dollar looks
                     to them as big as a dinner-plate to us, and a moderately flush Wall-Street man
                     might buy out the whole Cape, and not overdraw his bank-account. Also, they
                     have but little book-learning among them, reading chiefly their Bible,
                     Bowditch, and Nautical Almanac, and leaving theology mostly to the parson, on
                     shore, who is paid for it. But they have a conscience, and, knowing a thing to
                     be right, do it bravely, and against all odds. I have seen these men on Sunday,
                     in a fleet of busy "Sunday fishers," fish biting all around them, sitting
                     faithfully,—ay, and contentedly,—with book in hand, sturdily refraining from
                     what the mere human instinct of destruction would strongly impel them to,
                     without counting the temptation of dollars,—and this only because they had
                        been taught that Sunday was a day
                     of rest and worship, wherein no man should catch fish, and knew no theological
                     quibble or mercantile close-sailing by which to weather on God's command. It
                     sounds little to us who have not been tempted, or, if tempted, have gracefully
                     succumbed, on the plea that other people do so too; but how many
                     stock-speculators would see their fellows buying bargains and making easy
                     fortunes on Sunday morning, and not forget the ring of Trinity chimes and go in
                     for dollars? Or which of us denies himself his Monday morning's paper?
                  Elkanah had always been what his mother called a strange boy. He was, indeed,
                     an odd sheep in her flock. Restless, ambitious, dreamy, from his earliest
                     youth, he possessed, besides, a natural gift for drawing and sketching,
                     imitating and constructing, that bade fair, unless properly directed, to make
                     of him that saddest and most useless of human lumber, a jack-at-all-trades. He
                     profited more by his limited winter's schooling than his brothers and fellows,
                     and was always respected by the old man as "a boy that took naterally to
                     book-larnin', and would be suthin' some day." Of course he went to
                     the Banks, and acquitted himself there with honor,—no man fishing more
                     zealously or having better luck. But all the time he was dreaming of his
                     future, counting this present as nothing, and ready, as soon as Fortune should
                     make him an opening, to cast away this life, and grasp—he had not settled
                     what.
                  "I dun know what ails him," said his father; "but he don't take
                     kindly to the Banks. Seems to me he kinder despises the work, though he
                        does it well enough. And then he makes the best shoes on the
                     Cape; but he a'n't content, somehow."
                  And that was just it. He was not contented. He had seen men—"no better than I,"
                     thought he, poor fool!—in Boston, living in big houses, wearing fine clothes,
                     putting fair, soft hands into smooth-fitting kid-gloves; "and why not I?" he
                     cried to himself continually. Year by year, from his seventeenth to his
                     twenty-first, he was pursued by this demon of "ambition," which so took
                     possession of his heart as to crowd out nearly everything else,—father, mother,
                     work,—even pretty Hepzibah Nickerson, almost, who loved him, and whom he also
                     loved truly. They had almost grown up together, had long loved each other, and
                     had been now two years betrothed. When Elkanah was out of his time and able to
                     buy a share in a vessel, and had made a voyage to the Banks as captain, they
                     were to be married.
                  The summer before this spring in which our story opens, Elkanah had stayed at
                     home for two months, because of a rheumatism contracted by unusual exposure on
                     the Banks in early spring; and at this time he made the acquaintance of Mr.
                     James Graves, N. A., from New York, spending part of his summer on the Cape in
                     search of the picturesque,—which I hope he found. Elkanah had, as I have said,
                     a natural talent for drawing, and some of his sketches had that in them which
                     elicited the approval of Graves, who saw in the young fellow an untutored
                     genius, or, at least, very considerable promise of future excellence. To him
                     there could be but one choice between shoemaking and "Art"; and finding that
                     young Brewster made rapid advances under his desultory tuition, he told him his
                     thoughts, that he should not waste himself making sea-boots for fishermen, but
                     enter a studio in Boston or New York, and make his career as a painter. It
                     scarcely needed this, however; for Elkanah took such delight in his new
                     proficiency, and got from Graves's stories of artist life such exalted ideas of
                     the unalloyed felicity of the gentleman of the brush, that, even had the
                     painter said no word, he would have worked out that way himself.
                  "Only wait till next year, when I'm out of my time," said he to Graves; and to
                     himself,—"This is the opening for which I have been waiting."
                  That winter—"my last at shoemaking"—he worked more diligently than ever before,
                     and more good-naturedly. Uncle Abijah was delighted at the change in his boy,
                        and promised him great things in
                     the way of a lift next year, to help him to a speedy wedding. Elkanah kept his
                     own counsel, read much in certain books which Graves had left him, and looked
                     impatiently ahead to the day when, twenty-one years of age, he should be a free
                     man,—able to go whither he listed and do what he would, with no man
                     authoritatively to say him nay.
                  And now the day had come; and with I don't know how few dollars in his pocket,
                     his scant earnings, he had declared to his astounded parents his determination
                     to fish and shoemake no longer, but to learn to be a painter.
                  "A great painter,"—that was what he said.
                  "I don't see the use o' paintin' picters, for my part," said the old man,
                     despairingly; "can't you learn that, an' fish tu?"
                  "Famous and rich too," said Elkanah half to himself, looking through the vista
                     of years at the result he hoped for, and congratulating himself in advance upon
                     it. And a proud, hard look settled in his eye, which froze the opposition of
                     father and mother, and was hardly dimmed by encountering the grieved glance of
                     poor Hepsy Ann Nickerson.
                  Poor Hepsy Ann! They had talked it all over, time and again. At first she was
                     in despair; but when he laid before her all his darling hopes, and painted for
                     her in such glowing colors the final reward which should come to him and her in
                     return for his struggles,—when she saw him, her love and pride, before her
                     already transfigured, as it were, by this rare triumph, clothed in honors, his
                     name in all mouths,—dear, loving soul, her heart consented, "ay, if it should
                     break meantime," thought she, as she looked proudly on him through her tears,
                     and said,—"Go, in God's name, and God be with you!"
                  Perhaps we might properly here consider a little whether this young man did
                     well thus to leave father, mother, home, his promised bride, sufficient
                     bread-and-butter, healthy occupation, all, to attempt life in a new direction.
                     Of course, your man who lives by bread alone will "pooh! pooh!" all such folly,
                     and tell the young man to let well enough alone. But consider candidly, and
                     decide: Should Elkanah have gone to New York?
                  On the whole, I think, yes. For,—
                  He had a certain talent, and gave good promise of excellence in his chosen
                     profession.
                  He liked it, felt strongly impelled towards it. Let us not yet scrutinize too
                     closely the main impelling forces. Few human actions originate solely in what
                     we try to think the most exalted motives.
                  He would have been discontented for life, had he not had his way. And this
                     should count for something,—for much, indeed. Give our boys liberty to try that
                     to which their nature or fancy strongly drives them,—to burn their fingers, if
                     that seem best.
                  Let him go, then; and God be with him! as surely He will be, if the simple,
                     faithful prayers of fair, sad Hepsy Ann are heard. Thus will he, thus only can
                     any, solve that sphinx-riddle of life which is propounded to each passer
                     to-day, as of old in fable-lands,—failing to read which, he dies the death of
                     rusting discontent,—solving whose mysteries, he has revealed to him the deep
                     secret of his life, and sees and knows what best he may do here for himself and
                     the world.
                  But what, where, who, is Elkanah Brewster's world?
                  
                  While we stand reasoning, he has gone. In New York, his friend Graves assisted
                     him to a place in the studio of an artist, whose own works have proved, no less
                     than those of many who have gathered their most precious lessons from him, that
                     he is truly a master of his art. But what are masters, teachers, to a scholar?
                     It's very fine boarding at the Spread-Eagle Hotel; but even after you have feed
                     the waiter, you have to chew your own dinner, and are benefited, not by the
                     amount you pay for it, but only by so much of all that with which the bounteous
                     mahogany is covered as you can thoroughly masticate, easily contain, and healthily digest. Elkanah began
                     with the soup, so to speak. He brought all his Cape-Cod acuteness of
                     observation to bear on his profession; lived closely, as well he might; studied
                     attentively and intelligently; lost no hints, no precious morsels dropping from
                     the master's board; improved slowly, but surely. Day by day he gained in that
                     facility of hand, quickness of observation, accuracy of memory, correctness of
                     judgment, patience of detail, felicity of touch, which, united and perfected
                     and honestly directed, we call genius. He was above no drudgery, shirked no
                     difficulties, and labored at the insignificant sketch in hand to-day as though
                     it were indeed his masterpiece, to be hung up beside Raphael's and Titian's;
                     meantime, keeping up poor Hepsy Ann's heart by letters full of a hope bred of
                     his own brave spirit, rather than of any favoring circumstances in his life,
                     and gaining his scant bread-and-butter by various honest drudgeries which I
                     will not here recount.
                  So passed away three years; for the growth of a poor young artist in public
                     favor, and that thing called fame, is fearfully slow. Oftenest he has achieved
                     his best when the first critic speaks kindly or savagely of him. What, indeed,
                        at best, do those blind leaders, but zealously echo a sentiment
                     already in the public heart,—which they vainly endeavor to create (out of
                     nothing) by any awe-inspiring formula of big words?
                  Men grow so slowly! But then so do oaks. And little matter, so the growth be
                     straight.
                  Meantime Elkanah was getting, slowly and by hardest labor, to have some true
                     conception of his art and his aims. He became less and less satisfied with his
                     own performances; and, having with much pains and anxious prayers finished his
                     first picture for the Academy, carefully hid it under the bed, and for that
                     year played the part of independent critic at the Exhibition. Wherefrom
                     resulted some increase of knowledge,—though chiefly negative.
                  For what positive lesson is taught to any by that yearly show of what we
                     flatter ourselves by calling Art? Eight hundred and fifteen new paintings this
                     year, shown by no less than two hundred and eighty-one painters. When you have
                     gone patiently through and looked at every picture, see if you don't wish the
                     critics had eyes, and a little common sense, too. How many of
                     these two hundred and eighty-one, if they live to be a hundred, will ever solve
                     their great riddle? and once solved, how many would honestly go back to
                     shoemaking?
                  Why should they not paint? Because, unless some of them are poorer men than I
                     think, that is not the thing they are like to do best; and a man is put into
                     this world not to do what he may think or hope will most speedily or
                     effectually place him in the list of this world's illustrious benefactors, but
                     honestly and against all devilish temptations to stick to that thing by which
                     he can best serve and bless—
                  Whom? A city? A state? A republic? A king?
                  No,—but that person who is nearest to, and most dependent upon him. Look at
                     Charles Lamb, and then at Byron and Shelley.
                  The growth of a poor young artist into public favor is slow enough. But even
                     poor young artists have their temptations. When Elkanah hung his first picture
                     in the Academy rooms, he thought the world must feel the acquisition. Now the
                     world is a notoriously stupid world, and never does its duty; but kind woman
                     not seldom supplies its omissions. So it happened, that, though the world
                     ignored the picture, Elkanah became at once the centre of admiration to a
                     coterie of young ladies, who thought they were appreciating Art when they
                     flattered an artist, and who, when they read in the papers the gratifying
                     intelligence (invented by some sanguine critic, over a small bottle of
                     Champagne cider) that the American people are rapidly growing in true love for
                     the fine arts, blushingly owned to themselves that their virtuous labors in
                     this direction were not going unrewarded.
                  Have you never seen them in the Academy,—these dear young ladies, who are so constantly foreseeing
                     new Raphaels, Claudes, and Rembrandts? Positively, in this year's Exhibition
                     they are better worth study than the paintings. There they run, up and down,
                     critical or enthusiastical, as the humor strikes: Laura, with big blue eyes and
                     a loud voice, pitying Isidora because she "has never met" that dear Mr.
                     Herkimer, who paints such delicious, dreamy landscapes; and Emily dragging
                     everybody off to see Mr. Smith's great work, "The Boy and the Windmill,"
                     which—so surprising is his facility—he actually painted in less than twelve
                     days, and which "promises so much for his success and the future of American
                     Art," says this sage young critic, out of whose gray eyes look the garnered
                     experiences of almost eighteen summers.
                  Whoever desiderates cheap praise, let him cultivate a beard and a sleepy look,
                     and hang a picture in the Academy rooms. Elkanah received it, you may be sure.
                     It was thought so romantic, that he, a fisherman,—the young ladies
                     sunk the shoemaker, I believe,—should be so devoted to Art. How
                     splendidly it spoke for our civilization, when even sailors left their vessels,
                     and abjuring codfish, took to canvas and brushes! What admirable courage in
                     him, to come here and endeavor to work his way up from the very bottom! What
                     praiseworthy self-denial,—"No!! is it really so?" cried Miss
                     Jennie,—when he had left behind him a fair young bride!
                  It was as though it had been written, "Blessed is he who forsaketh father,
                     mother, and wife to paint pictures." But it is not so written.
                  It was as if the true aim and glory of every man in a civilized community
                     should be to paint pictures. Which has this grain of truth in it, that, in the
                     highest form of human development, I believe every man will be at heart an
                     artist. But then we shall be past picture-painting and exhibitions. Don't you
                     see, that, if the fruit be thoroughly ripe, it needs no violent plucking? or
                     that, if a man is really a painter, he will paint,—ay, though he
                     were ten times a shoemaker, and could never, never hope to hang his pictures on
                     the Academy walls, to win cheap wonder from boarding-school misses, or just
                     regard from judicious critics?
                  Elkanah Brewster came to New York to make his career,—to win nothing less than
                     fame and fortune. When he had struggled through five years of Art-study, and
                     was now just beginning to earn a little money, he began also to think that he
                     had somehow counted his chickens before they were hatched,—perhaps, indeed,
                     before the eggs were laid. "Good and quickly come seldom together," said old
                     Uncle Shubael. But then a man who has courage commonly has also endurance; and
                     Elkanah, ardently pursuing from love now what he had first been prompted to by
                     ambition, did not murmur nor despair. For, indeed, I must own that this young
                     fellow had worked himself up to the highest and truest conception of his art,
                     and felt, that, though the laborer is worthy of his hire, unhappy is the man
                     who lowers his art to the level of a trade. In olden times, the priests did,
                     indeed, eat of the sacrificial meats; but we live under a new and higher
                     dispensation.
               
               
                  II.
                  MEANTIME, what of Hepsy Ann Nickerson? She had bravely sent her hero out, with
                     her blessing on his aspirations. Did she regret her love and trust? I am
                     ashamed to say that these five long, weary years had passed happily to this
                     young woman. She had her hands full of work at home, where she reigned over a
                     family of brothers and sisters, vice her
                     mother, promoted. Hands busied with useful toils, head and heart filled with
                     love and trust of Elkanah, there was no room for unhappiness. To serve and to
                     be loved; this seems, indeed, to be the bliss of the happiest women I have
                     known,—and of the happiest men, too, for that matter. It does not sound
                     logical, and I know of no theory of
                     woman's rights which will satisfactorily account for the phenomenon. But
                     then—there are the facts.
                  A Cape household is a simpler affair than you will meet with in the city. If
                     any young marrying man waits for a wife who shall be an adept in the mysteries
                     of the kitchen and the sewing-basket, let him go down to the Cape. Captain
                     Elijah Nickerson, Hepsy Ann's father, was master and owner of the good schooner
                     "Miranda," in which excellent, but rather strongly scented vessel, he generally
                     made yearly two trips to the Newfoundland Banks, to draw thence his regular
                     income; and it is to be remarked, that his drafts, presented in person, were
                     never dishonored in that foggy region. Uncle Elijah (they are all uncles, on
                     the Cape, when they marry and have children,—and boys until then),
                     Uncle Elijah, I say, was not uncomfortably off, as things go in those parts.
                     The year before Elkanah went to New York, the old fellow had built himself a
                     bran-new house, and Hepsy Ann was looked up to by her acquaintance as the
                     daughter of a man who was not only brave and honest, but also lucky. "Elijah
                     Nickerson's new house"—as it is still called, and will be, I suppose, until it
                     ceases to be a house—was fitted up inside in a way which put you much in mind
                     of a ship's cabin, and would have delighted the simple heart of good Captain
                     Cuttle.
                  There was no spare space anywhere thrown away, nor anything suffered to lie
                     loose. Beckets and cleats, fixed into the walls of the sitting-room, held and
                     secured against any possible damage the pipes, fish-lines, dolphin-grains, and
                     sou'westers of the worthy Captain; and here he and his sat, when he was at
                     home, through the long winter evenings, in simple and not often idle content.
                     The kitchen, flanked by the compendious outhouses which make our New England
                     kitchens almost luxurious in the comfort and handiness of every arrangement,
                     was the centre of Hepsy Ann's kingdom, where she reigned supreme, and waged
                     sternest warfare against dirt and disorder. Hence her despotic sway extended
                     over the pantry, an awful, and fragrant sanctuary, whither she fled when
                     household troubles, or a letter from Elkanah, demanded her entire seclusion
                     from the outer world, and of whose interior the children got faint glimpses and
                     sniffs only on special and long-remembered occasions; the west room, where her
                     father slept when he was at home, and where the curious searcher might find
                     store of old compasses, worn-out cod-hooks, condemned gurry-knives, and last
                     year's fishing-mittens, all "stowed away against time-o'-need"; the spare room,
                     sacred to the rites of hospitality; the "up-stairs," occupied by the children
                     and Hepsy Ann's self; and finally, but most important of all, the parlor, a
                     mysterious and hermetically sealed apartment, which almost seemed to me an
                     unconsecrated spot in this little temple of the homely virtues and
                     affections,—a room furnished in a style somewhat ostentatious and decidedly
                     uncomfortable, swept and dusted on Saturday afternoons by Hepsy Ann's own
                     careful hands, sat in by the Captain and her for an hour or two on Sundays in
                     awkward state, then darkened and locked for the rest of the week.
                  As for the queen and mistress of so much neatness and comfort, I must say,
                     that, like most queens whose likeness I have seen, she was rather plain than
                     strictly beautiful,—though, no doubt, her loyal subjects, as in such cases
                     commonly occurs, pictured her to themselves as a very Helen of Troy. If her
                     cheeks had something of the rosy hue of health, cheeks, and arms, too, were
                     well tanned by frequent exposure to the sun. Neither tall nor short, but with a
                     lithe figure, a natural grace and sweet dignity of carriage, the result of
                     sufficient healthy exercise, and a pure, untroubled spirit; hands and feet,
                     mouth and nose, not such as a gentleman would particularly notice; and straight
                     brown hair, which shaded the only really beautiful part of Hepsy
                     Ann's face,—her clear, honest, brave blue eyes: eyes from which spoke a soul at
                     peace with itself and with the outward world,—a soul yet full of love and
                     trust, fearing ing nothing, doubting
                     nothing, believing much good, and inclined to patient endurance of the human
                     weaknesses it met with in daily life, as not perhaps altogether strange to
                     itself. The Cape men are a brave, hardy race; and the Cape women, grave and
                     somewhat silent, not demonstrative in joy or grief, reticent mostly of
                     anxieties and sorrows, born to endure, in separation from fathers, brothers,
                     lovers, husbands, in dangers not oftener fancied than real, griefs which more
                     fortunate women find it difficult to imagine,—these Cape women are worthy
                     mothers of brave men. Of such our Hepsy Ann was a fair example,—weaving her
                     rather prosaic life into golden dreams in the quiet light of her pantry refuge,
                     happy chiefly because she thought much and carefully for others and had little
                     time for self-brooding; like most genuine heroines (except those of France),
                     living an heroic life without in the least suspecting it.
                  And did she believe in Elkanah?
                  Utterly.
                  And did Elkanah believe in himself?
                  Yes,—but with certain grave doubts. Here is the difference: the woman's faith
                     is intuition; the man must have a reason for the faith that is in him.
                  Yet Elkanah was growing. I think a man grows like the walls of a house, by
                     distinct stages: so far the scaffolding reaches, and then a general stoppage
                     while the outer shell is raised, the ladders lengthened, and the work squared
                     off. Now I don't know, unhappily, the common process of growth of the artistic
                     mind, and how far the light of to-day helps the neophyte to look into the
                     indefinite twilight of to-morrow; but step by step was the slow rule of
                     Elkanah's mind, and he had been now five years an artist, and was held in no
                     despicable repute by those few who could rightly judge of a man's future by his
                     past, when first it became very clear to him that he had yet to find his
                        specialty in Art,—that truth which he might better
                     represent than any other man. Don't think five years long to determine so
                     trivial a point. The right man in the right place is still a rare phenomenon in
                     the world; and some men spend a lifetime in the consideration of this very
                     point, doubtless looking to take their chance of real work in the next world. I
                     mean to say it took Elkanah just five years to discover, that, though he
                     painted many things well, he did yet put his very soul into none, and that,
                     unless he could now presently find this, his right place, he had,
                     perhaps, better stop altogether.
                  Elkanah considered; but he also worked unceasingly, feeling that the best way
                     to break through a difficulty is to pepper away at its outer walls.
                  Now while he was firing away wearily at this fortress, which held, he thought,
                     the deepest secret of his life, Hepsy Ann sat in her pantry, her serene soul
                     troubled by unwonted fears. Captain Elijah Nickerson had sailed out in his
                     stanch schooner in earliest spring, for the Banks. The old man had been all
                     winter meditating a surprise; and his crew were in unusual excitement, peering
                     out at the weather, consulting almanacs, prophesying (to outsiders) a late
                     season, and winking to each other a cheerful disbelief of their own auguries.
                     The fact is, they were intending to slip off before the rest, and perhaps have
                     half their fare of fish caught before the fleet got along. No plan could have
                     succeeded better—up to a certain point. Captain Elijah got off to sea full
                     twelve days earlier than anybody else, and was bowling merrily down towards the
                     eternal fog-banks when his neighbors were yet scarce thinking of gathering up
                     their mittens and sea-boots. By the time the last comers arrived on the
                     fishing-ground, one who had spoken the "Miranda" some days before, anchored and
                     fishing away, reported that they had, indeed, nearly wet her
                     salt,—by which is meant that she was nearly filled with good, sound
                     codfish. The men were singing as they dressed their fish, and Captain Elijah,
                     sitting high up on the schooner's quarter, took his pipe out of his mouth, and
                     asked, as the vessel rose on the sea, if they had any news to send home, for
                     three days more like that would fill him up.
                  
                  That was the last word of Captain Elijah Nickerson's ever heard by men now
                     living. Whether the "Miranda" was sunk by an iceberg; whether run down in the
                     dark and silent watches of the night by some monster packet or swift hurling
                     steamer, little recking the pale fisher's light feebly glimmering up from the
                     surface of the deep; or whether they went down at their anchors, in the great
                     gale which set in on the third night, as many brave men have done before,
                     looking their fate steadfastly in the face for long hours, and taking time to
                     bid each other farewell ere the great sea swallowed them;—the particulars of
                     their hapless fate no man may know, till the dread day when the sea shall give
                     up its dead.
                  Vainly poor Hepsy Ann waited for the well-known signal in the offing,—daily
                     walking to the shore, where kind old Uncle Shubael, now long superannuated, and
                     idly busying himself about the fish-house, strove to cheer her fainting soul by
                     store of well-chosen proverbs, and yarns of how, aforetimes, schooners not
                     larger and not so stout as the "Miranda," starting early for the Banks, had
                     been blown southward to the West Indies, and, when the second-fare men came in
                     with their fish, had made their appearance laden with rich cargoes of tropical
                     molasses and bananas. Poor Hepsy Ann! what need to describe the long-drawn
                     agony which grew with the summer flowers, but did not wane with the summer sun?
                     Hour after hour, day after day, she sat by her pantry-window, looking with
                     wistful eyes out upon the sand, to that spot where the ill-fated "Miranda" had
                     last been seen, but never should appear again,—another 
                        
                           "poor lone Hannah,
                           Sitting by the window, binding shoes,"—
                        
                      cheeks paling, eyes dimming, with that hope deferred which maketh the
                     heart sick. Pray God you never may be so tried, fair reader! If, in these days,
                     she had not had the children to keep and comfort, she has since told me, she
                     could scarce have borne it. To calm their fears, to soothe their little
                     sorrows, to look anxiously—more anxiously than ever before—after each one of
                     her precious little brood, became now her chief solace.
                  Thus the long, weary days rolled away, each setting sun crushing another hope,
                     until at last the autumn storms approached, the last Banker was safe home; and
                     by this time it was plain, even to poor Hepsy Ann's faithful heart that her
                     dead would not come back to her.
                  "If only Elkanah were here!" she had sometimes sighed to herself;—but in all
                     these days she wrote him no word. And he—guessing nothing of her long, silent
                     agony, himself sufficiently bemired in his slough of despond, working away with
                     sad, unsatisfied heart in his little studio, hoping yet for light to come to
                     his night—was, in truth, so full of himself, that Hepsy Ann had little of his
                     thoughts. Shall I go farther, and admit that sometimes this poor fellow dimly
                     regretted his pledged heart, and faintly murmured, "If only I were free,
                        then I might do something"? If only the ship were rid of her
                     helmsman, then indeed would she go—somewhere.
                  At last,—it was already near Thanksgiving,—the news reached Elkanah. "I thought
                     you'd ha' been down afore this to see Hepsy Ann Nickerson in her trouble," said
                     an old coasting-skipper to him, with mild reproach, handing him a letter from
                     his mother,—of all persons in the world! Whereupon, seeing ignorance in
                     Elkanah's inquiring glance, he told the story.
                  Elkanah was as one in a maze. Going to his little room, he opened his mother's
                     letter, half-dreading to find here a detailed repetition of what his heart had
                     just taken in. But the letter was short.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "MY SON ELKANAH,—
                              
                              "Do you not know that Captain Elijah Nickerson will never come home
                                 from the Banks, and that Hepsy Ann is left alone in the world?
                              "'For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and be joined to his
                                 wife, and they two shall be one flesh.'"
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  That was all.
                  Elkanah sat on his stool, before his easel, looking vacantly at the unfinished
                     picture, as one stunned and breathless. For the purport of this message was not
                     to be mistaken. Nor did his conscience leave him in doubt as to his duty. O
                     God! was this, indeed, the end? Had he toiled, and hoped and prayed, and lived
                     the life of an anchorite these five years only for this? Was such faith, such
                     devotion, so rewarded?
                  But had any one the right to demand this sacrifice of him? Was it not a
                     devilish temptation to take him from his calling, from that work in which God
                     had evidently intended him to work for the world? Had he a right to spoil his
                     life, to belittle his soul, for any consideration? If Hepsy Ann Nickerson had
                     claims, had not he also, and his Art? If he were willing, in this dire
                     extremity, to sacrifice his love, his prospects of married bliss, might he not
                     justly require the same of her? Was not Art his mistress?—Thus whispered the
                     insidious devil of Selfishness to this poor, tempted, anguished soul.
                  "Yea," whispered another still, small voice; "but is not Hepsy Ann your
                     promised wife?" And those fatal words sounded in his heart: "For this cause
                     shall a man leave his father and mother, and be joined to his wife."
                  "Lord, inspire me to do what is right!" prayed poor amazed Elkanah, sinking on
                     his knees at his cot-side.
                  But presently, through his blinding tears, "Lord, give me strength to do the
                     right!"
                  And then, when he awoke next morning, the world seemed another world to him.
                     The foundations of his life seemed broken loose. Tears were no longer, nor
                     prayers. But he went about slowly, and with loving hands, packing up his
                     brushes, pallets, paints, easel,—all the few familiar objects of a life which
                     was his no longer, and on which he seemed to himself already looking as across
                     some vast gulf of years. At last all was done. A last look about the dismantled
                     garret, so long his workshop, his home, where he had grown out of one life into
                     another, and a better, as he thought,—out of a narrow circle into a broader.
                     And then, away for the Cape. No farewells, no explanations to friends, nothing
                     that should hold out to his sad soul any faintest hope of a return to this
                     garret, this toil, which now seemed to him more heaven than ever before. Thus
                     this Adam left his paradise, clinging to his Eve.
                  It was the day before Thanksgiving when Elkanah arrived at home. Will any one
                     blame him, if he felt little thankful? if the thought of the Thanksgiving
                     turkey was like to choke him, and the very idea of giving thanks seemed to him
                     a bitter satire? Poor fellow! he forgot that there were other hearts to whom
                     Thanksgiving turkey seemed little tempting.
                  The Cape folk are not demonstrative. They have warm hearts, but the old Puritan
                     ice has never quite melted away from the outer shell.
                  "Well, Elkanah, glad to see you, boy!" said his father, looking up from his
                     corner by the stove; "how's things in New York?" Father and son had not met for
                     three years. But, going out into the kitchen, he received a warm grasp of the
                     hand, and his mother said, in her low, sweet voice, "I knew you'd come." That
                     was all. But it was enough.
                  How to take his sad face over to Elijah Nickerson's new house? But that must be
                     done, too. Looking through the little sitting-room window, as he passed, he saw
                     pale-faced Hepsy Ann sitting quietly by the table, sewing. The children had
                     gone to bed. He did not knock;—why should he?—but, walking in, stood silent on
                     the floor. A glad, surprised smile lit up the sad, wan face, as she recognized
                     him, and, stepping to his side, said, "O, Elkanah! I knew you'd come. How good
                     of you!" Then, abashed to have so committed herself and him, she shrank to her
                     chair again.
                  Let us not intrude further on these two. Surely Elkanah Brewster had been less than man, had he not
                     found his hard heart to soften, and his cold love to warm, as he drew from her
                     the story of her long agony, and saw this weary heart ready to rest upon him,
                     longing to be comforted in his strong arms.
                  The next day a small sign was put up at Abijah Brewster's door:— 
                        BOOTS AND SHOES MADE AND MENDED BY ELKANAH BREWSTER.
                     
                  
                  It was arranged that he should work at his trade all winter. In the spring, he
                     was to have his father's vessel, and the wedding would be before he started for
                     the Banks.
                  So the old life was put on again. I will not say that Elkanah was thoroughly
                     content,—that there were no bitter longings, no dim regrets, no faint
                     questionings of Providence. But hard work is a good salve for a sore heart; and
                     in his honest toils, in his care for Hepsy Ann and her little brood, in her
                     kind heart, which acknowledged with such humility of love all he did for her
                     and all he had cast away for her, he found his reward.
                  The wedding was over,—a quiet affair enough,—and Elkanah was anchored on the
                     Banks, with a brave, skilful crew, and plenty of fish. His old luck had not
                     deserted him; wherever he dropped anchor, there the cod seemed to gather; and,
                     in the excitement of catching fish and guarding against the dangers of the
                     Banks, the old New York life seemed presently forgotten; and, once more,
                     Elkanah's face wore the old, hopeful calm which belonged there. Art, that had
                     been so long his tyrant mistress, was at last cast off.
                  Was she?
                  As he sat, one evening, high on the quarter, smoking his pipe, in that calm,
                     contemplative mood which is the smoker's reward for a day of toil,—the little
                     vessel pitching bows under in the long, tremendous swell of the Atlantic, the
                     low drifting fog lurid in the light of the setting sun, but bright stars
                     twinkling out, one by one, overhead, in a sky of Italian clearness and
                     softness,—it all came to him,—that which he had so long, so vainly sought,
                     toiled for, prayed for in New York,—his destiny.
                  Why should he paint heads, figures, landscapes, objects with which his heart
                     had never been really filled?
                  But now, as in one flash of divinest intelligence, it was revealed to him!—This
                     sea, this fog, this sky, these stars, this old, old life, which he had been
                     almost born into. O, blind bat indeed, not to have seen, long, long ago, that
                     this was your birthright in Art! not to have felt in your innermost heart, that
                     this was indeed that thing, if anything, which God had called you to paint!
                  For this Elkanah had drunk in from his earliest youth,—this he understood to
                     its very core; but the poor secret of that other life, which is so draped about
                     with the artistic mannerisms and fashionable Art of New York, or any other
                     civilized life, he had never rightly appreciated.
                  In that sunset-hour was born a painter!
                  
               
               
                  III.
                  IT chanced, that, a few months ago, I paid my accustomed summer visit to an old
                     friend, living near Boston,—a retired merchant he calls himself. He began life
                     as a cabin-boy,—became, in time, master of an Indiaman,—then, partner in a
                     China house,—and after many years' residence in Canton, returned some years
                     ago, heart and liver whole, to spend his remaining days among olden scenes. A
                     man of truest culture, generous heart, and rarely erring taste. I never go
                     there without finding something new and admirable.
                  
                  "What am I to see, this time?" I asked, after dinner, looking about the
                     drawing-room.
                  "Come. I'll show you."
                  He led me up to a painting,—a sea-piece:—A schooner, riding at her anchor, at
                     sunset, far out at sea, no land in sight, sails down, all but a little patch of
                     storm-sail fluttering wildly in the gale, and heavily pitching in a great,
                     grand, rolling sea; around, but not closely enveloping her, a driving fog-bank,
                     lurid in the yellow sheen of the setting sun; above her, a few stars dimly
                     twinkling through a clear blue sky; on the quarter-deck, men sitting, wrapped
                     in all the paraphernalia of storm-clothing, smoking and watching the roll of
                     the sea.
                  "What do you think?" asked Captain Eastwick, interrupting my rapt
                     contemplation.
                  "I never in my life saw so fine a sea-view. Whose can it be?"
                  "A Cape-Cod fisherman's."
                  "But he is a genius!" cried I, enthusiastically.
                  "A great, a splendid genius!" said my friend, quietly.
                  "And a fisherman?"
                  "Yes, and shoemaker."
                  "What a magnificent career he might make! Why don't you help him! What a pity
                     to bury such a man in fish-boots and cod-livers!"
                  "My dear—," said Captain Eastwick, "you are a goose. The highest genius lives
                     above the littleness of making a career. This man needs no Academy prizes or
                     praises. To my mind, his is the noblest, happiest life of all."
                  Whereupon he told me the story which I have endeavored to relate.
               
            
            
               THE QUEEN OF THE RED CHESSMEN.
               THE box of chessmen had been left open all night.
               That was a great oversight! For everybody knows that the contending chessmen are
                  but too eager to fight their battles over again by midnight, if a chance is only
                  allowed them.
               It was at the Willows,—so called, not because the house is surrounded by willows,
                  but because a little clump of them hangs over the pond close by. It is a pretty
                  place, with its broad lawn in front of the door-way, its winding avenue hidden
                  from the road by high trees. It is a quiet place, too; the sun rests gently on the
                  green lawn, and the drooping leaves of the willows hang heavily over the
                  water.
               No one would imagine what violent contests were going on under the still roof,
                  this very night. It was the night of the first of May. The moon came silently out
                  from the shadows; the trees were scarcely stirring. The box of chessmen had been
                  left on the balcony steps by the drawing-room window, and the window, too, that
                  warm night, had been left open. So, one by one, all the chessmen came out to fight
                  over again their evening's battles.
               It was a famously carved set of chessmen. The bishops wore their mitres, the
                  knights pranced on spirited steeds, the castles rested on the backs of
                  elephants,—even the pawns mimicked the private soldiers of an army. The skilful
                  carver had given to each piece, and each pawn, too, a certain individuality. That
                  night there had been a close contest.
                  Two well-matched players had guided the game, and it had ended with leaving a deep
                  irritation on the conquered side.
               It was Isabella the Queen of the Red Chessmen, who had been obliged to yield. She
                  was young and proud, and it was she, indeed, who held the rule; for her father,
                  the old Red King, had grown too imbecile to direct affairs; he merely bore the
                  name of sovereignty. And Isabella was loved by knights, pawns, and all; the
                  bishops were willing to die in her cause, the castles would have crumbled to earth
                  for her. Opposed to her, stood the detested White Queen. All the Whites, of
                  course, were despised by her; but the haughty, self-sufficient queen angered her
                  most.
               The White Queen was reigning during the minority of her only son. The White Prince
                  had reached the age of nineteen, but the strong mind of his mother had kept him
                  always under restraint. A simple youth, he had always yielded to her control. He
                  was pure-hearted and gentle, but never ventured to make a move of his own. He
                  sought shelter under cover of his castles, while his more energetic mother went
                  forth at the head of his army. She was dreaded by her subjects,—never loved by
                  them. Her own pawn, it is true, had ventured much for her sake, had often with his
                  own life redeemed her from captivity; but it was loyalty that bound even him,—no
                  warmer feeling of devotion or love.
               The Queen Isabella was the first to come out from her prison.
               "I will stay here no longer," she cried; "the blood of the Reds grows pale in this
                  inactivity."
               She stood upon the marble steps; the May moon shone down upon her. She listened a
                  moment to a slight murmuring within the drawing-room window. The Spanish lady, the
                  Murillo-painted Spanish lady, had come down from her frame that bound her against
                  the wall. Just for this one night in the year, she stepped out from the canvas to
                  walk up and down the rooms majestically. She would not exchange a word with
                  anybody; nobody understood her language. She could remember when Murillo looked at
                  her, watched over her, created her with his pencil. She could have nothing to say
                  to little paltry shepherdesses, and other articles of virtù, that came into grace and motion just at this moment.
               The Queen of the Red Chessmen turned away, down into the avenue. The May moon
                  shone upon her. Her feet trod upon unaccustomed ground; no black or white square
                  hemmed her in; she felt a new liberty.
               "My poor old father!" she exclaimed, "I will leave him behind; better let him
                  slumber in an ignoble repose than wander over the board, a laughing-stock for his
                  enemies. We have been conquered,—the foolish White Prince rules!"
               A strange inspiration stole upon her; the breath of the May night hovered over
                  her; the May moon shone upon her. She could move without waiting for the will of
                  another; she was free. She passed down the avenue; she had left her old prison
                  behind.
               Early in the morning,—it was just after sunrise,—the kind Doctor Lester was
                  driving home, after watching half the night out with a patient. He passed the
                  avenue to the Willows, but drew up his horse just as he was leaving the entrance.
                  He saw a young girl sitting under the hedge. She was without any bonnet, in a red
                  dress, fitting closely and hanging heavily about her. She was so very beautiful,
                  she looked so strangely lost and out of place here at this early hour, that the
                  Doctor could not resist speaking to her.
               "My child, how came you here?"
               The young girl rose up, and looked round with uncertainty.
               "Where am I?" she asked.
               She was very tall and graceful, with an air of command, but with a strange, wild
                  look in her eyes.
               "The young woman must be slightly insane," thought the Doctor; "but she cannot
                  have wandered far."
               
               "Let me take you home," he said aloud. "Perhaps you come from the Willows?"
               "O, don't take me back there!" cried Isabella, "they will imprison me again! I had
                  rather be a slave than a conquered queen!"
               "Decidedly insane!" thought the Doctor. "I must take her back to the Willows."
               He persuaded the young girl to let him lift her into his chaise. She did not
                  resist him; but when he turned up the avenue, she leaned back in despair. He was
                  fortunate enough to find one of the servants up at the house, just sweeping the
                  steps of the hall-door. Getting out of his chaise, he said confidentially to the
                  servant,—
               "I have brought back your young lady."
               "Our young lady!" exclaimed the man, as the Doctor pointed out Isabella.
               "Yes, she is a little insane, is she not?"
               "She is not our young lady," answered the servant; "we have nobody in the house
                  just now, but Mr. and Mrs. Fogerty, and Mrs. Fogerty's brother, the old
                  geologist."
               "Where did she come from?" inquired the Doctor.
               "I never saw her before," said the servant, "and I certainly should remember.
                  There's some foreign folks live down in the cottage, by the railroad; but they are
                  not the like of her!"
               The Doctor got into his chaise again, bewildered.
               "My child," he said, "you must tell me where you came from."
               "O, don't let me go back again!" said Isabella, clasping her hands imploringly.
                  "Think how hard it must be never to take a move of one's own! to know how the game
                  might be won, then see it lost through folly! O, that last game, lost through
                  utter weakness! There was that one move! Why did he not push me down to the king's
                  row? I might have checkmated the White Prince, shut in by his own castles and
                  pawns,—it would have been a direct checkmate! Think of his folly! he stopped to
                  take the queen's pawn with his bishop, and within one move of a checkmate!"
               "Quite insane!" repeated the Doctor. "But I must have my breakfast. She seems
                  quiet; I think I can keep her till after breakfast, and then I must try and find
                  where the poor child's friends live. I don't know what Mrs. Lester will think of
                  her."
               They rode on. Isabella looked timidly round.
               "You don't quite believe me," she said, at last. "It seems strange to you."
               "It does," answered the Doctor, "seem very strange."
               "Not stranger than to me," said Isabella,—"it is so very grand to me! All this
                  motion! Look down at that great field there, not cut up into squares! If I only
                  had my knights and squires there! I would be willing to give her as
                  good a field, too; but I would show her where the true bravery lies. What a place
                  for the castles, just to defend that pass!"
               The Doctor whipped up his horse.
               Mrs. Lester was a little surprised at the companion her husband had brought home
                  to breakfast with him.
               "Who is it?" she whispered.
               "That I don't know,—I shall have to find out," he answered, a little
                  nervously.
               "Where is her bonnet?" asked Mrs. Lester; this was the first absence of
                  conventionality she had noticed.
               "You had better ask her," answered the Doctor.
               But Mrs. Lester preferred leaving her guest in the parlor while she questioned her
                  husband. She was somewhat disturbed when she found he had nothing more
                  satisfactory to tell her.
               "An insane girl! and what shall we do with her?" she asked.
               "After breakfast I will make some inquiries about her," answered the Doctor.
               "And leave her alone with us? that will never do! You must take her away
                  directly,—at least to the Insane
                  Asylum,—somewhere! What if she should grow wild while you were gone? She might
                  kill us all! I will go in and tell her that she cannot stay here."
               On returning to the parlor, she found Isabella looking dreamily out of the window.
                  As Mrs. Lester approached, she turned.
               "You will let me stay with you a little while, will you not?"
               She spoke in a quiet tone, with an air somewhat commanding. It imposed upon
                  nervous little Mrs. Lester. But she made a faint struggle.
               "Perhaps you would rather go home," she said.
               "I have no home now," said Isabella; "some time I may recover it; but my throne
                  has been usurped."
               Mrs. Lester looked round in alarm, to see if the Doctor were near.
               "Perhaps you had better come in to breakfast," she suggested.
               She was glad to place the Doctor between herself and their new guest.
               Celia Lester, the only daughter, came down stairs. She had heard that her father
                  had picked up a lost girl in the road. As she came down in her clean morning
                  dress, she expected to have to hold her skirts away from some little squalid
                  object of charity. She started when she saw the elegant-looking young girl who sat
                  at the table. There was something in her air and manner that seemed to make the
                  breakfast equipage, and the furniture of the room about her, look a little mean
                  and poor. Yet the Doctor was very well off, and Mrs. Lester fancied she had
                  everything quite in style. Celia stole into her place, feeling small in the
                  presence of the stranger.
               After breakfast, when the Doctor had somewhat refreshed himself by its good cheer
                  from his last night's fatigue, Isabella requested to speak with him.
               "Let me stay with you a little while," she asked, beseechingly; "I will do
                  everything for you that you desire. You shall teach me anything;—I know I can
                  learn all that you will show me, all that Mrs. Lester will tell me."
               "Perhaps so,—perhaps that will be best," answered the Doctor, "until your friends
                  inquire for you; then I must send you back to them."
               "Very well, very well," said Isabella, relieved. "But I must tell you they will
                  not inquire for me. I see you will not believe my story. If you only would listen
                  to me, I could tell it all to you."
               "That is the only condition I can make with you," answered the Doctor, "that you
                  will not tell your story,—that you will never even think of it yourself. I am a
                  physician. I know that it is not good for you to dwell upon such things. Do not
                  talk of them to me, nor to my wife or daughter. Never speak of your story to any
                  one who comes here. It will be better for you."
               "Better for me," said Isabella, dreamily, "that no one should know! Perhaps so. I
                  am, in truth, captive to the White Prince; and if he should come and demand me,—I
                  should be half afraid to try the risks of another game."
               "Stop, stop!" exclaimed the doctor, "you are already forgetting the condition. I
                  shall be obliged to take you away to some retreat, unless you promise me—"
               "O, I will promise you anything," interrupted Isabella; "and you will see that I
                  can keep my promise."
               Meanwhile Mrs. Lester and Celia had been holding a consultation.
               "I think she must be some one in disguise," suggested Celia.
               Celia was one of the most unromantic of persons. Both she and her mother had
                  passed their lives in an unvarying routine of duties. Neither of them had ever
                  found time from their sewing even to read. Celia had her books of history laid
                  out, that she meant to take up when she should get through her work; but it seemed
                  hopeless that this time would ever come. It had never come to Mrs. Lester, and she
                  was now fifty years old. Celia had never read any novels. She had tried to read them, but never was
                  interested in them. So she had a vague idea of what romance was, conceiving of it
                  only as something quite different from her every-day life. For this reason the
                  unnatural event that was taking place this very day was gradually appearing to her
                  something possible and natural. Because she knew there was such a thing as
                  romance, and that it was something quite beyond her comprehension, she was the
                  more willing to receive this event quietly from finding it incomprehensible.
               "We can let her stay here to-day, at least," said Mrs. Lester. "We will keep John
                  at work in the front door-yard, in case we should want him. And I will set Mrs.
                  Anderson's boy to weeding in the border; we can call him, if we should want to
                  send for help."
               She was quite ashamed of herself, when she had uttered these words, and Isabella
                  walked into the room, so composed, so refined in her manners.
               "The Doctor says I may stay here a little while, if you will let me," said
                  Isabella, as she took Mrs. Lester's hands.
               "We will try to make you. comfortable," replied Mrs. Lester.
               "He says you will teach me many things,—I think he said, how to sew."
               "How to sew! Was it possible she did not know how to sew?" Celia thought to
                  herself, "How many servants she must have had, never to have learned how to sew,
                  herself!"
               And this occupation was directly provided, while the Doctor set forth on his day's
                  duties, and at the same time to inquire about the strange apparition of the young
                  girl. He was so convinced that there was a vein of insanity about her, that he was
                  very sure that questioning her only excited her the more. Just as he had parted
                  from her, some compunction seized her, and she followed him to the door.
               "There is my father," said she.
               "Your father! where shall I find him?" asked the Doctor.
               "O, he could not help me," she replied; "it is a long time since he has been able
                  to direct affairs. He has scarcely been conscious of my presence, and will hardly
                  feel my absence, his mind is so weak."
               "But where can I find him?" persisted the Doctor.
               "He did not come out," said Isabella; "the White Queen would not allow it,
                  indeed."
               "Stop, stop!" exclaimed the Doctor, "we are on forbidden ground."
               He drove away.
               "So there is insanity in the family," he thought to himself. "I am quite
                  interested in this case. A new form of monomania! I should be quite sorry to lose
                  sight of it. I shall be loath to give her up to her friends."
               But he was not yet put to that test. No one could give him any light with regard
                  to the strange girl. He went first to the Willows, and found there so much
                  confusion that he could hardly persuade any one to listen to his questions. Mrs.
                  Fogerty's brother, the geologist, had been riding that morning, and had fallen
                  from his horse and broken his leg. The Doctor arrived just in time to be of
                  service in setting it. Then he must linger some time to see that the old gentleman
                  was comfortable, so that he was obliged to stay nearly the whole morning. He was
                  much amused at the state of disturbance in which he left the family. The whole
                  house was in confusion, looking after some lost chessmen.
               "There was nothing," said Mrs. Fogerty, apologetically, "that would soothe her
                  brother so much as a game of chess. That, perhaps, might keep him quiet. He would
                  be willing to play chess with Mr. Fogerty by the day together. It was so strange!
                  they had a game the night before, and now some of the pieces could not be found.
                  Her brother had lost the game, and to-day he was so eager to take his
                  revenge!"
               
               "How absurd!" thought the Doctor; "what trifling things people interest themselves
                  in! Here is this old man more disturbed at losing his game of chess than he is at
                  breaking his leg. It is different in my profession, where one deals with life and
                  death. Here is this young girl's fate in my hands, and they talk to me of the loss
                  of a few paltry chessmen!"
               The "foreign people" at the cottage knew nothing of Isabella. No one had seen her
                  the night before, or at any time. Dr. Lester even drove ten miles to Dr. Giles's
                  Retreat for the Insane, to see if it were possible that a patient could have
                  wandered away from there. Dr. Giles was deeply interested in the account Dr.
                  Lester gave. He would very gladly take such a person under his care.
               "No," said Dr. Lester, "I will wait awhile. I am interested in the young girl. It
                  is not possible but that I shall in time find out from her, by chance, perhaps,
                  who her friends are, and where she came from. She must have wandered away in some
                  delirium of fever,—but it is very strange, for she appears perfectly calm now. Yet
                  I hardly know in what state I shall find her."
               He returned to find her very quiet and calm, learning from his wife and daughter
                  how to sew. She seemed deeply interested in this new occupation, and had given all
                  her time and thought to it. Celia and her mother privately confided to the Doctor
                  their admiration of their strange guest. Her ways were so graceful and beautiful!
                  all that she said seemed so new and singular! The Doctor, before he went away, had
                  exhorted Mrs. Lester and Celia to ask her no questions about her former life, and
                  everything had gone on very smoothly. And everything went on as smoothly for some
                  weeks. Isabella seemed willing to be as silent as the Doctor upon all exciting
                  subjects. She appeared to be quite taken up with her sewing, much to Mrs. Lester's
                  delight.
               "She will turn out quite as good a seamstress as Celia," said she to the Doctor.
                  "She sews steadily all the time, and nothing seems to please her so much as to
                  finish a piece of work. She will be able to do much more than her own sewing, and
                  may prove quite a help to us."
               "I shall be very glad," said the Doctor, "if anything can be a help, to prevent
                  you and Celia from working yourselves to death. I shall be glad if you can ever
                  have done with that eternal sewing. It is time that Celia should do something
                  about cultivating her mind."
               "Celia's mind is so well regulated," interrupted Mrs. Lester.
               "We won't discuss that," continued the Doctor,—"we never come to an agreement
                  there. I was going on to say that I am becoming so interested in Isabella, that I
                  feel towards her as if she were my own. If she is of help to the family, that is
                  very well,—it is the best thing for her to be able to make herself of use. But I
                  don't care to make any profit to ourselves out of her help. Somehow I begin to
                  think of her as belonging to us. Certainly she belongs to nobody else. Let us
                  treat her as our own child. We have but one, yet God has given us means enough to
                  care for many more. I confess I should find it hard to give Isabella up to any one
                  else. I like to find her when I come home,—it is pleasant to look at her."
               "And I, too, love her," said Mrs. Lester. "I like to see her as she sits quietly
                  at her work."
               So Isabella went on learning what it was to be one of the family, and becoming, as
                  Mrs. Lester remarked, a very experienced seamstress. She seldom said anything as
                  she sat at her work, but seemed quite occupied with her sewing; while Mrs. Lester
                  and Celia kept up a stream of conversation, seldom addressing Isabella, as,
                  indeed, they had few topics in common.
               One day, Celia and Isabella were sitting together.
               "Have you always sewed?" asked Isabella.
               "O, yes," answered Celia,—"since I was quite a child."
               "And do you remember when you were a child?" asked Isabella, laying down her
                  work.
               
               "O, yes, indeed," said Celia; "I used to make all my doll's dresses myself."
               "Your doll's dresses!" repeated Isabella.
               "O, yes," replied Celia,—"I was not ashamed to play with dolls in that way."
               "I should like to see some dolls," said Isabella.
               "I will show you my large doll," said Celia; "I have always kept it, because I
                  fitted it out with such a nice set of clothes. And I keep it for children to play
                  with."
               She brought her doll, and Isabella handled it and looked at it with curiosity.
               "So you dressed this, and played with it," said Isabella, inquiringly, "and moved
                  it about as one would move a piece at chess?"
               Celia started at this word "chess." It was one of the forbidden words. But
                  Isabella went on:—
               "Suppose this doll should suddenly have begun to speak, to move, and walk round,
                  would not you have liked it?"
               "O, no!" exclaimed Celia. "What! a wooden thing speak and move! It would have
                  frightened me very much."
               "Why should it not speak, if it has a mouth, and walk, if it has feet?" asked
                  Isabella.
               "What foolish questions you ask!" exclaimed Celia, "of course it has not
                  life."
               "O, life,—that is it!" said Isabella. "Well what is life?"
               "Life! why it is what makes us live," answered Celia. "Of course you know what
                  life is."
               "No, I don't know," said Isabella, "But I have been thinking about it lately,
                  while I have been sewing,—what it is."
               "But you should not think, you should talk more, Isabella," said Celia. "Mamma and
                  I talk while we are at work, but you are always very silent."
               "But you think sometimes?" asked Isabella.
               "Not about such things," replied Celia. "I have to think about my work."
               "But your father thinks, I suppose, when he comes home and sits in his study
                  alone?"
               "O, he reads when he goes into his study,—he reads books and studies them," said
                  Celia.
               "Do you know how to read?" asked Isabella.
               "Do I know how to read!" cried Celia, angrily.
               "Forgive me," said Isabella, quickly, "but I never saw you reading. I thought
                  perhaps—women are so different here!"
               She did not finish her sentence, for she saw Celia was really angry. Yet she had
                  no idea of hurting her feelings. She had tried to accommodate herself to her new
                  circumstances. She had observed a great deal, and had never been in the habit of
                  asking questions. Celia was disturbed at having it supposed that she did not know
                  how to read; therefore it must be a very important thing to know how to read, and
                  she determined she must learn. She applied to the Doctor. He was astonished at her
                  entire ignorance, but he was very glad to help her. Isabella gave herself up to
                  her reading, as she had done before to her sewing. The Doctor was now the gainer.
                  All the time he was away, Isabella sat in his study, poring over her books; when
                  he returned, she had a famous lesson to recite to him. Then he began to tell her
                  of books that he was interested in. He made Celia come in, for a history class. It
                  was such a pleasure to him to find Isabella interested in what he could tell her
                  of history!
               "All this really happened," said Isabella to Celia once,—"these people really
                  lived!"
               "Yes, but they died," responded Celia, in an indifferent tone,—"and ever so long
                  ago, too!"
               "But did they die," asked Isabella, "if we can talk about them, and imagine how
                  they looked? They live for us as much as they did then."
               "That I can't understand," said Celia. "My uncle saw Napoleon when he was in
                  Europe, long ago. But I never saw Napoleon. He is dead and gone to me, just as
                  much as Alexander the Great."
               
               "Well, who does live, if Alexander the Great, if Napoleon, and Columbus do not
                  live?" asked Isabella, impatiently.
               "Why, papa and mamma live," answered Celia, "and you—"
               "And the butcher," interrupted Isabella, "because he brings you meat to eat; and
                  Mr. Spool, because he keeps the thread store. Thank you for putting me in, too!
                  Once—"
               "Once!" answered Celia, in a dignified tone, "I suppose once you lived in a
                  grander circle, and it appears to you we have nobody better than Mr. Spool and the
                  butcher."
               Isabella was silent, and thought of her "circle," her former circle. The circle
                  here was large enough, the circumference not very great, but there were as many
                  points in it as in a larger one. There were pleasant, motherly Mrs. Gibbs, and her
                  agreeable daughters,—the Gresham boys, just in college,—the Misses Tarletan, fresh
                  from a New York boarding-school,—Mr. Lovell, the young minister,—and the old
                  Misses Pendleton, that made raspberry-jam,—together with Celia's particular
                  friends, Anna and Selina Mountfort, who had a great deal of talking with Celia in
                  private, but not a word to say to anybody in the parlor. All these, with many
                  others in the background, had been speculating upon the riddle that Isabella
                  presented,—"Who was she? and where did she come from?"
               Nobody found any satisfactory answer. Neither Celia nor her mother would disclose
                  anything. It is a great convenience in keeping a secret, not to know what it is.
                  One can't easily tell what one does not know.
               "The Doctor really has a treasure in his wife and daughter," said Mrs. Gibbs,
                  "they keep his secrets so well! Neither of them will lisp a word about this
                  handsome Isabella."
               "I have no doubt she is the daughter of an Italian refugee," said one of the
                  Misses Tarletan. "We saw a number of Italian refugees in New York."
               This opinion became prevalent in the neighborhood. That Dr. Lester should be
                  willing to take charge of an unknown girl did not astonish those who knew of his
                  many charitable deeds. It was not more than he had done for his cousin's child,
                  who had no especial claim upon him. He had adopted Lawrence Egerton, educated him,
                  sent him to college, and was giving him every advantage in his study of the law.
                  In the end Lawrence would probably marry Celia and the pretty property that the
                  Doctor would leave behind for his daughter.
               "She is one of my patients," the Doctor would say, to any one who asked him about
                  her.
               The tale that she was the daughter of an Italian refugee became more rife after
                  Isabella had begun to study Italian. She liked to have the musical Italian words
                  linger on her tongue. She quoted Italian poetry, read Italian history. In
                  conversation, she generally talked of the present, rarely of the past or of the
                  future. She listened with wonder to those who had a talent for reminiscence. How
                  rich their past must be, that they should be willing to dwell in it! Her own she
                  thought very meagre. If she wanted to live in the past, it must be in the past of
                  great men, not in that of her own little self. So she read of great painters and
                  great artists, and because she read of them she talked of them. Other people, in
                  referring to by-gone events, would say, "When I was in Trenton last summer,"—"In
                  Cuba the spring that we were there"; but Isabella would say, "When Raphael died,
                  or when Dante lived." Everybody liked to talk with her,—laughed with her at her
                  enthusiasm. There was something inspiring, too, in this enthusiasm; it compelled
                  attention, as her air and manner always attracted notice. By her side, the style
                  and elegance of the Misses Tarletan faded out; here was a moon that quite
                  extinguished the light of their little tapers. She became the centre of
                  admiration; the young girls admired her, as they are prone to admire some one
                  particular star. She never courted attention, but it was always given.
               "Isabella attracts everybody," said Celia to her mother. "Even the old Mr. Spencers, who have never been
                  touched by woman before, follow her, and act just as she wills."
               Little Celia, who had been quite a belle hitherto, sunk into the shade by the side
                  of the brilliant Isabella. Yet she followed willingly in the sunny wake that
                  Isabella left behind. She expanded somewhat, herself, for she was quite ashamed to
                  know nothing of all that Isabella talked about so earnestly. The sewing gave place
                  to a little reading, to Mrs. Lester's horror. The Mountforts and the Gibbses met
                  with Isabella and Celia to read and study, and went into town with them to
                  lectures and to concerts.
               A winter passed away and another summer came. Still Isabella was at Dr. Lester's;
                  and with the lapse of time the harder did it become for the Doctor to question her
                  of her past history,—the more, too, was she herself weaned from it.
               The young people had been walking in the garden one evening.
               "Let me sit by you here in the porch," said Lawrence Egerton to Celia,—"I want
                  rest, for body and spirit. I am always in a battle-field when I am talking with
                  Isabella. I must either fight with her or against her. She insists on my fighting
                  all the time. I have to keep my weapons bright, ready for use, every moment. She
                  will lead me, too, in conversation, sends me here, orders me there. I feel like a
                  poor knight in chess, under the sway of a queen—"
               "I don't know anything about chess," said Celia, curtly.
               "It is a comfort to have you a little ignorant," said Lawrence. "Please stay in
                  bliss awhile. It is repose, it is refreshment. Isabella drags one into the company
                  of her heroes, and then one feels completely ashamed not to be on more familiar
                  terms with them all. Her Mazzinis, her Tancreds, heroes false and true,—it makes
                  no difference to her,—put one into a whirl between history and story. What a row
                  she would make in Italy, if she went back there!"
               "What could we do without her?" said Celia; "it was so quiet and commonplace
                  before she came!"
               "That is the trouble," replied Lawrence, "Isabella won't let anything remain
                  commonplace. She pulls everything out of its place,—makes a hero or heroine out of
                  a piece of clay. I don't want to be in heroics all the time. Even Homer's heroes
                  ate their suppers comfortably. I think it was a mistake in your father, bringing
                  her here. Let her stay in her sphere queening it, and leave us poor mortals to our
                  bread and butter."
               "You know you don't think so," expostulated Celia; "you worship her shoe-tie, the
                  hem of her garment."
               "But I don't want to," said Lawrence,—"it is a compulsory worship. I had rather be
                  quiet."
               "Lazy Lawrence!" cried Celia, "it is better for you. You would be the first to
                  miss Isabella. You would find us quite flat without her brilliancy, and would be
                  hunting after some other excitement."
               "Perhaps so," said Lawrence. "But here she comes to goad us on again. Queen
                  Isabella, when do the bull-fights begin?"
               "I wish I were Queen Isabella!" she exclaimed. "Have you read the last accounts
                  from Spain? I was reading them to the Doctor to-day. Nobody knows what to do
                  there. Only think what an opportunity for the Queen to show herself a queen! Why
                  will not she make of herself such a queen as the great Isabella of Castile
                  was?"
               "I can't say," answered Lawrence.
               "Queens rule in chess," said Horace Gresham. "I always wondered that the king was
                  made such a poor character there. He is not only ruled by his cabinet, bishops,
                  and knights, but his queen is by far the more warlike character."
               "Whoever plays the game rules,—you or Mr. Egerton," said Isabella, bitterly; "it
                  is not the poor queen. She must yield to the power of the moving hand. I suppose
                  it is so with us women. We see a great aim before us, but have not the power."
               
               "Nonsense!" exclaimed Lawrence, "it is just the reverse. With some women,—for I
                  won't be personal,—the aim, as you call it, is very small,—a poor amusement,
                  another dress, a larger house—"
               "You may stop," interrupted Isabella, "for you don't believe this. At least, keep
                  some of your flings for the women that deserve them; Celia and I don't accept
                  them."
               "Then we'll talk of the last aim we were discussing,—the ride to-morrow."
               The next winter was passed by Mrs. Lester, her daughter, and Isabella in Cuba.
                  Lawrence Egerton accompanied them thither, and the Doctor hoped to go for them in
                  the spring. They went on Mrs. Lester's account. She had worn herself out with her
                  household labors,—very uselessly, the Doctor thought,—so he determined to send her
                  away from them. Isabella and Celia were very happy all this winter and spring.
                  With Isabella, Spanish took the place of Italian studies. She liked talking in
                  Spanish. They made some friends among the residents, as well as among the
                  strangers, particularly the Americans. Of these last, they enjoyed most the
                  society of Mrs. Blanchard and her son, Otho, who were at the same hotel with
                  them.
               The opera, too, was a new delight to Isabella, and even Celia was excited by
                  it.
               "It is a little too absurd, to see the dying scene of Romeo and Juliet sung out in
                  an opera!" remarked Lawrence Egerton, one morning; "all the music of the spheres
                  could not have made that scene, last night, otherwise than supremely
                  ridiculous."
               "I am glad you did not sit by us, then," replied Celia; "Isabella and I were
                  crying."
               "I dare say," said Lawrence. "I should be afraid to take you to see a tragedy well
                  acted. You would both be in hysterics before the killing was over."
               "I should be really afraid," said Celia, "to see Romeo and Juliet finely
                  performed. It would be too sad."
               "It would be much better to end it up comfortably," said Lawrence. "Why should not
                  Juliet marry her Romeo in peace?"
               "It would be impossible!" exclaimed Isabella,—"impossible to bring together two
                  such hostile families! Of course the result must be a tragedy."
               "In romances," answered Lawrence, "that may be necessary; but not in real
                  life."
               "Why not in real life?" asked Isabella. "When two thunder-clouds meet, there must
                  be an explosion."
               "But we don't have such hostile families arrayed against each other now-a-days,"
                  said Lawrence. "The Bianchi and the Neri have died out; unless the feud lives
                  between the whites and the blacks of the present day."
               "Are you sure that it has died out everywhere?" asked Isabella.
               "Certainly not," said Otho Blanchard; "my mother, Bianca Bianco, inherits her name
                  from a long line of ancestry, and with it come its hatreds as well as its
                  loves."
               "You speak like an Italian or Spaniard," said Lawrence. "We are cold-blooded
                  Yankees, and in our slow veins such passions do die out. I should have taken you
                  for an American from your name."
               "It is our name Americanized; we have made Americans of ourselves, and the Bianchi
                  have become the Blanchards."
               "The romance of the family, then," persisted Lawrence, "must needs become
                  Americanized too. If you were to meet with a lovely young lady of the enemy's
                  race, I think you would be willing to bury your sword in the sheath for her
                  sake."
               "I hope I should not forget the honor of my family," said Otho. "I certainly never
                  could, as long as my mother lives; her feelings on the subject are stronger even
                  than mine."
               "I cannot imagine the possibility of such feelings dying out," said Isabella. "I
                  cannot imagine such different elements amalgamating. It would be like fire and
                     water uniting. Then there would be
                  no longer any contest; the game of life would be over."
               "Why will you make out life to be a battle always?" exclaimed Lawrence; "won't you
                  allow us any peace? I do not find such contests all the time,—never, except when I
                  am fighting with you."
               "I had rather fight with you than against you," said Isabella, laughing. "But when
                  one is not striving, one is sleeping."
               "That reminds me that it is time for our siesta," said Lawrence; "so we need not
                  fight any longer."
               Afterwards Isabella and Celia were talking of their new friend Otho.
               "He does not seem to me like a Spaniard," said Celia, "his complexion is so light;
                  then, too, his name sounds German."
               "But his passions are quick," replied Isabella. "How he colored up when he spoke
                  of the honor of his family!"
               "I wonder that you like him," said Celia; "when he is with his mother, he hardly
                  ventures to say his soul is his own."
               "I don't like his mother," said Isabella; "her manner is too imperious and
                  unrefined, it appears to me. No wonder that Otho is ill at ease in her presence.
                  It is evident that her way of talking is not agreeable to him. He is afraid that
                  she will commit herself in some way."
               "But he never stands up for himself," answered Celia; "he always yields to her.
                  Now I should not think you would like that."
               "He yields because she is his mother," said Isabella; "and it would not be
                  becoming to contradict her."
               "He yields to you, too," said Celia; "how happens that?"
               "I hope he does not yield to me more than is becoming," answered Isabella,
                  laughing; "perhaps that is why I like him. After all, I don't care to be always
                  sparring, as I am with Lawrence Egerton. With Otho I find that I agree wonderfully
                  in many things. Neither of us yields to the other, neither of us is obliged to
                  convince the other."
               "Now I should think you would find that stupid," said Celia. "What becomes of this
                  desire of yours never to rest, always to be struggling after something?"
               "We might strive together, we might struggle together," responded Isabella.
               She said this musingly, not in answer to Celia, but to her own thoughts,—as she
                  looked away, out from everything that surrounded her. The passion for ruling had
                  always been uppermost in her mind; suddenly there dawned upon her the pleasure of
                  being ruled. She became conscious of the pleasure of conquering all things for the
                  sake of giving all to another. A new sense of peace stole upon her mind. Before,
                  she had felt herself alone, even in the midst of the kindness of the home that had
                  been given her. She had never dared to think or to speak of the past, and as
                  little of the future. She had gladly flung herself into the details of every-day
                  life. She had given her mind to the study of all that it required. She loved the
                  Doctor, because he was always leading her on to fresh fields, always exciting her
                  to a new knowledge. She loved him, too, for himself, for his tenderness and
                  kindness to her. With Mrs. Lester and Celia she felt herself on a different
                  footing. They admired her, but they never came near her. She led them, and they
                  were always behind her.
               With Otho she experienced a new feeling. He seemed, very much as she did herself,
                  out of place in the world just around him. He was a foreigner,—was not yet
                  acclimated to the society about him. He was willing to talk of other things than
                  every-day events. He did not talk of "things," indeed, but he speculated, as
                  though he lived a separate life from that of mere eating and drinking. He was not
                  content with what seemed to every-day people possible, but was willing to believe
                  that there were things not dreamed of in their philosophy.
               "It is a satisfaction," said Lawrence once to Celia, "that Isabella has found somebody who will go high enough
                  into the clouds to suit her. Besides, it gives me a little repose."
               "And a secret jealousy at the same time; is it not so?" asked Celia. "He takes up
                  too much of Isabella's time to please you."
               "The reason he pleases her," said Lawrence, "is because he is more womanly than
                  manly, and she thinks women ought to rule the world. Now if the world were made up
                  of such as he, it would be very easily ruled. Isabella loves power too well to
                  like to see it in others. Look at her when she is with Mrs. Blanchard! It is a
                  splendid sight to see them together!"
               "How can you say so? I am always afraid of some outbreak."
               These families were, however, so much drawn together, that, when the Doctor came
                  to summon his wife and daughter and Isabella home, Mrs. Blanchard was anxious to
                  accompany them to New England. She wondered if it were not possible to find a
                  country-seat somewhere near the Lesters, that she could occupy for a time. The
                  Doctor knew that the Willows was to be vacant this spring. The Fogertys were all
                  going to Europe, and would be very willing to let their place.
               So it was arranged after their return. The Fogertys left for Europe, and Mrs.
                  Blanchard took possession of the Willows. It was a pleasant walking distance from
                  the Lesters, but it was several weeks before Isabella made her first visit there.
                  She was averse to going into the house, but, in company with Celia, Lawrence, and
                  Otho, walked about the grounds. Presently they stopped near a pretty fountain that
                  was playing in the midst of the garden.
               "That is a pretty place for an Undine," said Otho.
               "The idea of an Undine makes me shiver," said Lawrence. "Think what a
                  cold-blooded, unearthly being she would be!"
               "Not after she had a soul!" exclaimed Isabella.
               "An Undine with a soul!" cried Lawrence. "I conceive ceive of them as malicious
                  spirits, who live and die as the bubbles of water rise and fall."
               "You talk as if there were such things as Undines," said Celia. "I remember once
                  trying to read the story of Undine, but I never could finish it."
               "It ends tragically," remarked Otho.
               "Of course all such stories must," responded Lawrence; "of course it is impossible
                  to bring the natural and the unnatural together."
               "That depends upon what you call the natural," said Otho.
               "We should differ, I suppose," said Lawrence, "if we tried to explain what we each
                  call the natural. I fancy your 'real life' is different from mine."
               "Pictures of real life," said Isabella, "are sometimes pictures of horses and
                  dogs, sometimes of children playing, sometimes of fruits of different seasons
                  heaped upon one dish, sometimes of watermelons cut open."
               "That is hardly your picture of real life," said Lawrence, laughing,—"a watermelon
                  cut open! I think you would rather choose the picture of the Water Fairies from
                  the Düsseldorf Gallery."
               "Why not?" said Isabella. "The life we see must be very far from being the only
                  life that is."
               "That is very true," answered Lawrence; "but let the fairies live their life by
                  themselves, while we live our life in our own way. Why should they come to disturb
                  our peace, since we cannot comprehend them, and they certainly cannot comprehend
                  us?"
               "You do not think it well, then," said Isabella, stopping in their walk, and
                  looking down,—"you do not think it well that beings of different natures should
                  mingle?"
               "I do not see how they can," replied Lawrence. "I am limited by my senses; I can
                  perceive only what they show me. Even my imagination can picture to me only what
                  my senses can paint."
               "Your senses!" cried Otho, contemptuously,—"it is very true, as you confess, you are limited by your
                  senses. Is all this beauty around you created merely for you,—and the other
                  insects about us? I have no doubt it is filled with invisible life."
               "Do let us go in!" said Celia. "This talk, just at twilight, under the shade of
                  this shrubbery, makes me shudder. I am not afraid of the fairies. I never could
                  read fairy stories when I was a child; they were tiresome to me. But talking in
                  this way makes one timid. There might be strollers or thieves under all these
                  hedges."
               They went into the house, through the hall, and different apartments, till they
                  reached the drawing-room. Isabella stood transfixed upon the threshold. It was all
                  so familiar to her!—everything as she had known it before! Over the mantel-piece
                  hung the picture of the scornful Spanish lady; a heavy bookcase stood in one
                  corner; comfortable chairs and couches were scattered round the room; beautiful
                  landscapes against the wall seemed like windows cut into foreign scenery. There
                  was an air of ease in the room, an old-fashioned sort of ease, such as the
                  Fogertys must have loved.
               "It is a pretty room, is it not?" said Lawrence. "You look at it as if it pleased
                  you. How much more comfort there is about it than in the fashionable parlors of
                  the day? It is solid, substantial comfort."
               "You look at it as if you had seen it before," said Otho to Isabella. "Do you know
                  the room impressed me in that way, too?"
               "It is singular," said Lawrence, "the feeling, that 'all this has been before,'
                  that comes over one at times. I have heard it expressed by a great many
                  people."
               "Have you, indeed, ever had this feeling?" asked Isabella.
               "Certainly," replied Lawrence; "I say to myself sometimes, 'I have been through
                  all this before!' and I can almost go on to tell what is to come next,—it seems so
                  much a part of my past experience."
               "It is strange it should be so with you,—and with you too," she said, turning to
                  Otho.
               "Perhaps we are all more alike than we have thought," said Otho.
               Otho's mother appeared, and the conversation took another turn.
               Isabella did not go to the Willows again, until all the Lester family were
                  summoned there to a large party that Mrs. Blanchard gave. She called it a
                  house-warming, although she had been in the house some time. It was a beautiful
                  evening. A clear moonlight made it as brilliant outside on the lawn as the lights
                  made the house within. There was a band of music stationed under the shrubbery,
                  and those who chose could dance. Those who were more romantic wandered away down
                  the shaded walks, and listened to the dripping of the fountain.
               Lawrence and Isabella returned from a walk through the grounds, and stopped a
                  moment on the terrace in front of the house. Just then a dark cloud appeared in
                  the sky, threatening the moon. The wind, too, was rising, and made a motion among
                  the leaves of the trees.
               "Do you remember," asked Lawrence, "that child's story of the Fisherman and his
                  Wife? how the fisherman went down to the sea-shore, and cried out,— 
                     
                        "'O man of the sea,
                        Come listen to me!
                        For Alice, my wife,
                        The plague of my life,
                        Has sent me to beg a boon of thee!'
                     
                   The sea muttered and roared;—do you remember? There was always something
                  impressive to me in the descriptions, in the old story, of the changes in the sea,
                  and of the tempest that rose up, more and more fearful, as the fisherman's wife
                  grew more ambitious and more and more grasping in her desires, each time that the
                  fisherman went down to the sea-shore. I believe my first impression of the sea
                  came from that. The coming on of a storm is always associated sociated with it. I always fancy that it is
                  bringing with it something beside the tempest,—that there is something ruinous
                  behind it."
               "That is more fanciful than you usually are," said Isabella; "but, alas! I cannot
                  remember your story, for I never read it."
               "That is where your education and Celia's was fearfully neglected," said Lawrence;
                  "you were not brought up on fairy stories and Mother Goose. You have not needed
                  the first, as Celia has; but Mother Goose would have given a tone to your way of
                  thinking, that is certainly wanting."
               A little while afterwards, Isabella stood upon the balcony steps leading from the
                  drawing-room. Otho was with her. The threatening clouds had driven almost every
                  one into the house. There was distant thunder and lightning; but through the
                  cloud-rifts, now and then, the moonlight streamed down. Isabella and Otho had been
                  talking earnestly,—so earnestly, that they were quite unobservant of the coming
                  storm, of the strange lurid light that hung around.
               "It is strange that this should take place here!" said Isabella,—"that just here I
                  should learn that you love me! Strange that my destiny should be completed in this
                  spot!"
               "And this spot has its strange associations with me," said Otho, "of which I must
                  some time speak to you. But now I can think only of the present. Now, for the
                  first time, do I feel what life is,—now that you have promised to be mine!"
               Otho was interrupted by a sudden cry. He turned to find his mother standing behind
                  him.
               "You are here with Isabella! she has promised herself to you!" she exclaimed. "It
                  is a fatality, a terrible fatality! Listen, Isabella! You are the Queen of the Red
                  Chessmen; and he, Otho, is the King of the White Chessmen,—and I, their Queen. Can
                  there be two queens? Can there be a marriage between two hostile families? Do you
                  not see, if there were a marriage between the Reds and the Whites, there were no
                  game? Look! I have found our old prison! The pieces would all be here,—but we, we
                  are missing! Would you return to the imprisonment of this poor box,—to your old
                  mimic life? No, my children, go back! Isabella, marry this Lawrence Egerton, who
                  loves you. You will find what life is, then. Leave Otho, that he may find this
                  same life also."
               Isabella stood motionless.
               "Otho, the White Prince! Alas! where is my hatred? But life without him! Even
                  stagnation were better! I must needs be captive to the White Prince!"
               She stretched out her hand to Otho. He seized it passionately. At this moment
                  there was a grand crash of thunder. A gust of wind extinguished at once all the
                  lights in the drawing-room. The terrified guests hurried into the hall, into the
                  other rooms.
               "The lightning must have struck the house!" they exclaimed.
               A heavy rain followed; then all was still. Everybody began to recover his spirits.
                  The servants relighted the candles. The drawing-room was found untenanted. It was
                  time to go; yet there was a constraint upon all the party, who were eager to find
                  their hostess and bid her good-bye.
               But the hostess could not be found! Isabella and Otho, too, were missing! The
                  Doctor and Lawrence went everywhere, calling for them, seeking them in the house,
                  in the grounds. They were nowhere to be found,—neither that night, nor the next
                  day, nor ever afterwards!
               The Doctor found in the balcony a box of chessmen fallen down. It was nearly
                  filled; but the red queen, and the white king and queen, were lying at a little
                  distance. In the box was the red king, his crown fallen from his head, himself
                  broken in pieces. The Doctor took up the red queen, and carried it home.
               
               "Are you crazy?" asked his wife. "What are you going to do with that red
                  queen?"
               But the Doctor placed the figure on his study-table, and often gazed at it
                  wistfully.
               Whenever, afterwards, as was often the case, any one suggested a new theory to
                  account for the mysterious disappearance of Isabella and the Blanchards, the
                  Doctor looked at the carved image on his table and was silent.
            
            
               MISS LUCINDA.
               BUT that Solomon is out of fashion I should quote him, here and now, to the effect
                  that there is a time for all things; but Solomon is obsolete, and never, no,
                  never, will I dare to quote a dead language, "for raisons I have," as the exiles
                  of Erin say. Yet, in spite of Solomon and Horace, I may express my own less
                  concise opinion, that even in hard times, and dull times, and war times, there is
                  yet a little time to laugh, a brief hour to smile and love and pity, just as
                  through this dreary easterly storm, bringing clouds and rain, sobbing against
                  casement and door with the inarticulate wail of tempests, there comes now and then
                  the soft shine of a sun behind it all, a fleeting glitter, an evanescent aspect of
                  what has been.
               But if I apologize for a story that is nowise tragic, nor fitted to "the fashion
                  of these times," possibly somebody will say at its end that I should also have
                  apologized for its subject, since it is as easy for an author to treat his readers
                  to high themes as vulgar ones, and velvet can be thrown into a portrait as cheaply
                  as calico; but of this apology I wash my hands. I believe nothing in place or
                  circumstance makes romance. I have the same quick sympathy for Biddy's sorrows
                  with Patrick that I have for the Empress of France and her august, but rather grim
                  lord and master. I think words are often no harder to bear than "a blue bating,"
                  and I have a reverence for poor old maids as great as for the nine Muses.
                  Commonplace people are only commonplace
                  from character, and no position affects that. So forgive me once more, patient
                  reader, if I offer to you no tragedy in high life, no sentimental history of
                  fashion and wealth, but only a little story about a woman who could not be a
                  heroine.
               Miss Lucinda Jane Ann Manners was a lady of unknown age, who lived in a place I
                  call Dalton, in a State of these Disuniting States, which I do not mention for
                  good cause. I have already had so many unconscious personalities visited on my
                  devoted head, that but for lucidity I should never mention persons or places,
                  inconvenient as it would be. However, Miss Lucinda did live, and lived by the aid
                  of "means," which, in the vernacular, is money. Not a great deal, it is true,—five
                  thousand dollars at lawful interest, and a little wooden house, do not imply many
                  luxuries even to a single-woman; and it is also true that a little fine sewing
                  taken in helped Miss Manners to provide herself with a few small indulgences
                  otherwise beyond her reach. She had one or two idiosyncrasies, as they are
                  politely called, that were her delight. Plenty of dish-towels were necessary to
                  her peace of mind; without five pair of scissors she could not be happy; and
                  Tricopherous was essential to her well-being: indeed, she often said she would
                  rather give up coffee than Tricopherous, for her hair was black and wiry and
                  curly, and caps she abhorred, so that of a winter's day her head presented the
                  most irrelevant and volatile aspect, each particular hair taking a twist on its
                  own responsibility, and improvising a wild halo about her unsaintly face, unless
                  subdued into propriety by the aforesaid fluid.
               I said Miss Lucinda's face was unsaintly,—I mean unlike ancient saints as depicted
                  by contemporary artists: modern and private saints are after another fashion. I
                  met one yesterday, whose green eyes, great nose, thick lips, and sallow wrinkles,
                  under a bonnet of fifteen years' standing, further clothed upon by a scant merino
                  cloak and cat-skin tippet, would have cut a sorry figure in the gallery of the
                  Vatican or the Louvre, and put the tranquil Madonna of San Sisto into a state of
                  stunning antithesis; but if Saint Agnes or Saint Catharine was half as good as my
                  saint, I am glad of it!
               No, there was nothing sublime and dolorous about Miss Manners; her face was round,
                  cheery, and slightly puckered, with two little black eyes sparking and shining
                  under dark brows, a nose she unblushingly called pug, and a big mouth with
                  eminently white and regular teeth, which she said were such a comfort, for they
                  never ached, and never would to the end of time. Add to this physiognomy a small
                  and rather spare figure, dressed in the cleanest of calicoes, always made in one
                  style, and rigidly scorning hoops,—without a symptom of a collar, in whose place
                  (or it may be over which) she wore a white cambric handkerchief, knotted about her
                  throat, and the two ends brought into subjection by means of a little
                  angular-headed gold pin, her sole ornament, and a relic of her old father's days
                  of widowhood, when buttons were precarious tenures. So much for her aspect. Her
                  character was even more quaint.
               She was the daughter of a clergyman, one of the old school, the last whose
                  breeches and knee-buckles adorned the profession, who never "outlived his
                  usefulness," nor lost his godly simplicity. Parson Manners held rule over an
                  obscure and quiet village in the wilds of Vermont, where hard-handed farmers
                  wrestled with rocks and forests for their daily bread, and looked forward to
                  heaven as a land of green pastures and still waters, where agriculture should be a
                  pastime, and winter impossible. Heavy freshets from the mountains that swelled
                  their rushing brooks into annual torrents, and snow-drifts that covered five-rail
                  fences a foot above the posts and blocked up the turnpike-road for weeks, caused
                  this congregation fully to appreciate Parson Manners's favorite hymns,— 
                     "There is a land of pure delight,"
                   and— 
                     "On Jordan's stormy banks I stand."
                  
                   Indeed, one irreverent, but "pretty
                  smart feller," who lived on the top of a hill known as Drift Hill, where certain
                  adventurous farmers dwelt for the sake of its smooth sheep-pastures, was heard to
                  say, after a mighty sermon by Parson Manners about the seven-times heated furnaces
                  of judgment reserved for the wicked, that "Parson hadn't better try to skeer
                  Drift-Hillers with a hot place; 't wouldn't more 'n jest warm 'em through down
                  there, arter a real snappin' winter."
               In this out-of-the-way nook was Lucinda Jane Ann born and bred. Her mother was
                  like her in many things,—just such a cheery, round-faced little body, but with no
                  more mind than found ample scope for itself in superintending the affairs of house
                  and farm, and vigorously "seeing to" her husband and child. So, while Mrs. Manners
                  baked, and washed, and ironed, and sewed, and knit, and set the sweetest example
                  of quiet goodness and industry to all her flock, without knowing she
                     could set an example, or be followed as one, the Parson amused
                  himself, between sermons of powerful doctrine and parochial duties of a more human
                  interest, with educating Lucinda, whose intellect was more like his own than her
                  mother's. A strange training it was for a young girl,—mathematics, metaphysics,
                  Latin, theology of the driest sort; and after an utter failure at Greek and
                  Hebrew, though she had toiled patiently through seven books of the "Æneid," Parson
                  Manners mildly sniffed at the inferiority of the female mind, and betook himself
                  to teaching her French, which she learned rapidly, and spoke with a pure American
                  accent, perhaps as pleasing to a Parisian ear as the hiss of Piedmont or the
                  gutturals of Switzerland. Moreover, the minister had been brought up, himself, in
                  the most scrupulous refinement of manner; his mother was a widow, the last of an
                  "old family," and her dainty, delicate observances were inbred, as it were, in her
                  only son. This sort of elegance is perhaps the most delicate test of training and
                  descent, and all these things Lucinda was taught from the grateful recollection
                  tion of a son who never forgot his mother, through all the solitary labors and
                  studies of a long life. So it came to pass, that, after her mother died, Lucinda
                  grew more and more like her father, and, as she became a woman, these rare
                  refinements separated her more and more from those about her, and made her
                  necessarily solitary. As for marriage, the possibility of such a thing never
                  crossed her mind; there was not a man in the parish who did not offend her sense
                  of propriety and shock her taste, whenever she met one; and though her warm, kind
                  heart made her a blessing to the poor and sick, her mother was yet bitterly
                  regretted at quiltings and tea-drinkings, where she had been so
                  "sociable-like."
               It is rather unfortunate for such a position as Lucinda's, that, as Deacon Stowell
                  one day remarked to her father, "Natur' will be Natur' as much on Drift Hill as
                  down to Bosting"; and when she began to feel that "strong necessity of loving"
                  that sooner or later assails every woman's heart, there was nothing for it to
                  overflow on, when her father had taken his share. Now Lucinda loved the Parson
                  most devoutly. Ever since the time when she could just remember watching through
                  the dusk his white stockings, as they glimmered across the road to
                  evening-meeting, and looked like a supernatural pair of legs taking a walk on
                  their own responsibility, twilight concealing the black breeches and coat from
                  mortal view, Lucinda had regarded her father with a certain pleasing awe. His long
                  abstractions, his profound knowledge, his grave, benign manners, and the thousand
                  daily refinements of speech and act that seemed to put him far above the sphere of
                  his pastorate,—all these things inspired as much reverence as affection; and when
                  she wished with all her heart and soul she had a sister or a brother to tend and
                  kiss and pet, it never once occurred to her that any of those tender familiarities
                  could be expended on her father: she would as soon have thought of caressing any
                  of the goodly angels whose stout legs, flowing curls, and impossible draperies
                  sprawled among the pictures in the big
                  Bible, and who excited her wonder as much by their garments as their turkey-wings
                  and brandishing arms. So she betook herself to pets, and growing up to the
                  old-maidenhood of thirty-five before her father fell asleep, was by that time the
                  centre of a little world of her own,—hens, chickens, squirrels, cats, dogs, lambs,
                  and sundry transient guests of stranger kind; so that, when she left her old home,
                  and removed to the little house in Dalton that had been left her by her mother's
                  aunt, and had found her small property safely invested by means of an old friend
                  of her father's, Miss Manners made one more journey to Vermont to bring in safety
                  to their future dwelling a cat and three kittens, an old blind crow, a yellow dog
                  of the true cur breed, and a rooster with three hens, "real creepers," as she
                  often said, "none of your long-legged, screaming creatures."
               Lucinda missed her father, and mourned him as constantly and faithfully as ever a
                  daughter could; but her temperament was more cheerful and buoyant than his, and
                  when once she was quietly settled in her little house, her garden and her pets
                  gave her such full occupation that she sometimes blamed herself for not feeling
                  more lonely and unhappy. A little longer life or a little more experience would
                  have taught her better: power to be happy is the last thing to regret. Besides, it
                  would have been hard to be cheerless in that sunny little house, with its queer
                  old furniture of three-legged tables, high-backed chairs, and chintz curtains
                  where red mandarins winked at blue pagodas on a deep-yellow ground, and birds of
                  insane ornithology pecked at insects that never could have been hatched, or
                  perched themselves on blossoms totally unknown to any mortal flora. Old engravings
                  of Bartolozzi, from the stiff elegances of Angelica Kaufman and the mythologies of
                  Reynolds, adorned the shelf; and the carpet in the parlor was of veritable English
                  make, older than Lucinda herself, but as bright in its fading and as firm in its
                  usefulness as she. Up stairs the tiny chambers were decked with spotless white
                  dimity, and rush-bottomed chairs stood in each window, with a strip of the same
                  old carpet by either bedside; and in the kitchen the blue settle that had stood by
                  the Vermont fireside now defended this lesser hearth from the draught of the door,
                  and held under the seat thereof sundry ironing-sheets, the blanket belonging to
                  them, and good store of ticking and worsted holders. A half-gone set of egg-shell
                  china stood in the parlor-closet,—cups, and teapot, and sugar-bowl, rimmed with
                  brown and gold in a square pattern, and a shield without blazon on the side; the
                  quaint tea-caddy with its stopper stood over against the pursy little cream-pot,
                  and held up in its lumps of sparkling sugar the oddest sugar-tongs, also a family
                  relic;—beside this, six small spoons, three large ones, and a little silver
                  porringer comprised all the "plate" belonging to Miss Manners, so that no fear of
                  burglars haunted her, and but for her pets she would have lived a life of profound
                  and monotonous tranquillity. But this was a vast exception; in her life her pets
                  were the great item now;—her cat had its own chair in the parlor and kitchen; her
                  dog, a rug and a basket never to be meddled with by man or beast; her old crow,
                  its special nest of flannel and cotton, where it feebly croaked as soon as Miss
                  Lucinda began to spread the little table for her meals; and the three kittens had
                  their own playthings and their own saucer as punctiliously as if they had been
                  children. In fact, Miss Manners had a greater share of kindness for beasts than
                  for mankind. A strange compound of learning and unworldliness, of queer
                  simplicity, native penetration, and common sense, she had read enough books to
                  despise human nature as it develops itself in history and theology, and she had
                  not known enough people to love it in its personal development. She had a general
                  idea that all men were liars, and that she must be on her guard against their
                  propensity to cheat and annoy a lonely and helpless woman; for, to tell the truth,
                  in her good father's over-anxiety to defend her from the snares of evil men after
                     his death, his teachings had given
                  her opinion this bias, and he had forgotten to tell her how kindly and how true he
                  had found many of his own parishioners, how few inclined to harm or pain him. So
                  Miss Lucinda made her entrance into life at Dalton, distrustful, but not
                  suspicious; and after a few attempts on the part of the women who were her
                  neighbors to be friendly or intimate, they gave her up as impracticable: not
                  because she was impolite or unkind: they did not themselves know why they failed,
                  though she could have told them; for, old maid as she was, poor and plain and
                  queer, she could not bring herself to associate familiarly with people who put
                  their teaspoons into the sugar-bowl, helped themselves with their own knives and
                  forks, gathered up bits of uneaten butter and returned them to the plate for next
                  time, or replaced on the dish pieces of cake half eaten or cut with the knives
                  they had just introduced into their mouths. Miss Lucinda's code of minor morals
                  would have forbidden her to drink from the same cup with a queen, and have
                  considered a pitchfork as suitable as a knife to eat with, nor would she have
                  offered to a servant the least thing she had touched with her own lips or her own
                  implements of eating; and she was too delicately bred to look on in comfort where
                  such things were practised. Of course these women were not ladies; and though many
                  of them had kind hearts and warm impulses of goodness, yet that did not make up to
                  her for their social misdemeanors, and she drew herself more into her own little
                  shell, and cared more for her garden and her chickens, her cats and her dog, than
                  for all the humanity of Dalton put together.
               Miss Manners held her flowers next dearest to her pets, and treated them
                  accordingly. Her garden was the most brilliant bit of ground possible. It was big
                  enough to hold one flourishing peach-tree, one Siberian crab, and a solitary
                  egg-plum; while under these fruitful boughs bloomed moss-roses in profusion, of
                  the dear old-fashioned kind, every deep pink bud with its clinging garment of
                  green breathing out the richest odor; close by, the real white rose, which fashion
                  has banished to country towns, unfolded its cups of pearl flushed with yellow
                  sunrise to the heart; and by its side its damask sister waved long sprays of bloom
                  and perfume. Tulips, dark-purple and cream-color, burning scarlet and deep-maroon,
                  held their gay chalices up to catch the dew; hyacinths, blue, white, and pink,
                  hung heavy bells beneath them; spiced carnations of rose and garnet crowded their
                  bed in July and August, heart's-ease fringed the walks, May honeysuckles clambered
                  over the board-fence, and monthly honeysuckles overgrew the porch at the
                  back-door, making perpetual fragrance from their moth-like horns of crimson and
                  ivory. Nothing inhabited those beds that was not sweet and fair and old-fashioned.
                  Gray-lavender-bushes sent up purple spikes in the middle of the garden and were
                  duly housed in winter, but these were the sole tender plants admitted, and they
                  pleaded their own cause in the breath of the linen-press and the bureau-drawers
                  that held Miss Lucinda's clothes. Beyond the flowers, utility blossomed in a row
                  of bean-poles, a hedge of currant-bushes against the farther fence, carefully
                  tended cauliflowers, and onions enough to tell of their use as sparing as their
                  number; a few deep-red beets and golden carrots were all the vegetables beside:
                  Miss Lucinda never ate potatoes or pork.
               Her housekeeping, but for her pets, would have been the proper housewifery for a
                  fairy. Out of her fruit she annually conserved miracles of flavor and
                  transparence,—great plums like those in Aladdin's garden, of shining
                  topaz,—peaches tinged with the odorous bitter of their pits, and clear as
                  amber,—crimson crabs floating in their own ruby sirup, or transmuted into jelly
                  crystal clear, yet breaking with a grain,—and jelly from the acid currants to
                  garnish her dinner-table or refresh the fevered lips of a sick neighbor. It was a
                  study to visit her tiny pantry, where all these "lucent sirops" stood in tempting
                  array,—where spices, and sugar, and tea, in their small jars, flanked the
                     sweetmeats meats, and a jar of glass
                  showed its store of whitest honey, and another stood filled with crisp cakes. Here
                  always a loaf or two of home-made bread lay rolled in a snowy cloth, and another
                  was spread over a dish of butter; pies were not in favor here,—nor milk, save for
                  the cats; salt fish Miss Manners never could abide,—her savory taste allowed only
                  a bit of rich old cheese, or thin scraps of hung beef, with her bread and butter;
                  sauces and spices were few in her repertory, but she cooked as only a lady can
                  cook, and might have asked Soyer himself to dinner. For, verily, after much
                  meditation and experience, I have divined that it takes as much sense and
                  refinement and talent to cook a dinner, wash and wipe a dish, make a bed as it
                  should be made, and dust a room as it should be dusted, as goes to the writing of
                  a novel or shining in high society.
               But because Miss Lucinda Manners was reserved and "unsociable," as the neighbors
                  pronounced her, I did not, therefore, mean to imply that she was inhuman. No
                  neighbor of hers, local or Scriptural, fell ill, without an immediate offer of aid
                  from her: she made the best gruel known to Dalton invalids, sent the ripest fruit
                  and the sweetest flowers: and if she could not watch with the sick, because it
                  interfered with her duties at home in an unpleasant and inconvenient way, she
                  would sit with them hour after hour in the day-time, and wait on all their
                  caprices with the patient tenderness of a mother. Children she always eyed with
                  strange wistfulness, as if she longed to kiss them, but didn't know how; yet no
                  child was ever invited across her threshold, for the yellow cur hated to be played
                  with, and children always torment kittens.
               So Miss Lucinda wore on happily toward the farther side of the middle ages. One
                  after another of her pets passed away and was replaced, the yellow cur barked his
                  last currish signal, the cat died and her kittens came to various ends of time or
                  casualty, the crow fell away to dust and was too old to stuff, and the garden
                  bloomed and faded ten times over, before Miss Manners found herself to be
                  forty-six years old, which she heroically acknowledged one fine day to the
                  census-taker. But it was not this consciousness, nor its confession, that drew the
                  dark brows so low over Miss Lucinda's eyes that day; it was quite another trouble,
                  and one that wore heavily on her mind, as we shall proceed to explain. For Miss
                  Manners, being, like all the rest of her sex, quite unable to do without some
                  masculine help, had employed, for some seven years, an old man by the name of
                  Israel Slater, to do her "chores," as the vernacular hath it. It is a mortifying
                  thing, and one that strikes at the roots of Women's Rights terribly sharp blows,
                  but I must even own it, that one might as well try to live without one's
                  bread-and-butter as without the aid of the dominant sex. When I see women split
                  wood, unload coal-carts, move wash-tubs, and roll barrels of flour and apples
                  handily down cellar-ways or up into carts, then I shall believe in the sublime
                  theories of the strong-minded sisters; but as long as I see before me my own
                  forlorn little hands, and sit down on the top stair to recover breath, and try in
                  vain to lift the water-pitcher at table, just so long I shall be glad and thankful
                  that there are men in the world, and that half a dozen of them are my kindest and
                  best friends. It was rather an affliction to Miss Lucinda to feel this innate
                  dependence, and at first she resolved to employ only small boys, and never any one
                  of them more than a week or two. She had an unshaped theory that an old maid was a
                  match for a small boy, but that a man would cheat and domineer over her.
                  Experience sadly put to flight these notions; for a succession of boys in this
                  cabinet-ministry for the first three years of her stay in Dalton would have driven
                  her into a Presbyterian convent, had there been one at hand. Boy Number One caught
                  the yellow cur out of bounds one day, and shaved his plumy tail to a bare stick,
                  and Miss Lucinda fairly shed tears of grief, and rage when Pink appeared at the
                  door with the denuded appendage tucked between his little legs, and his funny
                  yellow eyes casting sidelong looks of
                  apprehension at his mistress. Boy Number One was despatched directly. Number Two
                  did pretty well for a month, but his integrity and his appetite conflicted, and
                  Miss Lucinda found him one moonlight night perched in her plum-tree devouring the
                  half-ripe fruit. She shook him down with as little ceremony as if he had been an
                  apple; and though he lay at Death's door for a week with resulting cholera-morbus,
                  she relented not. So the experiment went on, till a list of casualties that
                  numbered in it fatal accidents to three kittens, two hens and a rooster, and at
                  last Pink himself, who was sent into a decline by repeated drenchings from the
                  watering-pot, put an end to her forbearance, and she instituted in her vizier-ship
                  the old man who had now kept his office so long,—a queer, withered, slow, humorous
                  old creature, who did "chores" for some six or seven other households, and got a
                  living by sundry "jobs" of wood-sawing, hoeing corn, and other like works of
                  labor, if not of skill. Israel was a great comfort to Miss Lucinda: he was
                  efficient counsel in the maladies of all her pets, had a sovereign cure for the
                  gapes in chickens, and could stop a cat's fit with the greatest ease; he kept the
                  tiny garden in perfect order, and was very honest, and Miss Manners favored him
                  accordingly. She compounded liniment for his rheumatism, herb-sirup for his colds,
                  presented him with a set of flannel shirts, and knit him a comforter; so that
                  Israel expressed himself strongly in favor of "Miss Lucindy," and she said to
                  herself he really was "quite good for a man."
               But just now, in her forty-seventh year, Miss Lucinda had come to grief, and all
                  on account of Israel and his attempts to please her. About six months before this
                  census-taking era, the old man had stepped into Miss Manners's kitchen with an
                  unusual radiance on his wrinkles and in his eyes, and began without his usual
                  morning greeting,—
               "I 've got so'thin' for you naow, Miss Lucindy. You're a master-hand for pets, but
                  I 'll bet a red cent you ha'n't an idee what I 've got for ye naow!"
               "I 'm sure I can't tell, Israel," said she; "you'll have to let me see it."
               "Well," said he, lifting up his coat and looking carefully behind him as he sat
                  down on the settle, lest a stray kitten or chicken should preoccupy the bench,
                  "you see I was down to Orrin's abaout a week back, and he hed a litter o'
                  pigs,—eleven on 'em. Well, he couldn't raise the hull on 'em,—'t a'n't good to
                  raise more 'n nine,—an' so he said, ef I'd 'a' had a place o' my own, I could 'a'
                  had one on 'em, but, as 't was, he guessed he 'd hev to send one to market for a
                  roaster. I went daown to the barn to see 'em, an' there was one, the cutest little
                  critter I ever sot eyes on, and I've seen more 'n four pigs in my day,—'t was a
                  little black-spotted one, as spry as an ant, and the dreffullest knowin' look out
                  of its eyes! I fellowshipped it right off, and I said, says I, 'Orrin, ef you'll
                  let me hev that 'ere little spotted feller, I 'll git a place for him, for I do
                  take to him consarnedly.' So he said I could, and I fetched him hum, and Miss
                  Slater and me we kinder fed him up for a few days back, till he got sorter wonted,
                  and I 'm a-goin' to fetch him to you."
               "But, Israel, I haven't any place to put him in."
               "Well, that a'n't nothin' to hender. I'll jest fetch out them old boards out of
                  the wood-shed, and knock up a little sty right off, daown by the end o' the shed,
                  and you ken keep your swill that I 've hed before, and it'll come handy."
               "But pigs are so dirty!"
               "I don't know as they be; they ha'n't no great conveniences for washin' ginerally;
                  but I never heerd as they was dirtier 'n other critters, where they run wild. An'
                  beside, that a'n't goin' to hender, nuther; I calculate to make it one o' the
                  chores to take keer of him; 't won't cost no more to you; and I ha'n't no great
                  opportunities to do things for folks that's allers a-doin' for me; so't you
                  needn't be afeard, Miss Lucindy: I love to."
               Miss Lucinda's heart got the better of her judgment. A nature that could feel so
                  tenderly for its inferiors in the scale
                  could not be deaf to the tiny voices of humanity, when they reached her solitude;
                  and she thanked Israel for the pig so heartily that the old man's face brightened
                  still more, and his voice softened from its cracked harshness, as he said,
                  clicking up and down the latch of the back-door,—
               "Well, I 'm sure you 're as welcome as you are obleeged, and I'll knock up that
                  'ere pen right off; he sha'n't pester ye any,—that's a fact."
               Strange to say,—yet perhaps it might have been expected from her
                  proclivities,—Miss Lucinda took an astonishing fancy to the pig. Very few people
                  know how intelligent an animal a pig is; but when one is regarded merely as pork
                  and hams, one's intellect is apt to fall into neglect: a moral sentiment which
                  applies out of Pigdom. This creature would not have passed muster at a county
                  fair; no Suffolk blood compacted and rounded him; he belonged to the "racers," and
                  skipped about his pen with the alacrity of a large flea, wiggling his curly tail
                  as expressively as a dog's, and "all but speakin'," as Israel said. He was always
                  glad to see Miss Lucinda, and established a firm friendship with her dog Fun, a
                  pretty, sentimental, German spaniel. Besides, he kept tolerably clean by dint of
                  Israel's care, and thrust his long nose between the rails of his pen for grass, or
                  fruit, or carrot- and beet-tops, with a knowing look out of his deep-set eyes that
                  was never to be resisted by the soft-hearted spinster. Indeed, Miss Lucinda
                  enjoyed the possession of one pet who could not tyrannize over her. Pink's place
                  was more than filled by Fun, who was so oppressively affectionate that he never
                  could leave his mistress alone. If she lay down on her bed, he leaped up and
                  unlatched the door, and stretched himself on the white counterpane beside her with
                  a grunt of satisfaction; if she sat down to knit or sew, he laid his head and
                  shoulders across her lap, or curled himself up on her knees; if she was cooking,
                  he whined and coaxed round her till she hardly knew whether she fried or broiled
                  her steak; and if she turned him out and buttoned the door, his cries were so
                  pitiful she could never be resolute enough to keep him in exile five minutes,—for
                  it was a prominent article in her creed, that animals have feelings that are
                  easily wounded, and are of "like passions" with men, only incapable of expression.
                  Indeed, Miss Lucinda considered it the duty of human beings to atone to animals
                  for the Lord's injustice in making them dumb and four-legged. She would have been
                  rather startled at such an enunciation of her practice, but she was devoted to it
                  as a practice: she would give her own chair to the cat and sit on the settle
                  herself; get up at midnight, if a mew or a bark called her, though the thermometer
                  was below zero; the tenderloin of her steak or the liver of her chicken was saved
                  for a pining kitten or an ancient and toothless cat; and no disease or wound
                  daunted her faithful nursing, or disgusted her devoted tenderness. It was rather
                  hard on humanity, and rather reversive of Providence, that all this care and pains
                  should be lavished on cats and dogs, while little morsels of flesh and blood,
                  ragged, hungry, and immortal, wandered up and down the streets. Perhaps that they
                  were immortal was their defence from Miss Lucinda; one might have hoped that her
                  "other-worldliness" accepted that fact as enough to outweigh present pangs, if she
                  had not openly declared, to Israel Slater's immense amusement and astonishment,
                  that she believed creatures had souls,—little ones perhaps, but souls
                  after all, and she did expect to see Pink again some time or other.
               "Well, I hope he's got his tail feathered out ag'in," said Israel, dryly. "I
                  do'no' but what hair'd grow as well as feathers in a speretooal state, and I never
                  see a pictur' of an angel but what hed consider'ble many feathers."
               Miss Lucinda looked rather confounded. But humanity had one little revenge on her
                  in the shape of her cat, a beautiful Maltese, with great yellow eyes, fur as soft
                  as velvet, and silvery paws as lovely to look at as they were thistly to touch.
                  Toby certainly pleaded hard for Miss
                  Lucinda's theory of a soul; but his was no good one: some tricksy and malign
                  little spirit had lent him his share of intellect, and he used it to the entire
                  subjugation of Miss Lucinda. When he was hungry, he was as well-mannered and as
                  amiable as a good child,—he would coax, and purr, and lick her fingers with his
                  pretty red tongue, like a "perfect love"; but when he had his fill, and needed no
                  more, then came Miss Lucinda's time of torment. If she attempted to caress him, he
                  bit and scratched like a young tiger, he sprang at her from the floor and fastened
                  on her arm with real fury; if he cried at the window and was not directly let in,
                  as soon as he had achieved entrance his first manœuvre was to dash at her ankles
                  and bite them, if he could, as punishment for her tardiness. This skirmishing was
                  his favorite mode of attack; if he was turned out of the closet, or off the pillow
                  up stairs, he retreated under the bed and made frantic sallies at her feet, till
                  the poor woman got actually nervous, and if he was in the room made a flying leap
                  as far as she could to her bed, to escape those keen claws. Indeed, old Israel
                  found her more than once sitting in the middle of the kitchen-floor with Toby
                  crouched for a spring under the table, his poor mistress afraid to move, for fear
                  of her unlucky ankles. And this literally cat-ridden woman was hazed about and
                  ruled over by her feline tyrant to that extent that he occupied the easiest chair,
                  the softest cushion, the middle of the bed, and the front of the fire, not only
                  undisturbed, but caressed. This is a veritable history, beloved reader, and I
                  offer it as a warning and an example: if you will be an old maid, or if you can't
                  help it, take to petting children, or donkeys, or even a respectable cow, but
                  beware of domestic tyranny in any shape but man's!
               No wonder Miss Lucinda took kindly to the pig, who had a house of his own, and a
                  servant, as it were, to the avoidance of all trouble on her part,—the pig who
                  capered for joy when she or Fun approached, and had so much expression in his
                  physiognomy that one almost expected to see him smile. Many a sympathizing
                  conference Miss Lucinda held with Israel over the perfections of Piggy, as he
                  leaned against the sty and looked over at his favorite after this last chore was
                  accomplished.
               "I say for't," exclaimed the old man, one day, "I b'lieve that cre'tur' knows
                  enough to be professor in a college. Why, he talks! he re'lly doos: a leetle
                  through his nose, maybe, but no more'n Dr. Colton allers doos,—'n' I declare he
                  appears to have abaout as much sense. I never see the equal of him. I thought he'd
                  'a' larfed right out yesterday, when I gin him that mess o' corn: he got up onto
                  his forelegs on the trough, an' he winked them knowin' eyes o' his'n, an' waggled
                  his tail, an' then he set off an' capered round till he come bunt up ag'inst the
                  boards. I tell you,—that sorter sobered him; he gin a growlin' grunt,
                  an' shook his ears, an' looked sideways at me, and then he put to and eet up that
                  corn as sober as a judge. I swan! he does beat the Dutch!"
               But there was one calculation forgotten both by Miss Lucinda and Israel: the pig
                  would grow,—and in consequence, as I said before, Miss Lucinda came to grief; for
                  when the census-taker tinkled her sharp little door-bell, it called her from a
                  laborious occupation at the sty,—no more and no less than trying to nail up a
                  board that Piggy had torn down in struggling to get out of his durance. He had
                  grown so large that Miss Lucinda was afraid of him; his long legs and their
                  vivacious motion added to the shrewd intelligence of his eyes, and his nose seemed
                  as formidable to this poor little woman as the tusk of a rhinoceros: but what
                  should she do with him? One might as well have proposed to her to kill and cut up
                  Israel as to consign Piggy to the "fate of race." She could not turn him into the
                  street to starve, for she loved him; and the old maid suffered from a constancy
                  that might have made some good man happy, but only embarrassed her with the pig.
                  She could not keep him forever,—that was evident; she knew enough to be aware that
                  time would increase his disabilities as
                  a pet, and he was an expensive one now,—for the corn-swallowing capacities of a
                  pig, one of the "racer" breed, are almost incredible, and nothing about Miss
                  Lucinda wanted for food even to fatness. Besides, he was getting too big for his
                  pen, and so "cute" an animal could not be debarred from all out-door pleasures,
                  and tantalized by the sight of a green and growing garden before his eyes
                  continually, without making an effort to partake of its delights. So, when Miss
                  Lucinda indued herself with her brown linen sack and sun-bonnet to go and weed her
                  carrot-patch, she was arrested on the way by a loud grunting and scrambling in
                  Piggy's quarter, and found to her distress that he had contrived to knock off the
                  upper board from his pen. She had no hammer at hand; so she seized a large stone
                  that lay near by and pounded at the board till the twice-tinkling bell recalled
                  her to the house, and as soon as she had made confession to the census-taker she
                  went back,—alas, too late! Piggy had redoubled his efforts, another board had
                  yielded, and he was free! What a thing freedom is! how objectionable in practice,
                  how splendid in theory! More people than Miss Lucinda have been put to their wits'
                  end when "Hoggie" burst his bonds and became rampant instead of couchant. But he
                  enjoyed it; he made the tour of the garden on a delightful canter, brandishing his
                  tail with an air of defiance that daunted his mistress at once, and regarding her
                  with his small bright eyes as if he would before long taste her and see if she was
                  as crisp as she looked. She retreated forthwith to the shed and caught up a broom
                  with which she courageously charged upon Piggy, and was routed entirely; for,
                  being no way alarmed by her demonstration, the creature capered directly at her,
                  knocked her down; knocked the broom out of her hand, and capered away again to the
                  young carrot-patch.
               "O dear!" said Miss Manners, gathering herself up from the ground,—"if there only
                  was a man here!"
               Suddenly she betook herself to her heels,—for the animal mal looked at her, and
                  stopped eating: that was enough to drive Miss Lucinda off the field. And now,
                  quite desperate, she rushed through the house and out of the front-door, actually
                  in search of a man! Just down the street she saw one. Had she been composed, she
                  might have noticed the threadbare cleanliness of his dress, the odd cap that
                  crowned his iron-gray locks, and the peculiar manner of his walk; for our little
                  old maid had stumbled upon no less a person than Monsieur Jean Leclerc, the
                  dancing-master of Dalton. Not that this accomplishment was much in vogue in the
                  embryo city; but still there were a few who liked to fit themselves for firemen's
                  balls and sleighing-party frolics, and quite a large class of children were
                  learning betimes such graces as children in New England receive more easily than
                  their elders. Monsieur Leclerc had just enough scholars to keep his coat
                  threadbare and restrict him to necessities; but he lived, and was independent. All
                  this Miss Lucinda was ignorant of; she only saw a man, and, with the instinct of
                  the sex in trouble or danger, she appealed to him at once.
               "O, sir! won't you step in and help me? My pig has got out, and I can't catch him,
                  and he is ruining my garden!"
               "Madame, I shall!" replied the Frenchman, bowing low, and assuming the first
                  position.
               So Monsieur Leclerc followed Miss Manners, and supplied himself with a mop that
                  was hanging in the shed as his best weapon. Dire was the battle between the pig
                  and the Frenchman. They skipped past each other and back again as if they were
                  practising for a cotillon. Piggy had four legs, which gave him a certain
                  advantage; but the Frenchman had most brain, and in the long run brain gets the
                  better of legs. A weary dance they led each other, but after a while the pet was
                  hemmed in a corner, and Miss Lucinda had run for a rope to tie him, when, just as
                  she returned, the beast made a desperate charge, upset his opponent, and, giving a
                  leap in the wrong direction, to his
                  manifest astonishment, landed in his own sty! Miss Lucinda's courage rose; she
                  forgot her prostrate friend in need, and, running to the pen, caught up hammer and
                  nail-box on her way, and, with unusual energy, nailed up the bars stronger than
                  ever, and then bethought herself to thank the stranger. But there he lay quite
                  still and pale.
               "Dear me!" said Miss Manners, "I hope you have n't hurt yourself, sir?"
               "I have fear that I am hurt, Madame," said he, trying to smile. "I cannot to move
                  but it pains me."
               "Where is it? Is it your leg or your arm? Try and move one at a time," said Miss
                  Lucinda, promptly.
               The left leg was helpless, it could not answer to the effort, and the stranger lay
                  back on the ground pale with the pain. Miss Lucinda took her lavender-bottle out
                  of her pocket and softly bathed his head and face; then she took off her sack and
                  folded it up under his head, and put the lavender beside him. She was good at an
                  emergency, and she showed it.
               "You must lie quite still," said she; "you must not try to move till I come back
                  with help, or your leg will be hurt more."
               With that she went away, and presently returned with two strong men and the long
                  shutter of a shop-window. To this extempore litter she carefully moved the
                  Frenchman, and then her neighbors lifted him and carried him into the parlor,
                  where Miss Lucinda's chintz lounge was already spread with a tight-pinned sheet to
                  receive the poor man, and while her helpers put him to bed she put on her bonnet
                  and ran for the doctor.
               Doctor Colton did his best for his patient, but pronounced it an impossibility to
                  remove him till the bone should be joined firmly, as a thorough cure was
                  all-essential to his professional prospects. And now, indeed, Miss Lucinda had her
                  hands full. A nurse could not be afforded, but Monsieur Leclerc was added to the
                  list of old Israel's "chores," and what other nursing he needed Miss Lucinda was
                  glad to do; for her kind heart was full of self-reproaches to think it was her pig
                  that had knocked down the poor man, and her mop-handle that had twisted itself
                  across and under his leg, and aided, if not caused, its breakage. So Israel came
                  in four or five times a day to do what he could, and Miss Lucinda played nurse at
                  other times to the best of her ability. Such flavorous gruels and porridges as she
                  concocted! such tisanes after her guest's
                  instructions! such dainty soups, and sweetbreads, and cutlets, served with such
                  neatness! After his experience of a second-rate boarding-house, Monsieur Leclerc
                  thought himself in a gastronomic paradise. Moreover, these tiny meals were
                  garnished with flowers, which his French taste for color and decoration
                  appreciated: two or three stems of lilies-of-the-valley in their folded green
                  leaves, cool and fragrant; a moss-rosebud and a spire of purple-gray lavender
                  bound together with ribbon-grass; or three carnations set in glittering
                  myrtle-sprays, the last acquisition of the garden.
               Miss Lucinda enjoyed nursing thoroughly, and a kindlier patient no woman ever had.
                  Her bright needle flew faster than ever through the cold linen and flaccid cambric
                  of the shirts and cravats she fashioned, while he told her, in his odd idioms,
                  stories of his life in France, and the curious customs both of society and
                     cuisinerie, with which last he showed a
                  surprising acquaintance. Truth to tell, when Monsieur Leclerc said he had been a
                  member of the Duc de Montmorenci's household, he withheld the other half of this
                  truth,—that he had been his valet-de-chambre:
                  but it was an hereditary service, and seemed to him as different a thing from
                  common servitude as a peer's office in the bedchamber differs from a lackey's.
                  Indeed, Monsieur Leclerc was a gentleman in his own way,—not of blood, but of
                  breeding; and while he had faithfully served the "aristocrats," as his father had
                  done before him, he did not limit that service to their prosperity, but in their
                  greatest need descended to menial offices, and forgot that he could dance and ride and fence almost as well as
                  his young master. But a bullet from a barricade put an end to his duty there, and
                  he hated utterly the democratic rule that had overturned for him both past and
                  future, so he escaped, and came to America, the grand resort of refugees, where he
                  had labored, as he best knew how, for his own support, and kept to himself his
                  disgust at the manners and customs of the barbarians. Now, for the first time, he
                  was at home and happy. Miss Lucinda's delicate fashions suited him exactly; he
                  adored her taste for the beautiful, which she was unconscious of; he enjoyed her
                  cookery, and though he groaned within himself at the amount of debt he was
                  incurring, yet he took courage from her kindness to believe she would not be a
                  hard creditor, and, being naturally cheerful, put aside his anxieties and amused
                  himself as well as her with his stories, his quavering songs, his recipes for
                     pot-au-feu, tisane, and pâtés, at once economical and savory. Never had a leg
                  of lamb or a piece of roast beef gone so far in her domestic experience, a chicken
                  seemed almost to outlive its usefulness in its various forms of reappearance, and
                  the salads he devised were as wonderful as the omelets he superintended, or the
                  gay dances he played on his beloved violin, as soon as he could sit up enough to
                  manage it. Moreover,—I should say most-over, if the word were
                  admissible,—Monsieur Leclerc lifted a great weight before long from Miss Lucinda's
                  mind. He began by subduing Fun to his proper place by a mild determination that
                  completely won the dog's heart. "Women and spaniels," the world knows, "like
                  kicking"; and though kicks were no part of the good man's Rareyfaction of Fun, he
                  certainly used a certain amount of coercion, and the dog's lawful owner admired
                  the skill of the teacher and enjoyed the better manners of the pupil thoroughly;
                  she could do twice as much sewing now, and never were her nights disturbed by a
                  bark, for the dog crouched by his new friend's bed in the parlor and lay quiet
                  there. Toby was next undertaken, and proved less amenable to discipline; he stood
                  in some slight awe of the man who tried to teach him, but still continued to sally
                  out at Miss Lucinda's feet, to spring at her caressing hand when he felt
                  ill-humored, and to claw Fun's patient nose and his approaching paws when his
                  misplaced sentimentality led him to caress the cat; but after a while a few
                  well-timed slaps administered with vigor cured Toby of his worst tricks, though
                  every blow made Miss Lucinda wince, and almost shook her good opinion of Monsieur
                  Leclerc: for in these long weeks he had wrought out a good opinion of himself in
                  her mind, much to her own surprise; she could not have believed a man could be so
                  polite, so gentle, so patient, and above all so capable of ruling without tyranny.
                  Miss Lucinda was puzzled.
               One day, as Monsieur Leclerc was getting better, just able to go about on
                  crutches, Israel came into the kitchen, and Miss Manners went out to see him. She
                  left the door open, and along with the odor of a pot of raspberry-jam scalding
                  over the fire, sending its steams of leaf-and-insect fragrance through the little
                  house, there came in also the following conversation.
               "Israel," said Miss Lucinda, in a hesitating and rather forlorn tone, "I have been
                  thinking,—I don't know what to do with Piggy. He is quite too big for me to keep.
                  I 'm afraid of him, if he gets out; and he eats up the garden."
               "Well, that is a consider'ble swaller for a pig, Miss Lucindy; but I
                  b'lieve you're abaout right abaout keepin' on him. He is too
                  big,—that's a fact; but he's so like a human cre'tur', I'd jest abaout as lieves
                  slarter Orrin. I declare, I don't know no more'n a taown-haouse goose what to do
                  with him!"
               "If I gave him away, I suppose he would be fatted and killed, of course?"
               "I guess he'd be killed, likely; but as for fattenin' on him, I'd jest as soon
                  undertake to fatten a salt codfish. He's one o' the racers, an' they 're as holler
                  as hogsheads: you can fill 'em up to
                  their noses, ef you 're a mind to spend your corn, and they 'll caper it all off
                  their bones in twenty-four haours. I b'lieve, ef they was tied neck an' heels an'
                  stuffed, they'd wiggle thin betwixt feedin'-times. Why, Orrin, he raised nine on
                  'em, and every darned critter's as poor as Job's turkey, to-day: they a'n't no
                  good. I'd as lieves ha' had nine chestnut rails,—an' a little lieveser, 'cause
                  they don't eat nothin'."
               "You don't know of any poor person who 'd like to have a pig, do you?" said Miss
                  Lucinda, wistfully.
               "Well, the poorer they was, the quicker they'd eat him up, I guess,—ef they could
                  eat such a razor-back."
               "O, I don't like to think of his being eaten! I wish he could be got rid of some
                  other way. Don't you think he might be killed in his sleep, Israel?"
               This was a little too much for Israel. An irresistible flicker of laughter
                  twitched his wrinkles and bubbled in his throat.
               "I think it's likely 't would wake him up," said he, demurely. "Killin' 's
                  killin', and a cre'tur' can't sleep over it's though 't was the stomach-ache. I
                  guess he'd kick some, ef he was asleep,—and screech some, too!"
               "Dear me!" said Miss Lucinda, horrified at the idea. "I wish he could be sent out
                  to run in the woods. Are there any good woods near here, Israel?"
               "I don't know but what he'd as lieves be slartered to once as to starve, an' be
                  hunted down out in the lots. Besides, there a'n't nobody as I knows of would like
                  a hog to be a-rootin' round amongst their turnips and young wheat."
               "Well, what I shall do with him I don't know!" despairingly exclaimed Miss
                  Lucinda. "He was such a dear little thing when you brought him, Israel! Do you
                  remember how pink his pretty little nose was,—just like a rose-bud,—and how bright
                  his eyes looked, and his cunning legs? And now he's grown so big and fierce! But I
                  can't help liking him, either."
               "He's a cute critter, that's sartain; but he does too much rootin' to have a pink
                  nose now, I expect;—there's consider'ble on't, so I guess it looks as well to have
                  it gray. But I don't know no more 'n you do what to do abaout it."
               "If I could only get rid of him without knowing what became of him!" exclaimed
                  Miss Lucinda, squeezing her fore-finger with great earnestness, and looking both
                  puzzled and pained.
               "If Mees Lucinda would pairmit?" said a voice behind her.
               She turned round to see Monsieur Leclerc on his crutches, just in the
                  parlor-door.
               "I shall, Mees, myself dispose of Piggee, if it please. I can. I shall have no
                  sound; he shall to go away like a silent snow, to trouble you no more, never!"
               "O, sir! if you could! But I don't see how!"
               "If Mees was to see, it would not be to save her pain. I shall have him to go by
                     magique to fiery land."
               Fairy-land, probably! But Miss Lucinda did not perceive the équivoque.
               
               "Nor yet shall I trouble Meester Israyel. I shall have the aid of myself and one
                  good friend that I have; and some night when you rise of the morning, he shall not
                  be there."
               Miss Lucinda breathed a deep sigh of relief.
               "I am greatly obliged,—I shall be, I mean," said she.
               "Well, I 'm glad enough to wash my hands on 't," said Israel. "I shall hanker
                  arter the critter some, but he's a-gettin' too big to be handy; 'n' it's one
                  comfort abaout critters, you ken get rid on' em somehaow when they're more plague
                  than profit. But folks has got to be let alone, excep' the Lord takes 'em; an' He
                  don't allers see fit."
               What added point and weight to these final remarks of old Israel was the
                  well-known fact that he suffered at home from the most pecking and worrying of
                  wives, and had been heard to say in some moment of unusual frankness that he "did
                  n't see how 't could be sinful to wish Miss Slater was in heaven, for she 'd be lots better
                  off, and other folks too!"
               Miss Lucinda never knew what befell her pig one fine September night; she did not
                  even guess that a visit paid to Monsieur by one of his pupils, a farmer's daughter
                  just out of Dalton, had anything to do with this enlèvement; she was sound asleep in her bed up stairs, when her
                  guest shod his crutches with old gloves, and limped out to the garden-gate by
                  dawn, where he and the farmer tolled the animal out of his sty and far down the
                  street by tempting red apples, and then Farmer Steele took possession of him, and
                  he was seen no more. No, the first thing Miss Lucinda knew of her riddance was
                  when Israel put his head into the back-door that same morning, some four hours
                  afterward, and said, with a significant nod,—
               "He's gone!"
               After all his other chores were done, Israel had a conference with Monsieur
                  Leclerc, and the two sallied into the garden, and in an hour had dismantled the
                  low dwelling, cleared away the wreck, levelled and smoothed its site, and
                  Monsieur, having previously provided himself with an Isabella-grape-vine, planted
                  it on this forsaken spot, and trained it carefully against the end of the shed:
                  strange to say, though it was against all precedent to transplant a grape in
                  September, it lived and flourished. Miss Lucinda's gratitude to Monsieur Leclerc
                  was altogether disproportioned, as he thought, to his slight service. He could not
                  understand fully her devotion to her pets, but he respected it, and aided it
                  whenever he could, though he never surmised the motive that adorned Miss Lucinda's
                  table with such delicate superabundance after the late departure, and laid bundles
                  of lavender-flowers in his tiny portmanteau till the very leather seemed to gather
                  fragrance.
               Before long, Monsieur Leclerc was well enough to resume his classes, and return to
                  his boarding-house; but the latter was filled, and only offered a prospect of
                  vacancy in some three weeks after his application; so he returned home somewhat
                  dejected, and as he sat by the little parlor-fire after tea, he said to his
                  hostess, in a reluctant tone,—
               "Mees Lucinda, you have been of the kindest to the poor alien. I have it in my
                  mind to relieve you of this care very rapidly, but it is not in the Fates that I
                  do. I have gone to my house of lodgings, and they cannot to give me a chamber as
                  yet. I have fear that I must yet rely me on your goodness for some time more, if
                  you can to entertain me so much more of time?"
               "Why, I shall like to, sir," replied the kindly, simple-hearted old maid. "I'm
                  sure you are not a mite of trouble, and I never can forget what you did for my
                  pig."
               A smile flitted across the Frenchman's thin, dark face, and he watched her
                  glittering needles a few minutes in silence before he spoke again.
               "But I have other things to say of the most unpleasant to me, Mees Lucinda. I have
                  a great debt for the goodness and care you to me have lavished. To the angels of
                  the good God we must submit to be debtors, but there are also of mortal
                  obligations. I have lodged in your mansion for more of ten weeks, and to you I pay
                  yet no silver, but it is that I have it not at present. I must ask of your
                  goodness to wait."
               The old maid's shining black eyes grew soft as she looked at him.
               "Why!" said she, "I don't think you owe me much of anything, Mr. Leclerc. I never
                  knew things last as they have since you came. I really think you brought a
                  blessing. I wish you would please to think you don't owe me anything."
               The Frenchman's great brown eyes shone with suspicious dew.
               "I cannot to forget that I owe to you far more than any silver of man repays; but
                  I should not think to forget that I also owe to you silver, or I should not be
                  worthy of a man's name. No, Mees! I have two hands and legs. I will not let a
                  woman most solitary spend for me her good self."
               
               "Well," said Miss Lucinda, "if you will be uneasy till you pay me, I would rather
                  have another kind of pay than money. I should like to know how to dance. I never
                  did learn, when I was a girl, and I think it would be good exercise."
               Miss Lucinda supported this pious fiction through with a simplicity that quite
                  deceived the Frenchman. He did not think it so incongruous as it was. He had seen
                  women of sixty, rouged, and jewelled, and furbelowed, foot it deftly in the halls
                  of the Faubourg St. Germain in his earliest youth; and this cheery, healthy woman,
                  with lingering blooms on either cheek, and uncapped head of curly black hair but
                  slightly strewn with silver, seemed quite as fit a subject for the accomplishment.
                  Besides, he was poor,—and this offered so easy a way of paying the debt he had so
                  dreaded! Well said Solomon,—"The destruction of the poor is their poverty!" For
                  whose moral sense, delicate sensitiveness, generous longings, will not sometimes
                  give way to the stringent need of food and clothing, the gall of indebtedness, and
                  the sinking consciousness of an empty purse and threatening possibilities?
               Monsieur Leclerc's face brightened.
               "Ah! with what grand pleasure shall I teach you the dance!"
               But it fell dark again as he proceeded,—
               "Though not one, nor two, nor three, nor four quarters shall be of value
                  sufficient to achieve my payment."
               "Then, if that troubles you, why, I should like to take some French lessons in the
                  evening, when you don't have classes. I learned French when I was quite a girl,
                  but not to speak it very easily; and if I could get some practice and the right
                  way to speak, I should be glad."
               "And I shall give you the real Parisien tone,
                  Mees Lucinda!" said he proudly. "I shall be as if it were no more an exile when I
                  repeat my tongue to you!"
               And so it was settled. Why Miss Lucinda should learn French any more than dancing
                  was not a question in Monsieur sieur Leclerc's mind. It is true, that Chaldaic
                  would, in all probability, be as useful to our friend as French; and the flying
                  over poles and hanging by toes and fingers, so eloquently described by the Apostle
                  of the Body in these "Atlantic" pages; would have been as well adapted to her
                  style and capacity as dancing;—but his own language, and his own profession! what
                  man would not have regarded these as indispensable to improvement, particularly
                  when they paid his board?
               During the latter three weeks of Monsieur Leclerc's stay with Miss Lucinda he made
                  himself surprisingly useful. He listed the doors against approaching winter
                  breezes,—he weeded in the garden,—trimmed, tied, trained, wherever either good
                  office was needed,—mended china with an infallible cement, and rickety chairs with
                  the skill of a cabinet-maker; and whatever hard or dirty work he did, he always
                  presented himself at table in a state of scrupulous neatness: his long brown hands
                  showed no trace of labor; his iron-gray hair was reduced to smoothest order; his
                  coat speckless, if threadbare; and he ate like a gentleman, an accomplishment not
                  always to be found in the "best society," as the phrase goes,—whether the best in
                  fact ever lacks it is another thing. Miss Lucinda appreciated these traits,—they
                  set her at ease; and a pleasanter home-life could scarce be painted than now
                  enlivened the little wooden house. But three weeks pass away rapidly; and when the
                  rusty portmanteau was gone from her spare chamber, and the well-worn boots from
                  the kitchen-corner, and the hat from its nail, Miss Lucinda began to find herself
                  wonderfully lonely. She missed the armfuls of wood in her wood-box, that she had
                  to fill laboriously, two sticks at a time; she missed the other plate at her tiny
                  round table, the other chair beside her fire; she missed that dark, thin,
                  sensitive face, with its rare and sweet smile; she wanted her story-teller, her
                  yarn-winder, her protector, back again. Good gracious! to think of an old lady of
                  forty-seven entertaining such sentiments for a man!
               
               Presently the dancing-lessons commenced. It was thought advisable that Miss
                  Manners should enter a class, and, in the fervency of her good intentions, she did
                  not demur. But gratitude and respect had to strangle with persistent hands the
                  little serpents of the ridiculous in Monsieur Leclerc's soul, when he beheld his
                  pupil's first appearance. What reason was it, O rose of seventeen, adorning
                  thyself with cloudy films of lace and sparks of jewelry before the mirror that
                  reflects youth and beauty, that made Miss Lucinda array herself in a brand-new
                  dress of yellow muslin-de-laine strewed with round green spots, and displace her
                  customary handkerchief for a huge tamboured collar, on this eventful occasion?
                  Why, O why did she tie up the roots of her black hair with an unconcealable
                  scarlet string? And most of all, why was her dress so short, her slipper-strings
                  so big and broad, her thick slippers so shapeless by reason of the corns and
                  bunions that pertained to the feet within? The "instantaneous rush of several
                  guardian angels" that once stood dear old Hepzibah Pynchon in good stead was
                  wanting here,—or perhaps they stood by all-invisible, their calm eyes softened
                  with love deeper than tears, at this spectacle so ludicrous to man, beholding in
                  the grotesque dress and adornments only the budding of life's divinest blossom,
                  and in the strange skips and hops of her first attempts at dancing only the
                  buoyancy of those inner wings that goodness and generosity and pure self-devotion
                  were shaping for a future strong and stately flight upward. However, men, women,
                  and children do not see with angelic eyes, and the titterings of her fellow-pupils
                  were irrepressible: one bouncing girl nearly choked herself with her handkerchief
                  trying not to laugh, and two or three did not even try. Monsieur Leclerc could not
                  blame them,—at first he could scarce control his own facial muscles; but a sense
                  of remorse smote him, as he saw how unconscious and earnest the little woman was,
                  and remembered how often those knotty hands and knobbed feet had waited on his
                  need or his comfort. Presently he tapped on his violin for a few moments' respite,
                  and approached Miss Lucinda as respectfully as if she had been a queen.
               "You are ver' tired, Mees Lucinda?" said he.
               "I am a little, sir," said she, out of breath. "I am not used to dancing; it's
                  quite an exertion."
               "It is that truly. If you are too much tired, is it better to wait? I shall finish
                  for you the lesson till I come tonight for a French conversation?"
               "I guess I will go home," said the simple little lady. "I am some afraid of
                  getting rheumatism; but use makes perfect, and I shall stay through next time, no
                  doubt."
               "So I believe," said Monsieur, with his best bow, as Miss Lucinda departed and
                  went home, pondering all the way what special delicacy she should provide for
                  tea.
               "My dear young friends," said Monsieur Leclerc, pausing with the uplifted bow in
                  his hand, before he recommenced his lesson, "I have observe that my new pupil does
                  make you much to laugh. I am not so surprise, for you do not know all, and the
                  good God does not robe all angels in one manner; but she have taken me to her
                  mansion with a leg broken, and have nursed me like a saint of the blesséd, nor
                  with any pay of silver except that I teach her the dance and the French. They are
                  pay for the meat and the drink, but she will have no more for her good patience
                  and care. I like to teach you the dance, but she could teach you the saints' ways
                  which are better. I think you will no more to laugh."
               "No! I guess we won't!" said the bouncing girl with great emphasis,
                  and the color rose over more than one young face.
               After that day Miss Lucinda received many a kind smile and hearty welcome, and
                  never did anybody venture even a grimace at her expense. But it must be
                  acknowledged that her dancing was at least peculiar. With a sanitary view of the
                  matter, she meant to make it exercise, and fearful was the skipping that ensued.
                  She chasséd on tiptoe, and balancéd with an indescribable hopping twirl, that made one think of a chickadee pursuing
                  its quest of food on new-ploughed ground; and some late-awakened feminine instinct
                  of dress, restrained, too, by due economy, indued her with the oddest decorations
                  that woman ever devised. The French lessons went on more smoothly. If Monsieur
                  Leclerc's Parisian ear was tortured by the barbarous accent of Vermont, at least
                  he bore it with heroism, since there was nobody else to hear; and very pleasant,
                  both to our little lady and her master, were these long winter evenings, when they
                  diligently waded through Racine, and even got as far as the golden periods of
                  Chateaubriand. The pets fared badly for petting in these days; they were fed and
                  waited on, but not with the old devotion; it began to dawn on Miss Lucinda's mind
                  that something to talk to was preferable, as a companion, even to Fun, and that
                  there might be a stranger sweetness in receiving care and protection than in
                  giving it.
               Spring came at last. Its softer skies were as blue over Dalton as in the wide
                  fields without, and its footsteps as bloom-bringing in Miss Lucinda's garden as in
                  mead or forest. Now Monsieur Leclerc came to her aid again at odd minutes, and set
                  her flower-beds with mignonette borders, and her vegetable-garden with salad herbs
                  of new and flourishing kinds. Yet not even the sweet season seemed to hurry the
                  catastrophe that we hope, dearest reader, thy tender eyes have long seen
                  impending. No, for this quaint alliance a quainter Cupid waited,—the chubby little
                  fellow with a big head and a little arrow, who waits on youth and loveliness, was
                  not wanted here. Lucinda's God of Love wore a lank, hard-featured, grizzly shape,
                  no less than that of Israel Slater, who marched into the garden one fine June
                  morning, earlier than usual, to find Monsieur in his blouse, hard at work weeding
                  the cauliflower-bed.
               "Good mornin', sir! good mornin'!" said Israel, in answer to the Frenchman's
                  greeting. "This is a real slick little garden-spot as ever I see, and a pooty
                  house, and a real clever woman too. I'll be skwitched, ef it a'n't a fust-rate
                  consarn, the hull on't. Be you ever a-goin' back to France, Mister?"
               "No, my goot friend. I have nobody there. I stay here; I have friend here: but
                     there,—oh, non! je ne reviendrai pas! ah, jamais!
                     jamais!"
               "Pa's dead, eh? or shamming? Well, I don't understand your lingo; but ef you 're
                  a-goin' to stay here, I don't see why you don't hitch hosses with Miss
                  Lucindy."
               Monsieur Leclerc looked up astonished.
               "Horses, my friend? I have no horse!"
               "Thunder 'n' dry trees! I did n't say you hed, did I? But that comes o' usin' what
                  Parson Hyde calls figgurs, I s'pose. I wish't he'd use one kind o' figgurin' a
                  leetle more; he'd pay me for that wood-sawin'. I didn't mean nothin' about horses.
                  I sot out fur to say, Why don't ye marry Miss Lucindy?"
               "I?" gasped Monsieur,—"I, the foreign, the poor? I could not to presume so!"
               "Well, I don't see's it's sech drefful presumption. Ef you 're poor, she's a
                  woman, and real lonesome too; she ha'n't got nuther chick nor child belongin' to
                  her, and you 're the only man she ever took any kind of a notion to. I guess't
                  would be jest as much for her good as yourn."
               "Hush, good Is-ray-el! it is good to stop there. She would not to marry after such
                  years of goodness: she is a saint of the blesséd."
               "Well, I guess saints sometimes fellerships with sinners; I 've heerd tell they
                  did; and ef I was you, I 'd make trial for't. Nothin' ventur', nothin' have."
               Whereupon Israel walked off, whistling.
               Monsieur Leclerc's soul was perturbed within him by these suggestions; he pulled
                  up two young cauliflowers and reset their places with pigweeds; he hoed the
                  nicely-sloped border of the bed flat to the path, and then flung the hoe across
                  the walk, and went off to his daily occupation with a new idea in his head. Nor
                  was it an unpleasant one. The idea of a transition from his squalid and pinching boarding-house to the delicate
                  comfort of Miss Lucinda's ménage, the prospect
                  of so kind and good a wife to care for his hitherto dreaded future,—all this was
                  pleasant. I cannot honestly say he was in love with our friend; I must even
                  confess that whatever element of that nature existed between the two was now all
                  on Miss Lucinda's side, little as she knew it. Certain it is, that, when she
                  appeared that day at the dancing-class in a new green calico flowered with purple,
                  and bows on her slippers big enough for a bonnet, it occurred to Monsieur Leclerc,
                  that, if they were married, she would take no more lessons! However, let us not
                  blame him; he was a man, and a poor one; one must not expect too much from men, or
                  from poverty; if they are tolerably good, let us canonize them even, it is so hard
                  for the poor creatures! And to do Monsieur Leclerc justice, he had a very thorough
                  respect and admiration for Miss Lucinda. Years ago, in his stormy youth-time,
                  there had been a pair of soft-fringed eyes that looked into his as none would ever
                  look again,—and they murdered her, those mad wild beasts of Paris, in the chapel
                  where she knelt at her pure prayers,—murdered her because she knelt beside an
                  aristocrat, her best friend, the Duchess of Montmorenci, who had taken the pretty
                  peasant from her own estate to bring her up for her maid. Jean Leclerc had lifted
                  that pale shape from the pavement and buried it himself; what else he buried with
                  it was invisible; but now he recalled the hour with a long, shuddering sigh, and,
                  hiding his face in his hands, said softly, "The violet is dead,—there is no spring
                  for her. I will have now an amaranth,—it is good for the tomb."
               Whether Miss Lucinda's winter dress suggested this floral metaphor let us not
                  inquire. Sacred be sentiment, when there is even a shadow of reality about
                  it!—when it becomes a profession, and confounds itself with millinery and shades
                  of mourning, it is—"bosh," as the Turkeys say.
               So that very evening Monsieur Leclerc arrayed himself in his best, to give another
                  lesson to Miss Lucinda. But, somehow or other, the lesson was long in beginning;
                  the little parlor looked so home-like and so pleasant, with its bright lamp and
                  gay bunch of roses on the table, that it was irresistible temptation to lounge and
                  linger. Miss Lucinda had the volume of Florian in her hands, and was wondering why
                  he did not begin, when the book was drawn away, and a hand laid on both of
                  hers.
               "Lucinda!" he began, "I give you no lesson to-night. I have to ask. Dear Mees,
                  will you to marry your poor slave?"
               "O dear!" said Miss Lucinda.
               Don't laugh at her, Miss Tender-eyes! You will feel just so yourself some day,
                  when Alexander Augustus says, "Will you be mine, loveliest of your sex?" only you
                  won't feel it half so strongly, for you are young, and love is Nature to youth,
                  but it is a heavenly surprise to age.
               Monsieur Leclerc said nothing. He had a heart after all, and it was touched now by
                  the deep emotion that flushed Miss Lucinda's face, and made her tremble so
                  violently,—but presently he spoke.
               "Do not!" said he. "I am wrong. I presume. Forgive the stranger!"
               "O dear!" said poor Lucinda again,—"O, you know it isn't that! but how can you
                  like me?"
               There, Mademoiselle! there's humility for you! you will never say
                  that to Alexander Augustus!
               Monsieur Leclerc soothed this frightened, happy, incredulous little woman into
                  quiet before very long; and if he really began to feel a true affection for her
                  from the moment he perceived her humble and entire devotion to him, who shall
                  blame him? Not I. If we were all heroes, who would be valet-de-chambre? if we were all women, who would be men? He was
                  very good as far as he went; and if you expect the chivalries of grace out of
                  Nature, you "may expect," as old Fuller saith. So it was peacefully settled that
                  they should be married, with a due amount of tears and smiles on Lucinda's part,
                  and a great deal of tender sincerity on
                  Monsieur's. She missed her dancing-lesson next day, and when Monsieur Leclerc came
                  in the evening he found a shade on her happy face.
               "O dear!" said she, as he entered.
               "O dear!" was Lucinda's favorite aspiration. Had she thought of it as an
                  Anglicizing of "O Dieu!" perhaps she would have
                  dropped it; but this time she went on headlong, with a valorous despair,—
               "I have thought of something! I'm afraid I can't! Monsieur, aren't you a
                  Romanist?"
               "What is that?" said he, surprised.
               "A Papist,—a Catholic!"
               "Ah!" he returned, sighing, "once I was bon
                     Catholique,—once in my gone youth; after then I was nothing but the
                  poor man who bats for his life; now I am of the religion that shelters the
                  stranger and binds up the broken poor."
               Monsieur was a diplomatist. This melted Miss Lucinda's orthodoxy right down; she
                  only said,—
               "Then you will go to church with me?"
               "And to the skies above, I pray," said Monsieur, kissing her knotty hand like a
                  lover.
               So in the earliest autumn they were married, Monsieur having previously presented
                  Miss Lucinda with a delicate plaided gray silk for her wedding attire, in which
                  she looked almost young; and old Israel was present at the ceremony, which was
                  briefly performed by Parson Hyde in Miss Manners's parlor. They did not go to
                  Niagara, nor to Newport; but that afternoon Monsieur Leclerc brought a hired
                  rockaway to the door, and took his bride a drive into the country. They stopped
                  beside a pair of bars, where Monsieur hitched his horse, and, taking Lucinda by
                  the hand, led her into Farmer Steele's orchard, to the foot of his biggest
                  apple-tree. There she beheld a little mound, at the head and foot of which stood a
                  daily rose-bush shedding its latest wreaths of bloom, and upon the mound itself
                  was laid a board on which she read,—"Here lie the bones of poor Piggy."
               Mrs. Lucinda burst into tears, and Monsieur, picking a bud from the bush, placed
                  it in her hand, and led her tenderly back to the rockaway.
               That evening Mrs. Lucinda was telling the affair to old Israel with so much
                  feeling that she did not perceive at all the odd commotion in his face, till, as
                  she repeated the epitaph to him, he burst out with,—"He didn't say what became o'
                  the flesh, did he?"—and therewith fled through the kitchen-door. For years
                  afterward Israel would entertain a few favored auditors with his opinion of the
                  matter, screaming till the tears rolled down his cheeks,—
               "That was the beateree of all the weddin'-towers I ever heerd tell on. Goodness!
                  it's enough to make the Wanderin' Jew die o' larfin'!"
            
            
               
               THE DENSLOW PALACE.
               IT is the privilege of authors and artists to see and to describe; to "see clearly
                  and describe vividly" gives the pass on all state occasions. It is the "cap of
                  darkness" and the talaria, and wafts them
                  whither they will. The doors of boudoirs and senate-chambers open quickly, and
                  close after them,—excluding the talentless and staring rabble. I, who am one of
                  the humblest of the seers,—a universal admirer of all things beautiful and
                  great,—from the commonwealths of Plato and Solon, severally, expulsed, as poet
                  without music of politic, and a follower of the great,—I, from my dormitory, or
                  nest, of twelve feet square, can, at an hour's notice, or less, enter palaces, and
                  bear away, unchecked and unquestioned, those imagines of Des Cartes which emanate or are thrown off from all
                  forms,—and this, not in imagination, but in the flesh.
               Whether it was the "tone of society" which pervaded my "Florentine letters," or my
                  noted description of the boudoir of Egeria Mentale, I could not just now
                  determine; but these, and other humble efforts of mine, made me known in palaces
                  as a painter of beauty and magnificence; and I have been in demand, to do for
                  wealth what wealth cannot do for itself,—namely, make it live a little, or, at
                  least, spread as far, in fame, as the rings of a stone-plash on a great pond.
               I enjoy friendships and regards which would satisfy the most fastidious. Are not
                  the Denslows enormously rich? Is not Dalton a sovereign of elegance? It was I who
                  gave the fame of these qualities to the world, in true colors, not flattered. And
                     they know it, and love me. Honoria Denslow is the most beautiful
                  and truly charming woman of society. It was I who first said it; and she is my
                  friend, and loves me. I defy poverty; the wealth of all the senses is mine,
                  without effort. I desire not to be one of those who mingle as principals and
                  sufferers; for they are less causes than effects. As the Florentine in the Inferno
                  saw the souls of unfortunate lovers borne upon a whirlwind, so have I seen all
                  things fair and precious,—outpourings of wealth,—all the talents,—all the
                  offerings of duty and devotion,—angelic graces of person and of soul,—borne and
                  swept violently around on the circular gale. Wealth is only an enlargement of the
                  material boundary, and leaves the spirit free to dash to and fro, and exhaust
                  itself in vain efforts. But I am philosophizing,—oddly enough,—when I should
                  describe.
               An exquisite little note from Honoria, sent at the last moment, asking me to be
                  present that evening at a "select" party, which was to open the "new house,"—the
                  little palace of the Denslows,—lay beside me on the table. It was within thirty
                  minutes of nine o'clock, the hour I had fixed for going. A howling winter out of
                  doors, a clear fire glowing in my little grate. My arm-chair, a magnificent
                  present from Honoria, shaming the wooden fixtures of the poor room, invited to
                  meditation, and perhaps the composition of some delicate periods. They formed
                  slowly. Time, it is said, devours all things; but imagination, in turn, devours
                  time,—and, indeed, swallowed my half-hour at a gulp. The neighboring church-clock
                  tolled nine. I was belated, and hurried away.
               It was a réunion of only three hundred
                  invitations, selected by my friend Dalton, the intimate and adviser of Honoria. So
                  happy were their combinations, scarce a dozen were absent or declined.
               At eleven, the guests began to assemble. Introductions were almost needless. Each person was a recognized
                  member of "society." One half of the number were women,—many of them young,
                  beautiful, accomplished,—heiresses, "charming widows," poetesses of real
                  celebrity, and, rarer still, of good repute,—wives of millionnaires, flashing in
                  satin and diamonds. The men, on their side, were of all professions and arts, and
                  of every grade of celebrity, from senator to merchant,—each distinguished by some
                  personal attribute or talent; and in all was the gift, so rare, of manners and
                  conversation. It was a company of undoubted gentlemen, as truly entitled to
                  respect and admiration as if they stood about a throne. They were the untitled
                  nobility of Nature, wealth, and genius.
               As I stood looking, with placid admiration, from a recess, upon a brilliant
                     tableau of beautiful women and celebrated men
                  that had accidentally arranged itself before me, Dalton touched my arm.
               "I have seen," said he, "aristocratic and republican réunions of the purest mode in Paris, the court and the banker's
                  circle of London, conversazioni at Rome and
                  Florence. Every face in this room is intelligent, and nearly all either beautiful,
                  remarkable, or commanding. Observe those five women standing with Denslow and
                  Adonaïs,—grandeur, sweetness, grace, form, purity; each has an attribute. It is a
                  rare assemblage of superior human beings. The world cannot surpass it. And, by the
                  by, the rooms are superb."
               They were indeed magnificent: two grand suites, on either side a central hall of
                  Gothic structure, in white marble, with light, aërial staircases and gilded
                  balconies. Each suite was a separate miracle: the height, the breadth, the
                  columnal divisions; the wonderful delicacy of the arches, upon which rested
                  ceilings frescoed with incomparable art. In one compartment the arches and
                  caryatides were of black marble; in another, of snowy Parian; in a third, of wood,
                  exquisitely carved, and joined like one piece, as if it were a natural growth;
                  vines rising at the bases of the walls, and spreading under the roof. There was no
                  forced consistency. Forms suitable only for the support of heavy masses of
                  masonry, or for the solemn effects of church interiors, were not here introduced.
                  From straight window-cornices of dark wood, slenderly gilt, but richly carved,
                  fell cataracts of gleaming satin, softened in effect with laces of rare
                  appreciation.
               The frescoes and panel-work were a study by themselves, uniting the classic and
                  modern styles in allegorical subjects. The paintings, selected by the taste of
                  Dalton, to overpower the darkness of the rooms by intensity of color, were
                  incorporated with the walls. There were but few mirrors. At the end of each suite,
                  one, of fabulous size, without frame, made to appear, by a cunning arrangement of
                  dark draperies, like a transparent portion of the wall itself, extended the
                  magnificence of the apartments.
               Not a flame nor a jet was anywhere visible. Tinted vases, pendent, or resting upon
                  pedestals, distributed harmonies and thoughts of light rather than light itself;
                  and yet all was visible, effulgent. The columns which separated the apartments
                  seemed to be composed of masses of richly-colored flames, compelled, by some
                  ingenious alchemy, to assume the form and office of columns.
               In New York, par excellence the city of private
                  gorgeousness and petite magnificence, nothing
                  had yet been seen equal to the rooms of the glorious Denslow Palace. Even Dalton,
                  the most capricious and critical of men, whose nice vision had absorbed the
                  elegancies of European taste, pronounced them superb. The upholstery and
                  ornamentation were composed under the direction of celebrated artists. Palmer was
                  consulted on the marbles. Page (at Rome) advised the cartoons for the frescoes,
                  and gave laws for the colors and disposition of the draperies. The paintings,
                  panelled in the walls, were modern, triumphs of the art and genius of the New
                  World.
               Until the hour for dancing, prolonged melodies of themes modulated in the happiest
                  moments of the great composers floated
                  in the perfumed air from a company of unseen musicians, while the guests moved
                  through the vast apartments, charmed or exalted by their splendor, or conversed in
                  groups, every voice subdued and intelligent.
               At midnight began the modish music of the dance, and groups of beautiful girls
                  moved like the atoms of Chladni on the vibrating crystal, with their partners, to
                  the sound of harps and violins, in pleasing figures or inebriating spirals.
               When supper was served, the ivory fronts of a cabinet of gems divided itself in
                  the centre,—the two halves revolving upon silver hinges,—and discovered a hall of
                  great height and dimensions, walled with crimson damask, supporting pictures of
                  all the masters of modern art. The dome-like roof of this hall was of marble
                  variously colored, and the floor tessellated and mosaicked in grotesque and
                  graceful figures of Vesuvian lavas and painted porcelain.
               The tables, couches, chairs, and vis-a-vis in
                  this hall were of plain pattern and neutral dead colors, not to overpower or fade
                  the pictures on the walls, or the gold and Parian service of the cedar tables.
               But the chief beauty of this unequalled supper-room was an immense bronze
                  candelabrum, which rose in the centre from a column of black marble. It was the
                  figure of an Italian elm, slender and of thin foliage, embraced, almost enveloped,
                  in a vine, which reached out and supported itself in hanging from all the
                  branches; the twigs bearing fruit, not of grapes, but of a hundred little spheres
                  of crimson, violet, and golden light, whose combination produced a soft atmosphere
                  of no certain color.
               Neither Honoria, Dalton, nor myself remained long in the gallery. We retired with
                  a select few, and were served in an antechamber, separated from the grand
                  reception-room by an arch, through which, by putting aside a silk curtain, Honoria
                  could see, at a distance, any that entered, as they passed in from the hall.
               My own position was such that I could look over her shoulder and see as she saw.
                     Vis-a-vis with her, and consequently with
                  myself, was Adonaïs, a celebrated author, and person of the beau monde. On his left, Dalton, always mysteriously
                  elegant and dangerously witty. Denslow and Jeffrey Lethal, the critic, completed
                  our circle. The conversation was easy, animated, personal.
               "You are fortunate in having a woman of taste to manage your entertainments," said
                  Lethal, in answer to a remark of Denslow's,—"but in bringing these people together
                  she has made a sad blunder."
               "And what may that be?" inquired Dalton, mildly.
               "Your guests are too well behaved, too fine, and on their guard; there are no
                  butts, no palpable fools or vulgarians, and, worse, there are many distinguished,
                  but no one great man,—no social or intellectual sovereign of the occasion."
               Honoria looked inquiringly at Lethal. "Pray, Mr. Lethal, tell me who he is? I
                  thought there was no such person in America," she added, with a look of
                  reproachful inquiry at Dalton and myself, as if we should have found this
                  sovereign and suggested him.
               "You are right, my dear queen; Lethal is joking," responded Dalton; "we are a
                  democracy, and have only a queen of—"
               "Water ices," interrupted Lethal; "but, as for the king you seek, as democracies
                  finally come to that—"
               "Good Heavens!" exclaimed Honoria, raising the curtain, "it must be he that is
                  coming in."
               Honoria frowned slightly, rose, and advanced to meet a new-comer, who had entered
                  unannounced, and was advancing alone. Dalton followed to support her. I observed
                  their movements,—Lethal and Adonaïs using my face as a mirror of what was passing
                  beyond the curtain.
               The masses of level light from the columns on the left seemed to envelop the
                  stranger, who came toward us from the entrance, as if he had divined the presence
                  of Honoria in the alcove.
               He was about the middle height, Napoleonic in form and bearing, with features of marble paleness, firm,
                  and sharply defined. His hair and magnificent Asiatic beard were jetty black,
                  curling, and naturally disposed. Under his dark and solid brows gleamed large eyes
                  of abysmal blackness and intensity.
               "Is it Lord N——?" whispered Lethal, moved from his habitual coldness by the
                  astonishment which he read in my face.
               "Senator D——, perhaps," suggested Denslow, whose ideas, like his person, aspired
                  to the senatorial.
               "Dumas," hinted Adonaïs, an admirer of French literature. "I heard he was
                  expected."
               "No," I answered, "but certainly in appearance the most noticeable man living. Let
                  us go out and be introduced."
               "Perhaps," said Lethal, "it is the d—."
               All rose instantly at the idea, and we went forward, urged by irresistible
                  curiosity.
               As we drew near the stranger, who was conversing with Honoria and Dalton, a
                  shudder went through me. It was a thrill of the universal Boswell; I seemed to
                  feel the presence of "the most aristocratic man of the age."
               Honoria introduced me. "My Lord Duke, allow me to present my friend, Mr. De Vere;
                  Mr. De Vere, the Duke of Rosecouleur."
               Was I, then, face to face with, nay, touching the hand of a highness,—and that
                  highness the monarch of the ton? And is this a
                  ducal hand, white as the albescent down of the eider-duck, which presses mine with
                  a tender touch, so haughty and so delicately graduated to my standing as "friend"
                  of the exquisite Honoria? It was too much; I could have wept; my senses rather
                  failed.
               Dalton fell short of himself; for, though his head stooped to none, unless
                  conventionally, the sudden and unaccountable presence of the Duke of Rosecouleur
                  annoyed and perplexed him. His own sovereignty was threatened.
               Lethal stiffened himself to the ordeal of an introduction; the affair seemed to
                  exasperate him. Denslow alone, of the men, was in his element. Pompous and soft,
                  he "cottoned" to the grandeur with the instinct of a born satellite, and his eyes
                  grew brighter, his body more shining and rotund, his back more concave. His
                     bon-vivant tones, jolly and conventional,
                  sounded a pure barytone to the clear soprano of Honoria, in the harmony of an
                  obsequious welcome.
               The Duke of Rosecouleur glanced around him approvingly upon the apartments. I
                  believed that he had never seen anything more beautiful than the petite palace of Honoria, or more ravishing than
                  herself. He said little, in a low voice, and always to one person at a time. His
                  answers and remarks were simple and well-turned.
               Dalton allowed the others to move on, and by a slight sign drew me to him.
               "It is unexpected," he said, in a thoughtful manner, looking me full in the
                  eyes.
               "You knew the Duke of Rosecouleur in Europe?"
               "At Paris, yes,—and in Italy he was a travel friend; but we heard lately that he
                  had retired upon his estates in England; and certainly, he is the last person we
                  looked for here."
               "Unannounced."
               "That is a part of the singularity."
               "His name was not in the published list of arrivals; but he may have left England
                  incognito. Is a mistake possible?"
               "No! there is but one such man in Europe;—a handsomer or a richer does not
                  live."
               "An eye of wonderful depth."
               "Hands exquisite."
               "Feet, ditto."
               "And his dress and manner."
               "Unapproachable!"
               "Not a shadow of pretence;—the essence of good-breeding founded upon extensive
                  knowledge, and a thorough sense of position and its advantages;—in fact, the
                  Napoleon of the parlor."
               
               "But, Dalton," said I, nervously, "no one attends him."
               "No,—I thought so at first; but do you see that Mephistophelean figure, in black,
                  who follows the Duke a few paces behind, and is introduced to no one?"
               "Yes. A singular creature, truly!—how thin he is!"
               "That shadow that follows his Highness is, in fact, the famous valet, Rêve de
                  Noir,—the prince of servants. The Duke goes nowhere without this man as a shadow.
                  He asserts that Rêve de Noir has no soul; and I believe him. The face is that of a
                  demon. It is a separate creation, equally wonderful with the master, but not
                  human. He was condensed out of the atmosphere of the great world."
               As we were speaking, we observed a crowd of distinguished persons gathered about
                  and following his Highness, as he moved. He spoke now to one, now to another.
                  Honoria, fascinated, her beauty every instant becoming more radiant, just leaned,
                  with the lightest pressure, upon the Duke's arm. They were promenading through the
                  rooms. The music, soft and low, continued, but the groups of dancers broke up, the
                  loiterers in the gallery came in, and as the sun draws his fifty, perhaps his
                  hundreds of planets, circling around and near him, this noble luminary centred in
                  himself the attention of all. If they could not speak with him, they could at
                  least speak of him. If they could not touch his hand, they could pass before him
                  and give one glance at his eyes. The less aristocratic were even satisfied for the
                  moment with watching the singular being, Rêve de Noir,—who caught no one's eye,
                  seemed to see no one but his master,—and yet was not here nor there, nor in any
                  place,—never in the way, a thing of air, and not tangible, but only black.
               At a signal, he would advance and present to his master a perfume, a laced
                  handkerchief, a rose of rubies, a diamond clasp; of many with whom he spoke the
                  liberal Duke begged the acceptance of some little token, as an earnest of his
                  esteem. After interchanging a few words with Jeffrey Lethal,—who dared not utter a
                  sarcasm, though he chafed visibly under the restraint,—the Duke's tasteful
                  generosity suggested a seal ring, with an intaglio head of Swift cut in opal, the
                  mineral emblem of wit, which dulls in the sunlight of fortune, and recovers its
                  fiery points in the shade of adversity;—Rêve de Noir, with a movement so slight,
                  't was like the flitting of a bat, placed the seal in the hand of the Duke, who,
                  with a charming and irresistible grace, compelled Lethal to receive it.
               To Denslow, Honoria, Dalton, and myself he offered nothing. Strange?—Not at all.
                  Was he not the guest, and had not I been presented to him by Honoria as her
                  "friend?"—a word of pregnant meaning to a Duke of Rosecouleur!
               To Adonaïs he gave a lock of hair of the great novelist, Dumas, in a
                  locket of yellow tourmaline,—a stone usually black. Lethal smiled at this. He felt
                  relieved. "The Duke," thought he, "must be a humorist."
               From my coarse way of describing this, you would suppose that it was a farcical
                  exhibition of vulgar extravagance, and the Duke a madman or an impostor; but the
                  effect was different. It was done with grace, and, in the midst of so much else,
                  it attracted only that side regard, at intervals, which is sure to surprise and
                  excite awe.
               Honoria had almost ceased to converse with us. It was painful to her to talk with
                  any person. She followed the Duke with her eyes. When, by some delicate allusion
                  or attention, he let her perceive that she was in his thoughts, a mantling color
                  overspread her features, and then gave way to paleness, and a manner which
                  attracted universal remark. It was then Honoria abdicated that throne of
                  conventional purity which hitherto she had held undisputed. Women who were plain
                  in her presence outshone Honoria, by meeting this ducal apparition, that called
                  itself Rosecouleur,—and which might have been, for aught they knew, a fume of the
                  Infernal, shaped to deceive us all,—with calm and haughty propriety.
               The sensation did not subside. The music of the waltz invited a renewal of that intoxicating whirl which
                  isolates friends and lovers, in whispering and sighing pairs, in the midst of a
                  great assemblage. All the world looked on, when Honoria Denslow placed her hand
                  upon the shoulder of the Duke of Rosecouleur, and the noble and beautiful forms
                  began silently and smoothly turning, with a dream-like motion. Soon she lifted her
                  lovely eyes and steadied their rays upon his. She leaned wholly upon his arm, and
                  the gloved hands completed the magnetic circle. At the close of the first waltz,
                  she rested a moment, leaning upon his shoulder, and his hand still held hers,—a
                  liberty often assumed and permitted, but not to the nobles and the monarchs of
                  society. She fell farther, and her ideal beauty faded into a sensuous.
               Honoria was lost. Dalton saw it. We retired together to a room apart. He was
                  dispirited; called for and drank rapidly a bottle of Champagne;—it was
                  insufficient.
               "De Vere," said he, "affairs go badly."
               "Explain."
               "This cursed thing that people call a duke—it kills me."
               "I saw."
               "Of course you did;—the world saw; the servants saw. Honoria has fallen to-night.
                  I shall transfer my allegiance."
               "And Denslow?"
               "A born sycophant;—he thinks it natural that his wife should love a duke, and a
                  duke love his wife."
               "So would you, if you were any other than you are."
               "Faugh! it is human nature."
               "Not so; would you not as soon strangle this Rosecouleur for making love to your
                  wife in public, as you would another man?"
               "Rather."
               "Pooh! I give you up. If you had simply said, 'Yes,' it would have satisfied
                  me."
               Dalton seemed perplexed. He called a servant and sent him with an order for
                  Nalson, the usher, to come instantly to him.
               Nalson appeared with his white gloves and mahogany face.
               "Nalson, you were a servant of the Duke in England?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Is the person now in the rooms the Duke of Rosecouleur?"
               "I have not seen him, sir."
               "Go immediately, study the man well,—do you hear?—and come to me. Let no one know
                  your purpose."
               Nalson disappeared.
               I was alarmed. If "the Duke" should prove to be an impostor, we were indeed
                  ruined.
               In five minutes,—an hour, it seemed,—Nalson stood before us.
               "Is it he?" said Dalton, looking fixedly upon the face of the usher.
               No reply.
               "Speak the truth; you need not be afraid."
               "I cannot tell, sir."
               "Nonsense! go and look again."
               "It is of no use, Mr. Dalton; you, who are as well acquainted with the personal
                  appearance of his Highness as I am, you have been deceived,—if I have."
               "Nalson, do you believe that this person is an impostor?" said Dalton pointing at
                  myself.
               "Who? Mr. De Vere, sir?"
               "If, then, you know at sight that this gentleman is my friend Mr. De Vere, why do
                  you hesitate about the other?"
               "But the imitation is perfect. And there is Rêve de Noir."
               "Yes, did Rêve de Noir recognize you?"
               "I have not caught his eye. You know, sir, that this Rêve is not, and never was
                  like other men; he is a devil. One knows, and one does not know him."
               
               "Were you at the door when the Duke entered?"
               "I think not; at least—I cannot tell. When I first saw him, he was in the room,
                  speaking with Madam Denslow."
               "Nalson, you have done wrong; no one should have entered unannounced. Send the
                  doorkeeper to me."
               The doorkeeper came; a gigantic negro, magnificently attired.
               "Jupiter, you were at the door when the Duke of Rosecouleur entered?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Did the Duke and his man come in a carriage?"
               "Yes, sir,—a hack."
               "You may go. They are not devils," said Dalton musingly, "or they would not have
                  come in a carriage."
               "You seem to have studied the spiritual mode of locomotion," said I.
               Dalton frowned. "This is serious, De Vere."
               "What mean you?"
               "I mean that Denslow is a bankrupt."
               "Explain yourself."
               "You know what an influence he carries in political circles. The G——rs, the S——es,
                  and their kind, have more talent, but Denslow enjoys the secret of
                  popularity."
               "Well, I know it."
               "In the middle counties, where he owns vast estates, and has been liberal to
                  debtors and tenants, he carries great favor; both parties respect him for his
                  ignorance and pomposity, which they mistake for simplicity and power, as usual.
                  The estates are mortgaged three deep, and will not hold out a year. The shares of
                  the Millionnaire's Hotel and the Poor Man's Bank in the B——y are worthless.
                  Denslow's railroad schemes have absorbed the capital of those concerns."
               "But he had three millions."
               "Nominally. This palace has actually sunk his income."
               "Madness!"
               "Wisdom, if you will listen.'
               "I am all attention."
               "The use of money is to create and hold power. Denslow was certain of the popular
                  and county votes; he needed only the aristocratic support, and the A——people would
                  have made him Senator."
               "Fool, why was he not satisfied with his money?"
               "Do you call the farmer fool, because he is not satisfied with the soil, but
                  wishes to grow wheat thereon? Money is the soil of power. For much less than a
                  million one may gratify the senses; great fortunes are not for sensual luxuries,
                  but for those of the soul. To the facts, then. The advent of this mysterious
                  duke,—whom I doubt,—hailed by Denslow and Honoria as a piece of wonderful
                  good-fortune, has already shaken him and ruined the prestige of his
                  wife. They are mad and blind."
               "Tell me, in plain prose, the how and the why."
               "De Vere, you are dull. There are three hundred people in the rooms of the Denslow
                  Palace; these people are the 'aristocracy.' They control the sentiments of the
                  'better class.' Opinion, like dress, descends from them. They no longer respect
                  Denslow, and their women have seen the weakness of Honoria."
               "Yes, but Denslow still has 'the people.'"
               "That is not enough. I have calculated the chances, and mustered all our available
                  force. We shall have no support among the 'better class' since we are disgraced
                  with the 'millionnaires.'"
               At this moment Denslow came in.
               "Ah! Dalton,—like you! I have been looking for you to show the pictures. Devil a
                  thing I know about them. The Duke wondered at your absence."
               "Where is Honoria?"
               "Ill, ill,—fainted. The house is new; smell of new wood and mortar; deused
                  disagreeable in Honoria. If it had not been for the Duke, she would have fallen.
                     That's a monstrous clever fellow,
                  that Rosecouleur. Admires Honoria vastly. Come,—the pictures."
               "Mr. John Vanbrugen Denslow, you are an ass!"
               The large, smooth, florid millionnaire, dreaming only of senatorial honors, the
                  shouts of the multitude, and the adoration of a party press, cowered like a dog
                  under the lash of the "man of society."
               "Rather rough,—ha, De Vere? What have I done? Am I an ass because I
                  know nothing of pictures? Come Dalton, you are harsh with your old friend."
               "Denslow, I have told you a thousand times never to concede position."
               "Yes, but this is a duke, man,—a prince!"
               "This from you? By Jove, De Vere, I wish you and I could live a hundred years, to
                  see a republican aristocrat. We are still mere provincials," added Dalton, with a
                  sigh.
               Denslow perspired with mortification.
               "You use me badly,—I tell you, Dalton, this Rosecouleur is a devil. Condescend to
                  him! be haughty and—what do you call it?—urbane to him! I defy you to
                  do it, with all your impudence. Why, his valet, that shadow that glides after him,
                  is too much for me. Try him yourself, man."
               "Who, the valet?"
               "No, the master,—though I might have said the valet."
               "Did I yield in Paris?"
               "No, but you were of the embassy, and—and—no one really knew us, you
                  know."
               Dalton pressed his lips hard together.
               "Come," said he, "De Vere, let us try a fall with this Titan of the carpet."
               Denslow hastened back to the Duke. I followed Dalton; but as for me, bah! I am a
                  cipher.
               The room in which we were adjoined Honoria's boudoir, from which a secret passage
                  led down by a spiral to a panel behind hangings; raising these, one could enter
                  the drawing-room unobserved. Dalton paused midway in the secret passage, and
                  through a loop or narrow window, concealed by architectural ornaments, and which
                  overlooked the great drawing-rooms, made a reconnaissance of the field.
               Nights of Venice! what a scene was there! The vine-branch chandeliers,
                  crystal-fruited, which depended from the slender ribs of the ceiling, cast a rosy
                  dawn of light, deepening the green and crimson of draperies and carpets, making an
                  air like sunrise in the bowers of a forest. Form and order were everywhere
                  visible, though unobtrusive. Arch beyond arch, to fourth apartments, lessening in
                  dimension, with increase of wealth;—groups of beautiful women, on either hand,
                  seated or half reclined; the pure or rich hues of their robes blending
                  imperceptibly, or in gorgeous contrasts, with the soft outlines and colors of
                  their supports; a banquet for the eyes and the mind; the perfect work of art and
                  culture;—gliding about and among these, or, with others, springing and revolving
                  in that monarch of all measures, which blends luxury and purity, until it is
                  either the one or the other, moved the men.
               "That is my work," exclaimed Dalton, unconsciously.
               "Not all, I think."
               "I mean the combinations,—the effect. But see! Honoria will again accept the
                  Duke's invitation. He is coming to her. Let us prevent it."
               He slipped away; and I, remaining at my post of observation, saw him, an instant
                  later, passing quickly across the floor among the dancers, toward Honoria. The
                  Duke of Rosecouleur arrived at the same instant before her. She smiled sorrowfully
                  upon Dalton, and held out her hand in a languid manner toward the Duke, and again
                  they floated away upon the eddies of the music. I followed them with eyes fixed in
                  admiration. It was a vision of the orgies of Olympus,—Zeus and Aphrodite circling
                  to a theme of Chronos.
               Had Honoria tasted of the Indian drug, the weed of paradise? Her eyes, fixed upon
                  the Duke's, shone like molten sapphires. A tress of chestnut hair, escaping from
                  the diamond coronet, sprang lovingly forward and twined itself over her white shoulder and still fairer bosom.
                  Tints like flitting clouds, Titianic, the mystery and despair of art, disclosed to
                  the intelligent eye the feeling that mastered her spirit and her sense. Admirable
                  beauty! Unrivalled, unhappy! The Phidian idol of gold and ivory, into which a
                  demon had entered, overthrown, and the worshippers gazing on it with a scorn
                  unmixed with pity!
               The sullen animal rage of battle is nothing to the livor, the burning hatred of
                  the drawing-room. Dalton, defeated, cast a glance of deadly hostility on the Duke.
                  Nor was it lost. While the waltz continued, for ten minutes, he stood motionless.
                  Fearing some untoward event, I came down and took my place near him.
               The Duke led Honoria to a sofa. But for his arm she would again have fallen.
                  Dalton had recovered his courage and natural haughtiness. The tone of his voice,
                  rich, tender, and delicately expressive, did not change.
               "Honoria, you sent for me; and the Duke wishes to see the pictures.
                  The air of the gallery will relieve your faintness."
               He offered his arm, which she, rising mechanically, accepted. A deep blush
                  crimsoned her features, at the allusion to her weakness. Several of the guests
                  moved after us, as we passed into the gallery. The Duke's shadow, Rêve de Noir,
                  following last, closed the ivory doors. We passed through the gallery,—where
                  pyramids of sunny fruits, in baskets of fine porcelain, stood relieved by gold and
                  silver services for wine and coffee, disposed on the tables,—and thence entered
                  another and smaller room, devoid of ornament, but the crimson tapestried walls
                  were covered with works or copies of the great masters of Italy.
               Opposite the entrance there was a picture of a woman seated on a throne, behind
                  which stood a demon whispering in her ear, and pointing to a handsome youth in the
                  circle of the courtiers. The design and color were in the style of Correggio.
                  Denslow stood close behind me. In advance were Honoria, Dalton, and the Duke,
                  whose conversation sation was 
                     adressed
                     addressed
                   alternately to her and Dalton. The lights of the gallery burst forth in
                  their full refulgence as we approached the picture.
               The glorious harmony of its colors,—the force of the shadows, which seemed to be
                  converging in the rays of a single unseen source of light,—the unity of sentiment,
                  which drew all the groups together, in the idea;—I had seen all this before, but
                  with the eyes of supercilious criticism. Now the picture smote us with awe.
               "I have the original of this excellent work," said the Duke, "in my house at A——,
                  but your copy is nearly as good."
               The remark, intended for Honoria, reached the pride of her companion, who blandly
                  replied,—
               "Your Highness's exquisite judgment is for once at fault. The piece is original.
                  It was purchased from a well-known collection in Italy, where there are none
                  others of the school."
               Honoria was gazing upon the picture, as I was, in silent astonishment.
               "If this," said she, "is a copy, what must have been the genuine work? Did you
                  never before notice the likeness between the queen, in that picture, and myself?"
                  she asked, addressing Dalton.
               The remark excited general attention. Every one murmured, "The likeness is
                  perfect."
               "And the demon behind the queen," said Denslow, insipidly, "resembles your
                  Highness's valet."
               There was another exclamation. No sooner was it observed, than the likeness to
                  Rêve de Noir seemed to be even more perfect.
               The Duke made a sign.
               Rêve de Noir placed himself near the canvas. His profile was the counterpart of
                  that in the painting. He seemed to have stepped out of it.
               "It was I," said the Duke, in a gentle voice, and with a smile which just
                  disclosed the ivory line under the black moustache, "who caused this picture to be copied and altered. The beauty of the
                  Hon. Mrs. Denslow, whom it was my highest pleasure to know, seemed to me to
                  surpass that of the queen of my original. I first, with great secrecy, unknown to
                  your wife," continued the Duke, turning to Denslow, "procured a portrait from the
                  life by memory, which was afterwards transferred to this canvas. The resemblance
                  to my attendant is, I confess, remarkable and inexplicable."
               "But will you tell us by what accident this copy happened to be in Italy?" asked
                  Dalton.
               "You will remember," replied the Duke, coldly, "that at Paris, noticing your
                  expressions of admiration for the picture, which you had seen in my English
                  gallery, I gave you a history of its purchase at Bologna by myself. I sent my
                  artist to Bologna, with orders to place the copy in the gallery and to introduce
                  the portrait of the lady; it was a freak of fancy; I meant it for a surprise; as I
                  felt sure, that, if you saw the picture, you would secure it."
               "It seems to me," replied Dalton, "that the onus
                  of proof rests with your Highness."
               The Duke made a signal to Rêve de Noir, who again stepped up to the canvas, and,
                  with a short knife or stiletto, removed a small portion of the outer layer of
                  paint, disclosing a very ancient ground of some other and inferior work, over
                  which the copy seemed to have been painted. The proof was unanswerable.
               "Good copies," remarked the Duke, "are often better than originals."
               He offered his arm to Honoria, and they walked through the gallery,—he
                  entertaining her, and those near him, with comments upon other works. The crowd
                  followed them, as they moved on or returned, as a cloud of gnats follow up and
                  down, and to and fro, a branch tossing in the wind.
               "Beaten at every point," I said, mentally, looking on the pale features of the
                  defeated Dalton.
               "Yes," he replied, seeing the remark in my face; "but there is yet time. I am
                  satisfied this is the man with whom we travelled; none other could have devised
                  such a plan, or carried it out. He must have fallen in love with Honoria at that
                  time; and simply to see her is the object of his visit to America. He is a
                  connoisseur in pictures as in women; but he must not be allowed to ruin us by his
                  arrogant assumptions."
               "Excepting his manner and extraordinary personal advantages, I find nothing in him
                  to awe or astonish."
               "His wealth is incalculable; he is used to victories; and that manner which you
                  affect to slight,—that is everything. 'T is power, success, victory. This man of
                  millions, this prince, does not talk; he has but little use for words. It is
                  manner, and not words, that achieves social and amatory conquests."
               "Bah! You are like the politicians, who mistake accidents for principles. But even
                  you are talking, while this pernicious foreigner is acting. See! they have left
                  the gallery, and the crowd of fools is following them. You cannot stem such a tide
                  of folly."
               "I deny that they are fools. Why does that sallow wretch, Lethal, follow them? or
                  that enamelled person, Adonaïs? They are at a serpent-charming, and Honoria is the
                  bird-of-paradise. They watch with delight, and sketch as they observe, the
                  struggles of the poor bird. The others are indifferent or curious, envious or
                  amused. It is only Denslow who is capped and antlered, and the shafts aimed at his
                  foolish brow glance and wound us.
               We were left alone in the gallery. Dalton paced back and forth, in his slow,
                  erect, and graceful manner; there was no hurry or agitation.
               "How quickly," said he, as his moist eyes met mine, "how like a dream, this
                  glorious vision, this beautiful work, will fade and be forgotten! Nevertheless, I
                  made it," he added, musingly. "It was I who moulded and expanded the sluggish
                  millions."
               "You will still be what you are, Dalton,—an artist, more than a man of society. You work with a soft and
                  perishable material."
               "A distinction without a difference. Every man is a politician, but
                  only every artist is a gentleman."
               "Denslow, then, is ruined."
               "Yes and no;—there is nothing in him to ruin. It is I who am the sufferer."
               "And Honoria?"
               "It was I who formed her manners, and guided her perceptions of the beautiful. It
                  was I who married her to a mass of money, De Vere."
               "Did you never love Honoria?'
               He laughed.
               "Loved? Yes; as Praxiteles may have loved the clay he moulded,—for its smoothness
                  and ductility under the hand."
               "The day has not come for such men as you, Dalton.'
               "Come, and gone, and coming. It has come in dreamland. Let us follow your
                  fools."
               The larger gallery was crowded. The pyramids of glowing fruit had disappeared;
                  there was a confused murmur of pairs and parties, chatting and taking wine. The
                  master of the house, his wife, and guest were nowhere to be seen. Lethal and
                  Adonaïs stood apart, conversing. As we approached them unobserved, Dalton checked
                  me. "Hear what these people are saying," said he.
               "My opinion is," said Lethal, holding out his crooked forefinger like a claw,
                  "that this soi-disant duke—what the deuse is his
                  name?"
               "Rosecouleur," interposed Adonaïs, in a tone of society.
               "Right,—Couleur de Rose is an impostor,—an impostor, a sharper. Everything tends
                  that way. What an utter sell it would be!"
               "You were with us at the picture scene?" murmured Adonaïs.
               "Yes. Dalton looked wretchedly cut up, when that devil of a valet, who must be an
                  accomplice, scraped the new paint off. The picture must have been got up in New
                  York by Dalton and the Denslows."
               "Perhaps the Duke, too, was got up in New York, on the same principle," suggested
                  Adonaïs. "Such things are possible. Society is intrinsically rotten, you know, and
                  Dalton—"
               "Is a fellow of considerable talent," sneered Lethal,—"but has enemies, who may
                  have planned a duke."
               Adonaïs coughed in his cravat, and hinted,—"How would it do to call him 'Barnum
                  Dalton'?"
               Adonaïs appeared shocked at himself, and swallowed a minim of wine to cleanse his
                  vocal apparatus from the stain of so coarse an illustration.
               "Do you hear those creatures?" whispered Dalton. "They are arranging scandalous
                  paragraphs for the 'Illustration.'"
               A moment after, he was gone. I spoke to Lethal and Adonaïs.
               "Gentlemen, you are in error about the picture and the Duke; they are as they now
                  appear: the one, an excellent copy, purchased as an original,—no uncommon mistake;
                  the other, a genuine highness. How does he strike you?"
               Lethal cast his eyes around to see who listened.
               "The person," said he, "who is announced here to-night as an English duke seemed
                  to me, of all men I could select, least like one."
               "Pray, what is your ideal of an English duke, Mr. Lethal?" asked Adonaïs, with the
                  air of a connoisseur, sure of himself, but hating to offend.
               "A plain, solid person, well dressed, but simple; mutton-chop whiskers; and the
                  manners of a—a—"
               "Bear!" said a soft female voice.
               "Precisely,—the manners of a bear; a kind of gentlemanly bear, perhaps,—but still,
                  ursine and heavy; while this person, who seems to have walked out of——or a novel,
                  affects me, by his ways and appearance, like a—a—h'm—"
               
               "Gambler!" said the same female voice, in a conclusive tone.
               There was a general soft laugh. Everybody was pleased. All admired, hated, and
                  envied the Duke. It was settled beyond a doubt that he was an impostor,—and that
                  the Denslows were either grossly taken in, or were "selling" their friends. In
                  either case, it was shocking and delightful.
               "The fun of the thing," continued Lethal, raising his voice a little, "is, that
                  the painter who got up the old picture must have been as much an admirer of the
                  Hon. Mrs. Denslow as—his—Highness; for, in touching in the queen, he has
                  unconsciously made it a portrait."
               The blow was final. I moved away, grieved and mortified to the soul, cursing the
                  intrusion of the mysterious personage whose insolent superiority had overthrown
                  the hopes of my friends.
               At the door of the gallery I met G——, the painter, just returned from London. I
                  drew him with me into the inner gallery, to make a thorough examination of the
                  picture. I called his attention to the wonderful resemblance of the queen to
                  Honoria. He did not see it; we looked together, and I began to think that it might
                  have been a delusion. I told the Duke's story of the picture to G——. He examined
                  the canvas, tested the layers of color, and pronounced the work genuine and of
                  immense value. We looked again and again at the queen's head, viewing it in every
                  light. The resemblance to Honoria had disappeared; nor was the demon any longer a
                  figure of the Duke's valet.
               "One would think," said G——, laughing, "that you had been mesmerized. If you had
                  been so deceived in a picture, may you not be equally cheated in a man? I am loath
                  to offend; but, indeed, the person whom you call Rosecouleur cannot be the Duke of
                  that title, whom I saw in England. I had leave to copy a picture in his gallery.
                  He was often present. His manners were mild and unassuming,—not at all like those
                  of this man, to whom, I acknowledge, the personal resemblance is surprising. I am
                  afraid our good friends, the Denslows, and Mr. Dalton,—whom I esteem for their
                  patronage of art,—have been taken in by an adventurer."
               "But the valet, Rêve de Noir?"
               "The Duke had a valet of that name who attended him, and who may, for aught I
                  know, have resembled this one; but probability is against concurrent resemblances.
                  There is also an original of the picture in the Duke's gallery; in fact, the
                  artist, as was not unusual in those days, painted two pictures of the same
                  subject. Both, then, are genuine."
               Returning my cordial thanks to the good painter for his timely explanation, I
                  hastened to find Dalton. Drawing him from the midst of a group whom he was
                  entertaining, I communicated G——'s account of the two pictures, and his suspicions
                  in regard to the Duke.
               His perplexity was great. "Worse and worse, De Vere! To be ruined by a common
                  adventurer is more disgraceful even than the other misfortune. Besides, our guests
                  are leaving us. At least a hundred of them have gone away with the first
                  impression, and the whole city will have it. The journal reporters have been here.
                  Denslow's principal creditors were among the guests to-night; they went away soon,
                  just after the affair with the picture; to-morrow will be our dark day. If it had
                  not been for this demon of a duke and his familiar, whoever they are, all would
                  have gone well. Now we are distrusted, and they will crush us. Let us fall facing
                  the enemy. Within an hour I will have the truth about the Duke. Did I ever tell
                  you what a price Denslow paid for that picture?"
               "No, I do not wish to hear."
               "You are right. Come with me."
               The novel disrespect excited by the scandal of Honoria and the picture seemed to
                  have inspired the two hundred people who remained with a cheerful ease. Eating,
                  drinking excessively of Denslow's costly wines, dancing to music which grew
                  livelier and more boisterous as the musicians, imbibed more of the inspiriting juice, and,
                  catching scraps of the scandal, threw out significant airs, the company of young
                  persons, deserted by their scandalized seniors, had converted the magnificent
                  suite of drawing-rooms into a carnival theatre. Parties of three and four were
                  junketing in corners; laughing servants rushed to and fro as in a café; the lounges were occupied by reclining beauties
                  or languid fops overpowered with wine, about whom lovely young women, flushed with
                  champagne and mischief, were coquetting and frolicking.
               "I warrant you, these people know it is our last night," said Dalton; "and see
                  what a use they make of us! Denlow's rich wines poured away like water; everything
                  soiled, smeared, and overturned; our entertainment, at first stately and gracious
                  as a queen's drawing-room, ending with the loss of prestige, in the
                  riot of a bal masqué. So fades ambition! But to
                  this duke."
               Denslow, who had passed into the polite stage of inebriation, evident to close
                  observers, had arranged a little exclusive circle, which included three women of
                  fashionable reputation, his wife, the Duke, Jeffrey Lethal, and Adonaïs. Rêve de
                  Noir officiated as attendant. The fauteuils and
                  couches were disposed around a pearl table, on which were liquors, coffee, wines,
                  and a few delicacies for Honoria, who had not supped. They were in the purple
                  recess adjoining the third drawing-room. Adonaïs talked with the Duke about Italy;
                  Lethal criticised; while Honoria, in the full splendor of her beauty, outshining
                  and overpowering, dropped here and there a few musical words, like service-notes,
                  to harmonize.
               There is no beauty like the newly-enamored. Dalton seemed to forget himself, as he
                  contemplated her, for a moment. Spaces had been left for us; the valet placed
                  chairs.
               "Dalton," cried Lethal, "you are in time to decide a question of deep
                  interest;—your friend, De Vere, will assist you. His Highness has given preference
                  to the women men of America over those of Italy. Adonaïs, the exquisite and mild,
                  settles his neck-tie against the Duke, and objects in that bland but firm manner
                  which is his. I am the Duke's bottle-holder; Denslow and wife accept that function
                  for the chivalrous Adonaïs."
               "I am of the Duke's party," replied Dalton, in his most agreeable manner. "To be
                  in the daily converse and view of the most beautiful women in America, as I have
                  been for years, is a privilege in the cultivation of a pure taste. I saw nothing
                  in Italy, except on canvas, comparable with what I see at this moment. The Duke is
                  right; but in commending his judgment, I attribute to him also sagacity. Beauty is
                  like language; its use is to conceal. One may, under rose-colored commendations, a
                  fine manner, and a flowing style, conceal, as Nature does with personal advantages
                  in men, the gross tastes and vulgar cunning of a charlatan."
               Dalton, in saying this, with a manner free from suspicion or excitement, fixed his
                  eyes upon the Duke's.
               "You seem to have no faith in either men or women," responded the rich barytone
                  voice of his Highness, the dark upper lip disclosing, as before, the row of
                  square, sharp, ivory teeth.
               "Little, very little," responded Dalton, with a sigh. "Your Highness will
                  understand me,—or if not now, presently."
               Lethal trod upon Adonaïs's foot; I saw him do it. Adonaïs exchanged glances with a
                  brilliant hawk-faced lady who sat opposite. The lady smiled and touched her
                  companion. Honoria, who saw everything, opened her magnificent eyes to their full
                  extent. Denslow was oblivious.
               "In fact," continued Dalton, perceiving the electric flash he had excited,
                  "scepticism is a disease of my intellect. Perhaps the most noticeable and palpable
                  fact of the moment is the presence and identity of the Duke who is opposite to me;
                  and yet, doubting as I sometimes do my own existence, is it not natural, that,
                  philosophically speaking ing, the
                  presence and identity of your Highness are at moments a subject of philosophical
                  doubt?"
               "In cases of this kind," replied the Duke, "we rest upon circumstantial
                  evidence."
               So saying, he drew from his finger a ring and handed it to Dalton, who went to the
                  light and examined it closely, and passed it to me. It was a minute cameo, no
                  larger than a grain of wheat, in a ring of plain gold; a rare and beautiful work
                  of microscopic art.
               "I seem to remember presenting the Duke of Rosecouleur with a similar ring, in
                  Italy," said Dalton, resuming his seat; "but the coincidence does not resolve my
                  philosophic doubt, excited by the affair of the picture. We all supposed that we
                  saw a portrait of the Hon. Mrs. Denslow in yon picture; and we seemed to discover,
                  under the management of your valet, that Denslow's picture, a genuine duplicate of
                  the original by the author, was a modern copy. Since your Highness quitted the
                  gallery, those delusions have ceased. The picture appears now to be genuine. The
                  likeness to Mrs. Denslow has vanished."
               An exclamation of surprise from all present, except the Duke, followed this
                  announcement.
               "And so," continued Dalton, "it may be with this ring, which now seems to be the
                  one I gave the Duke at Rome, but to-morrow may be different."
               As he spoke, Dalton gave back the ring to the Duke, who received it with his usual
                  grace.
               "Who knows," said Lethal, with a deceptive innocence of manner, "whether
                  aristocracy itself be not founded in mesmerical deceptions?"
               "I think, Lethal," observed Adonaïs, "you push the matter. It would be impossible,
                  for instance, even for his Highness, to make Honoria Denslow appear ugly."
               We all looked at Honoria, to whom the Duke leaned over and said,—
               "Would you be willing for a moment to lose that exquisite beauty?"
               "For my sake, Honoria," said Dalton "refuse him.'
               The request, so simply made, was rewarded by a ravishing smile.
               "Edward, do you know that you have not spoken a kind word to me to-night, until
                  now?"
               Their eyes met, and I saw that Dalton trembled with a deep emotion. "I will save
                  you yet," he murmured.
               A tall, black hound, of the slender breed, rose up near Honoria, and placing his
                  fore-paws upon the edge of the pearl table, turned and licked her face and
                  eyes.
               It was the vision of a moment. The dog sprang upon the sofa by the Duke's side,
                  growling and snapping.
               "Rêve de Noir," cried Lethal and Adonaïs, "drive the dog away!"
               The valet had disappeared.
               "I have no fear of him, gentlemen," said the Duke, patting the head of the hound;
                  "he is a faithful servant, and has a faculty of reading thoughts. Go bring my
                  servant, Demon," said the Duke.
               The hound sprang away with a great bound, and in an instant Rêve de Noir was
                  standing behind us. The dog did not appear again.
               Honoria looked bewildered. "Of what dog were you speaking, Edward?"
               "The hound that licked your face.'
               "You are joking. I saw no hound."
               "See, gentlemen," exclaimed Lethal, "his Highness shows us tricks. He is a
                  wizard."
               The three women gave little shrieks,—half pleasure, half terror.
               Denslow, who had fallen back in his chair asleep, awoke and rubbed his eyes.
               "What is all this, Honoria?"
               "That his Highness is a wizard," she said, with a forced laugh, glancing at
                  Dalton.
               "Will his Highness do us the honor to lay aside the mask, and appear in his true colors?" said Dalton,
                  returning Honoria's glance with an encouraging look.
               "Gentlemen," said the Duke, haughtily, "I am your guest, and by hospitality
                  protected from insult."
               "Insult, most noble Duke!" exclaimed Lethal, with a sneer,—"impossible, under the
                  roof of our friend, the Honorable Walter Denslow, in the small hours of the night,
                  and in the presence of the finest women in the world. Dalton, pray, reassure his
                  Highness!"
               "Edward! Edward!" murmured Honoria, "have a care,—even if it be as you think."
               Dalton remained bland and collected.
               "Pardon, my Lord, the effect of a little wine, and of those wonderful fantasies
                  you have shown us. Your dog, your servant, and yourself interest us equally; the
                  picture, the ring,—all are wonderful. In supposing that you had assumed a mask,
                  and one so noble, I was led into an error by these miracles, expecting no less
                  than a translation of yourself into the person of some famous wonder-worker. It
                  is, you know, a day of miracles, and even kings have their salaried seers, and
                  take counsel of the spiritual world. More!—let us have more!"
               The circle were amazed; the spirit of superstitious curiosity seized upon
                  them.
               "Rêve de Noir," said the Duke, "a carafe, and
                  less light."
               The candelabra became dim. The Duke took the carafe of water from the valet, and, standing up, poured it upon the
                  air; it broke into flames, which mounted and floated away, singly or in little
                  crowds. Still the Duke poured, and dashing up the water with his hand, by and by
                  the ceiling was illuminated with a thousand miniature tongues of violet-colored
                  fire. We clapped our hands, and applauded,—"Beautiful! marvellous! wonderful,
                  Duke!—your Highness is the only magician,"—when, on a sudden, the flames
                  disappeared and the lights rose again.
               "The world is weary of scepticism," remarked Lethal; "there is no chemistry for
                  that. It is the true magic, doubtless,—recovered from antiquity by his Highness.
                  Are the wonders exhausted?"
               The Duke smiled again. He stretched out his hand toward Honoria, and she slept. It
                  was the work of an instant.
               "I have seen that before," said Dalton.
               "Not as we see it," responded his Highness. "Rêve de Noir, less
                  light!"
               The room was dark in a moment. Over the head of Honoria appeared a cloud, at first
                  black, and soon in this a nucleus of light, which expanded and shaped itself into
                  an image and took the form of the sleeper, nude and spiritual, a belt of rosy mist
                  enveloping and concealing all but a head and bust of ravishing beauty. The vision
                  gazed with languid and beseeching eyes upon Dalton, and a sigh seemed to heave the
                  bosom. In scarce a breathing-time, it was gone. Honoria waked, unconscious of what
                  had passed.
               Deep terror and amazement fell upon us all.
               "I have seen enough," said Dalton, rising slowly, and drawing a small riding-whip,
                  "to know now that this person is no duke, but either a charlatan or a devil. In
                  either case, since he has intruded here, to desecrate and degrade, I find it
                  proper to apply a magic more material."
               At the word, all rose exclaiming,—"For God's sake, Dalton!" He pressed forward and
                  laid his hand upon the Duke. A cry burst from Rêve de Noir which rent our very
                  souls; and a flash followed, unspeakably bright, which revealed the demoniacal
                  features of the Duke, who sat motionless, regarding Dalton's uplifted arm. A
                  darkness followed profound and palpable. I listened in terror. There was no sound.
                  Were we transformed? Silence, darkness, still. I closed my eyes, and opened them
                  again. A pale, cold light became slowly perceptible, stealing through a crevice,
                  and revealing the walls and ceiling of my narrow room. The dream still oppressed
                  me. I went to the window, and let in reality with the morning light. Yet, for days
                  after, the images of the real Honoria
                  and Dalton, my friends, remained separated from the creatures of the vision; and
                  the Denslow palace of dream-land, the pictures, the revelry, and the magic of the
                  Demon Duke, haunted my memory, and kept with them all their visionary splendors
                  and regrets.
            
            
               FRIEND ELI'S DAUGHTER.
               
                  I.
                  THE mild May afternoon was drawing to a close, as Friend Eli Mitchenor reached
                     the top of the long hill, and halted a few minutes, to allow his horse time to
                     recover breath. He also heaved a sigh of satisfaction, as he saw again the
                     green, undulating valley of the Neshaminy, with its dazzling squares of young
                     wheat, its brown patches of corn-land, its snowy masses of blooming orchard,
                     and the huge, fountain-like jets of weeping-willow, half concealing the gray
                     stone fronts of the farm-houses. He had been absent from home only six days,
                     but the time seemed almost as long to him as a three-years' cruise to a
                     New-Bedford whaleman. The peaceful seclusion and pastoral beauty of the scene
                     did not consciously appeal to his senses; but he quietly noted how much the
                     wheat had grown during his absence, that the oats were up and looking well,
                     that Friend Comly's meadow had been ploughed, and Friend Martin had built his
                     half of the line-fence along the top of the hill-field. If any smothered
                     delight in the loveliness of the spring-time found a hiding-place anywhere in
                     the well-ordered chambers of his heart, it never relaxed or softened the
                     straight, inflexible lines of his face. As easily could his collarless drab
                     coat and waistcoat have flushed with a sudden gleam of purple or crimson.
                  Eli Mitchenor was at peace with himself and the world,—that is, so much of the
                     world as he acknowledged. Beyond
                     yond the community of his own sect, and a few personal friends who were
                     privileged to live on its borders, he neither knew, nor cared to know, much
                     more of the human race than if it belonged to a planet farther from the sun. In
                     the discipline of the Friends he was perfect; he was privileged to sit on the
                     high seats, with the elders of the Society; and the travelling brethren from
                     other States, who visited Bucks County, invariably blessed his house with a
                     family-meeting. His farm was one of the best on the banks of the Neshaminy, and
                     he also enjoyed the annual interest of a few thousand dollars, carefully
                     secured by mortgages on real estate. His wife, Abigail, kept even pace with him
                     in the consideration she enjoyed within the limits of the sect; and his two
                     children, Moses and Asenath, vindicated the paternal training by the strictest
                     sobriety of dress and conduct. Moses wore the plain coat, even when his ways
                     led him among "the world's people"; and Asenath had never been known to wear,
                     or to express a desire for, a ribbon of a brighter tint than brown or
                     fawn-color. Friend Mitchenor had thus gradually ripened to his sixtieth year in
                     an atmosphere of life utterly placid and serene, and looked forward with
                     confidence to the final change, as a translation into a deeper calm, a serener
                     quiet, a prosperous eternity of mild voices, subdued colors, and suppressed
                     emotions.
                  He was returning home, in his own old-fashioned "chair," with its heavy square
                     canopy and huge curved springs, from the Yearly Meeting of the Hicksite
                     Friends, in Philadelphia. The large bay farm-horse, slow and grave in his
                     demeanor, wore his plain harness with an air which made him seem, among his
                     fellow-horses, the counterpart of his master among men. He would no more have
                     thought of kicking than the latter would of swearing a huge oath. Even now,
                     when the top of the hill was gained, and he knew that he was within a mile of
                     the stable which had been his home since colthood, he showed no undue haste or
                     impatience, but waited quietly, until Friend Mitchenor, by a well-known jerk of
                     the lines, gave him the signal to go on. Obedient to the motion, he thereupon
                     set forward once more, jogging soberly down the eastern slope of the
                     hill,—across the covered bridge, where, in spite of the tempting level of the
                     hollow-sounding floor, he was as careful to abstain from trotting as if he had
                     read the warning notice,—along the wooded edge of the green meadow, where
                     several cows of his acquaintance were grazing,—and finally, wheeling around at
                     the proper angle, halted squarely in front of the gate which gave entrance to
                     the private lane.
                  The old stone house in front, the spring-house in a green little hollow just
                     below it, the walled garden, with its clumps of box and lilac, and the vast
                     barn on the left, all joined in expressing a silent welcome to their owner, as
                     he drove up the lane. Moses, a man of twenty-five, left his work in the garden,
                     and walked forward in his shirt-sleeves.
                  "Well, father, how does thee do?" was his quiet greeting, as they shook
                     hands.
                  "How's mother, by this time?" asked Eli.
                  "O, thee needn't have been concerned," said the son. "There she is. Go in: I'll
                     'tend to the horse."
                  Abigail and her daughter appeared on the piazza. The mother was a woman of
                     fifty, thin and delicate in frame, but with a smooth, placid beauty of
                     countenance which had survived her youth. She was dressed in a simple
                     dove-colored gown, with book-muslin cap and handkerchief, so scrupulously
                     arranged that one might have associated with her for six months without ever
                     discovering a spot on the former or an uneven fold in the latter. Asenath, who
                     followed, was almost as plainly attired, her dress being a dark-blue calico,
                     while a white pasteboard sun-bonnet, with broad cape, covered her head.
                  "Well, Abigail, how art thou?" said Eli, quietly giving his hand to his
                     wife.
                  "I'm glad to see thee back," was her simple welcome.
                  No doubt they had kissed each other as lovers, but Asenath had witnessed this manifestation of
                     affection but once in her life,—after the burial of a younger sister. The fact
                     impressed her with a peculiar sense of sanctity and solemnity: it was a caress
                     wrung forth by a season of tribulation, and therefore was too earnest to be
                     profaned to the uses of joy. So, far, therefore, from expecting a paternal
                     embrace, she would have felt, had it been given, like the doomed daughter of
                     the Gileadite, consecrated to sacrifice.
                  Both she and her mother were anxious to hear the proceedings of the Meeting,
                     and to receive personal news of the many friends whom Eli had seen; but they
                     asked few questions until the supper-table was ready and Moses had come in from
                     the barn. The old man enjoyed talking, but it must be in his own way and at his
                     own good time. They must wait until the communicative spirit should move him.
                     With the first cup of coffee the inspiration came. Hovering, at first, over
                     indifferent details, he gradually approached those of more importance,—told of
                     the addresses which had been made, the points of discipline discussed, the
                     testimony borne, and the appearance and genealogy of any new Friends who had
                     taken a prominent part therein. Finally, at the close of his relation, he
                     said,—
                  "Abigail, there is one thing I must talk to thee about. Friend Speakman's
                     partner—perhaps thee's heard of him, Richard Hilton—has a son who is weakly.
                     He's two or three years younger than Moses. His mother was consumptive, and
                     they're afraid he takes after her. His father wants to send him into the
                     country for the summer,—to some place where he'll have good air, and quiet, and
                     moderate exercise, and Friend Speakman spoke of us. I thought I'd mention it to
                     thee, and if thee thinks well of it, we can send word down next week, when
                     Josiah Comly goes."
                  "What does thee think?" asked his wife, after a pause.
                  "He's a very quiet, steady young man, Friend Speakman says, and would be very
                     little trouble to thee. I thought perhaps his board would buy the new yoke of
                     oxen we must have in the fall, and the price of the fat ones might go to help
                     set up Moses. But it's for thee to decide."
                  "I suppose we could take him," said Abigail, seeing that the decision was
                     virtually made already; "there's the corner-room, which we don't often use.
                     Only, if he should get worse on our hands"——
                  "Friend Speakman says there 's no danger. He's only weak-breasted, as yet, and
                     clerking is n't good for him. I saw the young man at the store. If his looks
                     don't belie him, he's well-behaved and orderly."
                  So it was settled that Richard Hilton the younger was to be an inmate of Friend
                     Mitchenor's house during the summer.
               
               
                  II.
                  AT the end of ten days he came.
                  In the under-sized, earnest, dark-haired, and dark-eyed young man of
                     three-and-twenty Abigail Mitchenor at once felt a motherly interest. Having
                     received him as a temporary member of the family, she considered him entitled
                     to the same watchful care as if he were in reality an invalid son. The ice over
                     an hereditary Quaker nature is but a thin crust, if one knows how to break it;
                     and in Richard Hilton's case, it was already broken before his arrival. His
                     only embarrassment, in fact, arose from the difficulty which he naturally
                     experienced in adapting himself to the speech and address of the Mitchenor
                     family. The greetings of old Eli, grave, yet kindly, of Abigail, quaintly
                     familiar and tender, of Moses, cordial and slightly condescending, and finally
                     of Asenath, simple and natural to a degree which impressed him like a new
                     revelation in woman, at once indicated to him his position among them. His city
                     manners, he felt, instinctively, must be unlearned, or at least laid aside for
                     a time. Yet it was not easy for him to assume, at such short notice, those of
                     his hosts. Happening to address Asenath as "Miss Mitchenor," Eli turned to him
                     with a rebuking face.
                  
                  "We do not use compliments, Richard," said he; "my daughter's name is
                     Asenath."
                  "I beg pardon. I will try to accustom myself to your ways, since you have been
                     so kind as to take me for a while," apologized Richard Hilton.
                  "Thee's under no obligation to us," said Friend Mitchenor, in his strict sense
                     of justice; "thee pays for what thee gets."
                  The finer feminine instinct of Abigail led her to interpose.
                  "We'll not expect too much of thee, at first, Richard," she remarked, with a
                     kind expression of face, which had the effect of a smile; "but our ways are
                     plain and easily learned. Thee knows, perhaps, that we're no respecters of
                     persons."
                  It was some days, however, before the young man could overcome his natural
                     hesitation at the familiarity implied by these new forms of speech. "Friend
                     Mitchenor" and "Moses" were not difficult to learn, but it seemed a want of
                     respect to address as "Abigail" a woman of such sweet and serene dignity as the
                     mother, and he was fain to avoid either extreme by calling her, with her
                     cheerful permission, "Aunt Mitchenor." On the other hand, his own modest and
                     unobtrusive nature soon won the confidence and cordial regard of the family. He
                     occasionally busied himself in the garden, by way of exercise, or accompanied
                     Moses to the cornfield or the woodland on the hill, but was careful never to
                     interfere at inopportune times, and willing to learn silently, by the simple
                     process of looking on.
                  One afternoon as he was idly sitting on the stone wall which separated the
                     garden from the lane, Asenath, attired in a new gown of chocolate-colored
                     calico, with a double-handled willow work-basket on her arm, issued from the
                     house. As she approached him, she paused and said,—
                  "The time seems to hang heavy on thy hands, Richard. If thee's strong enough to
                     walk to the village and back, it might do thee more good than sitting
                     still."
                  Richard Hilton at once jumped down from the wall.
                  "Certainly I am able to go," said he, "if you will allow it."
                  "Have n't I asked thee?" was her quiet reply.
                  "Let me carry your basket," he said, suddenly, after they had walked, side by
                     side, some distance down the lane.
                  "Indeed, I shall not let thee do that. I'm only going for the mail, and some
                     little things at the store, that make no weight at all. Thee must n't think I'm
                     like the young women in the city, who,—I'm told,—if they buy a spool of cotton,
                     must have it sent home to them. Besides, thee must n't over-exert thy
                     strength."
                  Richard Hilton laughed merrily at the gravity with which she uttered the last
                     sentence.
                  "Why, Miss—Asenath, I mean—what am I good for, if I have not strength enough to
                     carry a basket?"
                  "Thee's a man, I know, and I think a man would almost as lief be thought wicked
                     as weak. Thee can't help being weakly-inclined, and it's only right that thee
                     should be careful of thyself. There's surely nothing in that that thee need be
                     ashamed of."
                  While thus speaking, Asenath moderated her walk, in order, unconsciously to her
                     companion, to restrain his steps.
                  "O, there are the dog's-tooth violets in blossom!" she exclaimed, pointing to a
                     shady spot beside the brook; "does thee know them?"
                  Richard immediately gathered and brought to her a handful of the nodding yellow
                     bells, trembling above their large, cool, spotted leaves.
                  "How beautiful they are!" said he; "but I should never have taken them for
                     violets."
                  "They are misnamed," she answered. "The flower is an Erythronium; but I am accustomed to the common name, and like it.
                     Did thee ever study botany?"
                  Not at all. I can tell a geranium, when I see it, and I know a heliotrope by
                     the smell. I could never mistake a red cabbage for a rose, and I can recognize
                     a hollyhock or a sunflower at a
                     considerable distance. The wild-flowers are all strangers to me; I wish I knew
                     something about them."
                  "If thee's fond of flowers, it would be very easy to learn. I think a study of
                     this kind would pleasantly occupy thy mind. Why could n't thee try? I would be
                     very willing to teach thee what little I know. It's not much, indeed, but all
                     thee wants is a start. See, I will show thee how simple the principles
                     are."
                  Taking one of the flowers from the bunch, Asenath, as they slowly walked
                     forward, proceeded to dissect it, explained the mysteries of stamens and
                     pistils, pollen, petals, and calyx, and, by the time they had reached the
                     village, had succeeded in giving him a general idea of the Linnæan system of
                     classification. His mind took hold of the subject with a prompt and profound
                     interest. It was a new and wonderful world which suddenly opened before him.
                     How surprised he was to learn that there were signs by which a poisonous herb
                     could be detected from a wholesome one, that cedars and pine-trees blossomed,
                     that the gray lichens on the rocks belonged to the vegetable kingdom! His
                     respect for Asenath's knowledge thrust quite out of sight the restraint which
                     her youth and sex had imposed upon him. She was teacher, equal, friend; and the
                     simple, candid manner which was the natural expression of her dignity and
                     purity thoroughly harmonized with this relation.
                  Although, in reality, two or three years younger than he, Asenath had a gravity
                     of demeanor, a calm self-possession, a deliberate balance of mind, and a repose
                     of the emotional nature, which he had never before observed, except in much
                     older women. She had had, as he could well imagine, no romping girlhood, no
                     season of careless, light-hearted dalliance with opening life, no violent
                     alternation even of the usual griefs and joys of youth. The social calm in
                     which she had expanded had developed her nature as gently and securely as a
                     sea-flower is unfolded below the reach of tides and storms.
                  She would have been very much surprised, if any one had called her handsome;
                     yet her face had a mild, unobtrusive beauty, which seemed to grow and deepen
                     from day to day. Of a longer oval than the Greek standard, it was yet as
                     harmonious in outline; the nose was fine and straight, the dark-blue eyes
                     steady and untroubled, and the lips calmly, but not too firmly closed. Her
                     brown hair, parted over a high white forehead, was smoothly laid across the
                     temples, drawn behind the ears, and twisted into a simple knot. The white cape
                     and sun-bonnet gave her face a nun-like character, which set her apart, in the
                     thoughts of "the world's people" whom she met, as one sanctified for some holy
                     work. She might have gone around the world, repelling every rude word, every
                     bold glance, by the protecting atmosphere of purity and truth which inclosed
                     her.
                  The days went by, each bringing some new blossom to adorn and illustrate the
                     joint studies of the young man and maiden. For Richard Hilton had soon mastered
                     the elements of botany, as taught by Priscilla Wakefield,—the only source of
                     Asenath's knowledge,—and entered, with her, upon the text-book of Gray, a copy
                     of which he procured from Philadelphia. Yet, though he had overtaken her in his
                     knowledge of the technicalities of the science, her practical acquaintance with
                     plants and their habits left her still his superior. Day by day, exploring the
                     meadows, the woods, and the clearings, he brought home his discoveries to enjoy
                     her aid in classifying and assigning them to their true places. Asenath had
                     generally an hour or two of leisure from domestic duties in the afternoons, or
                     after the early supper of summer was over; and sometimes, on "Seventh-days,"
                     she would be his guide to some locality where the rarer plants were known to
                     exist. The parents saw this community of interest and exploration without a
                     thought of misgiving. They trusted their daughter as themselves; or, if any
                     possible fear had flitted across their hearts, it was allayed by the absorbing
                     delight with which Richard Hilton pursued his study. An earnest discussion cussion as to whether a certain leaf
                     was ovate or lanceolate, whether a certain plant belonged to the species
                        scandens or canadensis, was, in their eyes, convincing proof that the young
                     brains were touched, and therefore not the young hearts.
                  But love, symbolized by a rose-bud, is emphatically a botanical emotion. A
                     sweet, tender perception of beauty, such as this study requires, or develops,
                     is at once the most subtile and certain chain of communication between
                     impressible natures. Richard Hilton, feeling that his years were numbered, had
                     given up, in despair, his boyish dreams, even before he understood them: his
                     fate seemed to preclude the possibility of love. But, as he gained a little
                     strength from the genial season, the pure country air, and the release from
                     gloomy thoughts which his rambles afforded, the end was farther removed, and a
                     future—though brief, perhaps, still a future—began to glimmer
                     before him. If this could be his life,—an endless summer, with a search for new
                     plants every morning, and their classification every evening, with Asenath's
                     help, on the shady portico of Friend Mitchenor's house,—he could forget his
                     doom, and enjoy the blessing of life unthinkingly.
                  The azaleas succeeded to the anemones, the orchis and trillium followed, then
                     the yellow gerardias and the feathery purple pogonias, and finally the growing
                     gleam of the golden-rods along the wood-side and the red umbels of the tall
                     eupatoriums in the meadow announced the close of summer. One evening, as
                     Richard, in displaying his collection, brought to view the blood-red leaf of a
                     gum-tree, Asenath exclaimed,—
                  "Ah, there is the sign! It is early, this year."
                  "What sign?" he asked.
                  "That the summer is over. We shall soon have frosty nights, and then nothing
                     will be left for us except the asters and gentians and golden-rods."
                  Was the time indeed so near? A few more weeks, and this Arcadian life would
                     close. He must go back to the city, to its rectilinear streets, its close brick
                     walls, its artificial, constrained existence. How could he give up the peace,
                     the contentment, the hope he had enjoyed through the summer? The question
                     suddenly took a more definite form in his mind: How could he give up Asenath?
                     Yes,—the quiet, unsuspecting girl, sitting beside him, with her lap full of the
                     September blooms he had gathered, was thenceforth a part of his inmost life.
                     Pure and beautiful as she was, almost sacred in his regard, his heart dared to
                     say,—"I need her and claim her!"
                  "Thee looks pale to-night, Richard," said Abigail, as they took their seats at
                     the supper-table. "I hope thee has not taken cold."
               
               
                  III.
                  "WILL thee go along, Richard? I know where the rudbeckias grow," said Asenath,
                     on the following "Seventh-day" afternoon.
                  They crossed the meadows, and followed the course of the stream, under its
                     canopy of magnificent ash and plane-trees, into a brake between the hills. It
                     was an almost impenetrable thicket, spangled with tall autumnal flowers. The
                     eupatoriums, with their purple crowns, stood like young trees, with an
                     undergrowth of aster and blue spikes of lobelia, tangled in a golden mesh of
                     dodder. A strong, mature odor, mixed alike of leaves and flowers, and very
                     different from the faint, elusive sweetness of spring, filled the air. The
                     creek, with a few faded leaves dropped upon its bosom, and films of gossamer
                     streaming from its bushy fringe, gurgled over the pebbles in its bed. Here and
                     there, on its banks, shone the deep yellow stars of the flower they sought.
                  Richard Hilton walked as in a dream, mechanically plucking a stem of rudbeckia,
                     only to toss it, presently, into the water.
                  
                  "Why, Richard! what's thee doing?" cried Asenath; "thee has thrown away the
                     very best specimen."
                  "Let it go," he answered, sadly. "I am afraid everything else is thrown
                     away."
                  "What does thee mean?" she asked, with a look of surprised and anxious
                     inquiry.
                  "Don't ask me, Asenath. Or—yes, I will tell you. I must say it to
                     you now, or never afterwards. Do you know what a happy life I've been leading
                     since I came here?—that I've learned what life is, as if I'd never known it
                     before? I want to live, Asenath,—and do you know why?"
                  "I hope thee will live, Richard," she said, gently and tenderly, her deep-blue
                     eyes dim with the mist of unshed tears.
                  "But, Asenath, how am I to live without you? But you can't understand that,
                     because you do not know what you are to me. No, you never guessed that all this
                     while I've been loving you more and more, until now I have no other idea of
                     death than not to see you, not to love you, not to share your life!"
                  "O, Richard!"
                  "I knew you would be shocked, Asenath. I meant to have kept this to myself. You
                     never dreamed of it, and I had no right to disturb the peace of your heart. The
                     truth is told now,—and I cannot take it back, if I wished. But if you cannot
                     love, you can forgive me for loving you,—forgive me now, and every day of my
                     life."
                  He uttered these words with a passionate tenderness, standing on the edge of
                     the stream, and gazing into its waters. His slight frame trembled with the
                     violence of his emotion. Asenath, who had become very pale as he commenced to
                     speak, gradually flushed over neck and brow as she listened. Her head drooped,
                     the gathered flowers fell from her hands, and she hid her face. For a few
                     minutes no sound was heard but the liquid gurgling of the water, and the
                     whistle of a bird in the thicket beside them. Richard Hilton at last turned,
                     and, in a voice of hesitating entreaty, pronounced her name,—
                  "Asenath!"
                  She took away her hands and slowly lifted her face. She was pale, but her eyes
                     met his with a frank, appealing, tender expression, which caused his heart to
                     stand still a moment. He read no reproach, no faintest thought of blame;
                     but—was it pity?—was it pardon?—or——
                  "We stand before God, Richard," said she, in a low, sweet, solemn tone. "He
                     knows that I do not need to forgive thee. If thee requires it, I also require
                     His forgiveness for myself."
                  Though a deeper blush now came to cheek and brow, she met his gaze with the
                     bravery of a pure and innocent heart. Richard, stunned with the sudden and
                     unexpected bliss, strove to take the full consciousness of it into a being
                     which seemed too narrow to contain it. His first impulse was to rush forward,
                     clasp her passionately in his arms, and hold her in the embrace which
                     encircled, for him, the boundless promise of life; but she stood there,
                     defenceless, save in her holy truth and trust, and his heart bowed down and
                     gave her reverence.
                  "Asenath," said he, at last, "I never dared to hope for this. God bless you for
                     those words! Can you trust me?—can you indeed love me?"
                  "I can trust thee,—I do love thee!"
                  They clasped each other's hands in one long, clinging pressure. No kiss was
                     given, but side by side they walked slowly up the dewy meadows, in happy and
                     hallowed silence. Asenath's face became troubled as the old farm-house appeared
                     through the trees.
                  "Father and mother must know of this, Richard," said she. "I am afraid it may
                     be a cross to them."
                  The same fear had already visited his own mind, but he answered,
                     cheerfully,—
                  "I hope not. I think I have taken a new lease of life, and shall soon be strong
                     enough to satisfy them. Besides, my father is in prosperous business."
                  
                  "It is not that," she answered; "but thee is not one of us."
                  It was growing dusk when they reached the house. In the dim candle-light
                     Asenath's paleness was not remarked; and Richard's silence was attributed to
                     fatigue.
                  The next morning the whole family attended meeting at the neighboring Quaker
                     meeting-house, in the preparation for which, and the various special
                     occupations of their "First-day" mornings, the unsuspecting parents overlooked
                     that inevitable change in the faces of the lovers which they must otherwise
                     have observed. After dinner, as Eli was taking a quiet walk in the garden,
                     Richard Hilton approached him.
                  "Friend Mitchenor," said he, "I should like to have some talk with thee."
                  "What is it, Richard?" asked the old man, breaking off some pods from a
                     seedling radish, and rubbing them in the palm of his hand.
                  "I hope, Friend Mitchenor," said the young man, scarcely knowing how to
                     approach so important a crisis in his life, "I hope thee has been satisfied
                     with my conduct since I came to live with thee, and has no fault to find with
                     me as a man."
                  "Well," exclaimed Eli, turning around and looking up, sharply, "does thee want
                     a testimony from me? I've nothing, that I know of, to say against thee."
                  "If I were sincerely attached to thy daughter, Friend Mitchenor, and she
                     returned the attachment, could thee trust her happiness in my hands?"
                  "What?" cried Eli, straightening himself and glaring upon the speaker, with a
                     face too amazed to express any other feeling.
                  "Can you confide Asenath's happiness to my care? I love her with my whole heart
                     and soul, and the fortune of my life depends on your answer."
                  The straight lines in the old man's face seemed to grow deeper and more rigid,
                     and his eyes shone with the chill glitter of steel. Richard, not daring to say
                     a word more, awaited his reply in intense agitation.
                  "So!" he exclaimed at last, "this is the way thee's repaid me! I didn't expect
                        this from thee! Has thee spoken to her?"
                  "I have."
                  "Thee has, has thee? And I suppose thee 's persuaded her to think as thee does.
                     Thee'd better never have come here. When I want to lose my daughter, and can't
                     find anybody else for her, I'll let thee know."
                  "What have you against me, Friend Mitchenor?" Richard sadly asked, forgetting,
                     in his excitement, the Quaker speech he had learned.
                  "Thee need n't use compliments now! Asenath shall be a Friend while
                        I live; thy fine clothes and merry-makings and vanities are not
                     for her. Thee belongs to the world, and thee may choose one of the world's
                     women."
                  "Never!" protested Richard; but Friend Mitchenor was already ascending the
                     garden-steps on his way to the house.
                  The young man, utterly overwhelmed, wandered to the nearest grove and threw
                     himself on the ground. Thus, in a miserable chaos of emotion, unable to grasp
                     any fixed thought, the hours passed away. Towards evening, he heard a footstep
                     approaching, and sprang up. It was Moses.
                  The latter was engaged, with the consent of his parents, and expected to "pass
                     meeting" in a few weeks. He knew what had happened, and felt a sincere sympathy
                     for Richard, for whom he had a cordial regard. His face was very grave, but
                     kind.
                  "Thee 'd better come in, Richard," said he; "the evenings are damp, and I've
                     brought thy overcoat. I know everything, and I feel that it must be a great
                     cross for thee. But thee won't be alone in bearing it."
                  "Do you think there is no hope of your father relenting?" he asked, in a tone
                     of despondency which anticipated the answer.
                  "Father's very hard to move," said Moses; "and when mother and Asenath can't prevail on him, nobody
                     else need try. I'm afraid thee must make up thy mind to the trial. I'm sorry to
                     say it, Richard, but I think thee'd better go back to town."
                  "I'll go to-morrow,—go and die!" he muttered hoarsely, as he followed Moses to
                     the house.
                  Abigail, as she saw his haggard face, wept quietly. She pressed his hand
                     tenderly, but said nothing. Eli was stern and cold as an Iceland rock. Asenath
                     did not make her appearance. At supper, the old man and his son exchanged a few
                     words about the farm-work to be done on the morrow, but nothing else was said.
                     Richard soon left the room and went up to his chamber to spend his last, his
                     only unhappy night at the farm. A yearning, pitying look from Abigail
                     accompanied him.
                  "Try and not think hard of us!" was her farewell the next morning, as he
                     stepped into the old chair, in which Moses was to convey him to the village
                     where he should meet the Doylestown stage. So, without a word of comfort from
                     Asenath's lips, without even a last look at her beloved face, he was taken
                     away.
               
               
                  IV.
                  TRUE and firm and self-reliant as was the nature of Asenath Mitchenor, the
                     thought of resistance to her father's will never crossed her mind. It was
                     fixed, that she must renounce all intercourse with Richard Hilton; it was even
                     sternly forbidden her to see him again during the few hours he remained in the
                     house; but the sacred love, thus rudely dragged to the light and outraged, was
                     still her own. She would take it back into the keeping of her heart, and if a
                     day should ever come when he would be free to return and demand it of her, he
                     would find it there, unwithered, with all the unbreathed perfume hoarded in its
                     folded leaves. If that day came not, she would at the last give it back to God,
                     saying, "Father, here is Thy most precious gift: bestow it as Thou wilt."
                  As her life had never before been agitated by any strong emotion, so it was not
                     outwardly agitated now. The placid waters of her soul did not heave and toss
                     before those winds of passion and sorrow; they lay in dull, leaden calm, under
                     a cold and sunless sky. What struggles with herself she underwent no one ever
                     knew. After Richard Hilton's departure, she never mentioned his name, or
                     referred, in any way, to the summer's companionship with him. She performed her
                     household duties, if not cheerfully, at least as punctually and carefully as
                     before; and her father congratulated himself that the unfortunate attachment
                     had struck no deeper root. Abigail's finer sight, however, was not deceived by
                     this external resignation. She noted the faint shadows under the eyes, the
                     increased whiteness of the temples, the unconscious traces of pain which
                     sometimes played about the dimpled corners of the mouth, and watched her
                     daughter with a silent, tender solicitude.
                  The wedding of Moses was a severe test of Asenath's strength, but she stood the
                     trial nobly, performing all the duties required by her position with such sweet
                     composure that many of the older female Friends remarked to Abigail, "How
                     womanly Asenath has grown!" Eli Mitchenor noted, with peculiar satisfaction,
                     that the eyes of the young Friends—some of them of great promise in the sect,
                     and well endowed with worldly goods—followed her admiringly. "It will not be
                     long," he thought, "before she is consoled."
                  Fortune seemed to favor his plans, and justify his harsh treatment of Richard
                     Hilton. There were unfavorable accounts of the young man's conduct. His father
                     had died during the winter, and he was represented as having become very
                     reckless and dissipated. These reports at last assumed such a definite form
                     that Friend Mitchenor brought them to the notice of his family.
                  "I met Josiah Comly in the road," said he one day at dinner. "He's just come
                     from Philadelphia, and brings bad news of Richard Hilton. He's taken to drink,
                     and is spending in wickedness the
                     money his father left him. His friends have a great concern about him, but it
                     seems he's not to be reclaimed."
                  Abigail looked imploringly at her husband, but he either disregarded or failed
                     to understand her look. Asenath, who had grown very pale, steadily met her
                     father's gaze, and said, in a tone which he had never yet heard from her
                     lips,—
                  "Father, will thee please never mention Richard Hilton's name when I am
                     by?"
                  The words were those of entreaty, but the voice was that of authority. The old
                     man was silenced by a new and unexpected power in his daughter's heart; he
                     suddenly felt that she was not a girl, as heretofore, but a woman, whom he
                     might persuade, but could no longer compel.
                  "It shall be as thee wishes, Asenath," he said; "we had best forget him."
                  Of their friends, however, she could not expect this reserve, and she was
                     doomed to hear stories of Richard which clouded and embittered her thoughts of
                     him. And a still severer trial was in store. She accompanied her father, in
                     obedience to his wish, and against her own desire, to the Yearly Meeting in
                     Philadelphia. It has passed into a proverb, that the Friends on these
                     occasions, always bring rain with them; and the period of her visit was no
                     exception to the rule. The showery days of "Yearly Meeting Week" glided by,
                     until the last, and she looked forward with relief to the morrow's return to
                     Buck's County, glad to have escaped a meeting with Richard Hilton, which might
                     have confirmed her fears, and could but have given her pain in any case.
                  As she and her father joined each other, outside the meeting-house, at the
                     close of the afternoon meeting, a light rain was falling. She took his arm,
                     under the capacious umbrella, and they were soon alone in the wet streets, on
                     their way to the house of the Friends who entertained them. At a crossing,
                     where the water, pouring down the gutter towards the Delaware, caused them to
                     halt, a man, plashing through the flood, staggered towards them. Without an
                     umbrella, with dripping, disordered clothes, yet with a hot, flushed face,
                     around which the long black hair hung wildly, he approached, singing to
                     himself, with maudlin voice, a song which would have been sweet and tender in a
                     lover's mouth. Friend Mitchenor drew to one side, lest his spotless drab should
                     be brushed by the unclean reveller; but the latter, looking up, stopped
                     suddenly, face to face with them.
                  "Asenath!" he cried, in a voice whose anguish pierced through the confusion of
                     his senses, and struck down into the sober quick of his soul.
                  "Richard!" she breathed, rather than spoke, in a low, terrified voice.
                  It was indeed Richard Hilton who stood before her, or rather—as she afterwards
                     thought, in recalling the interview—the body of Richard Hilton, possessed by an
                     evil spirit. His cheeks burned with a more than hectic red, his eyes were wild
                     and bloodshot, and though the recognition had suddenly sobered him, an
                     impatient, reckless devil seemed to lurk under the set mask of his
                     features.
                  "Here I am, Asenath," he said at length, hoarsely. "I said it was death, did
                     n't I? Well, it's worse than death, I suppose; but what matter? You can 't be
                     more lost to me now than you were already. This is thy doing,
                     Friend Eli!" he continued, turning to the old man, with a sneering emphasis on
                     the "thy." "I hope thee's satisfied with thy work?"
                  Here he burst into a bitter, mocking laugh, which it chilled Asenath's blood to
                     hear.
                  The old man turned pale. "Come away, child!" said he, tugging at her arm. But
                     she stood firm, strengthened for the moment by a solemn feeling of duty which
                     trampled down her pain.
                  "Richard," she said, with the music of an immeasurable sorrow in her voice, "O
                     Richard, what has thee done? Where
                     the Lord commands resignation, thee has been rebellious; where he chasteneth to
                     purify, thee turns blindly to sin. I had not expected this of thee, Richard; I
                     thought thy regard for me was of the kind which would have helped and uplifted
                     thee,—not through me, as an unworthy object, but through the hopes and the pure
                     desires of thy own heart. I expected that thee would so act as to justify what
                     I felt towards thee, not to make my affection a reproach,—O Richard, not to
                     cast over my heart the shadow of thy sin!"
                  The wretched young man supported himself against the post of an awning, buried
                     his face in his hands, and wept passionately. Once or twice he essayed to
                     speak, but his voice was choked by sobs, and, after a look from the streaming
                     eyes which Asenath could scarcely bear to meet, he again covered his face. A
                     stranger, coming down the street, paused out of curiosity. "Come, come!" cried
                     Eli, once more, eager to escape from the scene. His daughter stood still, and
                     the man slowly passed on.
                  Asenath could not thus leave her lost lover, in his despairing grief. She again
                     turned to him, her own tears flowing fast and free.
                  "I do not judge thee, Richard, but the words that passed between us give me a
                     right to speak to thee. It was hard to lose sight of thee then, but it is still
                     harder for me to see thee now. If the sorrow and pity I feel could save thee, I
                     would be willing never to know any other feelings. I would still do anything
                     for thee except that which thee cannot ask, as thee now is, and I could not
                     give. Thee has made the gulf between us so wide that it cannot be crossed. But
                     I can now weep for thee and pray for thee as a fellow-creature whose soul is
                     still precious in the sight of the Lord. Fare thee well!"
                  He seized the hand she extended, bowed down, and showered mingled tears and
                     kisses upon it. Then, with a wild sob in his throat, he started up and rushed
                     down the street, through the fast-falling rain. The father and daughter ter
                     walked home in silence. Eli had heard every word that was spoken, and felt that
                     a spirit whose utterances he dared not question had visited Asenath's
                     tongue.
                  She, as year after year went by, regained the peace and patience which give a
                     sober cheerfulness to life. The pangs of her heart grew dull and transient; but
                     there were two pictures in her memory which never blurred in outline or faded
                     in color: one, the break of autumn flowers, under the bright autumnal sky, with
                     bird and stream making accordant music to the new voice of love; the other, a
                     rainy street, with a lost, reckless man leaning against an awning-post, and
                     staring in her face with eyes whose unutterable woe, when she dared to recall
                     it, darkened the beauty of the earth, and almost shook her trust in the
                     providence of God.
               
               
                  V.
                  YEAR after year passed by, but not without bringing change to the Mitchenor
                     family. Moses had moved to Chester County soon after his marriage, and had a
                     good farm of his own. At the end of ten years Abigail died; and the old man,
                     who had not only lost his savings by an unlucky investment, but was obliged to
                     mortgage his farm, finally determined to sell it and join his son. He was
                     getting too old to manage it properly, impatient under the unaccustomed
                     pressure of debt, and depressed by the loss of the wife to whom, without any
                     outward show of tenderness, he was, in truth, tenderly attached. He missed her
                     more keenly in the places where she had lived and moved than in a neighborhood
                     without the memory of her presence. The pang with which he parted from his home
                     was weakened by the greater pang which had preceded it.
                  It was a harder trial to Asenath. She shrank from the encounter with new faces,
                     and the necessity of creating new associations. There was a quiet satisfaction
                     in the ordered, monotonous round of her life, which might be the same elsewhere, but here alone was the nook
                     which held all the morning sunshine she had ever known. Here still lingered the
                     halo of the sweet departed summer,—here still grew the familiar wild-flowers
                     which the first Richard Hilton had gathered. This was the Paradise
                     in which the Adam of her heart had dwelt, before his fall. Her resignation and
                     submission entitled her to keep those pure and perfect memories, though she was
                     scarcely conscious of their true charm. She did not dare to express to herself,
                     in words, that one everlasting joy of woman's heart, through all trials and
                     sorrows,—"I have loved, I have been beloved."
                  On the last "First-day" before their departure, she walked down the meadows to
                     the lonely brake between the hills. It was the early spring, and the black buds
                     of the ash had just begun to swell. The maples were dusted with crimson bloom,
                     and the downy catkins of the swamp-willow dropped upon the stream and floated
                     past her, as once the autumn leaves. In the edges of the thickets peeped forth
                     the blue, scentless violet, the fairy cups of the anemone, and the pink-veined
                     bells of the miskodeed. The tall blooms through which the lovers walked still
                     slept in the chilly earth; but the sky above her was mild and blue, and the
                     remembrance of the day came back to her with a delicate, pungent sweetness,
                     like the perfume of the trailing arbutus in the air around her. In a sheltered,
                     sunny nook, she found a single erythronium, lured forth in advance of its
                     proper season, and gathered it as a relic of the spot, which she might keep
                     without blame. As she stooped to pluck it, her own face looked up at her out of
                     a little pool filled by the spring rains. Seen against the reflected sky, it
                     shone with a soft radiance, and the earnest eyes met hers, as if it were her
                     young self, evoked from the past, to bid her farewell. "Farewell!" she
                     whispered, taking leave at once, as she believed, of youth and the memory of
                     love.
                  During those years she had more than once been sought in marriage, but had
                     steadily, though kindly, refused. Once, when the suitor was a man whose
                     character and position made the union very desirable in Eli Mitchenor's eyes,
                     he ventured to use his paternal influence. Asenath's gentle resistance was
                     overborne by his arbitrary force of will, and her protestations were of no
                     avail.
                  "Father," she finally said, in the tone which he had once heard and still
                     remembered, "thee can take away, but thee cannot give."
                  He never mentioned the subject again.
                  Richard Hilton passed out of her knowledge shortly after her meeting with him
                     in Philadelphia. She heard, indeed, that his headlong career of dissipation was
                     not arrested,—that his friends had given him up as hopelessly ruined,—and,
                     finally, that he had left the city. After that, all reports ceased. He was
                     either dead, or reclaimed and leading a better life, somewhere far away. Dead,
                     she believed,—almost hoped; for in that case might he not now be enjoying the
                     ineffable rest and peace which she trusted might be her portion? It was better
                     to think of him as a purified spirit, waiting to meet her in a holier
                     communion, than to know that he was still bearing the burden of a soiled and
                     blighted life. In any case, her own future was plain and clear. It was simply a
                     prolongation of the present,—an alternation of seed-time and harvest, filled
                     with humble duties and cares, until the Master should bid her lay down her load
                     and follow Him.
                  Friend Mitchenor bought a small cottage adjacent to his son's farm, in a
                     community which consisted mostly of Friends, and not far from the large old
                     meeting-house in which the Quarterly Meetings were held. He at once took his
                     place on the upper seat, among the elders, most of whom he knew already, from
                     having met them, year after year, in Philadelphia. The charge of a few acres of
                     ground gave him sufficient occupation; the money left to him after the sale of
                     his farm was enough to support him comfortably; and a late Indian summer of
                     contentment seemed now to have come to the old man. He was done with the
                     earnest business of life. Moses was gradually taking his place, as father and Friend; and Asenath would
                     be reasonably provided for at his death. As his bodily energies decayed, his
                     imperious temper softened, his mind became more accessible to liberal
                     influences, and he even cultivated a cordial friendship with a neighboring
                     farmer who was one of "the world's people." Thus, at seventy-five, he was
                     really younger, because tenderer of heart and more considerate than he had been
                     at sixty.
                  Asenath was now a woman of thirty-five, and suitors had ceased to approach her.
                     Much of her beauty still remained, but her face had become thin and wasted, and
                     the inevitable lines were beginning to form around her eyes. Her dress was
                     plainer than ever, and she wore the scoop-bonnet of drab silk, in which no
                     woman can seem beautiful, unless she be very old. She was calm and grave in her
                     demeanor, save that her perfect goodness and benevolence shone through and
                     warmed her presence; but, when earnestly interested, she had been known to
                     speak her mind so clearly and forcibly that it was generally surmised among the
                     Friends that she possessed "a gift," which might, in time, raise her to honor
                     among them. To the children of Moses she was a good genius, and a word from
                     "Aunt 'Senath" oftentimes prevailed when the authority of the parents was
                     disregarded. In them she found a new source of happiness; and when her old home
                     on the Neshaminy had been removed a little farther into the past, so that she
                     no longer looked, with every morning's sun, for some familiar feature of its
                     scenery, her submission brightened into a cheerful content with life.
                  It was summer, and Quarterly-Meeting Day had arrived. There had been rumors of
                     the expected presence of "Friends from a distance," and not only those of the
                     district, but most of the neighbors who were not connected with the sect,
                     attended. By the by-road through the woods, it was not more than half a mile
                     from Friend Mitchenor's cottage to the meeting-house, and Asenath, leaving her
                     father to be taken by Moses in his carriage, set out on foot. It was a
                     sparkling, breezy day, and the forest was full of life. Squirrels chased each
                     other along the branches of the oaks, and the air was filled with fragrant
                     odors of hickory-leaves, sweet-fern, and spice-wood. Picking up a flower here
                     and there, Asenath walked onward, rejoicing alike in shade and sunshine,
                     grateful for all the consoling beauty which the earth offers to a lonely heart.
                     That serene content which she had learned to call happiness had filled her
                     being until the dark canopy was lifted and the waters took back their
                     transparency under a cloudless sky.
                  Passing around to the "women's side" of the meeting-house, she mingled with her
                     friends, who were exchanging information concerning the expected visitors.
                     Micajah Morrill had not arrived, they said, but Ruth Baxter had spent the last
                     night at Friend Way's, and would certainly be there. Besides, there were Friend
                     Chandler, from Nine Partners, and Friend Carter, from Maryland: they had been
                     seen on the ground. Friend Carter was said to have a wonderful gift,—Mercy
                     Jackson had heard him once, in Baltimore. The Friends there had been a little
                     exercised about him, because they thought he was too much inclined to "the
                     newness," but it was known that the Spirit had often manifestly led him. Friend
                     Chandler had visited Yearly Meeting once, they believed. He was an old man, and
                     had been a personal friend of Elias Hicks.
                  At the appointed hour they entered the house. After the subdued rustling which
                     ensued upon taking their seats, there was an interval of silence, shorter than
                     usual, because it was evident that many persons would feel the promptings of
                     the Spirit. Friend Chandler spoke first, and was followed by Ruth Baxter, a
                     frail little woman, with a voice of exceeding power. The not unmelodious chant
                     in which she delivered her admonitions rang out, at times, like the peal of a
                     trumpet. Fixing her eyes on vacancy, with her hands on the wooden rail before
                     her, and her body slightly swaying to and fro, her voice soared far aloft at
                     the commencement of every sentence, gradually dropping, through a melodious lodious scale of tone, to the close.
                     She resembled an inspired prophetess, an aged Deborah, crying aloud in the
                     valleys of Israel.
                  The last speaker was Friend Carter, a small man, not more than forty years of
                     age. His face was thin and intense in its expression, his hair gray at the
                     temples, and his dark eye almost too restless for a child of "the stillness and
                     the quietness." His voice, though not loud, was clear and penetrating, with an
                     earnest, sympathetic quality, which arrested, not the ear alone, but the
                     serious attention of the auditor. His delivery was but slightly marked by the
                     peculiar rhythm of the Quaker preachers; and this fact, perhaps, increased the
                     effect of his words, through the contrast with those who preceded him.
                  His discourse was an eloquent vindication of the law of kindness, as the
                     highest and purest manifestation of true Christian doctrine. The paternal
                     relation of God to man was the basis of that religion which appealed directly
                     to the heart: so the fraternity of each man with his fellow was its practical
                     application. God pardons the repentant sinner: we can also pardon, where we are
                     offended; we can pity, where we cannot pardon. Both the good and the bad
                     principles generate their like in others. Force begets force; anger excites a
                     corresponding anger; but kindness awakens the slumbering emotions even of an
                     evil heart. Love may not always be answered by an equal love, but it has never
                     yet created hatred. The testimony which Friends bear against war, he said, is
                     but a general assertion, which has no value except in so far as they manifest
                     the principle of peace in their daily lives,—in the exercise of pity, of
                     charity, of forbearance, and Christian love.
                  The words of the speaker sank deeply into the hearts of his hearers. There was
                     an intense hush, as if in truth the Spirit had moved him to speak, and every
                     sentence was armed with a sacred authority. Asenath Mitchenor looked at him,
                     over the low partition which divided her and her sisters from the men's side,
                     absorbed in his rapt earnestness and truth. She forgot that other hearers were
                     present: he spake to her alone. A strange spell seemed to seize upon her
                     faculties and chain them at his feet: had he beckoned to her, she would have
                     arisen and walked to his side.
                  Friend Carter warmed and deepened as he went on. "I feel moved to-day," he
                     said,—"moved, I know not why, but I hope for some wise purpose,—to relate to
                     you an instance of Divine and human kindness which has come directly to my own
                     knowledge. A young man of delicate constitution, whose lungs were thought to be
                     seriously affected, was sent to the house of a Friend in the country, in order
                     to try the effect of air and exercise."
                  Asenath almost ceased to breathe, in the intensity with which she gazed and
                     listened. Clasping her hands tightly in her lap to prevent them from trembling,
                     and steadying herself against the back of the seat, she heard the story of her
                     love for Richard Hilton told by the lips of a stranger!—not merely of his
                     dismissal from the house, but of that meeting in the street, at which only she
                     and her father were present! Nay, more, she heard her own words repeated, she
                     heard Richard's passionate outburst of remorse described in language that
                     brought his living face before her! She gasped for breath,—his face
                        was before her! The features, sharpened by despairing grief,
                     which her memory recalled, had almost anticipated the harder lines which
                     fifteen years had made, and which now, with a terrible shock and choking leap
                     of the heart, she recognized. Her senses faded, and she would have fallen from
                     her seat but for the support of the partition against which she leaned.
                     Fortunately, the women near her were too much occupied with the narrative to
                     notice her condition. Many of them wept silently, with their handkerchiefs
                     pressed over their mouths.
                  The first shock of death-like faintness passed away, and she clung to the
                     speaker's voice, as if its sound alone could give her strength to sit still and
                     listen further.
                  "Deserted by his friends, unable to stay his feet on the evil path," he
                     continued, "the young man left his home and went to a city in another State. But here it was
                     easier to find associates in evil than tender hearts that might help him back
                     to good. He was tired of life, and the hope of a speedier death hardened him in
                     his courses. But, my friends, Death never comes to those who wickedly seek him.
                     The Lord withholds destruction from the hands that are madly outstretched to
                     grasp it, and forces His pity and forgiveness on the unwilling soul. Finding
                     that it was the principle of life which grew stronger within him,
                     the young man at last meditated an awful crime. The thought of self-destruction
                     haunted him day and night. He lingered around the wharves, gazing into the deep
                     waters, and was restrained from the deed only by the memory of the last loving
                     voice he had heard. One gloomy evening, when even this memory had faded, and he
                     awaited the approaching darkness to make his design secure, a hand was laid on
                     his arm. A man in the simple garb of the Friends stood beside him, and a face
                     which reflected the kindness of the Divine Father looked upon him. 'My child,'
                     said he, 'I am drawn to thee by the great trouble of thy mind. Shall I tell
                     thee what it is thee meditates?' The young man shook his head. 'I will be
                     silent, then, but I will save thee. I know the human heart, and its trials and
                     weaknesses, and it may be put into my mouth to give thee strength.' He took the
                     young man's hand, as if he had been a little child, and led him to his home. He
                     heard the sad story, from beginning to end; and the young man wept upon his
                     breast, to hear no word of reproach, but only the largest and tenderest pity
                     bestowed upon him. They knelt down, side by side, at midnight; and the Friend's
                     right hand was upon his head while they prayed.
                  "The young man was rescued from his evil ways, to acknowledge still further the
                     boundless mercy of Providence. The dissipation wherein he had recklessly sought
                     death was, for him, a marvellous restoration to life. His lungs had become
                     sound and free from the tendency to disease. The measure of his forgiveness was
                     almost more than he could bear. He bore his cross thenceforward with a joyful
                     resignation, and was mercifully drawn nearer and nearer to the Truth, until, in
                     the fulness of his convictions, he entered into the brotherhood of the
                     Friends.
                  "I have been powerfully moved to tell you this story," Friend Carter concluded,
                     "from a feeling that it may be needed, here, at this time, to influence some
                     heart trembling in the balance. Who is there among you, my friends, that may
                     not snatch a brand from the burning? O, believe that pity and charity are the
                     most effectual weapons given into the hands of us imperfect mortals, and leave
                     the awful attribute of wrath in the hands of the Lord!"
                  He sat down, and dead silence ensued. Tears of emotion stood in the eyes of the
                     hearers, men as well as women, and tears of gratitude and thanksgiving gushed
                     warmly from those of Asenath. An ineffable peace and joy descended upon her
                     heart.
                  When the meeting broke up, Friend Mitchenor, who had not recognized Richard
                     Hilton, but had heard the story with feelings which he endeavored in vain to
                     control, approached the preacher.
                  "The Lord spoke to me this day through thy lips," said he; "will thee come to
                     one side, and hear me a minute?"
                  "Eli Mitchenor!" exclaimed Friend Carter; "Eli! I knew not thee was here! Does
                     n't thee know me?"
                  The old man stared in astonishment. "It seems like a face I ought to know," he
                     said, "but I can't place thee."
                  They withdrew to the shade of one of the poplars. Friend Carter turned again,
                     much moved, and, grasping the old man's hands in his own, exclaimed,—
                  "Friend Mitchenor, I was called upon to-day to speak of myself. I am—or,
                     rather, I was—the Richard Hilton whom thee knew."
                  Friend Mitchenor's face flushed with mingled emotions of shame and joy, and his
                     grasp on the preacher's hands tightened.
                  "But thee calls thyself Carter?" he finally said.
                  
                  "Soon after I was saved," was the reply, "an aunt on the mother's side died,
                     and left her property to me, on condition that I should take her name. I was
                     tired of my own then, and to give it up seemed only like losing my former self;
                     but I should like to have it back again now."
                  "Wonderful are the ways of the Lord, and past finding out!" said the old man.
                     "Come home with me, Richard,—come for my sake, for there is a concern on my
                     mind until all is clear between us. Or, stay,—will thee walk home with Asenath,
                     while I go with Moses?"
                  "Asenath?"
                  "Yes, there she goes, through the gate. Thee can easily overtake her. I'm
                     coming, Moses!"—and he hurried away to his son's carriage, which was
                     approaching.
                  Asenath felt that it would be impossible for her to meet Richard Hilton there.
                     She knew not why his name had been changed; he had not betrayed his identity
                     with the young man of his story; he evidently did not wish it to be known, and
                     an unexpected meeting with her might surprise him into an involuntary
                     revelation of the fact. It was enough for her that a saviour had arisen, and
                     her lost Adam was redeemed,—that a holier light than the autumn sun's now
                     rested, and would forever rest, on the one landscape of her youth. Her eyes
                     shone with the pure brightness of girlhood, a soft warmth colored her cheek and
                     smoothed away the coming lines of her brow, and her step was light and elastic
                     as in the old time.
                  Eager to escape from the crowd, she crossed the highway, dusty with its string
                     of returning carriages, and entered the secluded lane. The breeze had died
                     away, the air was full of insect-sounds, and the warm light of the sinking sun
                     fell upon the woods and meadows. Nature seemed penetrated with a sympathy with
                     her own inner peace.
                  But the crown of the benignant day was yet to come. A quick footstep followed
                     her, and erelong a voice, near at hand, called her by name.
                  She stopped, turned, and for a moment they stood silent, face to face.
                  "I knew thee, Richard!" at last she said, in a trembling voice; "may the Lord
                     bless thee!"
                  Tears were in the eyes of both.
                  "He has blessed me," Richard answered, in a reverent tone; "and this is His
                     last and sweetest mercy. Asenath, let me hear that thee forgives me."
                  "I have forgiven thee long ago, Richard,—forgiven, but not forgotten."
                  The hush of sunset was on the forest, as they walked onward, side by side,
                     exchanging their mutual histories. Not a leaf stirred in the crowns of the tall
                     trees, and the dusk, creeping along between their stems, brought with it a
                     richer woodland odor. Their voices were low and subdued, as if an angel of God
                     were hovering in the shadows, and listening, or God Himself looked down upon
                     them from the violet sky.
                  At last Richard stopped.
                  "Asenath," said he, "does thee remember that spot on the banks of the creek,
                     where the rudbeckias grew?"
                  "I remember it," she answered, a girlish blush rising to her face.
                  "If I were to say to thee now what I said to thee there, what would be thy
                     answer?"
                  Her words came brokenly.
                  "I would say to thee, Richard,—'I can trust thee,—I do love
                     thee!'"
                  "Look at me, Asenath."
                  Her eyes, beaming with a clearer light than even then when she first confessed,
                     were lifted to his. She placed her hands gently upon his shoulders, and bent
                     her head upon his breast. He tenderly lifted it again, and, for the first time,
                     her virgin lips knew the kiss of man.
               
            
            
               
               A HALF-LIFE AND HALF A LIFE.
               
                  
                     
                        "On garde longtemps son premier amant, quand on n'en prend point de
                           second."
                     
                     —Maximes Morales du Duc de la Rochefoucauld.
                     
                  
               
               IT is not suffering alone that wears out our lives. We sometimes are in a state
                  when a sharp pang would be hailed almost as a blessing,—when, rather than bear any
                  longer this living death of calm stagnation, we would gladly rush into action,
                  into suffering, to feel again the warmth of life restored to our blood, to feel it
                  at least coursing through our veins with something like a living swiftness.
               This death-in-life comes sometimes to the most earnest men,—to those whose life is
                  fullest of energy and excitement. It is the reaction, the weariness which they
                  name Ennui, foul fiend that eats fastest into the heart's core, that shakes with
                  surest hand the sands of life, that makes the deepest wrinkles on the cheeks and
                  deadens most surely the lustre of the eyes.
               But what are the occasional visits of this life-consumer, this vampire that sucks
                  out the blood, to his constant, never-failing presence? There are those who feel
                  within themselves the power of living fullest lives, of sounding every chord of
                  the full diapason of passion and feeling, yet who have been so hemmed around, so
                  shut in by adverse and narrowing circumstances, that never, no, not once in their
                  half-century of years which stretch from childhood to old age, have they been free
                  to breath out, to speak aloud the heart that was in them. Ever the same wasting
                  indifference to the things that are, the same ill-repressed longing for the things
                  that might be. Long days of wearisome repetition of duties in which there is no
                  life, followed by restless nights, when Imagination seizes the reins in her own
                  hands, and paints the out-blossoming of those germs of happiness and fulness of
                  being of whose existence within us we carry about always the aching
                  consciousness.
               And such things I have known from the moment when I first stepped from babyhood
                  into childhood, from the time when life ceased to be a play and came to have its
                  duties and its sufferings. Always the haunting sense of a happiness which I was
                  capable of feeling, faint glimpses of a paradise of which I was a born
                  denizen,—and always, too, the stern knowledge of the restraints which held me
                  prisoner, the idle longings of an exile. But would no strong effort of will, no
                  energy of heart or mind, break the bonds that held me down,—no steady perseverance
                  of purpose win me a way out of darkness into light? No, for I was a woman, an ugly
                  woman, whose girlhood had gone by without affection, and whose womanhood was
                  passing without love,—a woman, poor and dependent on others for daily bread, and
                  yet so bound by conventional duties to those around her that to break from them
                  into independence would be to outrage all the prejudices of those who made her
                  world.
               I could plan such escape from my daily and yearly narrowing life, could dream of
                  myself walking steadfast and unshaken through labor to independence, could picture
                  a life where, if the heart were not fed, at least the tastes might be satisfied,
                  could strengthen myself through all the imaginary details of my going forth from
                  the narrow surroundings which made my prison-walls; but when the time came to take
                  the first step, my courage failed. I could not go out into that world which looked
                  to me so wide and lonely; the necessity for love was too strong for me, I must
                  dwell among mine own people. There, at least, was the bond of custom, there was
                  the affection which grows out of habit; but in the world what hope had I to win love from strangers, with my repellent
                  looks, awkward movements, and want of personal attractions?
               Few persons know that within one hundred and fifty miles of the Queen City of the
                  West, bounded on both sides by highly cultivated tracts of country, looking out
                  westwardly on the very garden of Kentucky, almost in the range of railroad and
                  telegraph, in the very geographical centre of our most populous regions, there lie
                  some thousand square miles of superb woodland, rolling, hill above hill, in the
                  beautiful undulations which characterize the country bordering on the Ohio,
                  watered by fair streams which need only the clearing away of the few obstructions
                  incident to a new country to make them navigable, and yet a country where the mail
                  passes only once a week, where all communication is by horse-paths or by the slow
                  course of the flat-boat, where schools are not known and churches are never seen,
                  where the Methodist itinerant preacher gives all the religious instruction, and a
                  stray newspaper furnishes all the political information. Does any one doubt my
                  statement? Then let him ask a passage up-stream in one of the flat-boats that
                  supply the primitive necessities of the small farmers who dwell on the banks of
                  the Big Sandy, in that debatable border-land which lies between Kentucky and
                  Virginia; or let him, if he have a taste for adventure, hire his horse at
                  Catlettsburg, at the mouth of the river, and lose his way among the blind
                  bridle-paths that lead to Louisa and to Prestonburg. If he stops to ask a night's
                  lodging at one of the farm-houses that are to be found at the junction of the
                  creeks with the rivers, log-houses with their primitive outbuildings, their
                  half-constructed rafts of lumber ready to float down-stream with the next rise,
                  their "dug-outs" for the necessities of river-intercourse, and their rough oxcarts
                  for hauling to and from the mill, he will see before him such a home as that in
                  which I passed the first twenty years of my life.
               I had little claim on the farmer with whom I lived. I was the child by a former
                  marriage of his wife, who had brought me with her into this wilderness, a puny,
                  ailing creature of four years, and into the three years that followed was
                  compressed all the happiness I could remember. The free life in the open air, the
                  nourishing influence of the rich natural scenery by which I was surrounded, the
                  grand, silent trees with their luxuriant foliage, the fresh, strong growth of the
                  vegetation, all seemed to breathe health into my frame, and with health came the
                  capacity for enjoyment. I was happy in the mere gift of existence, happy in the
                  fulness of content, with no playmate but the kindly and lovely mother Earth from
                  whose bosom I drew fulness of life.
               But in my seventh year my mother died, worn out by the endless, unvarying round of
                  labors which break down the constitutions of our small farmers' wives. She grew
                  sallow and thin under repeated attacks of chills and fever, brought into the
                  world, one after another, three puny infants, only to lay them away from her
                  breast, side by side, under the sycamore that overshadowed our cornfield, and
                  visibly wasted away, growing more and more feeble, until, one winter morning, we
                  laid her, too, at rest by her babies. Before the year was out, my father (so I
                  called him) was married again.
               My step-mother was a good woman, and meant to do her duty by me. Nay, she was more
                  than that: she was, as far her poor light went, a Christian. She had experienced
                  religion in the great revival of 18—, which was felt all through Western Kentucky,
                  under the preaching of the Reverend Peleg Dawson, and when she married my father
                  and went to bury herself in the wilds of "Up Sandy" was a shining light in the
                  Methodist Church, a class-leader who had had and had told experiences.
               But all that glory was over now; it had flashed its little day: for there is a
                  glow in the excitement of our religious revivals as potent in its effect on the
                  imaginations of women and young men as ever were the fastings and penances which
                  brought the dreams and reveries, the holy visions and the glorious revealings, of
                  the Catholic votaries. In this short,
                  triumphant time of spiritual pride lay the whole romance of my step-mother's life.
                  Perhaps it was well for her soul that she was taken from the scene of her triumphs
                  and brought again to the hard realities of life. The self-exaltation, the
                     ungodly pride passed away; but there was left the earnest,
                  prayerful desire to do her duty in her way and calling, and the first path of duty
                  which opened to her zeal was that which led to the care of a motherless child, the
                  saving of an immortal soul. And in all sincerity and uprightness did she strive to
                  walk in it. But what woman of five-and-thirty, who has outlived her youth and
                  womanly tenderness in the loneliness and hardening influences of a single life,
                  and who marries at last for a shelter in old age, knows the wants of a little
                  child? Indeed, what but a mother's love has the long-enduring patience to support
                  the never-ceasing calls for forbearance and perseverance which a child makes upon
                  a grown person? Those little ones need the nourishment of love and praise, but
                  such milk for babes can come only from a mother's breast. I got none of it. On the
                  contrary, my dearly loved independence, my wild-wood life, where Nature had become
                  to me my nursing-mother, was exchanged for one of never-ceasing supervision.
                  "Little girls must learn to be useful," was the phrase that greeted my unwilling
                  ears fifty times a day, which pursued me through my daily round of dish-washings,
                  floor-sweepings, bed-making and potato-peeling, to overtake me at last in the very
                  moment when I hoped to reap the reward of my diligence in a free afternoon by the
                  river-side in the crotch of the water-maple that hung over the stream, clutching
                  me and fastening me down to the hated square of patchwork, which bore, in the
                  spots of red that defaced its white purity in following the line of my stitches,
                  the marks of the wounds that my awkward hands inflicted on themselves with their
                  tiny weapon.
               And so the years went on. It was a pity that no babies came to soften our hearts,
                  my step-mother's and mine, and to draw us nearer together as only the presence of
                  children can. A household without children is always hard and angular, even when
                  surrounded by all the softening influences of refinement and education. What was
                  ours with its poverty and roughness, its every-day cares and its endless
                  discomforts? One day was like all the rest, and in their wearying succession they
                  rise up in my memory like ghosts of the past coming to lay their cold, death-like
                  hands on the feebly kindling hopes of the present. I see myself now, as I look
                  back, a tall, awkward girl of fifteen, with my long, straggling, sunburnt hair, my
                  sallow, yet pimply complexion, my small, weak-looking blue eyes, that every
                  exposure to the sun and wind would redden, and my long, lean hands and arms, that
                  offended my sense of beauty constantly, as I dwelt on their hopelessly angular
                  turns. I had one beauty; so my little paper-framed glass, that rested on the rough
                  rafter that edged the sloping roof of my garret, told me, whenever I took it down
                  to gaze in it, which, but for that beauty, would have been but seldom. It was a
                  finely cut and firmly set mouth and chin. There was, and I felt it, beauty and
                  character in the curves of the lips, in the rounding of the chin; there was even a
                  healthy ruddiness in the lips, and something of delicacy in the even, well-set
                  teeth that showed themselves when they parted.
               The gazing at these beauties gave me great pleasure, not for any effect they might
                  ever produce in others,—what did I know of that?—but because I had in myself a
                  strong love of the beautiful, a passion for grace of form and brilliancy of color
                  which made doubly distasteful to me our bare, uncouth walls, with their ugly
                  straight-backed chairs, and their frightfully painted yellow or red tables and
                  chests of drawers.
               My step-mother's appearance, too, was a constant offence to my beauty-loving
                  eye,—with her lank, tall figure, round which clung those narrow skirts of "bit"
                  calico, dingy red or dreary brown,—her feet shod in the heavy store-shoes which
                  were brought us from Catlettsburg by the returning flat-boat men,—her
                  sharp-featured face, the forehead head
                  and cheeks covered with brown, mouldy-looking spots, the eyes deep-set, with a
                  livid dyspeptic ring around them, and the lips thin and pinched,—the whole face
                  shaded by the eternal sun-bonnet, which never left her head from early sunrise
                  till late bedtime (no Sandy woman is ever seen without her sun-bonnet). All these
                  were perpetual annoyances to me; they made me discontented without knowing why;
                  they filled me with disgust, a disgust which my respect for her good qualities
                  could not overcome.
               And then our life, how dreary! The rising in the cold, gray dawn to prepare the
                  breakfast of corn-dodgers and bacon for my father and his men,—the spreading the
                  tablecloth, stained with the soil-spots of yesterday's meal,—the putting upon it
                  the ugly unmatched crockery,—the straggling in of the unwashed, uncombed men in
                  their coarse working-clothes, redolent of the week's unwholesome toil,—their
                  washings, combings, and low talk close by my side,—the varied uses to which our
                  household utensils were put,—the dipping of dirty knives into the salt and of
                  dirty fingers into the meat-dish,—all filled me then, and fill me now, with
                  loathing.
               There was a relief when the men left the house; but then came the dreary
                  "slicking-up," almost more disgusting, in its false, superficial show of
                  cleanliness, than had been the open carelessness of the workmen.
               But there was no time for rest; my step-mother's sharp, high-pitched voice was
                  heard calling, "Janet!" and I followed her to the garden to dig the potatoes from
                  the hills or to the cornfield to pull and husk the three dozen ears of corn which
                  made our chief dish at dinner. Then came the week's washing, the apple-peeling,
                  the pork-salting, work varied only with the varying season, until the blowing of
                  the horn at twelve brought back the men to dinner, after which came again the
                  clearing up, again the day's task, and again the supper.
               I often thought that the men around us were always more cheerful and merry than
                  the women. They worked as hard, they endured as many hardships, but they had,
                  certainly, more pleasures. There was the evening lounge by the fire in winter, the
                  sitting on the fence or at the door-step in summer, when, pipe or cigar in mouth,
                  knife and whittling-stick in hand, jest and gibe would pass round among them, and
                  the boisterous laugh would go up, reaching me, as I lay, tired out, on my little
                  cot, or leaned disconsolate at my garret-window, looking with longing eyes far out
                  into the darkness of the woods. No such gatherings-together of the women did I
                  ever see. If one of our neighbors dragged her weary steps to our kitchen, and sat
                  herself down, baby in lap, on the upturned tub or flag-bottomed chair that I
                  dusted off with my apron, it was to commence the querulous complaint of the last
                  week's chill or the heavy washing of the day before, the ailing baby, or the
                  troublesome child, all told in the same whining voice. Even the choice bit of
                  gossip which roused us at rare intervals always had its dark side, on which these
                  poor women dwelt with a perverse pleasure.
               In short, life was too hard for them; it brought its constant cares without any
                  alleviating pleasures. Their homes were only places of monotonous labor,—their
                  husbands so many hard taskmasters, who exacted from them more than their strength
                  could give,—their children, who should have been the delight of their mothers'
                  hearts, so many additional burdens, the bearing and nursing of which broke down
                  their poor remaining health; the glorious and lavish Nature in which they lived
                  only brought to them added labor, and shut them out from the few social enjoyments
                  that they knew of.
               I was old enough to feel all this,—not to reason on it as I can now, but to rebel
                  against it with all the violence of a vehement nature which feels its strength
                  only in the injuries it inflicts upon itself in its useless struggles for freedom.
                  Bitter tears did I shed sometimes, as I lay with my head on my arms, leaning on
                  that narrow window-sill,—tears of passionate regret that I was not a boy, a man,
                  that I might, by the very force of my right arm, hew my way out of that encircling forest into the world of
                  which I dreamed,—tears, too, that, being as I was, only an ugly, ignorant girl, I
                  could not be allowed to care only for myself, and dream away my life in this same
                  forest, which charmed me while it hemmed me in. My rude, chaotic nature had
                  something of force in it, strength which I knew would stand me in good stead,
                  could I ever find an outlet for it; it had also a power of enjoyment, keen, vivid,
                  could I ever get leave to enjoy.
               At length came the opening, the glimpse of sunlight. I remember, as if it were but
                  yesterday, that afternoon which first showed to my physical sight something of
                  that full life of which my imagination had framed a rude, faint sketch. I was
                  standing at the end of the meadow, just where the rails had been thrown down for
                  the cows, when, looking up the path that led through the wood by the river, I saw,
                  almost at my side, a man on horseback. He stopped, and, half raising his hat, a
                  motion I had never seen before, said,—
               "Is this Squire Boarders's place?"
               I pushed back my sun-bonnet, and looked up at him. I see him now as I saw him
                  then; for my quick, startled glance took in the whole face and figure, which
                  daguerrotyped themselves on my memory. A frank, open face, with well-cut and
                  well-defined features and large hazel eyes, set off by curling brown hair, was
                  smiling down upon me, and, throwing himself from his horse, a young man of about
                  five-and-twenty stood beside me. He had to repeat his question before I gained
                  presence of mind enough to answer him.
               "Is this Squire Boarders's house, and do you think I could get a night's lodging
                  here?"
               It was no unusual thing for us to give a night's lodging to the boatmen from the
                  river, or to the farmers from the back-country, as they passed to or from
                  Catlettsburg; but what accommodation had we for such a guest as here presented? I
                  walked before him up the path to the house, and, shyly pointing to my step-mother,
                  who stood on the porch, said,—
               "That's Miss Boarders; you can ask her."
               And then, before he had time to answer, I fled in an agony of bashfulness to my
                  refuge under the water-maple behind the house. I lingered there as long as I
                  dared,—longer, indeed, than I had any right to linger, for I heard my mother's
                  voice crying, "Janet!" and I well knew that there was nobody but myself to mix the
                  corn-cake, spread the table, or run the dozen errands that would be needed. I
                  slipped in by the back-door, and, escaping my step-mother's peevish complaints,
                  passed into the little closet which served us for pantry, and, scooping up the
                  meal, began diligently to mix it.
               The window by which I stood opened on the porch. My father and his men had come
                  in, and, tipping their chairs against the wall, or mounted on the porch-railing,
                  were smoking their cigars, laughing, joking, talking,—and there in the midst of
                  them sat the stranger, smoking too, and joining in their talk with an easy
                  earnestness that seemed to win them at once. Our country-people do not spare their
                  questions. My father took the lead, the men throwing in a remark now and then.
               "I calculate you have never been in these parts before?"
               "No, never. You have a beautiful country here."
               "The country's well enough, if we could clear off some of them trees that stop a
                  man every way he turns. Did you come up from Lowiza to-day?"
               "No; I have only ridden from the mouth of Blackberry, I believe you call it. I
                  have left a boat and crew there, who will be up in the morning."
               "What truck have you got on your boat?"
               "Lumber and so forth, and plenty of tools of one sort or other."
               "Damn me if I don't believe you're the man who is coming up here to open the coal
                  mines on Burgess's land!" And the whole crowd gathered round him.
               He laughed good-naturedly.
               "Yes, I am coming to live among you. I hope you'll give me a welcome."
               
               There was a cheery sound of welcome from the men, but my father shook his
                  head.
               "We don't like no new-fangled notions, noways, up here, and I'll not say that I 'm
                  glad you 're bringing them in; but, at any rate, you 're welcome here
                  to-night."
               The young man held out his hand.
               "We are to be close neighbors, Squire Boarders, and I hope we shall be good
                  friends; but I ought to tell you all about myself. Mr. Burgess's land has been
                  bought by a company, who intend to open the coal mines, as you know and I am sent
                  up here as their agent, to make ready for the miners and the workmen. We shall
                  clear away a little, and put up some rough shanties, to make our men comfortable
                  before we go to work. We shall bring a new set of people among you, those Scotch
                  and Welsh miners; but I believe they are a peaceable set, and we'll try to be
                  friendly with each other."
               The frank speech and the free, open face seemed to mollify my father.
               "And how do you call yourself, stranger, when you are at home?"
               "My name is George Hammond."
               "Well, as I was telling you, you 're welcome here tonight, and I don't know as
                  I've anything against your settling over the river on Burgess's land. The people
                  round here have been telling me your coming will be a good thing for us farmers,
                  because you'll bring us a market for our corn and potatoes; but I don't see no use
                  of raising more corn than we want for ourselves. We have enough selling to do with
                  our lumber, and you'll be thinning out the trees.—But there's my old woman 's got
                  her supper ready."
               I listened as I waited on the table. The talk varied from farming to mining and
                  the state of the river, merging at last into the politics of the country, and
                  through the whole of it I watched the stranger: noticed how different was his
                  language from anything I had ever heard before; marked the clear tones of his
                  voice, and the distinctness of his utterance ance, contrasting with the heavy,
                  thick gutturals, the running of words into each other, the slovenly drawl of my
                  father and his men; watched his manner of eating, his neat disposition of his food
                  on his plate; saw him move his chair back with a slight expression of annoyance,
                  unmarked by any one else, as Will Foushee spit on the floor beside him. All this I
                  observed, in a mood half envious, half sullen,—a mood which pursued me that night
                  into my little attic, as I peevishly questioned with myself wherein lay the
                  difference between us.
               "Why is this man any better than Will Foushee or Ned Burgess? He is no stronger
                  nor better able to do a day's work. Why am I afraid of him, when I don't care an
                  acorn for the others? Why do my father and the men listen to him and crowd round
                  him? What makes him stand among them as if he did not belong to them, even when he
                  talks of what they know better than he? There is not a man round Sandy that could
                  make me feel as ashamed as that gentleman did when he spoke to me this afternoon.
                  Is it because he is a gentleman?" And sullenly I resolved that I would be put down
                  by no airs. I was as good as he, and would show him to-morrow morning that I felt
                  so. Then came the bitter acknowledgment. "I am not as good as he is. I am a
                  stupid, ugly girl, who knows nothing but hateful housework and a little of the
                  fields and trees; and he,—I suppose he has been to school, and read plenty of
                  books, and lived among quality." And I cried myself to sleep before I had made up
                  my mind fully to acknowledge his superiority.
               It was one of my greatest pleasures to get up early. Our people were not early
                  risers, except when work pressed upon them, and I often secured my only leisure
                  hour for the day by stealing down the staircase, out into the woods, by early
                  sunrise, when, wrapped in an old shawl, and sheltered from the dew by climbing
                  into the lower branches of my pet maple, I would watch the fog reaching up the
                  opposite hills, putting forth as it were an arm, by which, stretched far out over the trees, it seemed to
                  lift itself from the valley,—or, perhaps carrying with me one of the few books
                  which made my library, I would spell out the sentences and attempt to extract
                  their meaning.
               They were a strange medley, my books; some belonging to my step-mother, and others
                  borrowed or begged from the neighbors, or brought to me by the men, with whom I
                  was a favorite, and who knew my passion for reading. My mother's books were mostly
                  religious: a life of Brainerd, the missionary, whose adventures roused within me a
                  gleam of religious enthusiasm; some sermons of the leading Methodist clergy,
                  which, to her horror, I pronounced stupid; and a torn copy of the "Imitation of
                  Christ," a book which she threatened to take from me, because she believed it had
                  something to do with the Papists, but to which, for that very reason, I clung with
                  a tenacity and read with an earnestness which brought at last its own beautiful
                  fruits. Then, there was the "Scottish Chiefs," a treasure-house of delight to
                  me,—two or three trashy novels, given me by Tom Salyers, of which my mother knew
                  nothing,—and (the only poetry I had ever seen) a song-book, which had, scattered
                  among its vulgarisms and puerilities, some gems of Burns and Moore. These, my
                  natural, unvitiated taste had singled out, and I would croon them over to myself,
                  set them to a tune of my own composing, and half sing, half chant them, when at
                  work out-of-doors, till my mother declared I was going crazy.
               This morning I did not read. I sat looking down into the water from my perch,
                  carrying on the inward discussion of the night before, and wishing that
                  breakfast-time were come, that I might try my strength and show that I was not to
                  be put down by any assumption of superiority, when suddenly a voice near me made
                  me start so that I almost lost my balance. Mr. Hammond was standing beneath. He
                  laughed, and held out his hand to help me down; but I sprang past him and was on
                  my way to the house, when suddenly my brave resolutions came back to my mind, and
                  I stood still with a feeling of defiance. I wondered what he would dare to say.
                  Would he tell me how stupid he thought us all, how like the very pigs we lived? or
                  would he describe his own grand house and the great places he had seen? I scowled
                  up sullenly.
               "Will you tell me where to find a towel, that I may wash my face here by the
                  river-side?"
               I laughed aloud, and with that laugh fled my sullenness. He looked a little
                  puzzled, but went on,—
               "I went to bed so early that I cannot sleep any longer; and if I could only find
                  some way of getting across the river, I could get things under way a little before
                  my men come up."
               There were ways, then, in which I could help him,—he was not so immeasurably above
                  me,—and down went my defiant spirit. The towel, a crash roller, luckily clean, was
                  brought at once, and gathering courage as I stood by and saw him finish his
                  washing, I said,—
               "I can scull you over the river in a few minutes, if you will go in our
                  skiff."
               "You? can you manage that shell of a thing? will your father let you take it, Miss
                  Boarders?"
               "My name is Janet Rainsford, and Squire Boarders is not my father," said I, some
                  of my sullenness returning.
               "If you will take me, Janet," said he, with the frank, open-hearted tone which had
                  won my step-father the night before,—a tone before which my sullenness melted.
               I jumped in, and, letting him pass me before I threw off the rope, sculled the
                  little dug-out into the middle of the river. No boatman on the Sandy was more
                  skilful than I in the management of the little vessel, for in it most of my
                  leisure time had been passed for the last year or two. My step-mother had scolded,
                  my father grumbled, and the farmers' wives and daughters had shaken their heads
                  and "allowed that Janet Rainsford would come to no good, if she was let fool about
                  here and there, like a boy." But on that point I was incorrigible; the boat was my
                  one escape from my daily drudgery, and
                  late at night and early in the morning I went up and down among the shoals and
                  bars, under the trees and over the ripples, till every turn of the current was
                  familiar to me. I knew all the boatmen, too, up and down the river, would pull
                  along-side their rafts or pushing-boats, and get from them a slice of their
                  corn-bread or a cup of coffee, or at least a pleasant word or jest. And none but
                  pleasant words did I ever receive from the rough, but honorable men whom I met.
                  They respected, as the roughest men will always do, my lonely girlhood, and felt a
                  sort of pride in the daring, adventurous spirit that I showed.
               My knowledge of the river stood Mr. Hammond in good stead that morning, as soon as
                  I understood that he was looking for a place where his men could land easily. It
                  was only to sweep round a small bluff that jutted into the river, and carry the
                  skiff into the mouth of Nat's Creek, where the bank sloped gradually down to the
                  water from a level bit of meadow-land that extended back some rods before the
                  hills began to rise. Mr. Hammond leaped out.
               "The very place,—and here, on this point shall be my saw-mill. I'll run the road
                  through here and up the creek to the mining-ground, and build my store under the
                  ledge there, and my shanties on each side of the road."
               I caught his enthusiasm, and my shyness all gone, I found myself listening and
                  suggesting; more than that, I found my suggestions attended to. I knew the river
                  well; I knew what points of land would be overflowed in the June rise; I knew how
                  far the backwater would reach up the creek; I knew the least obstructed paths
                  through the woods; I could even tell where the most available timber was to be
                  found. I felt, too, that my knowledge was appreciated. George Hammond had that one
                  best gift that belongs to all successful leaders, whether of armies, colonies, or
                  bands of miners; he recognized merit when he saw it. From that morning a feeling
                  of self-respect dawned upon me, I was not so altogether ignorant as I had thought
                  myself, I had some available knowledge; and with that feeling came the
                  determination to raise myself out of that slough of despond into which I had
                  fallen the night before.
               From that time a sort of friendship sprang up between George Hammond and myself.
                  Every morning I rowed him across the river, and, in the early morning light,
                  before the workmen were out of bed, he talked over, partly to himself and partly
                  to me, his plans for the day and his vexations of the day before, until I began to
                  offer advice and make suggestions, which made him laughingly call me his little
                  counsellor.
               Then in the evenings (he slept at my father's) he would pick up my books and amuse
                  himself with talking to me about them, laugh at my crude enthusiasms, clear up
                  some difficult passage, prune away remorselessly the trash that had crept into my
                  little collection, until, one day, returning from Cincinnati, where business had
                  called him, he brought with him a store of books inexhaustible to my inexperienced
                  eyes, and declared himself my teacher for the winter.
               "Never mind Janet's knitting and mending, Mrs. Boarders," said he, in reply to my
                  mother's complaints; "she is a smart girl, and may be a schoolmistress yet, and
                  earn more money than any women on Sandy."
               "But I am afraid," my step-mother answered, "that the books she reads are not
                  godly, and have no grace in them. They look to me like players' trash. I've tried
                  to do my duty to Janet," she continued, plaintively; "but I hope the Lord won't
                  hold me accountable for her headstrong ways."
               Meantime, as I read in one of my books, and repeated to myself over and over again
                  in my fulness of content,— 
                     
                        "How happily the days
                        Of Thalaba went by!"
                     
                   How rapidly fled that winter, and how soon came the spring, that would bring
                  me, I thought, new hopes, new interests, new companions!
               How changed a scene did I look upon, that bright April morning, when I went over
                  the river to see that all was in
                  readiness for the boats from below which were to bring Esther Hammond to her new
                  home! She was to keep her brother's house; and furniture, books, and pictures,
                  such as I had never dreamed of, had been sent up by the last-returning boatmen,
                  all of which I had helped Mr. Hammond to arrange in the little two-story cottage
                  which stood on the first rise of the hill behind the store.
               A little plat of ground was hedged in with young Osage-orange shrubs, and within
                  it one of the miners, who had formerly been an under-gardener in a great house in
                  Scotland, had already prepared some flower-beds and sodded carefully the little
                  lawn, laying down the walks with bright-colored tan, which contrasted pleasantly
                  with the lively green of the grass. From the gate one might look up and down the
                  road, bordered on one side by the trees that hung over the river, and on the other
                  by the miners' houses, one-story cottages, each with its small enclosure, and
                  showing every degree of cultivation, from the neat vegetable-patch and whitewashed
                  porch of the Scotch families to the neglected waste ground and slovenly
                  potato-patch of the Irishmen. There were some Sandians among the hands, but they
                  never could be made to take one of the houses prepared for the miners. They lived
                  back on the creek, generally on their own lands, raised their corn and tobacco,
                  cut their lumber, and hunted or rode the country, taking jobs only when they felt
                  so inclined, but showing themselves fully able to compete with the best hands both
                  in skill and in endurance, when they were willing to work.
               On the side of the hill across the creek could be seen the entrance to the mines,
                  and down that hill were passing constantly the cars, loaded with earth and stone
                  taken from the tunnel, which fell with a thundering sound into the valley beneath.
                  Below me was the store, gay with its multifarious goods, which supplied all the
                  needs of the miners and their wives, from the garden-tools and seeds for the
                  afternoon-work to the gay-colored dresses for the Sunday leisure,—where, too, on
                  Saturday night, whiskey was to be had in exchange for the scrip in which their
                  wages were paid, and where, sometimes, the noise waxed fast and furious, till Mr.
                  Hammond would cut off the supply of liquor, as the readiest means of stilling the
                  tumult.
               On this side the river all was changed. But as I looked that morning across the
                  stream towards my step-father's farm, my own home, everything there lay as wild
                  and unimproved as I had known it since the first day my mother brought me there,
                  comfortless and disorderly as it was when, child as I was, I could remember the
                  tears of fatigue and discouragement which she dropped upon my face as she put me
                  for the first time into my little crib; but there, too, were still (and my heart
                  exulted as I saw them) the glorious water-maples, the giant sycamores, and the
                  bright-colored chestnut-trees, which I had known and loved so long. Would Miss
                  Hammond see how beautiful they were? would she praise them as her brother had
                  done? would she listen as kindly to my rhapsodies about them? and would she say,
                  as he had said, that I was a poet by nature, with a poet's quick appreciation of
                  beauty and the poet's gift of enthusiastic expression? I could not tell whether
                  Esther Hammond would be to me the friend her brother had been, with the added
                  blessing, that, being a woman, I could go freely to her with my deficiencies in
                  sure dependence upon her aid and sympathy,—or if she would come to stand between
                  me and him, to take away from me my friend and teacher. Time alone would show; and
                  meanwhile I must be busy with my preparations, for the boats were expected at
                  noon, and Mr. Hammond, who had ridden down to Louisa to meet them, had said that
                  he depended upon me to have things cheerful and in order when they arrived.
               Two hours' hard work saw everything in its place, the furniture arranged to the
                  best of my ability, but wanting, as I sorely felt, the touch of a mistress's hand
                  to give it a home-like look. I had done my best, but what did I know of the
                  arrangement of a lady's house? I hardly knew the use of half the things I touched.
                  But I would not let my old
                  spirit of discontent creep over me now; so, betaking myself to the woods, which
                  were full of the loveliest spring flowers, I brought back such a profusion of
                  violets, spring-beauties, and white bloodroot-blossoms, that the whole room was
                  brightened with their beauty, while their faint, delicate perfume filled the
                  air.
               "Surely these must please her," I said to myself, as I put the last saucerful on
                  the table, and stepped back to see the result of my work.
               "They certainly will, Janet," said George Hammond, who had entered behind me. "How
                  well you have worked, and how pleasant everything looks! Esther will be so much
                  obliged to you. She is just below, in the boat. Will you not come with me and help
                  her up the bank?"
               But I hung back, bashful and frightened, while he called some of the men to his
                  assistance, and, hurrying down to the river, landed the boat, and was presently
                  seen walking toward the house with a lady leaning upon his arm. I saw her from the
                  window. A tall, dignified woman, with a face,—yes, beautiful, certainly, for there
                  were the regular features, the dark eyes, with their straight brows, the heavy,
                  dark hair, parted over the fair, smooth forehead, but so quiet, so cold, so almost
                  haughty, that my heart stood still with an undefined alarm.
               She came in and sat down in one of the chairs without taking the least notice of
                  me. Mr. Hammond spoke,—
               "This is Janet Rainsford, my little friend that I told you of, Esther. I hope you
                  will be as good friends as we have been. She will show you every beautiful place
                  around the country, and make you acquainted with the people, too."
               Miss Hammond looked at me with a steadiness of gaze under which my eyes sank.
               "I shall not trouble the young person much, since I shall only walk when you can
                  go with me; and as for the people, it is not necessary for me to know them, I
                  suppose."
               George Hammond bit his lip.
               "Janet has taken great pains to put everything in order for us here. I should
                  hardly know the room, it is so improved since I left it this morning."
               "She is very kind," said his sister, languidly; "but, George, how horribly this
                  furniture is arranged,—the sofa across the window, the centre-table in the
                  corner!"
               "O, you will have plenty of time to arrange it, Esther. Come, let me show you your
                  own room; you will want to rest while your Dutch girl—what's her name?
                  Catrine?—gets us something to eat."
               Miss Hammond followed her brother to her room, while, mortified and angry with
                  her, with myself, I escaped from the house, jumped into my skiff, and hardly
                  stopped to breathe till I had reached my own little garret. I flung myself on my
                  bed, and burst into bitter tears of resentment and despair. So, after all my
                  pains, after my endeavors to improve myself, after all I had done, I was not worth
                  the notice of a real lady. I supposed I was an uncouth, awkward girl, disagreeable
                  enough to her; she would not want to see me near her. All I had done was
                  miserable; it would have been better to let things alone. I never would go near
                  her again,—that was certain,—she should not be troubled by me;—and my tears fell
                  hot and fast upon my pillow. Then came my old sullenness. Why was she any better
                  than I? Her brother thought me worth talking to; could she not find me worthy of
                  at least a kind look? Perhaps she knew more than I did of books: but what of that?
                  She had not half the useful knowledge wherewith to make her way here in the woods.
                  And what right had she to bring her haughty looks and proud ways here among our
                  people? My sullenness gave way before my bitter disappointment and my offended
                  pride. I was only a child of sixteen, sensitive and distrustful of myself, and her
                  cold looks and colder words had keenly wounded me.
               A week passed, in which I gave myself most earnestly to the household tasks, going
                  through them with dogged pertinacity, and accomplishing an amount of work which
                  made my step-mother declare that Janet was coming back to her senses after all. It was only my effort to forget
                  my disappointment.
               On the Saturday evening when I sat tired out with my exertions, Mr. Hammond came
                  up the path. How my heart leaped at seeing him! How good he was to come! His
                  sister had not taught him to despise me. But when he asked me to come over the
                  next day, and see what he had done to his house and garden, the demon of sullen
                  pride took possession of me again. I would not go. I had too much to do; my mother
                  would want me to get the dinner. In short, I could not go. He bore it
                  good-naturedly, though I think he understood it, and, leaving with me a package of
                  books which he had promised me, said he must go, as Esther would be waiting tea
                  for him.
               Many another endeavor did George Hammond make to bring his sister and myself
                  together, but the first impression had been too strong for me, and Miss Hammond
                  made no effort to remove it. I do not believe it ever crossed her mind to try to
                  do so. Little was it to her whether or no she made herself pleasant to a stupid,
                  ugly girl. She had her books, her light household cares, her letter-writing, her
                  gardening, her walks and drives with her brother, and she felt and showed little
                  interest in anything else. Very unpopular she was among the people around her, who
                  contrasted her cold reserve with her brother's frank cordiality; but she troubled
                  herself not at all about her unpopularity. For me, I kept shyly out of her way,
                  and fell back into my old habits.
               I had not lost my friend, Mr. Hammond. He did not read with me regularly as
                  before, but he kept me supplied with books, and the very infrequency of his
                  lessons stimulated me to redoubled effort, that I might surprise him by my
                  progress when we met again. Then there was scarcely a day that some business did
                  not take him past our house, or that I did not meet him by the river-bank or at
                  the store. Sometimes he would ask me to row him down the stream on some errand,
                  sometimes he would take me with him in his rides. I was a fearless horsewoman, and
                  Miss Hammond did not ride. In all those meetings he was frank and kind as ever; he
                  told me of his plans, his annoyances, his projects. No, I had not lost my friend,
                  as I had feared, and when assured of this, I could do without Miss Hammond.
               And so the weeks glided into months, and the months into years, and I was nineteen
                  years old. Four years had passed since the morning when George Hammond first
                  awakened my self-esteem, first gave me the impulse to raise myself out of my
                  awkwardness and ignorance, to make of myself something better than one of the
                  worn, depressed, dispirited women I saw around me. Had I done anything for myself?
                  I asked. I was not educated, I had no acquirements, so-called; but I had read, and
                  read well, some good and famous books, and I knew that I had made their contents
                  my own. I was richer for their beauties and excellencies. With my self-respect had
                  come, too, a desire to improve my surroundings, and, as far as they lay under my
                  control, they had been improved. Our household was more orderly; some little
                  attempt at neatness and decoration was to be seen around and in the house, and my
                  own room, where I had full sway, was beautiful in its rustic adornment.
               My glass, too, the poor little three-cornered, paper-framed companion of my
                  girlhood, showed me some change. The complexion had cleared, the hair had taken a
                  decided brown, and the angular figure had rounded and filled. It was hardly a week
                  since, standing in Miss Hammond's kitchen counting over with her servant-girl the
                  basketful of fresh eggs which were sent from our house every week, I had overheard
                  Mr. Hammond say to his sister,—
               "Really, Janet Rainsford has improved so much that she is almost pretty. Her brown
                  hair tones so well with her quiet eyes; and as to her mouth, it is really lovely,
                  so finely cut, and with so much character in it."
               What was it to me that Miss Hammond's cold voice answered,—
               
               "I think you make a fool of yourself, George, and of that girl, too, going on as
                  you do about her. She will be entirely unfitted for her state of life, and for the
                  people she must live with."
               Her words had hardly time to chill my heart when it bounded again, as I turned
                  hurriedly away and passed under the window on my way out, at hearing her brother's
                  answer:—
               "There is too much in her to be spoiled. I like her. She has talent and character,
                  and I cannot understand, Esther, why you are so prejudiced against her."
               There were others besides Mr. Hammond who thought me improved and who liked me.
                  Tom Salyers never let an evening pass without dropping into our house on his way
                  home from the store, where he was a sort of overseer or salesman,—never failed to
                  bring in its season the earliest wild-flower or the freshest fruit,—had thoroughly
                  searched Catlettsburg for books to please me,—nay, had once sent an indefinite
                  order to a Cincinnati bookseller to put up twenty dollars' worth of the best books
                  for a lady, which order was filled by a collection of the Annuals of six years
                  back and a few unsalable modern novels. I read them all most conscientiously and
                  gratefully, and would not listen for a moment to Mr. Hammond's jests about them:
                  but, a few weeks afterwards, I almost repented of my complaisance, when Tom
                  Salyers took me at an advantage while rowing me down to Louisa one afternoon, and,
                  seeing a long stretch of river before him without shoal or sand-bar, leisurely
                  laid up his oars, and, letting the boat float with the stream, asked me, abruptly,
                  to marry him, and go with him up into the country to a new place which he meant to
                  clear and farm.
               I laughed at him at first, but he persisted till I was forced to believe him in
                  earnest; and then I told him how foolish he was to fancy an ugly, sallow-looking
                  girl like me, who had no father nor mother, when he might take one of John Mills's
                  rosy daughters, or go down to Catlettsburg and get somebody whose father would
                  give him a farm already cleared.
               "You are laughing at me, Janet," he said. "I know I am not smart enough for you,
                  nor hardly fit to keep company with you, now that Hammond has taught you so many
                  things that are proper for a lady to know; but I love you true, and if you can
                  only fancy me, I'll work so hard that you'll be able to keep a hired girl and have
                  all your time for reading and going about the woods as you like to do. And you'll
                  be in your own house, instead of under Squire Boarders and his sharp-spoken wife.
                  Could n't you fancy me after a while? I'd do anything you said to make myself
                  agreeable and fit company for you."
               "You are very fit company for me now, Tom," I said, "and you are of a great deal
                  more use in the world than I am; you know more that is worth knowing than I do.
                  Only let us be good friends, as we have always been, and do not talk about
                  anything else."
               "I will not talk any more of it now," said he, "if so be it don't please you, and
                  if you'll promise never to say any more to me about the Mills gals, or any of them
                  critters down in Catlettsburg,—I can't abide the sight of them,—and if you'll let
                  me come and see you all the same, and row you about and take you to the mill when
                  you want flour."
               I held out my hand to Tom with the earnest assurance that I always liked to see
                  him and talk to him, and that there was nobody whom I would sooner ask to do me a
                  kindness.
               The poor fellow choked a little as he thanked me, and then, recovering himself,
                  rowed a few strokes in silence, when, looking round as if to assure himself that
                  there was nothing near us but the quiet trees, he said suddenly,—
               "I'll tell you what, Janet, I've a great mind to tell you something, seeing how
                  you're not a woman that can't hold her tongue, and then you think so much of
                  Hammond."
               I started with a quick sense of alarm, but Tom went doggedly on.
               "You know what a hard winter we've had, with this low water and no January rise, and all that ice in the
                  Ohio. They say they're starving for coal down in Cincinnati, and here we've no end
                  of it stacked up. Well, Hammond, he's had hard work enough to keep the men along
                  through the winter. Many another man would have turned them off, but he wouldn't
                  do it; so he's shinned here and shinned there to get money to pay them their
                  wages, and they've had scrip, and we've fairly brought goods up to the store
                  overland, on horseback and every kind of way, just for their convenience; and now
                  the damned Irish rascals, with some of the Sandy boys for leaders, have made up
                  their minds to strike for higher wages the minute we have a rise, just when we'll
                  need all hands to get the coal off, and all those boats laying at the mouth, too.
                  I heard it day before yesterday, by chance like, when Jim Foushee and the two
                  O'Learys were sitting smoking on the fence behind the store. The O'Learys were
                  tight with the Redeye they had aboard, and let it out in their stupid
                  'colloguing,' as they call it; but Jim Foushee saw me standing at the window, and
                  right away called in two or three of the Sandy men and threatened my life if I
                  told Hammond. They have watched me like a cat ever since, and never left me and
                  Hammond alone together. They are with Hammond now, launching a coal-boat, or I'd
                  never have got off with you."
               I sat breathless. I knew it was ruin to let the expected rise pass without getting
                  the coal-boats down; but what could be done?
               "Don't look so pale, Janet. You can tell Hammond, you know, and he'll find a way
                  to circumvent them. And it was to tell you all this that I brought you out here
                  this afternoon, only my unlucky tongue would talk of what I see it's too soon to
                  talk of yet. But here's Louisa, right ahead. Make haste and get your traps, while
                  I settle my business, and we'll be back, perhaps, in time for you to manage some
                  way to see Hammond to-night. Nobody knows you went with me, and you'll never be
                  suspected."
               Not Tom Salyers's most rapid and vigorous rowing could make our little skiff keep
                  pace with my impatience; but, thanks to his efforts, the sun was still high when
                  he landed me in the little cove behind our house, where I could run up through the
                  woods to our back-door, while he pulled boldly up to the store-landing and called
                  some of the men to help him carry his purchases up the bank. I did not stop for a
                  word with my step-mother, but passing rapidly through the house, threw my parcels
                  on the bed in the sitting-room, and, running down the walk to the maple-tree under
                  which my dug-out was always tied, jumped into it and sculled out into the river.
                  The coal-boat had just been launched, and George Hammond was standing on the bank
                  superintending the calking of the seams which the water made visible. I pushed up
                  to the bank, and called to him as I neared,—
               "Can you not come, Mr. Hammond, a little way upstream with me? I have found those
                  young tulip-trees that you want for your garden; they are just round the bend
                  above Nat's Creek. Jim Foushee will see to that work, and I have just time to show
                  them to you before supper."
               I was a favorite with Jim Foushee. He laughed a joking welcome to me, as he
                  said,—
               "I'll see to this, sir, if you want to go with Janet Rainsford. She's the gal that
                  knows the woods. A splendid Sandy wife you'll make some young fellow, Janet, if
                  you don't get too book-learned."
               In five minutes we were off and had rounded the point out of sight and hearing. In
                  a few hurried words I told my story, but at first Mr. Hammond would not believe
                  it.
               "Those men that I've done so much for and worked so hard for this winter!"
               At last, convinced, his face set with the determined look that I had seen on it
                  once or twice before.
               "I'll not raise the wages of a single man, and, what's more, I'd turn them all off
                  the place, if only I could find others. But those boats at Catlettsburg, they are
                  the most important. The company would
                  send me up men from Cincinnati, if only I could get word to them; but these
                  rascals will stop any letter I send. Those Sandians are capable of it,—or rather
                  they are capable of putting the Irishmen up to doing their dirty work for
                  them."
               "A letter would be safe, if it once reached Catlettsburg?" I asked.
               "Certainly. But how to get it there?"
               "I can take it. Nobody will suspect me. Give me the letter to-night, and I will go
                  to-morrow."
               "You, Janet? you are crazy!"
               "No, indeed. I often ride to Louisa; what is to hinder me from having errands to
                  Catlettsburg. I could go down there in one day, and take two days back, if my
                  father thinks it is too much for old Bill to take it through in one."
               "O, you could borrow Swiftfoot. I have often lent him to you, and he would carry
                  you safely and surely. I don't believe any harm would come to you, and so much
                  depends upon it."
               I turned the skiff decidedly.
               "You have only to get your letter ready and give it to me when I come over in the
                  morning to borrow Swiftfoot. I will take care of all the rest."
               And, sculling rapidly, we were at the wharf again before he had time to raise
                  objections. I knew that I could persuade my mother into letting me go to Louisa
                  again the next day, for we needed all our spring purchases,—and once there it was
                  easy to find it necessary to go to the mouth. I had never been alone, but often
                  with my father or some of our hands; besides, I was too well able to take care of
                  myself, too accustomed to have my own way, to anticipate any anxiety about my not
                  returning.
               And so it proved. The next morning saw me mounted on Swiftfoot, the letter safe in
                  my bosom, and a long list of articles wanted in my pocket. What a lovely ride that
                  was, with the gentle, spirited horse of which I was so fond for a companion, and
                  my own beautiful forests in all their loveliest est spring green around me, with
                  just enough of mystery and danger in the expedition to add an exhilarating
                  excitement, and with the happy consciousness that I was doing something for Mr.
                  Hammond, who had done so much for me, to urge me on! I cantered merrily past Jim
                  Foushee's cornfield, and, nodding to him, as he stood in the door of his
                  log-house, I enjoyed telling him that I was going to Louisa on a shopping
                  expedition. "Should I get anything for him? He could see that Mr. Hammond had lent
                  me Swift-foot, so that I should soon be back, if I could buy all I wanted in
                  Louisa; if not, I did believe I should go on to Catlettsburg: the ride would be so
                  glorious!"
               And glorious it was. I was happy in myself, happy in my thoughts of my friend,
                  happy in the physical enjoyment of the air, the woods, the sun, the shade. Let me
                  dwell on that ride. I have not had many happy days, but that was one which had its
                  fulness of content. And I succeeded in putting Mr. Hammond's letter into the
                  Catlettsburg post-office, made my little purchases, and turned my horse's head
                  homeward, reaching the end of my journey before my father or step-mother had time
                  to be anxious for me, and having a chance to whisper, "All right," to Tom Salyers,
                  as he took my horse from me at the door of the store.
               The long-expected rise came, and the strike came, Jim Foushee heading it, and
                  standing sullen and determined in the midst of his party. Mr. Hammond was prepared
                  for them. The malcontents came to him in the store, where he was filling Tom's
                  place; for he had sent Tom to Catlettsburg, avowedly to prepare the boats there to
                  meet the rise, really to have him out of the way. Their first word was met coolly
                  enough.
               "You will not work another stroke, unless I give you higher wages, I understand,
                  Foushee? And these men say the same thing? You are their spokesman? Very well, I
                  am satisfied; you can quit work to-morrow. I have other hands at the mouth for the
                  boats there, and there is no hurry about the coal that lies here."
               
               Foushee burst out with an oath,—
               "That damned Salyers is the traitor! mean, cowardly rascal!"
               But Mr. Hammond would not tell me more of what passed; perhaps he was afraid of
                  frightening me. This only he told me that night, when thanking me with glance,
                  voice, and pressure of the hand for all I had done for him. The blood rushed quick
                  and hot through my veins, I was delirious with an undreamed-of happiness, which
                  took away from me all power of answering, of even raising my eyes to his face, and
                  the same delirium followed me to my pillow. He had called me his friend, his
                  little Janet, who was so quick and ready, so fertile in invention, so brave in
                  execution: what should he have done without me? I repeated his words to myself
                  till they lost all their meaning; they were only replete with blissful content,
                  and filled me with their music till I dropped asleep for very weariness in saying
                  them over.
               The next morning, before I waked, George Hammond had gone. He had left for
                  Catlettsburg to direct the new hands. The works lay idle, the men (those who had
                  been dismissed) lounged around gloomy and sullen, and so passed the week. Then
                  came the news that Mr. Hammond and Tom Salyers had gone to Cincinnati, and would
                  not return for the present, and that such men as were satisfied with the former
                  wages were to be put to work again. Readily did the miners come back to their
                  duty, all but a few of the Sandy men, who returned to their own homes, and all
                  fell into the usual train.
               And I? There was first the calm sense of happy security, then the impatience to
                  test again its reality, then the longing homesickness of the heart. As weeks
                  passed on and I saw nothing of him, as I heard of his protracted stay, as I saw
                  Miss Hammond make her preparations to join him, as I watched the boat which
                  carried her away, my sense of loneliness became too heavy for me, and the same
                  pillow on which I had known those happy slumbers was wet with tears of bitter
                  despondency.
               And yet I understood neither the happiness nor the tears. I did not know (how
                  should I?) what were the new feelings which made my heart beat at George Hammond's
                  name. I did not know why I yearned towards his sister with a warmth of love that
                  would fain show itself in kindly word or deed. I did not know why the news that he
                  was coming again, which greeted me after long weeks of weariness, brightened with
                  joyful radiance everything that I saw, and glorified the aspect of my little
                  garret, as I had seen a brilliant bunch of flowers glorify and refine with a light
                  of beauty the every-day ugliness of our sitting-room.
               I sang my merriest songs that night, and my feet kept time to their music in
                  almost dancing measures. The next day, yes, by noon he would be at home. I could
                  see his boat land from my little window, and then, giving Miss Hammond time to be
                  safely housed, I would row myself over to the store and meet him there. How much I
                  should have to tell him, how much to hear!
               The morning came, and with it came a nervous bashfulness. I should never dare to
                  go over to see him. No, I would wait quietly until night, when he would surely
                  come himself to see me. Still I could watch his boat. And nervously did I stand,
                  my face pressed against the window-pane, through the long morning hours, my sewing
                  dropped neglected in my lap at the risk of a scolding from my mother, watching the
                  slow-passing river, and the leaves hanging motionless over it in the stillness of
                  the summer noon. At last there was a stir on the opposite shore. Yes, the boat
                  must be in sight; I could even hear the shouts of the boatmen; and there, rounding
                  the bluff, she was; there, too, was Mr. Hammond in the stern, with the rudder in
                  his hand; there sat Miss Hammond, book in hand, with her usual look of listless
                  disdain. But whose was that girlish face raised towards Mr. Hammond, while he
                  pointed out so eagerly the surrounding objects? whose that slight, girlish figure,
                  crowned with the light garden-hat, with its wealth of golden hair escaping from
                  under it?
               
               A sharp pang shot through me. Some one was coming to disturb my happy hours with
                  my teacher and friend; and the chill of disappointment was on me already. I saw
                  the boat land, saw George Hammond assist carefully every step of the strange girl,
                  saw an elderly gentleman step also upon the bank and give his hand to Miss
                  Hammond, and in two minutes the trees of the landing hid them from my sight.
               And how slowly went the hours of that afternoon! how nervously I listened to every
                  tread, to every click of the gate! nay, my sharpened hearing took note of every
                  sway of the branches. But the day passed, the night, and no one came. The next
                  morning brought with it an impatience which mastered me. I must go, I
                  must see him, and in five minutes I was pushing my boat from its cove under the
                  water-maple.
               But I needed not to have left my room; my visit would be useless; for, lifting my
                  eyes, as my boat came out from under the leaves, there, on the path by the
                  river-side opposite, I saw the strange lady mounted on Swiftfoot, her light figure
                  set off by a cloth riding-habit such as I had never seen before, the graceful
                  folds of which struck me even then with a sense of beauty and fitness. I could
                  even distinguish the golden curls again, which fell close on George Hammond's
                  face, as he stood by her side arranging her stirrup, his own horse's bridle over
                  his arm. A backward motion of the oar sent my boat under the branches again, and I
                  sat motionless, watching them as they rode away.
               Two hours afterward they stopped at our gate, and I heard George Hammond's voice
                  calling me. The blood rushed to my forehead. Had I been alone, I would not have
                  heard; but my mother was in the room, and I had no excuse for not going forward.
                  He leaned from his horse and shook hands cordially, while, at the same time, he
                  said,—
               "I have brought Miss Worthington to see you, Janet. She has heard so much of your
                  kindness to me, and of your courage last spring, that she was anxious to know
                  you.
               "This is Janet Rainsford, Amy," he continued, turning to her.
               The lovely, bright young face was bent towards me, the tiny hand stretched out to
                  mine, and I heard a gentle voice say,—
               "Mr. Hammond has told me so much of you, Janet, (I may call you Janet, may I not?)
                  that I was determined to come and see you. I hope we shall know each other."
               A great fear seized me then,—a fear which seemed to clutch my heart and stop its
                  beatings, leaving me without any power of reply. I only stammered a few words, and
                  Mr. Hammond, pitying what he thought my bashfulness, rode on with a nod of
                  farewell and some words, I could not take in their sense, which seemed to be
                  requests that I would teach Miss Worthington all that I knew of the woods and the
                  country.
               I sat down with a stunned feeling, dizzied with the knowledge that seemed to blaze
                  upon me with that horrid fear. Yes, I knew now what it all meant,—the happiness,
                  the loneliness of the past weeks, the shrinking bashfulness of yesterday morning,
                  and the chill that fell upon me when I first saw the stranger in the boat.
               I loved George Hammond,—I, the country-girl, without one beauty, one
                  accomplishment, so ignorant, so beneath him. I had been fool enough to fling away
                  my heart,—and now, now that it was gone from me, there came this terrible fear.
                  What was this young girl to him? Were my intuitions right? Did he love her? Would
                  she take him away from me? take away even that poor friendship which was all I
                  asked?
               That night,—I cannot tell of it,—the rapid, wearying walk from side to side of my
                  little garret, the despairing flinging myself on the bed, the restlessness that
                  would bring me to my feet again, the pressing my hot face against the cool
                  window-pane, the convulsive sobs with which the struggle ended, the heavy,
                  unrefreshing sleep that came at last, and the dull wakening in the morning, when
                  nothing seemed left about my heart but a dead weight of insensibility. But with
                  the brightening hours came again the
                  restlessness. I would at least know the worst; let me face all my wretchedness; it
                  could not be but strength would come to me when the worst was over.
               And so I went doggedly through my morning tasks, and the early afternoon saw me at
                  the store. I would not go to Miss Hammond's house, but I was sure to hear
                  something of the new-comers among the gossiping miners and workmen,—or, if not
                  there, I had only to drop into some of the cottages to learn from their wives all
                  that they knew or imagined. How little I learned,—how little compared to what my
                  fierce, craving heart asked!
               "Miss Worthington was here with her father; they had come to see the mines, so
                  they said; but who knows the truth? More like it was to be a wedding between the
                  young folks, and the father wanted to see the Sandy country before he let his
                  daughter come into it. She was a sweet-spoken young thing,—not like Miss Hammond,
                  with her proud, quality airs."
               But all this was only conjecture, and I must have certainty. The certainty came
                  that evening. Mr. Hammond passed the store as I was standing by the counter, and
                  insisted that I should go home to tea with him. I had often done so before, and
                  had no excuse, even when he said,—
               "I want so much to make Miss Worthington like our Sandy people, Janet. I want her
                  father to see that there are people worth knowing even here. You will tell her of
                  all the pleasures we have,—our walks, our rides. You cannot be afraid of her, dear
                  Janet,—she is so gentle, so lovely."
               A strange feeling seized me, one mingled of gentleness and bitterness. Yes, for
                  his sake, I would help him. I would do all I could to welcome to his home her who
                  was to be its blessing, and (here my good angel left me and some evil one
                  whispered) I would show her, too, that I was not so altogether to be contemned;
                  she should see that I was not merely the poor country-girl she thought me. And all
                  I had of thought or feeling, all that George Hammond had called my inborn poetry,
                  came out that evening. I talked, I talked well, for I was talking of what I
                  understood,—of my own forests and streams, of the flowers whose haunts I knew so
                  well, of the changing seasons in their varying beauty,—nay, as I gained courage,
                  as I saw that I commanded attention, the books that I had read so well, the
                  thoughts of those great writers that I had made my own, came to my aid, and
                  quotation and allusion pressed readily to my lips.
               I saw Esther Hammond's cold look fixed upon my face, but I dared it back again,
                  and my color rose and my eye sparkled from the excitement. I felt my triumph when
                  I saw the surprise on Mr. Hammond's face, when I heard the patronizing tone of Mr.
                  Worthington's voice changed to one of equality, as he said,—
               "You are a worthy champion of Sandy life, Miss Janet. I believe Amy will be
                  tempted to try it."
               There was a quick blush on Amy's face as I turned to look at it, and a glance of
                  proud affection towards her from George Hammond, which took away my false strength
                  as I stood, leaving me, weak and trembling, to seek my home in the evening
                  twilight.
               That evening's short-lived triumph cost me dear. It betrayed my scarcely
                  self-acknowledged secret to another. Miss Hammond's woman's-eye had read the poor
                  fool who laid her heart open before her. I was made to feel my weakness before her
                  the next morning, when, walking into our kitchen, she asked, with her hard, yet
                  dignified calmness, that I should gather for her some of the Summer Sweetings that
                  hung so thick on the tree behind our house.
               She followed me to the orchard. I gathered the apples diligently and spoke no
                  word, but not for that did I escape. She stood calmly looking on till I had
                  finished, then began with that terrible opening from which we all shrink.
               "I should like to speak to you a few moments, Janet."
               I quailed before her, for I had somehow a perception of what she was going to say,
                  though I scarcely dreamed of the hardness with which it would be said. The blow
                  came, however.
               
               "My brother has been in the habit of taking notice of you ever since he has been
                  on the Sandy, and he has been of great advantage to you; but you must be aware
                  that such notice as he gave you when you were a mere child cannot be continued now
                  that you are a woman."
               I bowed my head, and my lips formed something like a "Yes."
               She went on.
               "I say this to you because I was surprised to find by your behavior last night
                  that you had allowed yourself to presume upon that notice, and I do not suppose
                  you know how unbecoming this is, from a person in your position, especially before
                  Miss Worthington."
               I was stung into a reply.
               "What is Miss Worthington to me?" came out sullenly from my lips.
               "Nothing to you, certainly, nor can she ever be: but as the future wife of my
                  brother, she is something to me."
               It was true, then; but so fully had I felt the truth before that this certainty
                  gave me no added pang. From its very depths of despair I drew strength, and, my
                  courage rising, I had power even to look full at Miss Hammond, and say,—
               "You may be sure I shall never intrude myself on Mr. Hammond's wife or sister, nor
                  upon him, unless he desires it, except, indeed, to wish him happiness."
               My unexpected calmness roused her worst feelings, her pride, her jealousy, and,
                  with a woman's keen aim, she sent the next dart home. So calmly she spoke, too,
                  with such command of herself,—with a lady-like self-control that I, alas! knew not
                  how to reach.
               "I am happy to hear you say so, for there have been times when your singular
                  manner has made me fear that you nourished some very false and idle
                  dreams,—follies that I have sometimes thought it my duty as a woman to warn you
                  against"; and with one keen look at my burning face, she took up the basket and
                  walked away.
               I think at that moment I could have killed her, so bitter was the hatred which I
                  felt towards her; but the next brought its crushing shame, taking away from me all
                  but the desire to hide myself from every eye. Where should I go? Somewhere where
                  nobody could find me, where I could be insured perfect solitude. It was not
                  difficult to bury myself in the forest that pressed around me on every side, and a
                  few minutes saw me struggling with the embarrassments of the tangled vines which
                  obstructed the path up our steepest hill. There was in the very difficulties to be
                  overcome something that seemed to bring me relief; they forced my mind from
                  myself. On, on I went, as if my life depended upon my struggles, till, breathless
                  and utterly exhausted, I had reached the top of the hill, the highest point for
                  miles around.
               I sank down on the cool grass, the fresh wind blowing on my face, and, too wearied
                  to think, shut my eyes against the beautiful Nature around me, alive only to my
                  own overpowering misery. How long I lay there I never knew. I was safe and alone.
                  I could be wretched as I pleased, away from Miss Hammond's mocking eye, away from
                  the sight of George Hammond's happiness. But, strangely enough, out of the very
                  freedom to be miserable came at last a sense of relief. I looked my wretchedness
                  full in the face. Could I not bear it? And there rose within me a strength I had
                  not known before. I was young, I had a long life before me; it could not be but
                  that this great sorrow would pass away. At least I would not nourish it. I would
                  do what I could to help myself. Help myself! For the first time in my
                  life I put up an earnest prayer for help out of myself. The words, coming as such
                  words come but few times in life, out from the very depths of the heart, brought
                  with them their softening influence. The tears sprung forth, those tears which I
                  thought I should never shed again, and I burst into a passionate fit of crying,
                  the passionate crying of a child. It shook me from head to foot with its
                  hysterical convulsions, but it left me at last calmer, soothed into stillness, with only now and then those choking
                  after-sobs which I, child-like, sent forth there on the bosom of the only mother I
                  had ever known,—our kindly mother Earth.
               The sun was going down when I rose up, soothed and comforted, and strengthened,
                  too, for a time. I would do what I could. I would live down this grief: how I knew
                  not, but the way would come to me. And gathering up my hair, which had fallen
                  around me, I stopped, on my way home, by a running stream, and bathed my eyes and
                  forehead until I was fit to appear before my step-mother. She did not question me:
                  she was too used to my unexplained absences since I had grown out of her control.
                  Sufficient for her that my tasks were always performed; sufficient for her, that,
                  that very evening, I threw myself with an apparently untiring energy into the
                  household work,—that I never rested a moment till she herself closed the house and
                  insisted that I should go to bed. I slept that night,—after such fatigue, it was
                  impossible but that I should,—and woke in the morning with a renewed determination
                  to struggle against my sorrow.
               Alas! alas! I thought I had only to resolve. I thought the struggle would be but
                  once. How little I knew of the daily, almost hourly, changes of feeling,—of the
                  despondency, the despair, that would come, I knew not why, directly upon my most
                  earnest resolves, my hardest struggles,—of the weakness that would make me at
                  times give up all struggling as useless,—of the mad hope that would sometimes
                  arise that something, some outward change, I did not dare to say what, would bring
                  me some relief!
               I had at least the courage to keep away from the sight of all that was so
                  miserable to me. I did not see George Hammond for weeks, and he,—ah! there was the
                  bitterness,—he did not miss me.
               And so the weary days went on. It is wonderful what endurance there is in a young
                  heart,—for how long a time it can beat off suffering all day by unceasing labor,
                  and lie awake all night with that same suffering for a bedfellow low, and still
                  make no sign that a careless eye can see. I look at that time now with wonder. How
                  did I bear that constant occupation by day, alternated only with those sleepless
                  nights, without breaking down entirely? The crisis came at last,—a sort of stupor,
                  a cessation of suffering indeed, but a cessation, too, of all feeling. I was
                  frightened at myself. Alas! I had no one to be frightened for me. Could it be that
                  I was going to lose my senses? But no, I passed through that too, and then came a
                  more natural state of mind than any I had known since the blow fell.
               My suffering self seemed like something apart from me, which I could pity and
                  help, could counsel and act for, and this one thing came clear to me. Some change
                  of scene was necessary to me. I could never go on so; it was idle to attempt it. I
                  could not live any longer face to face with my grief. There was the whole world
                  before me. Was it not possible to go out into it? I had health, strength, ability,
                  I was sure of it. How often before had I dreamed over the seeking my fortune in
                  that world which looked to me then so full of excitement? Nothing had held me back
                  then but the clinging to home-pleasures, to home-enjoyments, to home-comforts,
                  poor as they were,—nothing but the sense of safety, of protection. What were these
                  to me now? I cared nothing for them. I only asked to be away from all that
                  reminded me of my suffering, to be so forced to struggle with external
                  difficulties as to have no thought for myself. I did not want to love anybody; I
                  would rather have nobody care for me. I would go. The only question was how.
               A few days and nights of thought solved the problem for me, and, once roused to
                  action, I took my steps rapidly and well. The first thing necessary was money,
                  money enough to take me away, and to support me until I could find employment; and
                  the means of attaining it were within my reach. I owned a watch that had been my
                  mother's, a pretty trinket, though somewhat old-fashioned, and which had often
                  excited the envy of the young wife of one of the head miners. I knew that her
                  husband was flush of money just then,
                  for he had drawn his wages only the week before,—and I knew, too, that he would
                  give me a good price for my watch, were it only to gratify the bride to whom he
                  had as yet denied nothing.
               The sale was made at once. I do not know if I got anything like the value of the
                  watch, but the next day saw me with fifty dollars in my pocket, a small bundle,
                  made up from the most available part of my wardrobe, under my arm, prepared to
                  walk to Louisa, avowedly to buy supplies, but with the secret determination to
                  meet there the coal-boats which were bound for the mouth, ask a passage on them as
                  far as Catlettsburg, and there take the first steamer that passed, and let it
                  carry me whither it would.
               There was no pause of regret, no delay for parting looks or words; from the moment
                  that I had made up my mind to go, I felt nothing but a desperate eagerness to be
                  away, to be in action. The few words necessary to prepare my stepmother for my
                  ostensible errand were soon said, the good-morning calmly spoken, and I passed
                  into the forest-path leading to the town. A pang smote me as I remembered her
                  conscientious discharge of duty toward me for so many years; but it was duty, not
                  love, that had urged her, and while I said that to myself, I said, too, that time
                  would bring to me the opportunity of repaying her.
               Toward the settlement on the opposite shore I turned no look. I would not trust
                  myself; I knew my own weakness too well; this desperate energy which was carrying
                  me on now would fail, if I allowed my heart one moment's indulgence. Steadily I
                  walked on through the woods, my own woods, which, perhaps, I should never see
                  again, till wearied out by the exertion, which had precluded thought, I saw the
                  houses of Louisa rise before me.
               The boats lay at the fork above the town. I had informed myself of their
                  movements, and knew they were to start at noon. A few inquiries for groceries and
                  so forth, where I knew they could not be gotten, gave me an excuse for the
                  proposition to the captain of the boats to give me a passage to Catlettsburg. It
                  was readily granted, and the crew, most of them Sandy men, put up a rough awning,
                  and, spreading under it some blankets, did their kind uttermost to make me
                  comfortable.
               I remember now, as one looks back into a dream, the afternoon and night that
                  passed before we reached Catlettsburg. I lay perfectly quiet, watching the shadowy
                  trees as we glided past them, noting their varied reflections in the water,
                  marking every peculiarity of shore and stream, hearing the jests and laughter, the
                  words of command and the oaths, that went round among the boatmen; but all passed
                  as something with which I had nothing to do. To me there was the burning desire to
                  put a great distance between myself and my home,—but with it, too, the
                  consciousness, that, as I could do nothing to expedite our slow progress, so
                  neither could I afford to waste upon it in impatient restlessness the strength
                  which would be so much needed afterwards. The men brought me a cup of coffee from
                  their supper, which gave me strength for the night. The biscuit I could not
                  taste.
               But how long was that night! how tedious the summer dawn! and how slowly went the
                  hours till we brought up our boats at the landing at Catlettsburg!
               I had formed my plans; so, telling the captain that I might perhaps want to go
                  back with him, I hurried into the town. A steamboat lay by the wharf-boat. "The
                  Bostona, for Cincinnati," said the board displayed over her upper railing. She was
                  to leave at eight o'clock. I walked about the town till half-past seven; then,
                  returning to the coal-boats, gave to the man left in charge a letter I had
                  prepared in which I told my step-mother, in as few words as possible, that I
                  wanted to see something of the world, and had determined to go for a time either
                  to Cincinnati or to Pittsburg,—that I begged her not to be uneasy about me, I had
                  sold my watch, and had money enough for the present; she should hear from me in
                  due time. The man took the letter, with some remark on my not returning with them,
                  and, with a quiet good-day, I left him
                  and walked rapidly toward the steamer. The plank was laid from the wharf-boat,
                  and, without daring to hesitate, I walked over it.
               It was done. I was fairly separated from everything I had ever known before;
                  everything now was new to me; I was ignorant of all around me; each step might be
                  a mistake. I felt this, when a porter, stepping forward and taking my bundle,
                  asked me if I would have a state-room. What was a state-room? I did not know, but
                  saying "Yes," with a desperate feeling that it might as well be "yes" as "no," I
                  was led back to the ladies' cabin, a key was turned in one of an infinite number
                  of little doors, and I was ushered into what looked to me like a closet, with
                  shelves made to take the place of beds. Here at least I was alone, and here I
                  could be alone till dinner-time; till then there was no call for action on my
                  part.
               And how precious seemed to me every hour of rest! Singularly enough, my great
                  sorrow did not come back to me in those pauses of action. I seemed then to be
                  entirely absorbed in gathering strength for the next occasion; my grief was put
                  away for the future, when there would come to me the time to indulge it.
               So I lay quiet during that morning, looking sometimes through my little window at
                  the passing shore, listening sometimes to the loud talking in the cabin, sometimes
                  to the noises on the boat, wondering if all those strange creakings and shakings
                  could be right, but finding a sense of security in my very ignorance. Dinner came,
                  and in the course of it I found courage to ask the captain, at whose right hand I
                  was placed, what time we should reach Cincinnati. "Not till after breakfast," was
                  his welcome answer; for I had been haunted by a dread of being set adrift in a
                  great city in the middle of the night, when I might perhaps fall into some den of
                  thieves. I had read of such things in my books. This gave me still the afternoon
                  before it would be necessary to think, some hours more in which to rest mind and
                  body.
               The night came at last, and I must decide what step to take next, that, my mind
                  made up, I might perhaps get some sleep. I turned restlessly in my narrow bed, got
                  up and stood at the window, tried first the upper shelf, and then the lower, but
                  no possible plan presented itself. I still saw before me that terrible city where
                  I should be ten times lonelier than in the midst of our forests, where I should
                  make mistakes at every turn, where I should not know one face out of the many
                  thousands that crowded upon my nervous fancy. I seemed to be afraid of nothing but
                  human beings, and, at the thought of encountering them, my woman's heart gave way.
                  In vain I reasoned with myself, "I shall not see all Cincinnati at once,—not more
                  at one time, perhaps, than I saw to-day at dinner." Still came up those endless
                  streets, all filled with strange faces; still I saw myself pushed, jostled, by a
                  succession of men and women who cared nothing for me. Suddenly came the thought,
                  "Tom Salyers is in Cincinnati. There is one person there that I know. If I could
                  only find him, he would take care of me till I knew how to take care of
                  myself."
               There came no remembrance of our last conversation to check my eager joy. Indeed,
                  it had never made much impression upon me, followed as it had been by so much of
                  nearer interest. I set myself to reflect on the means of finding him. He had gone
                  down in the employ of the coal company. The captain could tell me where to look
                  for him, and, satisfied with that, I laid my weary head on my pillow.
               The next morning at breakfast I gained the needed information. "Did I want to find
                  one of the men in Mr. Hammond's employment? I must go to the coal-yard"; and the
                  direction was written out for me.
               And now we neared the city. I stood on the guards and looked, wondering at the
                  steamboats that lined the river-bank, at the long rows of houses that stretched
                  before me, the tall chimneys vomiting smoke which obscured the surrounding hills,
                  at the crowd of men and drays on the landing through which I was to make my way;
                  but my courage rose with the occasion,
                  and, stepping resolutely from the plank, I walked up the hill and stood among the
                  warehouses. I had been told to "turn to the right and take the first street, I
                  could not miss my way"; but somehow I did miss my way again and again, and
                  wandered weary and bewildered, not daring at first to ask for directions, till,
                  gathering strength from my very weariness, I at last saw before me the welcome
                  sign. It was something like home to see it; the familiar names cheered me while
                  they moved me. I entered the office trembling with a wild dread lest I should meet
                  Mr. Hammond there, but the sight of a stranger's face at the desk gave me courage
                  to ask for Tom Salyers.
               "He is in the yard now. Here, Jim, tell Salyers there's a person"—he hesitated—"a
                  lady wants to see him."
               I sat down in a chair which was luckily near me, for my knees trembled so that I
                  could not stand, and as the door opened and Tom's familiar face was before me, my
                  whole composure gave way and I burst into a violent fit of crying.
               "Janet! is it you? For Heaven's sake, what is the matter?"
               But I could only sob in answer.
               "Has anything happened up Sandy? Did you come for me?"
               The poor fellow leaned over me, his face pale with surprise and agitation.
               "Take me out of here!" was all I could muster composure enough to say.
               He opened the door, and I escaped into the open air. We walked side by side
                  through the streets, he silently respecting my agitation with a delicacy for which
                  I had not given him credit, and I struggling to grow calm. At last he opened a
                  little side-gate.
               "Come in here, Janet; we shall be quiet here."
               And I entered a sort of garden; the grounds belonging to the city water-works I
                  have since known them to be. We sat down on a bench that overlooked the Kentucky
                  hills. I love the seat now. I think the sight of the familiar fields and trees
                  calmed me, and I was able at last to answer Tom's anxious questions.
               "It is nothing; indeed, it is nothing. I am a foolish coward, and I was frightened
                  walking through the city, and then the sight of a home-face upset me."
               "But, Janet, why are you here? Is anything wrong about the works, the men? Did Mr.
                  Hammond send you down?"
               "No, indeed, no! it was only a fancy of mine to see the world. I am tired of that
                  lonely life, and you know I am not needed there. My mother can get along without
                  me, and I am only a burden to my father."
               "Not needed? Why, Janet, what will the Sandy country be without you?"
               My eyes filled up with tears again.
               "Don't ask me any more questions, dear Tom; only help me for a little while, till
                  I can help myself. I want to earn my living somehow, but I have money enough to
                  live upon till I can find something to do. Only find me a place to stay quietly in
                  while I am looking for work. You are the only person I know in this great city;
                  and who will help me, if you do not?"
               "You know I will help you with my whole heart and soul, Janet," he said, his voice
                  faltering.
               I looked up, and in one moment rushed back upon me the remembrance of his words
                  that day in the boat, and I stood aghast at the new trouble that seemed to rise
                  before me. My voice must have changed as I said,—
               "I only want you to find me a place to live in; I can take care of myself"; for
                  his countenance fell, and he sat silent for some moments.
               At last he spoke:—
               "I know I cannot do much, Janet, but what I can, I will. And, first, I will take
                  you to the house of a widow-woman who has a room to let; one of our men wanted me
                  to take it, but it was too far from my work. I went to see the place, though, and
                  it is quiet and respectable; the woman looks kind, too. Would you walk slowly down the street,
                  while I go to the office and get my coat?"—he was in his working-dress,—"and then
                  I'll join you."
               I got up, feeling that I had chilled him in some way, and reproaching myself for
                  it. When he rejoined me, we walked silently on, till, after many a turning, we
                  found ourselves in a narrow, quiet street, before a small house, with a tiny yard
                  in front. I do not know how the matter was arranged; he did it all for me. There
                  was the introducing me to a motherly-looking person, as a friend of his from the
                  country; the going up a narrow staircase to look at a small room of which all that
                  could be said was that it was neat and clean; the bargaining for my board, in
                  which I was obliged to answer "Yes" and "No" as I could best follow his lead; and
                  then Tom left me with a shake of the hand, and the advice that I should lie down
                  and rest after my tedious journey; he would see me again in the evening.
               The quiet dinner with my landlady, the afternoon rest, the fresh toilet, the sort
                  of home-feeling that my room already gave me, all did their part towards bringing
                  back my usual composure before Tom came in the evening; and then, sitting by the
                  window in the little parlor, I could talk rationally of my plans for the
                  future.
               I had money enough for twelve weeks' board, even if I reserved ten dollars for
                  other expenses. Surely, in that time I could find something to do. And as to what
                  I should do, I had thought that all over before I left home. I might find some
                  sewing, or tend in a store, or, perhaps,—did he think I could?—I might keep
                  school.
               Tom would not hear of my sewing. He knew poor girls that worked their lives out at
                  that. I might tend in a store, if I pleased, but still he did not believe I would
                  like to be tied to one place for twelve hours in the day. Why should n't I keep
                  school? he was sure I knew enough, I was so smart, and had read so many books.
               I shook my head. I did not believe the books I had read were the kind that
                  school-mistresses studied. Still, I could learn, and certainly I might begin by
                  teaching little children. But where was I to begin?
               "If only we knew some gentleman, Janet, some city-man, who knew what to do about
                  such things."
               Suddenly a thought struck me.
               "Tom, do you remember those gentlemen who came up to look at the coal mines when
                  they were first opened? One of them stayed at our house two nights, and saw my
                  books, and talked to me about them. Mr. Kendall was his name."
               "That 's the very man; and a kind-hearted gentleman he seemed, not stuck up or
                  proud. I'll find him out for you, Janet, to-morrow; but there's no need of your
                  hurrying yourself about going to work. You must see the city and the sights."
               And Tom grew enthusiastic in describing to me all that was to be seen in this
                  wonderful place.
               Tom had altered, had improved in appearance and manners, since he had known
                  something of city-life. I could not tell wherein the change lay, but I felt it. He
                  told me of himself,—of his rising to be head-man, a sort of overseer, in the
                  coal-yard,—of his good wages,—of some investments that he had made which had
                  brought him in good returns.
               "So you see, Janet, that, even if you were not so rich yourself, I have plenty of
                  money at your service."
               I thanked him most heartily, and roused myself to show some interest in all that
                  concerned him.
               So passed the rest of the week,—quiet days with my landlady, or in my room, where
                  I busied myself in putting my wardrobe into better shape under the direction of
                  Mrs. Barnum, and quiet walks and talks in the evening with Tom Salyers. It was
                  evident that he was not satisfied with my alleged motives for leaving home, but I
                  so steadily avoided all conversation on this point that he learned to respect my
                  silence. On Sunday he told me he had found out who Mr. Kendall was.
               
               "One of the stockholders of the Company, and a good man, they say. I 'll go to him
                  to-morrow, if you say so, Janet, and ask him anything you want to know."
               "No, Tom, I shall go myself. It is my business, and I must not let you do so much
                  for me. If you will go with me, though,"—I added.
               And so the next morning saw us at Mr. Kendall's counting-room. It was before
                  business-hours: we had cared for that. We found Mr. Kendall sitting leisurely over
                  his papers, his feet up and his spectacles pushed back. I had been nervous enough
                  during the walk, but a glance at his face reassured me. It was a good, a fatherly
                  face, full of bonhommie, but showing, withal, a
                  spice of business-shrewdness. I left Tom standing at the counting-room door, and,
                  taking my fate in my own hands, walked forward and made myself known.
               "O yes! the little girl that Hammond thought so much of, that he talks about so
                  often when he is down here. He thinks a school or two would bring the Sandy people
                  out and holds you up as an example; but, for my part, I think you are an
                  exception. There are not many of them that one could do much with."
               I turned quickly.
               "This is Tom Salyers, sir, head-workman, overseer, at your coal-yard, and he is a
                  Sandy man."
               Mr. Kendall laughed.
               "I see I must not say anything against the Sandy country; nor need I just now.
                  Walk in, Mr. Salyers. So, Miss Janet, you have come down to seek your fortune,
                  earn your living, you say. I suppose Hammond sent you to me. Did you bring me a
                  letter from him?"
               I hesitated.
               "No, sir. Mr. Hammond was so much occupied when I came away that I had not seen
                  him for a day or two. He has friends staying with him."
               "True enough. Mr. Worthington has gone up there with his pretty daughter to see
                  whether he can allow her to bury herself in the country. You saw Miss Worthington?
                  Will she be popular among your people when she is Mrs. Hammond?"
               I caught a glimpse of Tom's face, and felt myself turning pale as I answered, with
                  a composure that did not seem to come from my own strength,—
               "Miss Worthington is a very pleasant-spoken young lady. The people will like her,
                  because she seems to care for them, just as Mr. Hammond does. But do you think,
                  sir, that you could put me in the way of teaching school? Could I learn how to do
                  it?"
               "Well, I am just the right person to come to, Miss Janet, for the people have put
                  me on the School Board, and—yes, we shall want some teachers next month in two of
                  the primary departments. Could you wait a month? You might be studying up for your
                  examination; it's not much, but it'll not hurt you to go over their arithmetics
                  and grammars. And I must write to Hammond to-day about some business of the
                  Company. I'll ask him about your qualifications, and what he thinks of it, and
                  we'll see what can be done. I should not wonder if I could get you a place."
               Mr. Kendall shook hands with us both; and, bidding him good-morning, with many
                  thanks for his kindness, we went out. We walked a square silently. Suddenly Tom
                  turned to me:—
               "You did not tell me, Janet, of this young lady."
               "No."
               "And is Mr. Hammond going to marry her?"
               The blood rushed to my face till it was crimson to the very hair, while I
                  stammered,—
               "I do not know,—you heard Mr. Kendall."
               Tom's voice was as gentle as a mother's in answer, but his words had little to do
                  with the subject, they were almost as incoherent as mine,—something about his
                  hoping I would like living in Cincinnati, that teaching would not be too tiresome
                  for me. But from that moment George Hammond's name was never mentioned between
                  us.
               
               I wrote that day to my step-mother, telling her of my plans and prospects, and
                  that evening Tom brought me the needed school-books. He had found them by asking
                  some of the men at the yard whose children went to the public schools, and to the
                  study of them I sat down with a determination that no slight difficulty could
                  subdue. The next week brought a long, kind letter from Mr. Hammond, scolding me
                  for going as I did, and declaring that he missed me every day.
               "But more than all shall I miss you, Janet, when I bring Miss Worthington back as
                  my wife; I had depended so upon you as a companion for her. But still it is a good
                  thing for you to see something of the world, and you are bright enough to do
                  anything you set out to do. I have written to Mr. Kendall to do all he can for
                  you, and with Tom to take care of you I am sure you will get along. I begin to
                  suspect that your going away was a thing contrived between Tom and yourself. Who
                  knows how soon he may bring you back among us to show the Sandy farmers' wives how
                  to live more comfortably than some of them do? Tom has a very pretty place below
                  the mouth of Blackberry, if you would only show him how to take care of it."
               There was comfort in this letter, in spite of the tears it caused me. My secret
                  was safe. Miss Hammond had not been so cruel, so traitorous to her sex, as to
                  betray it. If she had not told it now, she never would tell it, and Tom, if he
                  suspected it, was too good, too noble, to whisper it even to himself. So I laid
                  away my letter, and with a lighter heart turned again to my tasks.
               And now three months have passed, for two of which I have been teaching. There are
                  difficulties, yes, and there is hard work; but I can manage the children. I have
                  the tact, the character, the gift, that nameless something which gives one person
                  control over others; and for the studies, they are as yet a pleasure to me. I see
                  how they will lead me on to other knowledge, how I may bring into form and make
                  available my desultory reading, and there is a great pleasure in the very study
                  itself. And for the rest, if my great grief is never out of mind, if it is always
                  present to me, at least I can put it back, behind my daily occupations and
                  interests. I begin, too, to see dimly that there are other things in life for a
                  woman to whom the light of life is denied. My heart will always be lonely; but how
                  much there is to live for in my mind, my tastes, my love for the beautiful! My
                  little room has taken another aspect. I have so few wants that I can readily
                  devote part of my earnings to gratifying myself with books, pictures. Such lovely
                  prints as I find in the print-shops! and the flowers,—Tom Salyers, who is as kind
                  as a brother, brings me them from the market. And then everything is so new to me;
                  there is so much in life to see, to know. No, I will not be unhappy; happy I
                  suppose I can never be, but I have strength and courage, and a will to rise above
                  this sorrow which once crushed me to the ground. When I wrote the bitter words
                  with which this record begins, I wronged the kind hearts that are around me, I
                  lacked faith in that world wherein I have found help and comfort.
            
            
               
               THE MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY.
               
                  I SUPPOSE that very few casual readers of the New York Herald of August 13th
                     observed, in an obscure corner, among the "Deaths," the announcement,— 
                        "NOLAN. Died, on board U. S. Corvette Levant, Lat. 2° 11 S., Long. 131°
                           W., on the 11th of May, PHILIP NOLAN."
                     
                  
                  I happened to observe it, because I was stranded at the old Mission-House in
                     Mackinaw, waiting for a Lake-Superior steamer which did not choose to come, and
                     I was devouring to the very stubble all the current literature I could get hold
                     of, even down to the deaths and marriages in the Herald. My memory for names
                     and people is good, and the reader will see, as he goes on, that I had reason
                     enough to remember Philip Nolan. There are hundreds of readers who would have
                     paused at that announcement, if the officer of the Levant who reported it had
                     chosen to make it thus:—"Died, May 11th, THE MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY." For it was
                     as "The Man without a Country" that poor Philip Nolan had generally been known
                     by the officers who had him in charge during some fifty years, as, indeed, by
                     all the men who sailed under them. I dare say there is many a man who has taken
                     wine with him once a fortnight, in a three years' cruise, who never knew that
                     his name was "Nolan," or whether the poor wretch had any name at all.
                  There can now be no possible harm in telling this poor creature's story. Reason
                     enough there has been till now, ever since Madison's Administration went out in
                     1817, for very strict secrecy, the secrecy of honor itself, among the gentlemen
                     of the navy who have had Nolan in successive charge. And certainly it speaks
                     well for the esprit de corps of the
                     profession and the personal honor of its members, that to the press this man's
                     story has been wholly unknown,—and, I think, to the country at large also. I
                     have reason to think, from some investigations I made in the Naval Archives
                     when I was attached to the Bureau of Construction, that every official report
                     relating to him was burned when Ross burned the public buildings at Washington.
                     One of the Tuckers, or possibly one of the Watsons, had Nolan in charge at the
                     end of the war; and when, on returning from his cruise, he reported at
                     Washington to one of the Crowninshields,—who was in the Navy Department when he
                     came home,—he found that the Department ignored the whole business. Whether
                     they really knew nothing about it, or whether it was a "Non mi ricordo," determined on as a piece of policy, I do not
                     know. But this I do know, that since 1817, and possibly before, no naval
                     officer has mentioned Nolan in his report of a cruise.
                  But, as I say, there is no need for secrecy any longer. And now the poor
                     creature is dead, it seems to me worth while to tell a little of his story, by
                     way of showing young Americans of to-day what it is to be
                  
                     A MAN WITHOUT A COUNTRY.
                     Philip Nolan was as fine a young officer as there was in the "Legion of the
                        West," as the Western division of our army was then called. When Aaron Burr
                        made his first dashing expedition down to New Orleans in 1805, at Fort
                        Massac, or somewhere above on the river, he met, as the Devil would have it,
                        this gay, dashing, bright young fellow, at some dinner-party, I think. Burr
                        marked him, talked to him, walked with him, took him a day or two's voyage in his flat-boat, and, in
                        short, fascinated him. For the next year, barrack-life was very tame to poor
                        Nolan. He occasionally availed of the permission the great man had given him
                        to write to him. Long, high-worded, stilted letters the poor boy wrote and
                        rewrote and copied. But never a line did he have in reply from the gay
                        deceiver. The other boys in the garrison sneered at him, because he
                        sacrificed in this unrequited affection for a politician the time which they
                        devoted to Monongahela, sledge, and high-low-jack. Bourbon, euchre, and
                        poker were still unknown. But one day Nolan had his revenge. This time Burr
                        came down the river, not as an attorney seeking a place for his office, but
                        as a disguised conqueror. He had defeated I know not how many
                        district-attorneys; he had dined at I know not how many public dinners; he
                        had been heralded in I know not how many Weekly Arguses, and it was rumored
                        that he had an army behind him and an empire before him. It was a great
                        day—his arrival—to poor Nolan. Burr had not been at the fort an hour before
                        he sent for him. That evening he asked Nolan to take him out in his skiff,
                        to show him a canebrake or a cotton-wood tree, as he said,—really to seduce
                        him; and by the time the sail was over, Nolan was enlisted body and soul.
                        From that time, though he did not yet know it, he lived as A MAN WITHOUT A
                        COUNTRY.
                     What Burr meant to do I know no more than you, dear reader. It is none of
                        our business just now. Only, when the grand catastrophe came, and Jefferson
                        and the House of Virginia of that day undertook to break on the wheel all
                        the possible Clarences of the then House of York, by the great treason-trial
                        at Richmond, some of the lesser fry in that distant Mississippi Valley,
                        which was farther from us than Puget's Sound is to-day, introduced the like
                        novelty on their provincial stage, and, to while away the monotony of the
                        summer at Fort Adams, got up, for spectacles, a string of
                        court-martials on the officers there. One and another of the colonels and
                        majors were tried, and, to fill out the list, little Nolan, against whom,
                        Heaven knows, there was evidence enough,—that he was sick of the service,
                        had been willing to be false to it, and would have obeyed any order to march
                        any-whither with any one who would follow him, had the order only been
                        signed, "By command of His Exc. A. Burr." The courts dragged on. The big
                        flies escaped,—rightly for all I know. Nolan was proved guilty enough, as I
                        say; yet you and I would never have heard of him, reader, but that, when the
                        president of the court asked him at the close, whether he wished to say
                        anything to show that he had always been faithful to the United States, he
                        cried out, in a fit of frenzy,—
                     "D—n the United States! I wish I may never hear of the United States
                        again!"
                     I suppose he did not know how the words shocked old Colonel Morgan, who was
                        holding the court. Half the officers who sat in it had served through the
                        Revolution, and their lives, not to say their necks, had been risked for the
                        very idea which he so cavalierly cursed in his madness. He, on his part, had
                        grown up in the West of those days, in the midst of "Spanish plot," "Orleans
                        plot," and all the rest. He had been educated on a plantation where the
                        finest company was a Spanish officer or a French merchant from Orleans. His
                        education, such as it was, had been perfected in commercial expeditions to
                        Vera Cruz, and I think he told me his father once hired an Englishman to be
                        a private tutor for a winter on the plantation. He had spent half his youth
                        with an older brother, hunting horses in Texas; and, in a word, to him
                        "United States" was scarcely a reality. Yet he had been fed by "United
                        States" for all the years since he had been in the army. He had sworn on his
                        faith as a Christian to be true to "United States." It was "United States"
                        which gave him the uniform he wore, and the sword by his side. Nay, my poor
                        Nolan, it was only because "United States" had picked you out first as one
                        of her own confidential men of honor that "A. Burr" cared for you a straw
                        more than for the flat-boat men who sailed his ark for him. I do not excuse Nolan; I only explain to the
                        reader why he damned his country, and wished he might never hear her name
                        again.
                     He never did hear her name but once again. From that moment, September 23,
                        1807, till the day he died, May 11, 1863, he never heard her name again. For
                        that half-century and more he was a man without a country.
                     Old Morgan, as I said, was terribly shocked. If Nolan had compared George
                        Washington to Benedict Arnold, or had cried, "God save King George," Morgan
                        would not have felt worse. He called the court into his private room, and
                        returned in fifteen minutes, with a face like a sheet, to say,—
                     "Prisoner, hear the sentence of the Court! The Court decides, subject to the
                        approval of the President, that you never hear the name of the United States
                        again."
                     Nolan laughed. But nobody else laughed. Old Morgan was too solemn, and the
                        whole room was hushed dead as night for a minute. Even Nolan lost his
                        swagger in a moment. Then Morgan added,—
                     "Mr. Marshal, take the prisoner to Orleans in an armed boat, and deliver him
                        to the naval commander there."
                     The Marshal gave his orders and the prisoner was taken out of court.
                     "Mr. Marshal," continued old Morgan, "see that no one mentions the United
                        States to the prisoner. Mr. Marshal, make my respects to Lieutenant Mitchell
                        at Orleans, and request him to order that no one shall mention the United
                        States to the prisoner while he is on board ship. You will receive your
                        written orders from the officer on duty here this evening. The court is
                        adjourned without day."
                     I have always supposed that Colonel Morgan himself took the proceedings of
                        the court to Washington City, and explained them to Mr. Jefferson. Certain
                        it is that the President approved them,—certain, that is, if I may believe
                        the men who say they have seen his signature. Before the Nautilus got round
                        from New Orleans to the Northern Atlantic lantic coast with the prisoner on
                        board, the sentence had been approved, and he was a man without a
                        country.
                     The plan then adopted was substantially the same which was necessarily
                        followed ever after. Perhaps it was suggested by the necessity of sending
                        him by water from Fort Adams and Orleans. The Secretary of the Navy—it must
                        have been the first Crowninshield, though he is a man I do not remember—was
                        requested to put Nolan on board a Government vessel bound on a long cruise,
                        and to direct that he should be only so far confined there as to make it
                        certain that he never saw or heard of the country. We had few long cruises
                        then, and the navy was very much out of favor; and as almost all of this
                        story is traditional, as I have explained, I do not know certainly what his
                        first cruise was. But the commander to whom he was intrusted,—perhaps it was
                        Tingey or Shaw, though I think it was one of the younger men,—we are all old
                        enough now,—regulated the etiquette and the precautions of the affair, and
                        according to his scheme they were carried out, I suppose, till Nolan
                        died.
                     When I was second officer of the Intrepid, some thirty years after, I saw
                        the original paper of instructions. I have been sorry ever since that I did
                        not copy the whole of it. It ran, however, much in this way:—
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    "Washington," (with the date, which must have been
                                       late in 1807.)
                                 
                                 "SIR,—You will receive from Lieutenant Neale the person of
                                    Philip Nolan, late a Lieutenant in the United States Army.
                                 "This person on his trial by court-martial expressed with an
                                    oath the wish that he might 'never hear of the United States
                                    again.'
                                 "The Court sentenced him to have his wish fulfilled.
                                 "For the present the execution of the order is intrusted by the
                                    President to this department.
                                 "You will take the prisoner on board your ship, and keep him
                                    there with such precautions as shall prevent his escape.
                                 
                                 "You will provide him with such quarters, rations, and clothing
                                    as would be proper for an officer of his late rank, if he were a
                                    passenger on your vessel on the business of his Government.
                                 "The gentlemen on board will make any arrangements agreeable to
                                    themselves regarding his society. He is to be exposed to no
                                    indignity of any kind, nor is he ever unnecessarily to be
                                    reminded that he is a prisoner.
                                 "But under no circumstances is he ever to hear of his country or
                                    to see any information regarding it; and you will specially
                                    caution all the officers under your command to take care, that,
                                    in the various indulgences which may be granted, this rule, in
                                    which his punishment is involved, shall not be broken.
                                 "It is the intention of the Government that he shall never again
                                    see the country which he has disowned. Before the end of your
                                    cruise you will receive orders which will give effect to this
                                    intention.
                                 
                                    "Respectfully yours,
                                    "W. SOUTHARD, for the Secretary of the Navy."
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                     If I had only preserved the whole of this paper, there would be no break in
                        the beginning of my sketch of this story. For Captain Shaw, if it was he,
                        handed it to his successor in the charge, and he to his, and I suppose the
                        commander of the Levant has it to-day as his authority for keeping this man
                        in this mild custody.
                     The rule adopted on board the ships on which I have met "the man without a
                        country" was, I think, transmitted from the beginning. No mess liked to have
                        him permanently, because his presence cut off all talk of home or of the
                        prospect of return, of politics or letters, of peace or of war,—cut off more
                        than half the talk men like to have at sea. But it was always thought too
                        hard that he should never meet the rest of us, except to touch hats, and we
                        finally sank into one system. He was not permitted to talk with the men,
                        unless an officer was by. With officers he had unrestrained intercourse, as
                        far as they and he chose. But he grew shy, though he had favorites: I was
                        one. Then the captain always asked him to dinner on Monday. Every mess in
                        succession took up the invitation in its turn. According to the size of the
                        ship, you had him at your mess more or less often at dinner. His breakfast
                        he ate in his own state-room,—he always had a state-room,—which was where a
                        sentinel, or somebody on the watch, could see the door. And whatever else he
                        ate or drank he ate or drank alone. Sometimes, when the marines or sailors
                        had any special jollification, they were permitted to invite
                        "Plain-Buttons," as they called him. Then Nolan was sent with some officer,
                        and the men were forbidden to speak of home while he was there. I believe
                        the theory was that the sight of his punishment did them good. They called
                        him "Plain-Buttons," because, while he always chose to wear a regulation
                        army-uniform, he was not permitted to wear the army-button, for the reason
                        that it bore either the initials or the insignia of the country he had
                        disowned.
                     I remember, soon after I joined the navy, I was on shore with some of the
                        older officers from our ship and from the Brandywine, which we had met at
                        Alexandria. We had leave to make a party and go up to Cairo and the
                        Pyramids. As we jogged along, (you went on donkeys then,) some of the
                        gentlemen (we boys called them "Dons," but the phrase was long since
                        changed) fell to talking about Nolan, and some one told the system which was
                        adopted from the first about his books and other reading. As he was almost
                        never permitted to go on shore, even though the vessel lay in port for
                        months, his time, at the best, hung heavy; and everybody was permitted to
                        lend him books, if they were not published in America and made no allusion
                        to it. These were common enough in the old days, when people in the other
                        hemisphere talked of the United States as little as we do of Paraguay. He
                        had almost all the foreign papers that came into the ship, sooner or later;
                        only somebody must go over them
                        first, and cut out any advertisement or stray paragraph that alluded to
                        America. This was a little cruel sometimes, when the back of what was cut
                        out might be as innocent as Hesiod. Right in the midst of one of Napoleon's
                        battles, or one of Canning's speeches, poor Nolan would find a great hole,
                        because on the back of the page of that paper there had been an
                        advertisement of a packet for New York, or a scrap from the President's
                        message. I say this was the first time I ever heard of this plan, which
                        afterwards I had enough, and more than enough, to do with. I remember it,
                        because poor Phillips, who was of the party, as soon as the allusion to
                        reading was made, told a story of something which happened at the Cape of
                        Good Hope on Nolan's first voyage; and it is the only thing I ever knew of
                        that voyage. They had touched at the Cape, and had done the civil thing with
                        the English Admiral and the fleet, and then, leaving for a long cruise up
                        the Indian Ocean, Phillips had borrowed a lot of English books from an
                        officer, which, in those days, as indeed in these, was quite a windfall.
                        Among them, as the Devil would order, was the "Lay of the Last Minstrel,"
                        which they had all of them heard of, but which most of them had never seen.
                        I think it could not have been published long. Well, nobody thought there
                        could be any risk of anything national in that, though Phillips swore old
                        Shaw had cut out the "Tempest" from Shakespeare before he let Nolan have it,
                        because he said "the Bermudas ought to be ours, and, by Jove, should be one
                        day." So Nolan was permitted to join the circle one afternoon when a lot of
                        them sat on deck smoking and reading aloud. People do not do such things so
                        often now; but when I was young we got rid of a great deal of time so. Well,
                        so it happened that in his turn Nolan took the book and read to the others;
                        and he read very well, as I know. Nobody in the circle knew a line of the
                        poem, only it was all magic and Border chivalry, and was ten thousand years
                        ago. Poor Nolan read steadily through the fifth canto, stopped a minute and
                        drank something, and then began, without a thought of what was coming,—
                           
                              "Breathes there the man, with soul so dead,
                              Who never to himself hath said,"—
                           
                         It seems impossible to us that anybody ever heard this for the first
                        time; but all these fellows did then, and poor Nolan himself went on, still
                        unconsciously or mechanically,— 
                           "This is my own, my native land!"
                         Then they all saw something was to pay; but he expected to get through,
                        I suppose, turned a little pale, but plunged on,— 
                           
                              "Whose heart hath ne'er within him burned,
                              As home his footsteps he hath turned
                              From wandering on a foreign strand?—
                              If such there breathe, go, mark him well."
                           
                         By this time the men were all beside themselves, wishing there was any
                        way to make him turn over two pages; but he had not quite presence of mind
                        for that; he gagged a little, colored crimson, and staggered on,— 
                           
                              "For him no minstrel raptures swell;
                              High though his titles, proud his name,
                              Boundless his wealth as wish can claim,
                              Despite these titles, power, and pelf,
                              The wretch, concentred all in self,"—
                           
                         and here the poor fellow choked, could not go on, but started up, swung
                        the book into the sea, vanished into his state-room, "and by Jove," said
                        Phillips, "we did not see him for two months again. And I had to make up
                        some beggarly story to that English surgeon why I did not return his Walter
                        Scott to him."
                     That story shows about the time when Nolan's braggadocio must have broken
                        down. At first, they said, he took a very high tone, considered his
                        imprisonment a mere farce, affected to enjoy the voyage, and all that; but
                        Phillips said that after he came out of his state-room he never was the same
                        man again. He never read aloud again, unless it was the Bible or
                        Shakespeare, or something else he was sure of. But it was not that merely.
                        He never entered in with the
                        other young men exactly as a companion again. He was always shy afterwards,
                        when I knew him,—very seldom spoke, unless he was spoken to, except to a
                        very few friends. He lighted up occasionally,—I remember late in his life
                        hearing him fairly eloquent on something which had been suggested to him by
                        one of Fléchier's sermons,—but generally he had the nervous, tired look of a
                        heart-wounded man.
                     When Captain Shaw was coming home,—if, as I say, it was Shaw,—rather to the
                        surprise of everybody they made one of the Windward Islands, and lay off and
                        on for nearly a week. The boys said the officers were sick of salt-junk, and
                        meant to have turtle-soup before they came home. But after several days the
                        Warren came to the same rendezvous; they exchanged signals; she sent to
                        Phillips and these homeward-bound men letters and papers, and told them she
                        was outward-bound, perhaps to the Mediterranean, and took poor Nolan and his
                        traps on the boat back to try his second cruise. He looked very blank when
                        he was told to get ready to join her. He had known enough of the signs of
                        the sky to know that till that moment he was going "home." But this was a
                        distinct evidence of something he had not thought of, perhaps,—that there
                        was no going home for him, even to a prison. And this was the first of some
                        twenty such transfers, which brought him sooner or later into half our best
                        vessels, but which kept him all his life at least some hundred miles from
                        the country he had hoped he might never hear of again.
                     It may have been on that second cruise,—it was once when he was up the
                        Mediterranean,—that Mrs. Graff, the celebrated Southern beauty of those
                        days, danced with him. They had been lying a long time in the Bay of Naples,
                        and the officers were very intimate in the English fleet, and there had been
                        great festivities, and our men thought they must give a great ball on board
                        the ship. How they ever did it on board the Warren I am sure I do not know.
                        Perhaps it was not the Warren, or perhaps ladies did not take up so much
                        room as they do now. They wanted to use Nolan's state-room for something,
                        and they hated to do it without asking him to the ball; so the captain said
                        they might ask him, if they would be responsible that he did not talk with
                        the wrong people, "who would give him intelligence." So the dance went on,
                        the finest party that had ever been known, I dare say; for I never heard of
                        a man-of-war ball that was not. For ladies they had the family of the
                        American consul, one or two travellers who had adventured so far, and a nice
                        bevy of English girls and matrons, perhaps Lady Hamilton herself.
                     Well, different officers relieved each other in standing and talking with
                        Nolan in a friendly way, so as to be sure that nobody else spoke to him. The
                        dancing went on with spirit, and after a while even the fellows who took
                        this honorary guard of Nolan ceased to fear any contre-temps. Only when some English lady—Lady Hamilton, as I
                        said, perhaps—called for a set of "American dances," an odd thing happened.
                        Everybody then danced contra-dances. The black band, nothing loath,
                        conferred as to what "American dances" were, and started off with "Virginia
                        Reel," which they followed with "Money-Musk," which, in its turn in those
                        days, should have been followed by "The Old Thirteen." But just as Dick, the
                        leader, tapped for his fiddles to begin, and bent forward, about to say, in
                        true negro state, "'The Old Thirteen,' gentlemen and ladies!" as he had said
                        "'Virginny Reel,' if you please!" and "'Money-Musk,' if you please!" the
                        captain's boy tapped him on the shoulder, whispered to him, and he did not
                        announce the name of the dance; he merely bowed, began on the air, and they
                        all fell to,—the officers teaching the English girls the figure, but not
                        telling them why it had no name.
                     But that is not the story I started to tell.—As the dancing went on, Nolan
                        and our fellows all got at ease, as I said,—so much so, that it seemed quite
                        natural for him to bow to that splendid Mrs. Graff, and say,—
                     "I hope you have not forgotten me, Miss Rutledge. Shall I have the honor of
                        dancing?"
                     
                     He did it so quickly, that Fellows, who was by him, could not hinder him.
                        She laughed, and said,—
                     "I am not Miss Rutledge any longer, Mr. Nolan; but I will dance all the
                        same," just nodded to Fellows, as if to say he must leave Mr. Nolan to her,
                        and led him off to the place where the dance was forming.
                     Nolan thought he had got his chance. He had known her at Philadelphia, and
                        at other places had met her, and this was a Godsend. You could not talk in
                        contra-dances, as you do in cotillons, or even in the pauses of waltzing;
                        but there were chances for tongues and sounds, as well as for eyes and
                        blushes. He began with her travels, and Europe, and Vesuvius, and the
                        French; and then, when they had worked down, and had that long talking-time
                        at the bottom of the set, he said, boldly,—a little pale, she said, as she
                        told me the story, years after,—
                     "And what do you hear from home, Mrs. Graff?"
                     And that splendid creature looked through him. Jove! how she must have
                        looked through him!
                     "Home!! Mr. Nolan!!! I thought you were the man who never wanted to hear of
                        home again!"—and she walked directly up the deck to her husband, and left
                        poor Nolan alone, as he always was.—He did not dance again.
                     I cannot give any history of him in order; nobody can now: and, indeed, I am
                        not trying to. These are the traditions, which I sort out, as I believe
                        them, from the myths which have been told about this man for forty years.
                        The lies that have been told about him are legion. The fellows used to say
                        he was the "Iron Mask"; and poor George Pons went to his grave in the belief
                        that this was the author of "Junius," who was being punished for his
                        celebrated libel on Thomas Jefferson. Pons was not very strong in the
                        historical line. A happier story than either of these I have told is of the
                        War. That came along soon after. I have heard this affair told in three or
                        four ways,—and, indeed, it may have happened more than once. But which ship
                        it was on I cannot tell. However, in one, at least, of the great
                        frigate-duels with the English, in which the navy was really baptized, it
                        happened that a round-shot from the enemy entered one of our ports square,
                        and took right down the officer of the gun himself, and almost every man of
                        the gun's crew. Now you may say what you choose about courage, but that is
                        not a nice thing to see. But, as the men who were not killed picked
                        themselves up, and as they and the surgeon's people were carrying off the
                        bodies, there appeared Nolan, in his shirt-sleeves, with the rammer in his
                        hand, and, just as if he had been the officer, told them off with
                        authority,—who should go to the cockpit with the wounded men, who should
                        stay with him,—perfectly cheery, and with that way which makes men feel sure
                        all is right and is going to be right. And he finished loading the gun with
                        his own hands, aimed it, and bade the men fire. And there he stayed, captain
                        of that gun, keeping those fellows in spirits, till the enemy
                        struck,—sitting on the carriage while the gun was cooling, though he was
                        exposed all the time,—showing them easier ways to handle heavy shot,—making
                        the raw hands laugh at their own blunders,—and when the gun cooled again,
                        getting it loaded and fired twice as often as any other gun on the ship. The
                        captain walked forward by way of encouraging the men, and Nolan touched his
                        hat and said,—
                     "I am showing them how we do this in the artillery, sir."
                     And this is the part of the story where all the legends agree; that the
                        Commodore said,—
                     "I see you do, and I thank you, sir; and I shall never forget this day, sir,
                        and you never shall, sir."
                     And after the whole thing was over, and he had the Englishman's sword, in
                        the midst of the state and ceremony of the quarter-deck, he said,—
                     "Where is Mr. Nolan? Ask Mr. Nolan to come here."
                     And when Nolan came, the captain said,—
                     "Mr. Nolan, we are all very grateful to you to-day; you are one of us
                        to-day; you will be named in the despatches."
                     
                     And then the old man took off his own sword of ceremony, and gave it to
                        Nolan, and made him put it on. The man told me this who saw it. Nolan cried
                        like a baby, and well he might. He had not worn a sword since that infernal
                        day at Fort Adams. But always afterwards, on occasions of ceremony, he wore
                        that quaint old French sword of the Commodore's.
                     The captain did mention him in the despatches. It was always said he asked
                        that he might be pardoned. He wrote a special letter to the Secretary of
                        War. But nothing ever came of it. As I said, that was about the time when
                        they began to ignore the whole transaction at Washington, and when Nolan's
                        imprisonment began to carry itself on because there was nobody to stop it
                        without any new orders from home.
                     I have heard it said that he was with Porter when he took possession of the
                        Nukahiwa Islands. Not this Porter, you know, but old Porter, his father,
                        Essex Porter,—that is, the old Essex Porter, not this Essex. As an artillery
                        officer, who had seen service in the West, Nolan knew more about
                        fortifications, embrasures, ravelins, stockades, and all that, than any of
                        them did; and he worked with a right good-will in fixing that battery all
                        right. I have always thought it was a pity Porter did not leave him in
                        command there with Gamble. That would have settled all the question about
                        his punishment. We should have kept the islands, and at this moment we
                        should have one station in the Pacific Ocean. Our French friends, too, when
                        they wanted this little watering-place, would have found it was preoccupied.
                        But Madison and the Virginians, of course, flung all that away.
                     All that was near fifty years ago. If Nolan was thirty then, he must have
                        been near eighty when he died. He looked sixty when he was forty. But he
                        never seemed to me to change a hair afterwards. As I imagine his life, from
                        what I have seen and heard of it, he must have been in every sea, and yet
                        almost never on land. He must have known, in a formal way, more officers in
                        our service than any man living knows. He told me once, with a grave smile,
                        that no man in the world lived so methodical a life as he. "You know the
                        boys say I am the Iron Mask, and you know how busy he was." He said it did
                        not do for any one to try to read all the time, more than to do anything
                        else all the time; but that he read just five hours a day. "Then," he said,
                        "I keep up my note-books, writing in them at such and such hours from what I
                        have been reading; and I include in these my scrap-books." These were very
                        curious indeed. He had six or eight, of different subjects. There was one of
                        History, one of Natural Science, one which he called "Odds and Ends." But
                        they were not merely books of extracts from newspapers. They had bits of
                        plants and ribbons, shells tied on, and carved scraps of bone and wood,
                        which he had taught the men to cut for him, and they were beautifully
                        illustrated. He drew admirably. He had some of the funniest drawings there,
                        and some of the most pathetic, that I have ever seen in my life. I wonder
                        who will have Nolan's scrap-books.
                     Well, he said his reading and his notes were his profession, and that they
                        took five hours and two hours respectively of each day. "Then," said he,
                        "every man should have a diversion as well as a profession. My Natural
                        History is my diversion." That took two hours a day more. The men used to
                        bring him birds and fish, but on a long cruise he had to satisfy himself
                        with centipedes and cockroaches and such small game. He was the only
                        naturalist I ever met who knew anything about the habits of the house-fly
                        and the mosquito. All those people can tell you whether they are Lepidoptera or Steptopotera; but as for telling how you can get rid of them,
                        or how they get away from you when you strike them,—why, Linnæus knew as
                        little of that as John Foy the idiot did. These nine hours made Nolan's
                        regular daily "occupation." The rest of the time he talked or walked. Till
                        he grew very old, he went aloft a great deal. He always kept up his
                        exercise; and I never heard that
                        he was ill. If any other man was ill, he was the kindest nurse in the world;
                        and he knew more than half the surgeons do. Then if anybody was sick or
                        died, or if the captain wanted him to on any other occasion, he was always
                        ready to read prayers. I have said that he read beautifully.
                     My own acquaintance with Philip Nolan began six or eight years after the
                        War, on my first voyage after I was appointed a midshipman. It was in the
                        first days after our Slave-Trade treaty, while the Reigning House, which was
                        still the House of Virginia, had still a sort of sentimentalism about the
                        suppression of the horrors of the Middle Passage, and something was
                        sometimes done that way. We were in the South Atlantic on that business.
                        From the time I joined, I believe I thought Nolan was a sort of lay
                        chaplain,—a chaplain with a blue coat. I never asked about him. Everything
                        in the ship was strange to me. I knew it was green to ask questions, and I
                        suppose I thought there was a "Plain-Buttons" on every ship. We had him to
                        dine in our mess once a week, and the caution was given that on that day
                        nothing was to be said about home. But if they had told us not to say
                        anything about the planet Mars or the Book of Deuteronomy, I should not have
                        asked why; there were a great many things which seemed to me to have as
                        little reason. I first came to understand anything about "the man without a
                        country" one day when we overhauled a dirty little schooner which had slaves
                        on board. An officer was sent to take charge of her, and, after a few
                        minutes, he sent back his boat to ask that some one might be sent him who
                        could speak Portuguese. We were all looking over the rail when the message
                        came, and we all wished we could interpret, when the captain asked who spoke
                        Portuguese. But none of the officers did; and just as the captain was
                        sending forward to ask if any of the people could, Nolan stepped out and
                        said he should be glad to interpret, if the captain wished, as he understood
                        the language. The captain thanked him, fitted out another boat with him, and
                        in this boat it was my luck to go.
                     When we got there, it was such a scene as you seldom see, and never want to.
                        Nastiness beyond account, and chaos run loose in the midst of the nastiness.
                        There were not a great many of the negroes; but by way of making what there
                        were understand that they were free, Vaughan had had their hand-cuffs and
                        ankle-cuffs knocked off, and, for convenience' sake was putting them upon
                        the rascals of the schooner's crew. The negroes were, most of them, out of
                        the hold, and swarming all round the dirty deck, with a central throng
                        surrounding Vaughan and addressing him in every dialect and patois of a dialect, from the Zulu click up to
                        the Parisian of Beledeljereed.
                     As we came on deck, Vaughan looked down from a hogshead, on which he had
                        mounted in desperation, and said,—
                     "For God's love, is there anybody who can make these wretches understand
                        something? The men gave them rum, and that did not quiet them. I knocked
                        that big fellow down twice, and that did not soothe him. And then I talked
                        Choctaw to all of them together; and I'll be hanged if they understood that
                        as well as they understood the English."
                     Nolan said he could speak Portuguese, and one or two fine-looking Kroomen
                        were dragged out, who, as it had been found already, had worked for the
                        Portuguese on the coast at Fernando Po.
                     "Tell them they are free," said Vaughan; "and tell them that these rascals
                        are to be hanged as soon as we can get rope enough."
                     Nolan "put that into Spanish,"—that is, he explained it in such Portuguese
                        as the Kroomen could understand, and they in turn to such of the negroes as
                        could understand them. Then there was such a yell of delight, clinching of
                        fists, leaping and dancing, kissing of Nolan's feet, and a general rush made
                        to the hogshead by way of spontaneous worship of Vaughan, as the deus ex machina of the occasion.
                     "Tell them," said Vaughan, well pleased, "that I will take them all to Cape
                        Palmas."
                     This did not answer so well. Cape Palmas was practically as far from the
                        homes of most of them as New Orleans or Rio Janeiro was; that is, they would
                        be eternally separated from home there. And their interpreters, as we could
                        understand, instantly said, "Ah, non
                           Palmas," and began to propose infinite other expedients in most
                        voluble language. Vaughan was rather disappointed at this result of his
                        liberality, and asked Nolan eagerly what they said. The drops stood on poor
                        Nolan's white forehead, as he hushed the men down, and said,—
                     "He says, 'Not Palmas.' He says, 'Take us home, take us to our own country,
                        take us to our own house, take us to our own pickaninnies and our own
                        women.' He says he has an old father and mother who will die if they do not
                        see him. And this one says he left his people all sick, and paddled down to
                        Fernando to beg the white doctor to come and help them, and that these
                        devils caught him in the bay just in sight of home, and that he has never
                        seen anybody from home since then. And this one says," choked out Nolan,
                        "that he has not heard a word from his home in six months, while he has been
                        locked up in an infernal barracoon."
                     Vaughan always said he grew gray himself while Nolan struggled through this
                        interpretation. I, who did not understand anything of the passion involved
                        in it, saw that the very elements were melting with fervent heat, and that
                        something was to pay somewhere. Even the negroes themselves stopped howling,
                        as they saw Nolan's agony, and Vaughan's almost equal agony of sympathy. As
                        quick as he could get words, he said,—
                     "Tell them yes, yes, yes; tell them they shall go to the Mountains of the
                        Moon, if they will. If I sail the schooner through the Great White Desert,
                        they shall go home!"
                     And after some fashion Nolan said so. And then they all fell to kissing him
                        again, and wanted to rub his nose with theirs.
                     But he could not stand it long; and getting Vaughan to say he might go back,
                        he beckoned me down into our boat. As we lay back in the stern-sheets and
                        the men gave way, he said to me,—"Youngster, let that show you what it is to
                        be without a family, without a home, and without a country. And if you are
                        ever tempted to say a word or to do a thing that shall put a bar between you
                        and your family, your home, and your country, pray God in His mercy to take
                        you that instant home to His own heaven. Stick by your family, boy; forget
                        you have a self, while you do everything for them. Think of your home, boy;
                        write and send, and talk about it. Let it be nearer and nearer to your
                        thought, the farther you have to travel from it; and rush back to it, when
                        you are free, as that poor black slave is doing now. And for your country,
                        boy," and the words rattled in his throat, "and for that flag," and he
                        pointed to the ship, "never dream a dream but of serving her as she bids
                        you, though the service carry you through a thousand hells. No matter what
                        happens to you, no matter who flatters you or who abuses you, never look at
                        another flag, never let a night pass but you pray God to bless that flag.
                        Remember, boy, that behind all these men you have to do with, behind
                        officers, and government, and people even, there is the Country Herself,
                        your Country, and that you belong to Her as you belong to your own mother.
                        Stand by Her, boy, as you would stand by your mother, if those devils there
                        had got hold of her to-day!"
                     I was frightened to death by his calm, hard passion; but I blundered out,
                        that I would, by all that was holy, and that I had never thought of doing
                        anything else. He hardly seemed to hear me; but he did, almost in a whisper,
                        say,—"Oh, if anybody had said so to me when I was of your age!"
                     I think it was this half-confidence of his, which I never abused, for I never told this story till now,
                        which afterward made us great friends. He was very kind to me. Often he sat
                        up, or even got up, at night to walk the deck with me, when it was my watch.
                        He explained to me a great deal of my mathematics, and I owe to him my taste
                        for mathematics. He lent me books, and helped me about my reading. He never
                        alluded so directly to his story again; but from one and another officer I
                        have learned, in thirty years, what I am telling. When we parted from him in
                        St. Thomas harbor, at the end of our cruise, I was more sorry than I can
                        tell. I was very glad to meet him again in 1830; and later in life, when I
                        thought I had some influence in Washington, I moved heaven and earth to have
                        him discharged. But it was like getting a ghost out of prison. They
                        pretended there was no such man, and never was such a man. They will say so
                        at the Department now! Perhaps they do not know. It will not be the first
                        thing in the service of which the Department appears to know nothing!
                     There is a story that Nolan met Burr once on one of our vessels, when a
                        party of Americans came on board in the Mediterranean. But this I believe to
                        be a lie; or, rather, it is a myth, ben
                           trovato, involving a tremendous blowing-up with which he sunk
                        Burr,—asking him how he liked to be "without a country." But it is clear,
                        from Burr's life, that nothing of the sort could have happened; and I
                        mention this only as an illustration of the stories which get a-going where
                        there is the least mystery at bottom.
                     So poor Philip Nolan had his wish fulfilled. I know but one fate more
                        dreadful: it is the fate reserved for those men who shall have one day to
                        exile themselves from their country because they have attempted her ruin,
                        and shall have at the same time to see the prosperity and honor to which she
                        rises when she has rid herself of them and their iniquities. The wish of
                        poor Nolan, as we all learned to call him, not because his punishment was
                        too great, but because cause his repentance was so clear, was precisely the
                        wish of every Bragg and Beauregard who broke a soldier's oath two years ago,
                        and of every Maury and Barron who broke a sailor's. I do not know how often
                        they have repented. I do know that they have done all that in them lay that
                        they might have no country,—that all the honors, associations, memories, and
                        hopes which belong to "country" might be broken up into little shreds and
                        distributed to the winds. I know, too, that their punishment, as they
                        vegetate through what is left of life to them in wretched Boulognes and
                        Leicester Squares, where they are destined to upbraid each other till they
                        die, will have all the agony of Nolan's, with the added pang that every one
                        who sees them will see them to despise and to execrate them. They will have
                        their wish, like him.
                     For him, poor fellow, he repented of his folly, and then, like a man,
                        submitted to the fate he had asked for. He never intentionally added to the
                        difficulty or delicacy of the charge of those who had him in hold. Accidents
                        would happen; but they never happened from his fault. Lieutenant Truxton
                        told me, that, when Texas was annexed, there was a careful discussion among
                        the officers, whether they should get hold of Nolan's handsome set of maps,
                        and cut Texas out of it,—from the map of the world and the map of Mexico.
                        The United States had been cut out when the atlas was bought for him. But it
                        was voted, rightly enough, that to do this would be virtually to reveal to
                        him what had happened, or, as Harry Cole said, to make him think Old Burr
                        had succeeded. So it was from no fault of Nolan's that a great botch
                        happened at my own table, when, for a short time, I was in command of the
                        George Washington corvette, on the South-American station. We were lying in
                        the La Plata, and some of the officers, who had been on shore, and had just
                        joined again, were entertaining us with accounts of their misadventures in
                        riding the half-wild horses of Buenos Ayres. Nolan was at table, and was in
                        an unusually bright and talkative mood. Some story of a tumble reminded him of an adventure of his
                        own, when he was catching wild horses in Texas with his brother Stephen, at
                        a time when he must have been quite a boy. He told the story with a good
                        deal of spirit,—so much so, that the silence which often follows a good
                        story hung over the table for an instant, to be broken by Nolan himself. For
                        he asked, perfectly unconsciously,—
                     "Pray, what has become of Texas? After the Mexicans got their independence,
                        I thought that province of Texas would come forward very fast. It is really
                        one of the finest regions on earth; it is the Italy of this continent. But I
                        have not seen or heard a word of Texas for near twenty years."
                     There were two Texan officers at the table. The reason he had never heard of
                        Texas was that Texas and her affairs had been painfully cut out of his
                        newspapers since Austin began his settlements; so that, while he read of
                        Honduras and Tamaulipas, and till, quite lately, of California,—this virgin
                        province, in which his brother had travelled so far, and, I believe, had
                        died, had ceased to be to him. Waters and Williams, the two Texas men,
                        looked grimly at each other, and tried not to laugh. Edward Morris had his
                        attention attracted by the third link in the chain of the captain's
                        chandelier. Watrous was seized with a convulsion of sneezing. Nolan himself
                        saw that something was to pay, he did not know what. And I, as master of the
                        feast, had to say,—
                     "Texas is out of the map, Mr. Nolan. Have you seen Captain Back's curious
                        account of Sir Thomas Roe's Welcome?"
                     After that cruise I never saw Nolan again. I wrote to him at least twice a
                        year, for in that voyage we became even confidentially intimate; but he
                        never wrote to me. The other men tell me that in those fifteen years he
                           aged very fast, as well he might indeed, but that he was
                        still the same gentle, uncomplaining, silent sufferer that he ever was,
                        bearing as best he could his self-appointed punishment,— rather less social,
                        perhaps, with new men whom he did not know, but more anxious, apparently,
                        than ever to serve and befriend and teach the boys, some of whom fairly
                        seemed to worship him. And now it seems the dear old fellow is dead. He has
                        found a home at last, and a country.
                     Since writing this, and while considering whether or no I would print it, as
                        a warning to the young Nolans and Vallandighams and Tatnals of to-day of
                        what it is to throw away a country, I have received from Danforth, who is on
                        board the Levant, a letter which gives an account of Nolan's last hours. It
                        removes all my doubts about telling this story.
                     To understand the first words of the letter, the non-professional reader
                        should remember that after 1817, the position of every officer who had Nolan
                        in charge was one of the greatest delicacy. The government had failed to
                        renew the order of 1807 regarding him. What was a man to do? Should he let
                        him go? What, then, if he were called to account by the Department for
                        violating the order of 1807? Should he keep him? What, then, if Nolan should
                        be liberated some day, and should bring an action for false imprisonment or
                        kidnapping against every man who had had him in charge? I urged and pressed
                        this upon Southard, and I have reason to think that other officers did the
                        same thing. But the Secretary always said, as they so often do at
                        Washington, that there were no special orders to give, and that we must act
                        on our own judgment. That means, "If you succeed, you will be sustained; if
                        you fail, you will be disavowed." Well, as Danforth says, all that is over
                        now, though I do not know but I expose myself to a criminal prosecution on
                        the evidence of the very revelation I am making.
                     Here is the letter:—
                     
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 
                                    LEVANT, 2° 2' S. @ 131° W.
                                 
                                 "DEAR FRED,—I try to find heart and life to tell you that it is
                                    all over with dear old Nolan. I have been with him on this
                                    voyage more than I ever was, and I can understand wholly now the
                                    way in which you used to speak of the dear old fellow. I could
                                    see that he was not strong, but I had no idea the end was so
                                    near. The doctor has been watching him very carefully, and
                                    yesterday morning came to me and told me that Nolan was not so
                                    well, and had not left his state-room,—a thing I never remember
                                    before. He had let the doctor come and see him as he lay
                                    there,—the first time the doctor had been in the state-room,—and
                                    he said he should like to see me. O dear! do you remember the
                                    mysteries we boys used to invent about his room, in the old
                                    Intrepid days? Well, I went in, and there, to be sure, the poor
                                    fellow lay in his berth, smiling pleasantly as he gave me his
                                    hand, but looking very frail. I could not help a glance round,
                                    which showed me what a little shrine he had made of the box he
                                    was lying in. The stars and stripes were triced up above and
                                    around a picture of Washington, and he had painted a majestic
                                    eagle, with lightnings blazing from his beak and his foot just
                                    clasping the whole globe, which his wings overshadowed. The dear
                                    old boy saw my glance, and said, with a sad smile, 'Here, you
                                    see, I have a country!' And then he pointed to the foot of his
                                    bed, where I had not seen before a great map of the United
                                    States, as he had drawn it from memory, and which he had there
                                    to look upon as he lay. Quaint, queer old names were on it, in
                                    large letters: 'Indiana Territory,' 'Mississippi Territory,' and
                                    'Louisiana Territory,' as I suppose our fathers learned such
                                    things: but the old fellow had patched in Texas, too; he had
                                    carried his western boundary all the way to the Pacific, but on
                                    that shore he had defined nothing.
                                 "'O Danforth,' he said, 'I know I am dying. I cannot get home.
                                    Surely you will tell me something now?—Stop! stop! Do not speak
                                    till I say what I am sure you know, that there is not in this
                                    ship, that there is not in America,—God bless her!—a more loyal
                                    man than I. There cannot be a man who loves the old flag as I
                                    do, or prays for it as I do, or hopes for it as I do. There are
                                    thirty-four stars in it now, Danforth. I thank God for that,
                                    though I do not know what their names are. There has never been
                                    one taken away: I thank God for that. I know by that, that there
                                    has never been any successful Burr. O Danforth, Danforth,' he
                                    sighed out, 'how like a wretched night's dream a boy's idea of
                                    personal fame or of separate sovereignty seems, when one looks
                                    back on it after such a life as mine? But tell me,—tell me
                                    something,—tell me everything, Danforth, before I die!'
                                 "Ingham, I swear to you that I felt like a monster that I had
                                    not told him everything before. Danger or no danger, delicacy or
                                    no delicacy, who was I, that I should have been acting the
                                    tyrant all this time over this dear, sainted old man, who had
                                    years ago expiated, in his whole manhood's life, the madness of
                                    a boy's treason? 'Mr. Nolan,' said I, 'I will tell you
                                    everything you ask about. Only, where shall I begin?'
                                 "O the blessed smile that crept over his white face! and he
                                    pressed my hand and said, 'God bless you!' 'Tell me their
                                    names,' he said, and he pointed to the stars on the flag. 'The
                                    last I know is Ohio. My father lived in Kentucky. But I have
                                    guessed Michigan and Indiana and Mississippi,—that was where
                                    Fort Adams is,—they make twenty. But where are your other
                                    fourteen? You have not cut up any of the old ones, I hope?'
                                 "Well, that was not a bad text, and I told him the names in as
                                    good order as I could, and he bade me take down his beautiful
                                    map and draw them in as I best could with my pencil. He was wild
                                    with delight about Texas, told me how his brother died there: he
                                    had marked a gold cross where he supposed his brother's grave
                                    was; and he had guessed at Texas. Then he was delighted as he
                                    saw California and Oregon;—that, he said, he had suspected
                                    partly, because cause
                                    he had never been permitted to land on that shore, though the
                                    ships were there so much. 'And the men,' said he, laughing,
                                    'brought off a good deal besides furs.' Then he went
                                    back—heavens, how far!—to ask about the Chesapeake, and what was
                                    done to Barron for surrendering her to the Leopard, and whether
                                    Burr ever tried again,—and he ground his teeth with the only
                                    passion he showed. But in a moment that was over, and he said,
                                    'God forgive me, for I am sure I forgive him.' Then he asked
                                    about the old war,—told me the true story of his serving the gun
                                    the day we took the Java,—asked about dear old David Porter, as
                                    he called him. Then he settled down more quietly, and very
                                    happily, to hear me tell in an hour the history of fifty
                                    years.
                                 "How I wished it had been somebody who knew something! But I did
                                    as well as I could. I told him of the English war. I told him
                                    about Fulton and the steamboat beginning. I told him about old
                                    Scott, and Jackson; told him all I could think about the
                                    Mississippi, and New Orleans, and Texas, and his own old
                                    Kentucky. And do you think he asked who was in command of the
                                    'Legion of the West.' I told him it was a very gallant officer
                                    named Grant, and that, by our last news, he was about to
                                    establish his head-quarters at Vicksburg. Then, 'Where was
                                    Vicksburg?' I worked that out on the map; it was about a hundred
                                    miles, more or less, above his old Fort Adams; and I thought
                                    Fort Adams must be a ruin now. 'It must be at old Vick's
                                    plantation,' said he; 'well, that is a change!'
                                 "I tell you, Ingham, it was a hard thing to condense the history
                                    of half a century into that talk with a sick man. And I do not
                                    now know what I told him,—of emigration, and the means of it,—of
                                    steamboats, and railroads, and telegraphs,—of inventions, and
                                    books, and literature,—of the colleges, and West Point, and the
                                    Naval School,—but with the queerest interruptions that ever you
                                    heard. You see it was Robinson Crusoe asking all the accumulated
                                    questions of fifty-six years!
                                 "I remember he asked, all of a sudden, who was President now;
                                    and when I told him, he asked if old Abe was General Benjamin
                                    Lincoln's son. He said he met old General Lincoln, when he was
                                    quite a boy himself, at some Indian treaty. I said no, that old
                                    Abe was a Kentuckian like himself, but I could not tell him of
                                    what family; he had worked up from the ranks. 'Good for him!'
                                    cried Nolan; 'I am glad of that. As I have brooded and wondered,
                                    I have thought our danger was in keeping up those regular
                                    successions in the first families.' Then I got talking about my
                                    visit to Washington. I told him of meeting the Oregon
                                    Congressman, Harding; I told him about the Smithsonian, and the
                                    Exploring Expedition; I told him about the Capitol, and the
                                    statues for the pediment, and Crawford's Liberty, and
                                    Greenough's Washington: Ingham, I told him everything I could
                                    think of that would show the grandeur of his country and its
                                    prosperity; but I could not make up my mouth to tell him a word
                                    about this infernal Rebellion!
                                 "And he drank it in, and enjoyed it as I cannot tell you. He
                                    grew more and more silent, yet I never thought he was tired or
                                    faint. I gave him a glass of water, but he just wet his lips,
                                    and told me not to go away. Then he asked me to bring the
                                    Presbyterian 'Book of Public Prayer,' which lay there, and said,
                                    with a smile, that it would open at the right place,—and so it
                                    did. There was his double red mark down the page; and I knelt
                                    down and read, and he repeated with me, 'For ourselves and our
                                    country, O gracious God, we thank Thee, that, notwithstanding
                                    our manifold transgressions of Thy holy laws, Thou hast
                                    continued to us Thy marvellous kindness,'—and so to the end of
                                    that thanksgiving. Then he turned to the end of the same book,
                                    and I read the words more familiar to me,—'Most heartily we
                                    beseech Thee with Thy favor to behold and bless Thy servant, the
                                    President of the United States, and all others in
                                    authority,'—and the rest of the Episcopal collect. 'Danforth,'
                                    said he, 'I have repeated those prayers night and morning, it is now fifty-five
                                    years.' And then he said he would go to sleep. He bent me down
                                    over him and kissed me; and he said, 'Look in my Bible,
                                    Danforth, when I am gone.' And I went away.
                                 "But I had no thought it was the end. I thought he was tired and
                                    would sleep. I knew he was happy and I wanted him to be
                                    alone.
                                 "But in an hour, when the doctor went in gently, he found Nolan
                                    had breathed his life away with a smile. He had something
                                    pressed close to his lips. It was his father's badge of the
                                    Order of Cincinnati.
                                 "We looked in his Bible, and there was a slip of paper, at the
                                    place where he had marked the text,—
                                 "'They desire a country, even a heavenly: wherefore God is not
                                    ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a
                                    city.'
                                 "On this slip of paper he had written,—
                                 "'Bury me in the sea; it has been my home, and I love it. But
                                    will not some one set up a stone for my memory at Fort Adams or
                                    at Orleans, that my disgrace may not be more than I ought to
                                    bear? Say on it,—
                                 
                                    "'In Memory of "'PHILIP NOLAN, "'Lieutenant in the
                                       Army of the United States.
                                    "'He loved his country as no other man has loved her; but no
                                       man deserved less at her hands.'"
                                 
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  NOTE BY THE AUTHOR.
                  THIS story was written in the summer of 1863, as a contribution, however
                     humble, towards the formation of a just and true national sentiment, or
                     sentiment of love to the nation. It was at the time when Mr. Vallandigham had
                     been sent across the border. It was my wish, indeed, that the story might be
                     printed before the autumn elections of that year,—as my "testimony" regarding
                     the principles involved in them,—but circumstances delayed its publication till
                     the December number of the Atlantic appeared.
                  It is wholly a fiction, "founded on fact." The facts on which it is founded are
                     these,—that Aaron Burr sailed down the Mississippi River in 1805, again in
                     1806, and was tried for treason in 1807. The rest, with one exception to be
                     noticed, is all fictitious.
                  It was my intention that the story should have been published with no author's
                     name, other than that of Captain Frederic Ingham, U. S. N. Whether writing
                     under his name or my own, I have taken no liberties with history other than
                     such as every writer of fiction is privileged to take,—indeed, must take, if
                     fiction is to be written at all.
                  The story having been once published, it passed out of my hands. From that
                     moment it has gradually acquired different accessories, for which I am not
                     responsible. Thus I have heard it said, that at one bureau of the Navy
                     Department they say that Nolan was pardoned, in fact, and returned home to die.
                     At another bureau, I am told, the answer to questions is, that, though it is
                     true that an officer was kept abroad all his life, his name was not Nolan. A
                     venerable friend of mine in Boston, who discredits all tradition, still
                     recollects this "Nolan court-martial." One of the most accurate of my younger
                     friends had noticed Nolan's death in the newspaper, but recollected "that it
                     was in September, and not in August." A lady in Baltimore writes me, I believe
                     in good faith, that Nolan has two widowed sisters residing in that
                     neighborhood. A correspondent of the Philadelphia Despatch believed "the
                     article untrue, as the United States corvette Levant was lost at sea nearly
                     three years since, between San Francisco and San Juan." I may remark that this
                     uncertainty as to the place of her loss rather adds to the probability of her
                     turning up after three years in Lat. 2° 11' S., Long. 131° W. A writer in the
                     New Orleans Picayune, in a careful historical paper, explained at length that I
                     had been mistaken all through; that Philip Nolan never went to sea, but to
                     Texas; that there he was shot in battle, March 21, 1801, and by orders from
                     Spain every fifth man of his party was to be shot, had they not died in prison.
                     Fortunately, however, he left his
                     papers and maps, which fell into the hands of a friend of the Picayune's
                     correspondent. This friend proposes to publish them,—and the public will then
                     have, it is to be hoped, the true history of Philip Nolan, the man without a
                     country.
                  With all these continuations, however, I have nothing to do. I can only repeat
                     that my Philip Nolan is pure fiction. I cannot send his scrap-book to my friend
                     who asks for it; because I have it not to send.
                  I remembered when I was collecting material for my story, that in General
                     Wilkinson's galimatias, which he calls his "Memoirs," is frequent reference to
                     a Jorkins-like partner of his, of the name of Nolan, who, at some time near the
                     beginning of this century, was killed in Texas. Whenever Wilkinson found
                     himself in rather a deeper bog than usual, he used to justify himself by saying
                     that he could not explain such or such a charge because "the papers referring
                     to it were lost when Mr. Nolan was imprisoned in Texas." Finding
                     this mythical character in the mythical legends of a mythical time, I took the
                     liberty to give him a brother, rather more mythical, whose adventures should be
                     on the seas. I had the impression that Wilkinson's friend was named
                     Stephen,—and as such he is spoken of in this story at page 470. As this book
                     goes to press, I find that the New Orleans paper is right in saying that the
                     Texan hero was named Philip. I am very sorry that I changed him inadvertently
                     to Stephen. It is too late for me to change him back again. I remember to have
                     heard a distinguished divine preach on St. Philip's day, by accident, a
                     discourse on the life of the Evangelist Stephen. If such a mistake can happen
                     in the best regulated of pulpits, I must be pardoned for mistaking Philip for
                     Stephen Nolan. The reader will observe that he was dead some years before the
                     action of this story begins. In the same connection I must add that Mr. P.
                     Nolan, teamster in Boston, whose horse and cart I venture to recommend to an
                     indulgent public, is no relation of the hero of this tale.
                  If any reader considers the invention of a brother too great a liberty to take
                     in fiction, I venture to remind him that "'T is sixty years since"; and that I
                     should have the highest authority in literature even for much greater liberties
                     taken with annals so far removed from our time.
                  A Boston paper, in noticing the story of "My Double," contained in another part
                     of this collection, said it was highly improbable. I have always
                     agreed with that critic. I confess I have the same opinion of the story of
                     Philip Nolan. It passes on ships which had no existence, is vouched for by
                     officers who never lived. Its hero is in two or three places at the same time,
                     under a process wholly impossible under any conceivable administration of
                     affairs. In reply, therefore, to a kind adviser in Connecticut, who told me
                     that the story must be apologized for, because it was doing great injury to the
                     national cause by asserting such continued cruelty of the Federal Government
                     through a half-century, I must be permitted to say that the public, like the
                     Supreme Court of the United States, may be supposed "to know something."
               
            
            Cambridge: Stereotyped and Printed by Welch, Bigelow, & Co.
         
      
   
