
    ----CITATION----
        Brittan, Harriette G., (1823-1897). Shoshie .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5895
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               SHOSHIE, 
               THE HINDOO ZENANA TEACHER. 
             
          
          
             
            
                
                  Frontispiece. A HINDOO WOMAN OF LOW CASTE IN HER HOLIDAY COSTUME. 
               
             
          
          
             
               SHOSHIE, 
               THE HINDOO ZENANA TEACHER. 
             
            BY MISS HARRIETTE G. BRITTAN. AUTHOR OF "KARDOO," "THOMAS TOOMEY," AND "SCENES OF EVERY-DAY LIFE IN AFRICA." 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               THOMAS WHITTAKER,  
                     NO. 2 BIBLE HOUSE. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by HARRIETTE G. BRITTAN, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 
          
          
             
            To Mrs. T. C. Doremus. 
            ONE who has given much of her life, her means, and her prayers to spread the religion of Jesus in the dark places of the earth. She in far distant lands is remembered with love and gratitude by those who have gone to carry the glad tidings there; for her tender love and warm sympathy, which has ever been extended to every Missionary without distinction of name, sect, or denomination-her large-hearted charity has embraced all. When she is called to higher work above may her mantle of true Christian Love-which cares not for others because they are followers of Paul or of Apollos, but simply because they are Christians-descend on a worthy successor. To her who has ever pitied the degradation of the poor heathen, and sought the Glory of the Redeemer and the spread of His Kingdom, and for His sake has loved His Missionary servants, this little book is inscribed most lovingly by 
            
               THE AUTHOR.
             
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               I. MY BIRTH. 7
                
               II. FAMINE. 10
                
               III. SHOSHIE AT THE ORPHANAGE. 32
                
               IV. CASTES. 38
                
               V. ZENANA WORK. 45
                
               VI. ZENANA HOMES. 55
                
               VII. CRUEL SUPERSTITIONS. 67
                
               VIII. WIDOWHOOD. 96
                
               IX. CUSTOMS AND HABITS. 128
                
               X. TRANSMIGRATION OF SOULS. 145
                
               XI. BRAHMINS. 158
                
               XII. FUNERAL RITES. 172
                
               XIII. RITES, OR CEREMONIES AFTER DEATH. 186
                
               XIV. WITCHCRAFT. 192
                
               XV. THE GODDESS, KALI. 206
                
               XVI. CONCLUSION. 220
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Shoshie 
             
             
            SHOSHIE, 
            THE HINDOO ZENANA TEACHER. 
             
               I. 
               My Birth. 
                
                   
                     
                        "And it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, he saw the calf, and the dancing: and Moses' anger waxed hot."
                      
                     -EXODUS xxxii. 19. 
                   
                
               MY dear young friends, I have heard that you have read with great interest the life of a Hindoo girl named Kardoo, and that it has made you think more about the people of my dear country, India; and that it has made you take a deeper interest in the Mission work particularly for the girls and women of that land. When I heard this, I thought I should like to tell you a little of my history, or perhaps haps not so much of my own history as of the things I have met and seen; for my life, by God's blessing, has been very different from that of poor Kardoo. Kardoo, you know, was. a Hindoo Zenana girl; I am a Hindoo Zenana teacher. But let me begin at the beginning. My father and mother were among the poorest of the people; they belonged to what is called the lowest caste of the Hindoos, the Sudras. These poor people are looked down upon by all other castes, and are treated by them with the greatest contempt. If a Sudra should touch one of another caste, by so doing he would pollute him, and if he touched any article at the same time that another did, he would pollute him. To rid himself of this pollution-the individual must either go immediately and bathe, or he must rub his hands with cow's manure to cleanse them. The cow is a very sacred animal, and things that have become unclean can frequently be cleansed in this manner. It is considered a very great crime for a Sudra to walk on the side of the road where it would be possible for his shadow to fall on one of a higher caste, and it was by forgetfulness of this that my own father lost his life. This occurred when I was a little child three years old. It was in this way. My father was walking along the road carrying a verve heavy burden, and he did not notice that there was a holy Jogee, a religious mendicant who, by the practice of great austerities, has become very holy, sitting by the wayside begging, and his shadow as he passed fell upon the Jogee. A Brahmin, who was near, was so enraged at the indignity shown to the holy man, that he immediately fell upon my father, who dared not resist; as to raise his hand against a Brahmin would be a fearful crime, never to be forgiven either in this world or the next. The Brahmin beat him so unmercifully with a club, that he died in a few weeks from the effects of the blows, trying to comfort my poor mother by telling her that he would be sure to be better off in the next world, because a Brahmin had condescended to strike him; and that she and her children would be elevated slightly in position even in this world, for the same reason; they would be able to tell that he had the honor of dying through blows received from the hand of a Brahmin. Such was my father's death. 
               After my father's death my mother found it very hard to get food for us, my sister, four years older than I, my little brother and myself. My mother would go out into the fields to work, sometimes taking us along with her, and at other times leaving us behind in the hut. We never had any clothes of any kind, and often we suffered very much from the cold. You will probably think it very strange to hear this of such a warm country as India; but the truth is, we become so accustomed to the heat, that the slightest change, which in your country you would not think anything of, we feel very acutely. 
               Our principal food was rice and curry. This last is a sort of thick gravy made with a number of different spices. It is of the color of mustard, and in this, different kinds of vegetables or fish are cooked. The English have meat cooked in it, but we never had anything thing better than some little fish. These fish my sister and I would catch. Near to our house there were two or three small ponds of muddy water, formed by the rains during the rainy season, and in these we would find fish about the size of my little finger. We would go and stand for two or three hours at a time up to our knees in this water, and we became very expert in catching these little things in our hands. Doing this, and rolling in the sand or mud, and sleeping, was the employment of our lives. Occasionally we would follow with the crowd of other little naked children, when an idol was being carried through the street with the noise of drums and tom-toms, which we thought very fine, but we knew nothing more about these idols except that we were taught to make salaam to them, a low act of obeisance. We never saw or heard of a book. We never heard of such a being as God, and I doubt whether my poor mother ever did. We were too poor and degraded for the Brahmin priests to teach us anything. Then my mother was a widow-a woman-therefore it was not worth anybody's while to teach her anything. 
               Almost all that my poor mother knew of religion was that she must make salaam to any of the images of the gods when she saw them, and that after death she must become some very bad animal; but that if she was kind to animals now while she lived, she would not be such a bad animal when she died, and somebody would perhaps be kind to her then. I am relating now things that my sister told me afterwards; for my remembrances are very faint as to what happened in these my earlier years. 
               We lived in the country, some hundred miles from the city of Calcutta. In the next hut to ours lived a poor woman, also a widow, a friend of my mother. This woman had but one child, a little daughter, about my sister's age, with whom we used to play and of whom we were very fond. She was a pretty, little girl, very bright and full of fun. One day a Brahmin priest, who resided near our village, came to this woman's hut. She was busy inside. He called to her and told her to come out there, as he wished to speak to her. When she came to the door of her hut he told her to stop there; not to come any nearer him, or she would pollute him. He then told her he had come to do her the great honor of talking her child from her for the service of his god. The poor woman wept and prayed and implored him to leave her her child, as it was her only one. The Brahmin heaped upon her imprecations and abuse because she was not delighted to give up her child to be from henceforth devoted to the service of the idol; and, at length, suddenly seizing the child, in spite of her screams and cries, he carried her off-the poor mother not daring to offer any resistance, only following the Brahmin with cries and supplications, but in vain. From henceforth the mother could not see the child except at rare intervals, and she knew the life to which she was to be devoted. 
               The little girl was just seven years old when she was taken by the priest and carried off to the idol's temple. Here the marriage ceremony was performed between her and the idol. At all the marriage ceremonies the bride and groom are perfectly quiet and silent, the priest doing everything, so that a piece of wood, could as well take the part of the groom, as any living man. After this ceremony takes place she is supposed to belong to the god; she remains in or about the temple, with a number of other little girls, and she is taught to read and to write, to dance and to sing. Everything is taught her, that it is supposed will make her attractive, and for this reason pretty, bright children are selected. She now becomes a dancing girl. She can never be married, as she is supposed to be married to the idol, but her life is one of open sin. At the time of the poojahs or festivals, of this god, she, must dance and sing before the idol, and do whatever she is commanded by the priest that will bring money to his temple. At other times the priest to whom she belongs hires her out, with others, to dance and sing at marriages, festivals and poojahs of 
                   
                     A SCENE IN THE TEMPLE OF JUGGERNAUT. 
                  
                  
                   different sorts given by rich men. She is only allowed to keep a very small portion of the money she makes for herself. The rest goes to the priest and his idol. He, however, keeps her dressed up in fine clothes, and in jewelry, to make her attractive. 
               It was for a life like this that our little friend was taken away from her heart-broken mother. The poor mother did not live long after the removal of her child to mourn her loss. I will tell you about this in my next chapter. 
             
             
                
               II. 
               Famine. 
                
                   
                     
                        "They shall be consumed by the famine; and their carcass shall be meat for the fowls of heaven, and for the beasts of the earth.
                      
                     -JER. xvi. 4. 
                   
                
               I DON'T think that I told you that my name is Shoshie. My sister's was Jumne, and my little brother's, Amritu. I was now about five years old, and I can remember many things that happened to the little Shoshie at this time. One day, when I was present, the same old Brahmin priest, who had taken away my little friend, told my mother that she must take great care of me, for when I was seven years old, he would want me for the idol temple, and then he would confer the same honor upon her that he had upon her friend-by taking her child for the service of the idol. My poor mother cried very much at this, and hugged me tight to her breast, telling him I was still a baby, though I was five years old, and had a little brother three years old. 
               Whenever I saw this old priest, afterwards, I used to run away as fast as I could, screaming and shrieking, I was so afraid he was going to take me away from my dear mother. But my kind, heavenly Father was looking upon me in love, even then, though I knew Him not. Instead of being devoted to the service of some hideous image, and made to lead a life of shame and crime, I was to be taught to know and love the dear Saviour, who is the "Chief among ten thousand, the One altogether lovely." 
               About this time I began to help my mother and sister in another kind of work, the preparing fuel to cook with. I have heard that the people of your country, my dear readers, never use the kind of fuel we do, no matter how poor they may be, and, in fact, very few of them have ever heard of it. I am almost afraid to tell you about it, for fear you will feel disgusted with me. Nevertheless, as I wish you to know how the people of my country live, the poor as well as the rich, I must tell you. 
               In India, we have scarcely any coal mines, and very few forests or woods, therefore fuel for cooking (and we hardly need it for anything else) is very scarce. But what we use instead, even many of the people who have a great deal more money than we had, is cows' manure. You will think it very strange, but we take the manure and mix it with mud and water; till it is like a soft paste, then we take a lump in our hands and flatten it out like a cake and stick it up against the side and front of our hut, till the whole of the outside of the hut is covered with it. Not a very pretty ornament, you will think, for our houses, but we do not care for that. These cakes stay there till they become perfectly dried in the sun, and then they drop off. We then take them and store them away as you do fire wood. This was the only fuel we had to cook our food with. Often and often have I helped my mother and sister to prepare this. You know we never thought this dirty or disagreeable work, for the Hindoo thinks the cow is a sacred animal, and everything belonging to it is sacred. In fact, if a strict Hindoo pollute himself so much as to touch a Christian, or if one of his brass vessels which could not be broken, should be touched by a Christian, the only way he could cleanse his hands or the vessel would be by first rubbing them all over with cows dung, and then washing them. I am afraid, dear friends, you will think us a strange, dirty, disgusting people. You will think you could not love us; but remember the great and glorious Jesus, the King of heaven, loves us, and He will that all should be saved and come to a knowledge of the truth. He died for us, and think what a gracious privilege He has granted to you, to the people of your land, to be the means of raising us, who were sunk so low in ignorance and degradation, to the glorious liberty of the children of God, that we, even we, might be called the sons and daughters of the Lord Almighty. 
               When I was a little more than five years old, a terrible calamity befell that part of the land in which we lived. It was a famine. Oh! what fearful suffering there is included in that one word famine: those of you who have never witnessed it cannot begin to imagine. In India, at least in our part of India, the principal food of all classes of the people is rice. In general, they eat but two regular meals a day, and these are almost invariably composed of curry and rice. Between these meals, those who can afford it, will occasionally eat fruit, or sweetmeats made of sugar and milk curdled; but rice is the one thing on which they depend, and if that crop fails, then starvation ensues. In the year of which I am speaking, the rice crop was sown, but the heavens withheld the rains which were needful to make the seed germinate. God was angry with the people, and He sent this sore trial upon them. In a little time rice began to be so dear that the poor amongst us could only get money enough to buy one meal a day, and shortly after we could not even get that. Then every root and leaf, and even the dry blades of grass, and the bark of the trees, were boiled and eaten. There was, of course, nothing left for the cattle, so that at first the milk was dried up, and then the cattle died, and our sufferings became extremely dreadful. Many a time would we take up the mud and cram it down our throats, to fill our empty stomachs, and to prevent the intolerable pain of hunger. This continued for weeks. Many of us, in our suffering, would break our caste by eating the bodies of dead animals. Particularly little children were allowed to do this, as it is not considered nearly so sinful for them to break caste as for a grown person. 
               In the jungles, near our village, we knew that there were many tigers, but hitherto we had not much feared them, as they generally keep away from human habitations. But it is said if a tiger once eats human flesh it makes him much more fierce than he was before, and from that time he becomes ravenous after that kind of food. Now many of our people wandered far and wide in search of food, and being very weak from starvation, they would sometimes be unable to get back to their homes, but would drop down in the woods, unable to go any further. Then they would become the prey of the tigers, who would seize upon and devour them. After having once tasted human flesh, these tigers would become very bold, and would prowl about, close to our villages, and once or twice a child was seized and carried off. The government of India tried to help the poor people by giving them work in making roads, so that they might earn money to buy a little food. But whenever they were working outside the village, even in the daytime, while some of the men were working others would be obliged to stand beside them, beating on drums and tom-toms, and making a great noise to keep the tigers off, as they had become so bold. 
               One night we, that is, my mother and the children, were lying on the floor of our hut asleep (we never slept on anything but a piece of matting laid on the floor), when we were aroused by loud screams proceeding from the next hut. We recognized the voice of the poor woman, our neighbor, and my mother rushed to our door and saw a large tiger spring out of the door of the next hut (a fact) carrying her in his mouth. He ran off with her into the jungles, and though many heard her screams, and saw the terrible beast rushing away, none dared pursue him. The next day his course could be traced by the blood to a deep dell in the woods; there some of the bones of the poor woman were found. The tiger was soon afterwards killed by some English gentlemen who were out on a shooting excursion after him. He was an immense beast, and near his den were the remains of five human skulls. 
               My mother had heard before this that the suffering was not nearly so great in Calcutta, and in fact many of our neighbors had left their homes and started for that place in hope of finding relief, and now she became so alarmed at the awful fate of her friend, that with a party of twenty of our village, she took us and started for the city. Our worldly possessions were not much weight to carry. My little brother and myself had never had any clothing, unless you can call a string around the loins with a shell attached to it, such. This, with the addition of a scrap of rag about four inches square, depending from the string, constituted my sister's wardrobe, and my mother's was the one dirty sarree she had on. The only washing this ever got was when she went into the water to bathe. Our other possessions were a clay detchkie for boiling anything, and a small article of the same kind for drinking. The value of these two articles would be about one of your cents. So we were not heavily burdened with our worldly goods. We were to travel by day, and then some of the party were to watch at night to keep up a fire to scare away the tigers. We started, but oh! what slow, wearisome travelling that was. All the party were so weakened by previous fasting that we went along very slowly. Almost the only food we could obtain was the bark and tender shoots of the trees, which we boiled till they were quite soft. Once or twice we found some little nests, and we children were allowed to suck the eggs, but for an older person to have done this would have been considered a great crime. 
               As we advanced on our road, the whole way began to be thickly strewed with human bones, that had been picked clean by the vultures and jackals, and were bleaching in the sun. These were the remains of those who, within, the last few days or weeks, had like ourselves started for Calcutta, but had not been able to reach it. They had dropped on the road unable to proceed further, and had died where they fell. In several instances we came upon these birds and beasts of prey as they were engaged in their horrid meal, and they would scarcely move at all even at our near approach. This was a terrible sight for those who were in constant fear of sharing the same sad fate. 
                
               We, the children of the party, fared best, for Hindoos are very kind to children. There was one old man in the party who had with him a string of large beads, and these he kept constantly passing through his fingers as if he was counting them. Once, when we were all sitting down resting, my mother asked him what these beads were, and what he was doing with them, for she saw that he was muttering some words over them, as he passed them through his fingers. "Don't you know," said he, "that it is very wicked to kill anything, to take away the life of anything that God has made, and yet we are such poor, helpless creatures that we cannot keep from doing this. We do it continually even without knowing it. Every time we step we probably kill some ant or other little insect. Even when we scratch our head we are in danger of doing this. In our lifetime we thus kill thousands of things that have life, and for every one of these we shall be punished in the other world. But one day," he continued, "I was able to do a great act of kindness ness to a Brahmin priest. Then he blessed these beads and gave them to me, and told me that every time I passed one through my fingers, repeating the words he told me, that one of those murders I had unknowingly committed should be forgiven me." 
               "And what were the words he told you to say?" asked, my mother. 
               "Oh, I must not tell you," he answered; "for the Brahmin told me if I told it to any one it would break the charm. But as soon as you can get any money I would advise you to go to a Brahmin, and get some blessed beads, for of course every day we live, the more lives we have to answer for." 
               "My poor mother sighed, and looked at us children. I dare say she thought it would be long before she had means to buy food enough for us children, without buying beads. The next morning the poor old man lay still in the place where he had slept the night before; he was too weak to move. In vain my mother used all her little strength to help him; he could not go a step further, and then we had to leave him to die, for we should only have perished with him had we remained. The last I saw of him he was holding tight to his beads, and his lips were moving, muttering the Mantras the priest had told him to say. 
               Ere we reached Calcutta, all but six of our party, my own dear little brother among them, had dropped, one after another, and had been left behind us to perish. One or two, however, had entirely departed before we left them. My little brother had died in the night, while clinging to his mother's breast, trying to draw forth nourishment which had long ceased to exist.
                     The children of India are sometimes nursed by the mother till they are five or six years old.
                   When we reached the outskirts of the city, my poor mother fell to rise no more. The rest of our party went on, leaving us two poor children crying over our dying mother. Many Hindoos now passed us, looking happy and well fed, so different from the miserable beings by whom we had been so long surrounded. In a little while a crowd was collected about us, but no assistance ance was offered us, none came near enough to touch us. As we were poor, low caste Sudras, they could not pollute themselves by touching us, but they could satisfy their curiosity by gazing at our miserable condition. At length a man went past with a drove of cows, and my mother in a faint voice, begged my sister to supplicate the man to bring one of the cows close to her, and let her take hold of its tail. The man, touched with a feeling of compassion, did so. My dying mother raised herself up, clutched hold of the cow's tail, and the effort being too great for her, she fell back, and instantly expired. Shouts and exclamations immediately rent the air from the by-standers, as it is considered most fortunate for a person to die with a cow's tail in the hand; it is the next best thing to dying by the river Ganges. 
               As soon as it was perceived that my mother was really dead the crowd dispersed, leaving my sister and myself alone with the body. Hungry and weary as we were, we soon cried ourselves to sleep, with our heads resting ing on our poor mother, whom we never saw again; for though none of the natives would so defile themselves as to touch us, yet they gave notice to the police of our whereabouts, and some low caste men were sent to look after us. My sister and myself were lifted up still asleep and carried into the house of a kind English lady who lived near, and who gave us an asylum for a time, while the body of our mother was carried off to the burning ghat, the place where dead bodies are burnt, which answers with the Hindoos the same as a burial ground does the Europeans, and there quickly reduced to ashes. 
               When we arose from our slumber my sister, Jumne, was almost frantic at the loss of her mother, but I was too weak and powerless even to move or cry. After the first violent outburst of grief, Jumne became as much exhausted as I was, and for many days it was thought that neither of us could live. Food was given to us, just a spoonful at a time, every half hour; we were ravenous for it, but if they had given us what we wanted it would have killed us at once. Our kind friends knew better, however, what was for our good. They would not give us what we desired, but they fed us little by little as we were able to bear it, and so our lives were spared. I have since heard the kind lady say that at the time she did not think it possible that we could recover, we were in such a terrible state of emaciation. She said that my leg in the largest part was not bigger round than her two fingers. When we had recovered sufficiently to be removed, our kind friend took us and placed us in one of the orphanages for native children in the city of Calcutta. These orphanages, of which there are several sustained by the different denominations, belong to the missionaries, by whom the children are taken care of and educated, till they are of an age to provide for themselves. Here I began a new life. 
             
             
                
               III. 
               Shoshie at the Orphanage. 
                
                   
                     
                        "For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people: but the Lord shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee."
                      
                     -ISAIAH Ix. 2. 
                   
                
               MY new life, for a long time, was a very hard. one to me, for here was I, a little, wild, untaught savage, without the slightest idea of order, decency or religion, respect or obedience, and it was hard, very hard to teach me these things; very difficult for me to learn, and oh! how trying to the patience of my kind teachers. I have learnt since to thank the dear Saviour so much, that He gave that message to His disciples, "Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature;" and that many of His dear servants have gladly, willingly obeyed this command, and have cheerfully given their time, their talents, their life itself, not only to feed these poor sheep in the wilderness, but also to seek out and to save the poor little straying lambs, from the jaws of the devouring lion, who is ever going about seeking whom he may devour. 
               But at first I understood nothing of this, and oh, how many times would I gladly have escaped from the restraints of cleanliness and order and the lessons I was obliged to learn, into my former savage state. But my good friends knew what was best for me, and forced me to submit to their kind and wholesome discipline. In after years I have come to see that men and women are only "children of a larger growth." How continually we fret against our Heavenly Father's discipline; how frequently would we escape from it were it in our power; but just as my kind teachers knew the future position for which their training was fitting me, though I knew it not, so our Heavenly Father sends to us just that discipline and training which is to fit us for the position He has appointed for us, both in this world and the next. 
                
               And here let me say one word: I have heard that there are a great many very good people in Christian countries, who, if not exactly opposed to sending missionaries to the heathen, yet never do anything to help that cause. They say, and I believe think it too, that it is of no use to send missionaries to the heathen, for if they have never heard the gospel, they will not have the sin of rejecting an offered Saviour. 
               To those who say and think this, let me give one thought. While we would not attempt to limit the mercy of the All-merciful, yet "heaven is a prepared place for a prepared people,"-and as my school home, with its cleanliness, order and decency, love and gentleness, was a miserable place to me, a little, rude, uncouth savage; and as I would have much preferred to roll and tumble naked in the mud and dirt, rather than to be cleanly dressed and made to behave like a human being; so I fear heaven would be no heaven to these poor people, even were they to be permitted to enter there. The moment of death could not change all their thoughts, tastes, feelings and habits. They must be prepared for it, for heaven ever to be a happy home to them. But while my life was passing at the Orphanage, studying those things which were to make me wise not only for time, but I trust for eternity, let me tell you something of that terrible condition, from which by the mercy of God I had escaped. You have heard, from "Kardoo," that all women in India are thought to be of no more account than the beasts that perish. She was a high caste girl, but I a poor Sudra; so though by the men equally looked down upon with contempt as something far beneath them, still our lives would have been very different. She, you know, was kept shut up in the Zenana, and had servants to perform some of the menial services of the household. I should never have been shut up, but should have been allowed to go about the streets as I pleased, with scarcely any clothing to cover me, even when I became a woman; and I should have become bold and brazen-faced and impudent. I should have been married when I was still a child, but should have had to perform the lowest and most menial work, to help support my husband and children, sometimes carrying bricks and mortar on my head, up high ladders to the tops of buildings, for the masons to use, or working in the fields, or, in fact, doing any kind of work by which I could earn a few pice, a copper coin about the value of a cent, to get a little rice. 
               Now I have heard that in your country every woman, no matter how poor she is, if she behaves herself well, is respected and well thought of. But it is very different with us. A woman, just because she is a Sudra, is considered low and bad, no matter how well she may behave herself. It is supposed no woman can be seen by a man unless she is very wicked; so she is always treated with contempt, and as nobody expects her to be good, or tries to teach her anything that is good, she generally is very bad. This was the kind of woman I should have been, and the life I should have led; if God had not been so good to me and given me kind and loving friends to teach me better; and those good friends would not have been able to do for me what they did, if God had not put it into the hearts of good children and good people far off in a Christian land to deny themselves some few little comforts, that they might send the money to the missionaries, to save me from my fearful state of degradation. To God be all the glory. It was His doing from first to last. 
               Thus, while so much was being done for me in the Orphanage, I will tell you something about the caste system as it exists in India. I want you to be able to contrast the ways and customs of your own dear land, and the glorious religion of Jesus, with the customs of this dark land and the religion of heathenism. May God teach each of you to love the dear Saviour more and more, and to do as much as in you lies, to bring these poor people to the knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus. 
             
             
                
               IV. 
               Castes. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Every one that is proud in heart is an abomination unto the Lord."
                      
                     -PROV. xvi. 5. 
                   
                
               THE people of India are divided into four principal tribes, or castes. The Brahmins stand first. These are the religious teachers or priests. By them all the religious books were written and are explained, and they made the laws for all the people. The second in rank are the Kshatriyas or soldiers. Of this rank are all the warriors and Rajahs or Kings. The third class are the Vaisyas or merchants, and the last are the Sudras. These four classes, or castes are again subdivided into many others, and no division holds any intimacy with any other: each is now considered separate and distinct, as a class by themselves. The Sudras are divided into over a hundred different ferent classes, according to the trade or profession of each, every son being obliged to follow the trade or calling of his father. I belonged, with my whole family, to the very lowest of all these tribes, the Coolies, or common laborers, who are looked down upon by all others. This system of caste, nurtures the pride inherent in the human heart; as almost each individual can find some one who is beneath him, and upon whom he can look down. There are now a great many of the Sudras who are artizans or merchants, and they have become very wealthy by their trade, and have received a thorough, good education. Yet though they are wealthy, intelligent gentlemen, the meanest, poorest beggar, if he be a Brahmin, as so many of them are, would look down upon him, and despise him. But with the Coolie caste it is never possible for them to rise, for they must never perform any but the lowest kind of labor, and four annas a-day (equal to twelve cents) is the highest wages they can ever get. 
               The reason they give for these differences in caste is this. They say that Bramha, the great god, created mankind, or rather that mankind proceeded forth from him. The Brahmins or priests came from his mouth: therefore they are the head or teachers of all the others. The Kshatriyas or soldiers came from his arms, therefore, they are to defend the others. The Vaisyas came from his legs, so they are to do the work, and the Sudras from his feet, consequently they are to be the servants of all. The Brahmins, who wrote the holy books of the Hindoos, have done everything they could to elevate their own caste at the expense and degradation of all the rest. How different from the words of our Holy Book, which says, "Let no man think more highly of himself than he ought to think," but "let each esteem other better than themselves." Each of these distinctive castes has different rites and ceremonies, and they knew nothing of those practised by others. None but a Brahmin priest may look into or explain their sacred books, (how like the teachings of Rome!) and he is forbidden to teach to one the duties or rites belonging to others. Thus, through called one people and said to be of the Hindoo religion, yet its forms are as varied as their castes. With this little explanation perhaps you will understand better what I may say in the future, and you will understand too why one missionary may tell you a story and another will say something that would seem almost to contradict it. But when this is the case, you must remember that they have been laboring among different classes of the people, though it may be in the same part of the country. 
               In former days, before the English took possession of India, scarcely any one but the Brahmins, were even taught to read and write. It was of no use to any others, and they cared nothing for education in itself. But when they found that education was the means of making money among the English, then they began to have their sons taught; for the love of money is the ruling passion in the Hindoo mind. It was not the love of knowledge, but the love of money, that made the Hindoo learn; and this can be seen in the matter of female education, "for as education would not enable a women to make money (she was so shut up) up to the year 1818, there was not such a thing as a single school for girls in all India."
                     From Ward's India.
                  
                
               My sister and myself remained at the Orphanage till we were each of us eighteen years of age, then we were married and went to our own homes. But we had been carefully instructed not only in Bengali (our native tongue), but in English; and what was better, I believe that God, the Holy Spirit, had taught us, for He had brought home His own precious word with power to our hearts, so that we had learnt to believe that Jesus was not only the Saviour of the world, but our Saviour, our Redeemer; and we had learnt to trust our all to Him, and we wished to tell the wonders of His love to the poor, perishing ones around. 
               My sister was married first. Perhaps you would like to hear how we, the Christian girls of the Orphanage, are married. I think I told you before that no women except the lowest class of the Sudras, are ever allowed to go into the street, as it is not considered respectable. So we were never permitted to go beyond the walls of our compound, except when we rode to church with our teacher, and this was very seldom, as we used to have a catechist come to the school to teach and to preach to us. Thus by going out we had no opportunity to make the acquaintance of any who might become, our future husbands, as I hear is the custom in your country; but if there was any Christian native young man, in good standing in his own church, who wanted a wife, he would go to his pastor, who would give him a letter of introduction to the lady superintendent of the orphanage. This letter would tell who and what the young man was, and that his object in coming to the orphanage was to obtain a suitable wife. If there was any girl of fit age, and one that in other respects the lady thought would make a good wife for him, she would call her and read the letter to her, and ask her if she would like to see the young man. If she agreed to see him, they would be left to talk together for half an hour. At the end of that time they generally agreed to become man and wife. He was then allowed to visit her two or three times, and in about three weeks they would be married. It would, however, sometimes happen that after seeing each other once or twice, one of the party would draw back from the agreement, and try for another partner. I dare say this may seem very strange to you, but this was the way in which we were married. On the day of the wedding we would go to church to be married, and then go to the house of our husband, which was generally situated inside the compound of some mission premises. When my sister was married she went away to live up the country, and I did not see her again for two or three years. 
             
             
                
               V. 
               Zenana Work. 
                
                   
                     
                        "The Dayspring from on high hath visited us, to give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death.
                      
                     Luke i. 78, 79. 
                   
                
               WHEN I was about sixteen years old, my kind teacher called me to her one day, and told me that a new lady missionary had just arrived, on purpose to visit and teach in the Zenanas, and that she wanted to have me go with her to interpret, and to help her teach, as she did not as yet understand the language. "The Zenanas," I said, "what are they?" My kind teacher smiled, she forgot that I had been brought up in such seclusion, and with the one desire to teach and instruct me in the precepts and practice of Christianity, that I knew very little more of my own country people, than that they were poor, ignorant idolaters, knowing nothing of the true God, but worshipping images which their own hands had made. My teacher then explained to me that all my countrywomen who were not considered the very lowest the low, were never permitted to go outside their own houses except to bathe in the Ganges, or to go to some near relation's house, or to go on a pilgrimage; and then they went closely covered up in a palky or palanquin; that they never went to school, nor were they ever taught anything useful. But, she said within the last few months a good English lady had persuaded some of the rich Baboos to let her go into their houses and teach their ladies fancy-work, and the native ladies had learnt so nicely and showed such a desire to improve, that now quite a number of the Baboos (native gentlemen) were willing to allow ladies to go into their houses to teach though they looked upon it as conferring a great favor upon a Christian lady in permitting her to do this. The Christian ladies did not care for this, they thought if they could only get an entrance into these prison homes, they might be able to teach Jesus and the love of Christ to these poor prisoners. 
               "And so," my dear teacher continued, "Miss Gray, the lady that I spoke to you about, heard of this in her own land, and she has come out here now, hoping to gain an entrance to some of these homes, that she may teach them to read and write and work, to make them better and happier and wiser in this world; but, above all, trusting in divine strength, to be enabled to lead them to the fountain of light and of wisdom; that she may teach them to 'know the only true God and Jesus Christ whom He has sent;' and as she does not know the language yet, she wishes you to go with her to help her teach. She will call here every day, and take you with her for several hours, and then bring you back here again. And now, my dear Shoshie, may God help you and give you grace to impart to others what you know of the love of Christ. 
               I answered my dear teacher that I should be delighted to help Miss Gray all I could, and I hoped God would help me to do my duty. 
               The next day Miss Gray called for me, and I began life in earnest, I trust, for now I began to live, not for myself alone, but for others. And oh! with what astonishment and wonder did I now behold the life that was being lived around me, and of which I was nearly as ignorant as if I had been thousands of miles away. 
               Miss Gray, as I said, had recently left her dear home and land to come to my country, to teach the poor prisoners here. A few weeks after her arrival, a lady who had obtained access to a few of the Baboos' houses, was obliged to give up her work among them on account of her health, so she took Miss Gray and introduced her to those women as their future teacher. This lady had had a native Christian woman as her assistant, a widow, one who had herself been educated in one of the orphanages. This woman, Ghanto, would go every day to the native houses and instruct the native ladies in fancy-work, and the rudiments of learning. Fancy-work was the bait by which these ladies were lured to learn to read. They would beg and implore to be taught that alone, but the Christian ladies were firm; they refused to teach fancy-work to any one who would not learn to read. The books and work material all had to be given them, and even then, these rich Baboos, who could have afforded to pay well, considered that they were conferring a great favor upon the Christian ladies in permitting them to come to teach their wives, and in allowing them to receive these gifts and instructions from them; and these kind ladies were willing to be looked down upon and contemned, if by any means they might win some souls to Christ. 
               Here, let me speak of one peculiar characteristic, which, I am sorry to say, belongs to my countrymen, namely: a most terrible covetousness, and lack of manly independence. I have never yet seen a man among them, from the highest to the lowest, who would refuse a few pice of buckshesh, or that would think it a degradation to ask for it. I have never taught in one house, even where they were rolling in wealth, where they did not wish their books and work materials to be given out and out to them, or at less than the cost price. But this by the way. 
               Hitherto, the ladies had been very chary in speaking on the subject of religion, fearing lest the doors of these prison homes, which had been close barred, for centuries, against the entrance of all knowledge, and which were now ajar, might be fast closed again if much were said on the subject of the religion of Jesus. So there had been very great caution used in mentioning that "Name which is above every name." But Miss Gray felt that she had come out as a missionary, her one object and aim being, with God's help, to lead sinners to "the Lamb of God, who taketh away the sins of the world," and she resolutely determined, from the very first, never to continue teaching in a house where she was forbidden to tell the poor women of the marvellous love of God in giving His Son to die for them. So the first day she commenced she would take with her a picture of Adam and Eve, and till the women could read for themselves, she would tell them Bible stories, and as soon as they could read she would make them read for themselves. It is true that it was often said to her, "You must not teach your religion here," but she would always answer: "Then I cannot teach you at all. If you do not let me teach you what I like, I will not instruct you at all." Generally, for the sake of the fancy-work, they would put up with the religion, and as one and another would finish off some piece of work, their friends would be so proud of it, showing it everywhere about, that we soon had continual applications to go to one and another fresh house and instruct them. Some few houses were shut up entirely (and still continue to be at times), because we would teach Jesus as the Saviour. But as fast as they closed others would open, so that we always had as much as we could attend to. 
               As the people seemed more and more anxious for instruction, Miss Gray engaged three or four other Christian women as teachers, and her plan was this, a plan which is followed by most of the Zenana lady teachers, of whom I am happy to say there are now a good many. A native teacher goes to each house, where there are learners, every day. She teaches them to read and to write, to cipher and to work, while the lady goes to each house once a week, and reviews all that the native teacher has done for the week, more particularly enforcing and explaining the Scripture lessons. Thus a knowledge of the Word of God and the Blessed Redeemer is spread in many, many houses. The main object is not to make learned scholars, but to teach the multitude to read the word of Life for themselves. Thus I have given you some little idea of our work. 
               After I had been teaching with Miss Gray about a year, I was married and went to live in my own home, but from there I continued to go daily with her to my work. I have been a little hindered a few times by the illness of myself or my children, but in no other way, as, thank God, my husband is a good Christian man, a catechist, and he is not only willing but glad that his wife should be engaged with himself in the glorious work of bringing souls to Christ. 
               Now I have finished my own history. I have been much longer over it than I intended, as my object in writing this book is to tell you of the customs and manners of the different castes of people that I have met at the Zenanas, and the circumstances, incidents and conversations that have been made known to me. You, in your own land, who are gathering the money, and we who are workers in the field, have each our part of the great work to do, and if we are equally faithful we shall equally have our reward. We shall hear the Blessed Saviour say: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these ye have done it unto Me." You remember, among the Israelites, the law was made "that he that staid by the stuff, and he that went forth to the battle, should equally divide the spoil." The great Captain of our Salvation has appointed to each of us our post, may He give grace to each one of us to fight manfully for Him, or to be the patient sentinel, or, if we belong to the foraging party, to be diligent in that; for you know, dear friends, that the entire life and well-being of the whole army may, sometimes, depend upon the foragers. Ah! how foolish it would be in those whom the General has appointed to this part of the work to feel, because they were not engaged in the hand-to-hand fight with the enemy, therefore their work was of no importance. No, dear friends, God has given you your part of this great work to do as much as He has given us ours, "and in due time you shall reap if you faint not." 
             
             
                
               VI. 
               Zenana Domes. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Which say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me; for I am holier than thou."
                      
                     -ISAIAH lxv. 5. 
                   
                
               I WAS filled with wonder, astonishment and fear, the day of my first visit to a Zenana. Miss Gray had been before, and knew where to go. I clung close to her, dreading for a moment to be separated from her. We rode some distance into a part of the city where I had never been before, the roads becoming narrower as we proceeded, till we came to the head of a lane which was too close for our gharree (a very small, narrow, one horse vehicle like a palky on wheels) to enter. We got out and walked some little distance down this lane, which was so narrow, that we could almost have touched the wall on either side, and which had several turns. On each side were the houses of the Baboos, large and very lofty, and presenting a very dismal appearance. They had once been white, but from the effects of the moisture of the climate, they were covered all over with patches of a blackish green color. In many places portions of the wall had fallen. These had not been repaired, but small trees and shrubs were growing in places out of the ruins, giving them an air of complete desolation. Towards the street no house had any windows, on the lower stories, and only one small door which led by a narrow passage-way through the house into a large, open court in the centre of the building. At this entrance a doorkeeper is always on guard; no one can enter or go out without his permission. Above this door is a small verandah, with one or two windows opening into it from the second story. Here several Baboos sat smoking their Hookahs, and talking to each other across the street. The Hookah is a pipe used in the East. It has a very large bowl, which is placed on the floor, and a tube two or three yards long, which is curled up in circles, and the smoke is drawn through water, sometimes perfumed. At each side of the narrow lane, close to the side of the houses, runs an open drain, into which every impurity from the house passes. Pipes from the roof to carry off the water, connect also with the different rooms of the house. Down these every thing vile is thrown. These pipes do not run right down to the gutter but stop short about twelve feet up from the ground, on the front of the house, so that the water from the roof, and whatever else is thrown through the pipes passes directly down the front of the building. The stench from these drains, particularly in the morning, is fearful. How it is Calcutta is as healthy as it is, is a matter of constant astonishment. 
               When we arrived at the house to which our steps were directed, the durwan, who always sits on the ground directly outside the doer, rose up, made us a salaam, and pointing us in, said we were expected, The house was a very large one, belonging to a wealthy family of the merchant caste. We entered a large, open court, round which the building ran in a quadrangular form. A verandah went all round each of the three stories facing on this court. Into these verandahs numerous doors and windows opened. All the rooms on the lower floor were used as stables or servants' rooms. The upper rooms belonged to the Baboos or gentlemen. As we passed, one of the doors was opened, and I looked in, and saw it had some elegant furniture in it; couches, tables, pictures, chandeliers, but all in great disorder and confusion. We crossed the court and stepped upon the lower verandah. As we did so, a man, the head Baboo of the house, we afterwards found, rose from the floor, where he had been sitting on a piece of matting, smoking, and bowing politely to Miss Gray, wished her good-morning, and told her the ladies were expecting her. 
               He was a very rich man, possessing a large sum of money, but there he sat with no clothes on him but a dothee, a piece of white muslin, one long strip fastened around the loins, and then brought down and up between the legs, so as to form something resembling pantaloons. He was perfectly nude from his waist upwards, except the Brahminical thread which passed over his shoulders. 
               We quickly moved on and up-stairs, and going round the verandah on the second story, passed through a door at the end, then through two or three winding passages on to another verandah, which, like the former, ran around an open court; which, however, was much smaller than the first. This was the court of the women, and we were now in the women's apartments, of which we were instantly aware by the swarms of women and children who surrounded us, all eager to gaze at the strangers; for though Miss Gray had been there before, only one or two had then seen her, and a white-face was a great curiosity, though, truth to say, I also was a curiosity, as I had on Christian dress. We passed through several verandahs and passages into a small room about ten feet square. 
                
               This was the apartment of the principal woman learning. The floor was of brick, or tiles plastered over. In one corner of the room there was a box with a padlock. This contained the clothes and the jewelry of the lady. In another corner was a brass drinking vessel, and in another a narrow strip of matting, about six feet long, rolled up. 
               When we went into the room, this was unrolled for us to sit down upon. There was no bedstead in the room, as its occupant was a widow, and therefore must sleep upon the ground. We were no sooner seated upon this mat on the floor, than the whole room and verandah outside were crammed full of women and children, laughing, shouting, talking, making all sorts of remarks, upon our dress and appearance, but taking care not to come near enough to touch us, or to let our clothes touch them, lest they should be polluted, and should have to go away and bathe and wash their clothes. Were we not vile, beef-eating Christians, and they holy Hindoos? and no matter though our clothes were clean and nice, and some of theirs were foully dirty, yet it would have polluted them for their dirty rags to touch our clean garments. I must say this was a thing that did not trouble us. 
               There was one little window, about four feet by two, in this room. This, like the door, opened on to the verandah. It had no glass, but bars crossing it up and down, like those of a prison, and it had outside wooden shutters that could be closed in case the rain beat that way. This window, as well as the door, was soon choked up with human heads, which pretty effectually excluded every breath of air. 
               There were four women in this house who were just beginning to learn to read and work; they were pretty, delicate looking creatures, gentle and graceful in their manners, as all the young women of the higher classes are; but they lose this refinement, and become very rough and coarse as they grow old. 
               Miss Gray told her pupils to bring their books and their work. As she could not speak Bengali, of course all her instructions were given through me. They brought them and threw them down on the ground in front of her, and when she wished to return them, she had to lay them on the ground for them to pick up, as they would not touch any article at the same moment we touched it. 
               "Oh," said one, "after you are gone we must bathe and wash these clothes we have on, and say over some Mantras, before we dare to cook and eat; and as we have already done that before you came, we do not want to have the trouble of doing it again." 
               I would say here, that this was one of their customs that was first broken through, for as soon as they learnt to love their dear teacher, instead of keeping away from her and not touching her, when they expected her they would come to meet her as far as they dared, even to the very limits of the Zenana, and take hold of her by both hands to lead her into the room. The trouble of having to bathe again they thought nothing of when they learnt to love her. 
               As soon as we were fairly seated and had commenced our instructions, we were almost deafened by the noise of the women talking, laughing and asking most frivolous questions. The first one, however, was what they consider a most important one. It was, if Miss Gray were married; for to them to be unmarried, to be childless, is the greatest misfortune that can happen to a woman. None of their women are ever unmarried, except the dancing girls, and they are said to be married to the gods. 
               On my answering this question in the negative, there was the greatest astonishment. 
               "What, one as old as she unmarried? Were there no men in the country she came from?" 
               It was marvellous, almost past belief; and when she told them there were many ladies in her country who staid unmarried from choice, either because the man they loved had died, or they had not seen one whom they wished to marry, or from some other reason, they really did think she was telling them something perfectly untrue; they could not believe her. They thought she must be a widow, but for some reason wished to conceal it from them. 
               The whole time of the lesson we were subject to continual interruptions of this kind; perhaps just while she was telling them of the great love of God in sending His dear Son to die for us, some one would suddenly ask why we did not put henna on our nails, or why we braided our hair, or some other question equally foolish, and we would have to stop whatever we were saying, to answer, for they would keep on teasing till we did answer. So Miss Gray would try quickly to satisfy them, and then go on with her lesson. 
               I would get sorely out of patience and ask her to let me tell them all to go away but our pupils, but she answered, "No, Shoshie, we are trying to teach God's truth, trying to sow the gospel seed, and we know not what little grain may be carried home into the hearts of some even of these most careless listeners. Some little seed may find lodgment there and may spring up and bear fruit. We must cast our bread upon the waters: we know not which shall prosper, this or that." So she never would have me send any away, but would try by every gentle means to interest and keep them quiet. 
               Our pupils here had just commenced to read and to sew, for it was the beginning of things altogether in our work. From this house we went to two others, neither of them as large as this, but all built in the same style; the children of five or six years of age were all naked, and the women all wearing but one garment, and that so thin you could see their whole form through it. We generally visit and teach in three houses each day, and this has been our work now for years. 
               Some of our pupils have progressed very rapidly, and after learning to read, to write and to cipher, and learning history and geography in Bengali, they are now studying English. 
               During this time we have been able to learn many of the customs and habits of the different castes, among whom we have taught and visited. And, oh! how continually have I been led to lift up my heart in devout gratitude to my Heavenly Father, who had called me out of these shades of thickest darkness into the marvellous light of the children of God. 
             
             
                
               VII. 
               Cruel Superstition. 
                
                   
                     
                        "For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven."
                      
                     -MATT. v. 20. 
                   
                
               ONE day we were sitting in the first house we had entered, teaching the women their work. I often used at that time to gratify my curiosity by asking questions about themselves, and I noticed one poor woman who would generally come and lean standing, against the door, and listen very attentively to all the instruction, though she never took any part in it. I saw she looked very different from the other women, and asked who she was. 
               "Oh, she is only a servant." 
               "But," I said to her, "what has happened to your fingers?" for I saw the two middle fingers of her right hand were gone. "I should think you could do very little without them." 
               "Oh, yes," she answered, "I have learnt to use my left hand as well as you use your right, but I will tell you how I lost them." 
               She then seated herself on the ground and commenced telling us this legend, which I interpreted to Miss Gray. "You know that if a Brahmin becomes very holy, if he gives up the world and practises very great penances and austerities, he at length lays up such a store of merits, that he can then make a demand of the gods; one demand, whatever he likes, and the gods are obliged to grant it, even though they know that he only intends to do evil with the gift. Well, down in the province of Mysore, south of Madras, there was a giant named Vuia, who, by a long course of very severe penances, and austere devotions, had become so holy that he could insist upon the god Mohadave (another name for Shiva) granting him whatsoever boon he should demand. So the giant demanded that every person on whose head he should place his right hand, should instantly be reduced to ashes. Mohadave granted this request, without at all suspecting why the giant made it. 
               "As soon as the giant found that he really possessed the power, he attempted to use it to destroy the very god who gave it to him. Mohadave fled, and the giant pursued him till he chased him in to a very thick grove of trees. Here, Mohadave, changing his form, hid himself in the centre of a fruit called Tunda. This fruit never had a kernel before, but since then, it has a long round kernel which is considered the emblem of Mohadave. 
               "The giant having lost sight of the god, inquired of a man, who was working in a field near by, if he had seen any one running past, and which way he had gone. The husbandman had seen the whole thing and knew it must have been a god that could hide himself like that, so he did not know what to do. If he should tell where the god was hid, he was afraid that in the future he should suffer dreadfully from his vengeance; and if he did not tell, he feared the giant would severely punish him now. At length he thought he could get nicely out of it, so he answered the giant aloud that he had not seen anybody, but at the same time he pointed with the forefinger of the right hand to the fruit in which Mohadave was concealed. 
               "Just at this moment, when the giant was about to seize the fruit, the god Vishnu appeared close beside him, in the form of a most beautiful girl. Vishnu had thus come to rescue his brother god, Mohadave. Instantly the giant became most deeply in love, and asked the girl to become his wife. At first she refused, but at length consented, upon condition that he should perform the duties necessary before she, as a pure Brahminee, could become his wife. 
               "The first was that he should bathe in a pool of water close by. This he did, keeping his eye all the time upon the fruit. After this she told him he must perform the Sudra. This is a ceremony in which, while repeating many invocations to the gods, it is necessary to use many different gestures 
                   
                     CROCODILE OF THE GANGES. 
                  
                  
                   and manipulations; among which the right hand is applied in quick succession to the breast, the face, the foot, the crown of the head, and various other parts of the body. 
               "The giant at the moment thinking only of the beautiful maiden, and forgetting the power of his right hand when placed on the head, performed the Sudra, and was himself reduced to ashes. 
               "Mohadave now came forth from the fruit, and after thanking the maiden, or Vishnu, for his deliverance, turned angrily to the husbandman and told him he should be punished for his treachery, by the loss of the finger with which he had pointed. The poor man's wife, who had just come to the field to bring her husband's food, threw herself at the feet of the god, supplicating his pardon. She pleaded that she and her children would die of starvation, if for months her husband should be unable to work on his farm; and she prayed the angry god to take two of her fingers instead of one of her husband's. 
               Mohadave was pleased with this proof of the wife's love, and accepted the exchange; and he ordered that all her female posterity, in the future generations, should sacrifice two fingers at his temple in memory of this act and of their devotion to the god. This practice belongs only to the descendants of that woman, not to our whole caste, and I think now there are about two thousand houses where it is done." 
               I asked her: "When is this done, at what age?" 
               She answered: "When our oldest girl is given in marriage. Just previous to the ceremony, we must go to the village blacksmith, and giving him a small fee, place our fingers upon a block; the blacksmith places a chisel on the joint, and then, with one blow of a hammer, it is struck off." This was her story. A native doctor had been travelling in the southern part of India, and had engaged both herself and her husband, as servants, and with him they had come up to Calcutta. 
               I have been told that many of my young friends in America are apt to think of India as one large country, inhabited like the United States, by one kind of people, whose customs, manners, habits, and religion are very nearly alike amongst all, but this is a great mistake. The people of India, though all worshippers of false gods, are far more unlike in their customs, manners, habits, and religion, and even in their language, than are the different nations of Europe. There are over thirty distinct languages: so you must please remember, when I tell you about any custom, that it may belong only to one caste, and to them only in one part, and not all over India. This poor woman, of whom I am speaking, is the only one I ever saw that had suffered from this cruel rite. 
               After she had finished her story, Miss Gray asked one of the most intelligent women present if she could tell her what a Mantra was. "Is it a prayer?" 
               "Not exactly," she answered, "indeed, I can hardly tell you what it is, except that it is some sort of an address to the gods, and it is considered very meritorious to repeat it. I cannot tell you much about it, but some of the Baboos can." 
               The next time we visited that house, after teaching the women, as we were passing down through that part of the building devoted to the gentlemen of the house, one of the young Baboos came up to Miss Gray and accosted her thus: 
               "I hear, madam, that you wish to make some inquiries relative to our religion, or rather, I should say, to the Hindoo religion. If you do, my father and myself will be most happy to answer any of your questions. Will you walk in here?" and he opened a door into a nicely furnished apartment, handed us chairs and sat down near us. In a few minutes, his father entered, and then this conversation took place, between Miss Gray and the Baboos: 
               "Baboo, you corrected yourself, just now, when you said 'our religion' and substituted 'Hindoo religion.' Are you not a Hindoo?" 
               "Well, madam, I cannot say that I am. We are of good caste, though not Brahmins, but we have become educated, and consequently we can no longer believe in the ridiculous superstitions of Hindooism, to which, I suppose, you see our women are still fondly attached, as they are so ignorant. My father professes to belong to the Brahmo Soomaj, but as for myself, I must say, I am nothing. I have not as yet found anything good enough to believe." 
               "Never mind your belief, my son, I think this lady wished to make some particular inquiries in reference to the Hindoo religion. Is it not so, madam?" 
               "It is, Baboo (this conversation was all carried on in English, as the Baboo speak that language well.) I wanted to know something about the Mantras. Are they prayers?" 
               "Not precisely, madam; you might rather call them invocatory hymns. They are certain forms of words which are supposed to have such power as to be able to enchain the gods themselves. There are a great many different kinds, some are for invocation, some for deprecation; some for blessing, some cursing, they are to produce good or evil; some to cast out evil spirits; some to kill, some to cure; to produce love or hate. Some are strong enough to destroy thousands of persons, and there are some which will summon the gods and they are bound to obey. The Brahminees, the Gooroos or priests, are the persons who know them best. There is an old Sanscrit verse which may be thus translated: 'All the universe is under the power of the gods, the gods are subject to the power of the Mantras, the Mantras are under the power of the Brahmins; the Brahmins are therefore our gods.' So you see, madam, the Brahmins really think themselves, and are supposed by the ignorant, to be our gods." 
               "But do they really suppose that there is any efficacy in these Mantras?" 
               "They do, madam, and I will tell you a little story that my gooroo or priest told me, years ago. He said: 'Dasara, King of Madura, married a daughter of the King of Benares, but after they were married she told him that she could never go home with him to be his wife, because she had learnt a Mantra which had made her so holy that she never could be the wife of any man who had not been purified in the same way, that as she was his wife, she could not tell him this Mantra, because, in so doing, she would become his teacher, and consequently his superior. But the next day they went together in search of a holy man, who, when he knew for what they had come, told them both to fast a whole day, then to bathe in the river Ganges, and then to come to him again. The king did this and then went back to the holy man. He was then told to sit down, facing the east, and the holy man sat beside him, with his face to the west, and secretly whispered in his ear, 'Aamah Siray-health to Sira. 
               "'As soon as the king had learnt these two wonderful words he felt as if filled with purifying fire, and directly a great many black crows sprang out from all parts of his body, and, flying to the sky, disappeared. These were all the sins he had committed at his former births.' My old gooroo went on to say that this history was perfectly true. The king and his wife thus purified, lived together for many years, and retired at last to reunite with Bramha in the abodes of bliss, without being obliged to be reborn any more upon earth." 
               "But when he taught you the Mantra, did the same thing happen to you; did your sins fly out of you like black crows?" said Miss Gray. 
               "Oh no. When I laughed about it, and asked the Gooroo why these Mantras did not have the same effect now, he said: 'Oh, now we live in a bad age of the world, a time of misfortune and evil, and everything has become degenerated. But still very often even now they work most marvellous miracles!' In former days, madam, no one dared to read the holy books in which the Mantras were written but the Brahmins, but now that many of us are become sceptical we dare to read for ourselves and see what is within. We do not fear the power of the Brahmins as we used to. 
               "There is one of the Mantras which is said to be effectual for the blotting out of sins, and it is so powerful that it even makes the gods tremble when they hear it. The Brahmin, when he is about to utter it, makes a previous preparation by long prayers, fastings and meditations. Before he pronounces one word he closes all the apertures of his body and keeps in his breath as long as he possibly can, and then, in a low voice, he repeats it, taking good care that no one living shall hear it. These are the words: 'Tat Savitur varenyam b'hargdrasya D'hmahi d'hiy y nah prachoday yt.' The translation is, 'We meditate on that excellent light of the divine sun; may he illuminate our minds.' The meaning is so dark that none of the Brahmins can understand to whom this is addressed, and yet it would be horrible sacrilege, unpardonable crime, for them to repeat it to any one but a Brahmin." 
               "But do none but the Brahmins repeat Mantras? I thought I had seen many others do so." 
                
               "Oh yes, there are Mantras for every class and condition. But these are taught to them by the Brahmins; and they must be paid for their trouble; no other person must teach them, not even a mother to her child. The physicians have certain Mantras which they must always utter over their medicines, and they are supposed to be much more effectual than the medicines themselves. It is supposed also that mothers with their new-born babes are particularly liable to evil influences, such as being subject to the charms of an evil eye; to the malign influences of the planets, unlucky days, etc., and the old nurse that knows the largest number of these Mantras is the most eagerly sought after." 
               "But I think you said some of these Mantras were not to avert evil, but were really curses by which those using them hoped to injure others." 
               "Just so, many of them are. There are persons who call themselves magicians, sorcerers or soothsayers. They pretend to have certain Mantras which can strike with sudden death; or can call up fiends, or can either inflict or cure diseases. They pretend also to discover and to foretell future events. But of course in those parts of our country where the people have the least education, these superstitions mostly abound. The persons who pretend to practise these acts, though they are resorted to, yet are very much dreaded and hated, and are often punished for evils they are supposed to have inflicted. In this way many innocent persons have suffered, as I doubt not has been the case in all lands where witchcraft is believed in." 
               "In what way has witchcraft been punished in your land?" 
               "The way most frequently resorted to is by drawing the two front teeth of the upper jaw. This prevents the person from speaking plainly, and if there is the slightest defect in pronouncing the Mantra, it is supposed to make the gods or demons, for they call upon both sometimes, so angry, that the evil, instead of falling upon others, will befal themselves." 
               "Oh yes," said Miss Gray, "I remember once seeing an old book written by the Abb Dubois on India, in which he writes thus: 'I knew an individual who came to me, on the very day this cruel operation was performed, and threw himself at my feet, mumbling his innocence, and imploring my counsel and assistance to procure reparation for the injustice that had been done him by knocking out his front teeth, and imputing to him the hateful practices of a magician. The poor man seemed to have very little appearance of a conjuror, but having neither the power nor the inclination to aid him, I got rid of him as well as I could.' This story I remember reading, but I thought these practices had long since ceased." 
               "Oh no," said the Baboo, "wherever there are found people ignorant enough to believe in such things, there will always be found plenty of wicked men ready to dupe them, and, as a nation, I believe no people in the world are such believers in magic as the Hindoos. Every trouble or trial they have is attributed to the malice of some enemy or evil spirit. If a man lose wife or child by sudden death, if any disease occur among his cattle, or, in fact, if any most natural events take place, all are attributed to magical influences. Should any prolonged illness occur during the progress of a law-suit it is certain that malice is the cause of it." 
               "But this is strange," said Miss Gray. "I was reading the other day that when any sorrow or trouble befals a Hindoo, he supposes it is only the punishment due for sins committed in a former state of existence. How do they reconcile the two statements?" 
               "They do not attempt to reconcile them," said the young Baboo, laughing. "Every one believes just which he likes, at different times, to suit his own convenience. Suppose I see a poor man in great suffering and distress. He comes to me for aid and I do not choose to give it; it is very easy to satisfy my conscience, if I have any, by saying: 'Why should I help him? he must have been very wicked before, and now he is only suffering his just punishment.' Or supposing I have a sick wife or child, or lose property, or some other trial befal me, and I know I have some enemy who will secretly rejoice in my trouble; how easy it is for me to bring him to grief by accusing him of being the cause of my trouble through magical arts. No, no, the Hindoo knows better than to give up either of these theories. 
               "But to go back to the Mantras. There is one Mantra which is composed of a certain number of letters, which, being combined and pronounced in different ways, enable the speaker to perform wonderful things. 
               "One story the Brahmins tell is this: Siva chose to give the knowledge of this Mantra to a boy, who was the son of a widow of the Brahmin caste, but the mother had done something disgraceful and so she had lost her caste, and on this account the boy was once excluded from a wedding feast. He had not lost his caste, but he was considered disgraced on account of his mother. He took his revenge by merely pronouncing two syllables at the door of the apartment where the guests were assembled and by the power of those syllables all the food provided for the guests was instantly changed into toads. Of course such an occurrence created great confusion among the guests; they were all sure that this boy had played the trick, and that if they did not admit him they might have more of his mischievous tricks played upon them; so they opened the door and let him in. Then he immediately pronounced the same syllables in reversed order, when directly the toads changed again into the food they were at first." 
               "So they tell such ridiculous stories as this, that the gods condescend to be mixed up in things so absurd?" 
               "O yes, all our native literature is as absurd. Therefore it is, madam, that when we become educated we can no longer continue to be what would be called Orthodox Hindoos; for we will not be so imposed upon, or give our money to uphold such impositions. There is one class of men who get their living solely by pretending to counteract the evils caused by the wicked magicians; they call themselves benevolent magicians, and pretend to have Mantras to counteract evil. They affect to be able to cure diseases in man and cattle, etc., etc. After repeating over the Mantras they will give chains to their patients, on which are written strange characters. They tell them to wear these about their persons, as they have power to complete the cures the Mantras have begun. Then they take their fees and depart to find others whom they may dupe." 
               "Thank you, Baboo, for the information you have given me. I am trying to learn all I can of the religion of the Hindoos, and I find that there is not a single thing that a Hindoo does, whether eating, drinking, talking or sleeping, but has some reference to his religion. Oh! that Christians would only act in the same way. The religion of Jesus would then soon be the religion of the world." 
               "The principles that Jesus taught, were certainly, madam, the best in the world. But if you are not too tired, will you let me tell you another little story that bears upon what we have been talking about?" 
               Miss Gray expressed her willingness to hear it, and he thus began: 
               "I heard this story from a friend of mine who was present at a feast. After the feast was over, while all the Baboos were sitting round smoking, it was proposed that they should amuse themselves by telling stories, a very common way of passing the evening; and then it was again proposed that the story should tell of some great act of folly committed. There was present a man who had come from a far distant part of the country, so he was called upon to tell a tale. 
               "'Well,' said he, 'I will tell you of a great piece of folly I committed when I was a young man. My name is Betel Anantya, and I will tell you how I got this nickname. I was married to my wife when she was a very little girl, and so she continued to live for a long time at her father's house, but on her completing her ninth year, we considered her old enough to come home to live with me. She had been living with me about a month, when going to bed one evening, I happened to say, carelessly, I believed that all women were prattlers. She retorted that she knew men who were not less prattlers than women. I perceived at once that she alluded to myself, and being somewhat piqued at the sharpness of her retort, I said, 'Now let us see which of us will speak first.' 'Agreed,' said she. 'But what shall the loser forfeit?' 'A leaf of betel,' said I, and our wager being thus laid, we both addressed ourselves to sleep without saying another word. 
               "Next morning, as we did not appear at our usual hour, after some interval they called us, but got no answer, and then roared stoutly at the door, but with no success. The alarm then began to spread in the house. They began to fear that we had died suddenly. The carpenter was called with his tools, and the door of our room was forced open, and when they got in they were not a little surprised to find both of us wide awake, in good health, and at our ease, though both apparently deprived of the faculty of speech. My mother was greatly alarmed, and gave loud vent to her grief. All the Brahmins of both sexes in the village assembled (in some of the up-country villages the women are allowed to go round the village closely veiled), to the number of one hundred, and after close examination, every one drew his own conclusion as to the misfortune which was supposed to have befallen us. The greater number were of the opinion that it could only have arisen from the malice of some enemy, who had availed himself of some magical incantations to do us an injury. For this reason a famous magician was called to counteract the effect of the witchcraft and to remove it. 
               "As soon as he came he began to try our pulses by putting his finger on our wrists, our temples, on the heart and on various parts of our body (my wife being all the time closely veiled), and after a great many grimaces, the remembrance of which excites my laughter, whenever I think of him, he decided that our malady arose wholly from the effects of malicious malice exerted upon us. He even gave the name of the particular devil or Shaitan that possessed my wife and me, and rendered us dumb. He added that this devil was very stubborn and difficult to drive out, and that it would cost a very large sum of money for the offerings necessary to make him fly away. My relatives, who were not very rich, were astonished at the grievous impositions which the magician had laid on: yet, rather than we should remain dumb, they consented to give him whatever should be necessary for the expense of the sacrifice; and they further promised to reward him well for his trouble as soon as the demon should be expelled. 
               "He was on the point of commencing his magical operations, when a young Brahmin, a doctor, a distant relation of mine, who had been well educated, and therefore had lost his faith in those things, who was present, maintained in opposition to the magician and his attendant, that our malady was not at all the effect of witchcraft, but arose from some simple and natural cause, of which he had seen several instances, and as we were both young, my wife being about nine and I only sixteen, he was sure he could cure us, and if they only would trust him, he would do it without any expense. 
               "'As the magician's charges were so high, and our friend offered to cure us for nothing, our relations thought they would let him try first, and they would still have the magician to fall back upon if he failed; so the doctor commenced. He took a chafing dish filled with burning charcoal and heated a small bar of iron red-hot. This he took up with pincers and applied to the soles of my feet, then to my elbows, and to the crown of my head. I endured these cruel operations without showing the least symptoms of pain, or making any complaints, being determined to bear everything, and to die, if necessary, rather than to lose the wager I had laid. 
               "'Let us try the effect on the woman,' said the doctor, astonished at the resolution I had shown, and my apparent insensibility to pain; and immediately, taking the iron well heated, he applied it to the sole of her foot. She was not able to endure the pain a moment, but instantly screamed out, 'bus, bus,' ('enough, enough,') and turning to me, she said, 'I have lost my wager, there is your leaf of betel.' 'Did I not tell you,' said I, 'that you would be the first to speak, and that you would prove by your own conduct that I was right, when I said, that all females are babblers?' 
               "'Every one was surprised at the whole proceeding, nor could any of them comprehend the meaning of what was passing between my wife and me, until I explained the kind of wager we had made overnight before going to sleep. 
               "'What!' said they, 'was it for a leaf of betel nut that you spread the alarm through your house and the village? For a leaf of betel that you showed such constancy, and suffered burning from the feet upwards to the head? Never in the world was such folly seen.' Since then I have been known by the name of Betel Anantya.' 
               "Pardon my long story, madam," continued the young Baboo; "but you will see by this what pretensions to supernatural powers these magicians make others believe they possess." 
               Miss Gray thanked him again, and told him that both he and his father had given her the information she was in search of. She then bid them good-afternoon and left. 
               On our way home she said to me: "Oh, Shoshie, how much reason have we to thank God for the Bible, the rule and guide of our lives; how much cause have we to be grateful that from our childhood we have been taught the word of faith which is able to make us wise unto salvation. We have not been left to believe in the cunningly devised fables of men. Let us pray more frequently for these poor people, that their minds may be enlightened and that they may learn to know the only true God and that the Holy Spirit may teach them Jesus." 
               As we went home I related to Miss Gray an account that one of the house-servants at the Orphanage had once given us. He had been very unwell for a few days, and he had asked leave of absence for a day or two. When he came back he told our dear teacher where he had been. If she had known before, she would have tried to prevent his going. He told her that he had heard of a great magician who could cure all diseases, and that he lived a little way from Calcutta. 
               When he got to the house the magician was sitting on the verandah. He called out to him: "Come in you, sick man; I do not want you to tell me what is the matter. My Shaitan will soon tell me that." Then he walked into a dark room, and in a minute the house was shaken and he heard a great wind. Then he heard something drop on the ground, and in the dim light he saw the figure of a skeleton before him. The magician spoke in a strange language, and the skeleton took hold of the man's hand to feel his pulse. The skeleton's hand, he said, felt as cold as ice and as soft as cotton. Then the skeleton, or Shaitan as he called him, disappeared, and in a few minutes came back with the same wind and noise, and he put two or three little pills into the sick man's hand, telling him to take them on certain days, and so he was dismissed, after paying his fee. In a week or so the servant got better, and he attributed it entirely to the medicine the Shaitan had given him. Even after Hindoos become Christians, it is very difficult to make them give up their fear of these evil spirits or Shaitans. God hasten the day, when Satan shall be bound in this land. 
             
             
                
               VIII. 
               Widowhood. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Oppress not the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow.
                      
                     -JER. vii. 6. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "Relieve the oppressed; plead for the widow."
                      
                     -ISAIAH i. 7. 
                   
                
               AFTER we had been teaching a few months in a house, we always found that we had gained the love, and affection of our pupils; they gladly welcomed us with loving smiles, and cheerful words of greeting; and as they began to learn a little, and to find that their manners, and customs were different from those of other nations, they would willingly explain them to us. Often, after our lessons were over, we would sit and talk with the most intelligent of them, and thus we gained a great knowledge of their inner life, and we trust we did them good too, in telling them how differently things were done in those countries where the religion of Jesus was known. 
               In one very large house where we taught, there were over one hundred and fifty inhabitants, and there were a dozen widows of different ages. One of those was the widow of the eldest son of the house-and consequently had a little more respect shown her than she otherwise would have had. She was very bright and intelligent, and, after a few months, discarded entirely her false gods, and appeared most earnest and diligent in search after the truth, and she was continually drawing the contrast, not much in favor of her own country. Her name was Luckie, and one day when we were busy teaching her alone, as none of the other women had as yet come into the room, we heard the most fearful shrieks and screams proceeding from another part of the house. 
               We asked: "What is that?" 
               "Oh," she answered, "Bama's husband is just dead. While he was well he used to beat her, and ill-use her very badly, but now he is dead she makes all that noise. I know with you Christians if any one you love dies, you weep a good deal, but you do it quietly, and you pray to God; but that is not Hindoo fashion, our custom is to make very much noise." 
               Miss Gray asked: "May we go and see her?" 
               "Yes," she answered, "I will take you." 
               As we were passing along through several winding passages, Luckie said, "You will be surprised to find her dressed up in all her jewels and her finest sarree. When a woman thinks her husband is dying, she runs directly and puts them all on, that she may wear them for the last time, as after she becomes a widow, she may never wear any jewelry or ornaments again." 
               On going into the room, the dead body lay on a mat on the ground (he had died rather suddenly, so they had not had him taken to the Ganges), and the widow, who was apparently about twenty years old, was flinging herself on the body, embracing it with the wildest shrieks. She would roll on the ground, and then again rise up and clasp him in her arms with renewed shrieks and howls. The other relations, in the meantime, stood quietly by. 
               At length, when they thought that her mourning had been deep enough, they attempted to take her away from the body; but this they had to do by force, and they continued to hold her, while she apparently made frantic attempts to pull herself away, and again throw herself on the corpse. This, however, they would not let her do, so she had to content herself then with rolling on the ground, as if she had lost her senses, tearing off her hair by handfuls, and striking her breast, and otherwise hurting herself. After acting like this for some time, as if in utter despair, she got up and quietly approached the dead body of her husband, and thus addressed it: 
               "Oh why! why hast thou forsaken me? What evil have I done that thou hast left me? Had I not always for thee the fondness of a faithful wife? Was I not attentive to household affairs? My darling children, whom I have brought to thee! what will become of them, and who will protect them now thou art gone? Did I not neatly serve up thy rice! Did I not devote myself to provide for thy good eating? What did I leave undone, and who henceforth will take care of me?" All these expressions she would utter in the most lamentable tones-then she began again to scream and groan, and to curse and abuse the gods who had deprived her of her protector, the other women in the room uttering similar imprecations against the cruelty of the gods. She continued then to scream, and cry, and to abuse the gods, and to address her dead husband by turns, till she became utterly exhausted and her voice refused her utterance, when she was taken away to another room. 
               Miss Gray said to Luckie, "Poor thing, she must have loved her husband very much." 
               She smiled very scornfully, and said: "She couldn't, he was so bad, very bad, but do you not know that with us, a woman is thought more of, the more intense exhibitions of grief she can show. In fact it is our fashion. If we would have the least respect shown to us afterwards we must all act like this when our husbands die. 
               "When my husband died, I did love him. I am sure he was almost a Christian, and he was always good, and kind, and gentle to me. I could think of nothing else but that he was gone from me, that I should never see him again; and I could not talk to him; I could not shriek, and for days I could not weep. It seemed somehow as if all my life was gone, and I was turned to stone. Oh, I did love him very dearly, but all my friends thought I acted disgracefully because I could not make the noise they wanted me to." 
               We still stood talking in the verandah for a few minutes, and then we saw six strange women enter the court and come up to the chamber of the dead. They placed themselves, either sitting or standing, round the corpse, their dishevelled hair hanging about their shoulders, which were bare to the waist, and together they set up a low wail of woe. Then they would weep together, keeping time by thumping on their chests with both hands; then they would praise the dead; then scold and reproach him for going away, sometimes one speaking alone, then all together. 
               I found that these were the hired mourners, "the weeping women." They were to continue this lamentation till the body was carried forth, when their grief would immediately disappear, as they receive their wages. We did not wait to see the termination, as it would be perhaps three or four hours before the body would be carried forth. 
               The next week we went again to the same house, and we found that on that day Bama was to be constituted a widow, by a particular ceremony. All the female relatives, those who lived in the house and all who were permitted to visit there, assembled in her room, and after partaking of a feast which had been prepared for them, they sat down round the widow, and all commenced to cry with her, and then to beg her to be reconciled to her unfortunate destiny. Then her husband's mother, or the nearest female relative, cuts the thread which holds the tahli. The tahli is a little gold ornament worn round the neck (or arm in some castes), by which a married woman is known, an unmarried girl or a widow not being permitted to wear it. In some castes the barberess is called to shave her head. In others the hair is merely unbraided and left to flow over the shoulders, in which way it must always be worn for the future; it must never be dressed. By these two acts the poor woman immediately sinks into the despised class of widows. 
               The next time we went to teach in that family, a very heavy thunderstorm coming up just as we had finished our lessons, we were detained there for nearly three hours; and as a great number of the women of the house were present, Miss Gray thought it would be a good opportunity to find out all she could about the state of widowhood as it exists in India. She looked round, and not perceiving Bama present, she asked where she was. She was immediately answered by the old woman, Bama's mother-in-law, pouring out a torrent of complaints against the English government. At length, having exhausted her vocabulary of abusive language, she burst into a flood of tears, and then commenced bewailing her son. 
               "Oh, my child! my child! My gem of gems, that I should ever have lived to see this day, to see thee, my glorious one, so dishonored, as to have thy wife remain alive after thee." She continued for some little time bewailing him in this manner. At length, when she became a little more quiet, Miss Gray asked her to explain to her how her son could be dishonored by his wife surviving him? 
               The old woman then took some sheets of paper out of her sarree, which were written over in the Bengali language, handed them to one of the women who could read and said, "Read that, let the Maam Sahib know why I weep. That was given me by our Gooroo. It is from our Holy Books, our Shasters." 
               "But," said Miss Gray, "I thought they would not permit you to know any of the words of your Shasters. I thought women must never know them." 
               "Yes, our Gooroos may teach us all that they say about us, but nothing else," and, said the old woman, "he has been telling me to-day how much my son will suffer because the wicked English people have made such terrible laws against our religion. Oh! why, why did Vishnu ever let them come to our land?" and then she began to heap curses on her god for permitting the English to be here. 
               After a time, however, she quieted herself, and permitted the paper to be read-and me to interpret it to Miss Gray. I was too unholy to be permitted to touch the paper, and during the reading she would continually interrupt us with shrieks and bursts of lamentation or abuse. The sentences were these: 
               "There are 35,000,000 hairs on the human body. The woman who ascends the pile will remain so many years with her husband in heaven." 
               "As the snake-catcher draws the serpent from its hole, so she (no matter how great his sins), by burning, rescues her husband from hell, and rejoices with him." 
               "The woman who expires on the funeral pile with her husband purifies the family of her father, her mother, and her husband. If the husband be a Brahminicide, the greatest of all criminals, an ungrateful person, or a murderer of his friends; the wife, by burning with him, purges away his sins." 
               "There is no virtue greater than a virtuous woman burning herself with her husband." 
               "As long as a woman in her successive transmigrations should decline burning herself like a faithful wife on the same fire with her deceased lord, so long shall she not be exempted from springing to life again in the body of some female animal." 
               "If a woman, who had despised her lord, or done what was contrary to his mind, should (even) from mercenary motives, or fear, or from a suspension of the reasoning powers, die with her husband, she shall be purged from all crimes."
                     See M La Chant.
                  
                
               "Though he, her husband, have sunk to the region of torment, be restrained in dreadful bonds, have reached the place of anguish, be sized by the imp of Luma (the Hindoo Pluto, the god of the infernal regions), be exhausted of strength, and afflicted and tortured for his crimes, still as a serpent-catcher unerringly drags a serpent from his hole, so does she draw her husband from hell, and ascends with him to heaven by the power of devotion." 
               "If the wife be within one day's journey of the place where her husband died, and she signify her wish to be burnt with him, the burning of the corpse shall be delayed till her arrival.
                     See Vyas.(*)
                  
                
               "If the husband be out of the country when he dies, let the virtuous wife take his slippers or anything which belongs to his dress, and binding them, or it, on her breast, after purification, enter a separate fire.
                     See Brm Pooran.
                   A Brunhn cannot burn herself on a separate pile. But this is an eminent: virtue in another woman."
                     See Ooshuna.
                  
                
               After the paper was read, the old woman again burst out in wild lamentation. "Who knows," she said, "what sins my darling may have committed, and now his wife cannot save him." And again muttering fierce imprecations upon all who interfered with their customs, and religion, she rushed out of the room. 
               Miss Gray turned to an elderly woman present, and said: "Can you tell me how the ceremony of the Suttee used to be performed?" 
               "Oh, yes," she answered, "for my dear mother offered herself as a glorious sacrifice, and I was taken as a child to witness her noble deed, and to see how bravely she bore it; and though I wept much, I felt my mother was right, thus to help to save my father from trouble. I will tell you how the ceremony was performed with her. My father was very ill with fever, and when the doctor assured us that there was no hope of his recovery, and be had better be carried to the riverside to die, then my mother declared her resolution of being burnt with him. That made it unnecessary for him to be carried to the river to die, as the sacrifice of his wife would ensure his salvation without the help of Ganga, (the river Ganges). Immediately all her neighbors and friends treated her with great respect, bringing her delicious food, &c. 
               "As soon as my father was dead, she again declared her resolution to be burnt with his body. She broke a small branch from a mango tree, and taking it with her went and sat down by the body. The female barber came and painted the sides of her feet red; she then bathed and put on a new sarree. 
               "Whilst she was doing this, the village drum was beating a certain sound, by which it was known that a widow was going to be burnt with her husband. On hearing this all the people of the village came together, at least all the men, and such of the women as were permitted by the lowness of their caste to leave their houses. My eldest brother went to provide all things necessary for the ceremony. If there is no son, the nearest male relative does this. A hole was dug in the ground, round which bamboos were driven into the earth, and thick, green stakes were laid across to form a kind of bed, and upon this a great quantity of faggots, hemp, clarified butter, and pitch was placed. My mother now went and seated herself near the pile, and the Gooroo, or officiating priest, made her repeat some prayers, to the effect that she may live in heaven with her husband for as many years as there are hairs on her head. That the heavenly dancer during that time may wait on her and her husband; and that by this act of merit, all the ancestors of her father, mother, and husband may arise to heaven." 
               "After repeating these prayers, she took off her ornaments, giving some of them to the priest, and the others to her friends. She then tied some red cotton round both wrists, put two new combs in her hair, painted her forehead, and tied some parched rice, and couries
                     Couries, small shells used as a very small coin.
                   in the end of her sarree. 
               While she was doing this, the Brahmins were anointing my father's body, repeating some Mantras over it, and dressing it in new clothes. My brother took a handful of boiled rice and, repeating a Mantra, offered it in my father's name. Then some ropes were brought and laid upon the pile, and a piece of cloth was spread over the top, and the dead man was laid upon it. My mother then walked round the pile seven times, scattering parched corn and couries as she went. Those near tried to gather them up, thinking they would confer special blessings, and that if they are tied round the neck of sick children, they will cure diseases. 
               My mother now climbed up, and threw herself on the pile, by the dead body of my father. The ropes were then drawn over the bodies, which were tied close together, and more faggots were placed upon them. My brother then, turning his face away, put a lighted faggot to my father's face, which he scorched all over, and then immediately he lighted the pile in several different places. 
               At this all the women and relations set up low screams and cries; drums were beat, trumpets blown, and the noise was so great that it could be heard a long distance off. All this time more faggots were being thrown on the pile, and more clarified butter, and pitch were poured on, till the whole was consumed. It took almost two hours before all was burnt to ashes, but I think my mother must have been dead in a few minutes, as there was such a thick smoke. 
               Sometimes the bodies are held down in the pile by long bamboos, which are placed over them, and the Brahmins hold on to them on each side, and after all is over, the parts of those bamboos which are unburnt are considered very useful in magical arts. A person will take one of these bamboos, after the bodies are burnt, and making a bow and arrow with it, will repeat certain Mantras over it. He will then mould out of clay, the image of any one he hates, and pierce it with this arrow, which will immediately cause intense suffering to the person whom that image represents. How like pretended witchcraft, even in so-called Christian lands! 
               Any bones that were unconsumed were taken up, and with the ashes cast into the Ganges. And all who had attended the ceremony had to bathe before they could return to their homes. 
               Miss Gray: "Can you tell the meaning of many of these customs, such, for instance, as putting the red thread round the wrist?" 
               Old woman: "No, it is our fashion, our forefathers did it." 
               Several of the women then told us a number of incidents, some of which I will relate. Every one of these incidents is vouched for. Several, almost exactly similar, are related in Ward's India, to which I have referred constantly, to see if my informants have given me the truth as he represents it, and one or two of the incidents are from him. 
               One said : "My father was a Coolin Brahmin min. He had a great many wives, and many of them insisted on being burnt with him, that thus they themselves might go to live with the gods in heaven, and that they might be the means of helping some of their friends to get there too. A very large pile was made, and thirteen women, wives of my father, stretched themselves, side by side, on this pile, the oldest wife, or rather the first wife, taking her dead husband's head in her arms. The pile was then set on fire, and just as it had begun to blaze, my mother rushed up to it, and told the Gooroo that she too intended to burn herself. She, with some of the other wives, had been standing near, and her brother-in-law and other relations had been upbraiding her so much for not performing this meritorious act, that she at length mustered courage to rush to the priest and tell him she would do it. 
               It took some minutes for her to go through the requisite forms of preparation, and during this time they were throwing pitch on the fire to make it burn more fiercely. 
                
               By the time my mother had gone through the Mantras and other forms necessary, her courage had all gone, and then she tried to escape. But my brother, who was standing by, would not suffer her thus to disgrace herself and the whole family. He caught hold of her and pushed her into the fire, the flames of which were now spreading wide. To save herself she caught hold of another of my father's wives who was standing near, and they both fell together into the flames and perished, but only to rise to live with the gods." 
               Miss Gray asked: "Did the women in former times ever promise their husbands to be burnt alive with them, should they die first?" 
               Luckie answered: "Oh, yes, they often did, and the wife who made this promise was generally treated with more love and attention in consequence. My father knew a man who had three wives, of whom the youngest had promised with an oath
                     An oath is taken by laying the hand on a cow, or on one of the shasters, or by touching fire.
                   to be burnt with him. So he loved her very much, and he treated his other wives with great coolness, giving her all the jewelry and good food. 
               "One day, being away from home, he thought he would try her love, so he sent a relation to say he was dead, and direct her to go to the spot to be burnt with him. As soon as she heard this, she took all her jewelry and locked herself and it up tight in her own room, and said she would not be burnt. In a few hours afterwards her husband arrived, to her great chagrin, and after that she was degraded, and he loved his other wives better than her." 
               "Oh, but!" exclaimed another old woman, "what a dreadful punishment will happen to a woman who does break such an oath. My grandmother had a sister who broke this oath. Her husband was a Brahmin; he had two other wives, but one was most terribly crazy, and the other he had never seen since the day he was married to her, for though she had been at his mother's house for a week after he was first married to her, he had never cared to see her, and after that she was permitted to go back and remain at her father's house. But my grand-aunt he loved very much, and they had a son grown up. 
               "The husband went about 200 miles up the country on business, and as my grand-aunt had sworn a solemn oath to be burnt with him when he died, she made him promise, that if ever he should die away from home, he would give orders to have his body sent home. He did die, about 200 miles from home, and a friend sent his body down to Calcutta in a box. 
               "When it arrived they sent to inform his father. The wife, who had taken the oath, now drew back. She had not the courage to sacrifice herself. She sat in the house weeping. Her son, who was now a grown man, and her father-in-law, again and again ordered her to go to the pile, and not to bring such disgrace on them, telling her, it was only for this object, that she might fulfil her vow, that the body was brought so far. But she wept piteously and still refused to go. 
                
               "While they were still trying to urge her to go, the crazy wife, hearings that her husband was dead, and that his body had been brought to Calcutta, declared she would die with him: Her relations tried to frighten and stop her, but it was of no use. (They believe that a crazy person, dying in this way, will become an evil spirit.) She rushed off to the husband's house and began to abuse most fearfully the wife who was unwilling to die with him. 
               "Meanwhile, the third wife arrived, and she and the crazy woman were led to the pile. Everything had been prepared, and a large crowd had assembled by the river. The wives were brought to look at the corpse, which was much disfigured. The deranged woman, when she saw it, shrieked, and declared that was not her husband, that they were going to burn her with a dead cow. 
               "It would have been too great a disgrace in those days for a Brahmin not to have one wife burnt with him, so the other poor young thing, who had never seen her husband except at the wedding ceremony, was seized and bound to the loathsome corpse, and perished in the flames; but my grand-aunt, who ought to have died with her husband, was miserable afterwards. All her friends hated her, and she was tormented by fiends and evil spirits, so that a few months after her husband's death, she took poison and killed herself." 
               Miss Gray asked them, "Do you think, then, that any woman was ever voluntarily burnt with her husband?" 
               Luckie answered, "Oh, yes, I believe many a one has been, and many more would be now, if it were permitted. When once a woman has declared her intention to die with her husband, vanity in many cases would induce her to be faithful to her vow. The Brahmins, and all her relatives, would visit her and praise her courage, and tell her of the great glory she would obtain by such a death that she will be exalted as high as the gods and they keep on talking thus to the last moment, to keep up the enthusiasm. But if they see that she is beginning to waver, they frequently give her a drug, which confuses the intellect, so that she will submit to anything, doing whatever she is told. 
               "The Brahmins encourage her to do it, because it puts money and power into their hands; her relations urge her on, as it brings honor and glory to the family, and every one else who comes near her urges her to complete the sacrifice from motives of fear, as the Hindoos have a superstition that if a woman voluntarily promise to burn with her husband, and then draw back, the whole community in which she resides will suffer some terrible calamity. 
               "But it is not only vanity, but the dread of the life-long suffering which awaits her as a widow, that makes many a woman die thus willingly with her husband. Without any love or affection shown her, the disgraced drudge of the household, compelled to almost starve herself, with no hope either in this world or the next, her sufferings are such that many would willingly escape from them, even by the cruellest death. Oh! so so different is our religion from yours." 
                
               "Yes," said Miss Gray. "Your religion teaches that thus the wife can expiate the sins of the husband. Our Bible says, 'The soul that sinneth, it shall die'. 'The father shall not bear the sins of the son, nor the son the sins of the father, but each one shall bear his own sins.' One guilty person can not expiate the sins of another guilty one. But God has provided one great Sin-bearer, who, innocent Himself, has 'borne our sins in His own body on the tree,' 'who died for us, the Just for the unjust,' and all we have to do is simply to believe this, and pardon, and peace, and heaven, will be ours. There is no more need of any sacrifice for sin, Christ has done it all. 
               "Again, your Holy Books teach you that the widow, if she lives, is to live a life of trial and of suffering. Our Holy Book teaches us, that 'God is the Father of the fatherless, and the God of the widow,' and He threatens the severest punishments upon those who afflict, or distress them." 
               We left that house with hearts, ah! so sad. God grant that the day may soon come, when the "bonds of these oppressed ones shall be broken." It will come, for He has promised it, and it is indeed a glorious privilege to be allowed to help to loose the bonds of these poor prisoners, whom Satan has held captive at his will. 
               After we reached home, Miss Gray read to me, from Ward's India, a well authenticated incident, which I will repeat here before I close the subject. This was the case of a woman who was buried alive with her husband, for amongst some few of the tribes of India they bury, instead of burning their dead, especially if they are too poor to afford the money for a funeral pile. 
               The circumstance I am about to relate took place about 20 miles from Calcutta, a number of years ago, and is given in the words of an eye-witness: 
               "On Thursday last one of our best workmen, who had been sick but a short time, was brought down to the river to expire. He was placed, as is the custom, on the bank, and a consultation was held as to the time he would die. The astrologer predicted that his dissolution was near at hand. The sick man was then immersed up to the middle in the river, and there kept for some time, but death not being as near as predicted, he was again placed on the beach, extended at full length, and exposed to the sun, where it was intensely hot. Here he continued the whole of the day, excepting at those intervals when he was supposed to be dying, when he was again immersed in the sacred stream. 
               "I visited him in the evening. He was sensible, but had not the power of utterance. He, however, was able to make signs with his hand that he did not wish to drink the river water, which they kept pouring almost constantly down his throat, by means of a small shell. He remained in this situation all night. In the morning the immersions again commenced, and were continued at intervals till five in the evening, when he expired, or was literally murdered. 
               "His wife, a young woman about sixteen years of age, hearing of his death, came to the desperate resolution of being buried alive with the corpse. She was accompanied by her friends down to the beach, where the corpse lay. Here a small branch of the mango-tree was presented to her, which, I understood, was setting a seal to her determination, from which, after having accepted the branch, she could not withdraw. 
               "I went to her, and questioned her with respect to the horrid act she was about to perform, whether it was voluntary, or from persuasion; nothing of the latter appeared, it was entirely her own desire. I spoke to her relations of the heinousness of the crime they were guilty of, in allowing this young creature thus to precipitate herself into the presence of her Creator uncalled for. My wife, who was with me, spoke both to the mother and the daughter a good deal, but all to no purpose. The mother declared it was the daughter's choice, and she added she was determined to go the road her husband had gone. 
                
               "There was not the least appearance of grief or regret in the mother's face, or conduct. A woman then can forget her sucking child, and forsake the child of her womb! The prophet seemed to think it only possible that there might exist such a monster, but here it was realized; here was a monster of a mother, who could resign her child, the gift of a gracious Providence, without the least apparent emotion, and could consign this child alive to the tomb, and herself continue an unmoved spectator of the horrid deed. 
               "At eight a.m. the corpse, accompanied by this self-devoted victim, was conveyed to a place a little below our grounds, where I repaired to behold the perpetration of a crime which I could scarcely believe it was possible should be committed by any human being. 
               "The corpse was laid on the earth by the river, till a circular grave of almost fifteen feet in circumference, and five or six feet in depth, was prepared. The corpse, after some formulas had been read, was placed at the bottom of the grave, in a sitting posture, with the face to the south, the nearest relation applying a lighted wisp of straw to the top of the head. 
               "The young widow now came forward, and walked round the grave seven times, calling out, 'Hree Bl Hree Bl,' in which she was joined by the surrounding crowd. She then descended into it. I approached within a foot of the grave to observe if any reluctance appeared in her countenance, or any sorrow on that of her relations. In hers no alteration was perceptible, in theirs was the appearance of exultation. 
               "She placed herself in a sitting posture, with her face to the back of her husband, embracing the corpse with her left arm, and reclining her head on his shoulders. The other hand she placed over her own head, with her forefinger erect. The earth was then deliberately put round them, two men being in the grave for the purpose of stamping it round the living and the dead, which they did, till the earth rose to a level with the surface, or two or three feet above the heads of the entombed. Not a parting tear was observed to be shed by any of her relations, till the crowd began to disperse, when the usual lamentations and howling commenced." 
               When Miss Gray had finished reading, we knelt together, and praised our Heavenly Father that these were now things of the past, it being very rarely that such scenes take place now. If they are done, it has to be in secret, hid away in a corner. We praised Him, that the Day-Star from on high was beginning to rise over this dark land, and scattering the deep clouds of ignorance and cruelty, and we prayed Him to send forth more laborers into this harvest, that the time might be hastened, when none should need to say to the other, "Know the Lord, for all should know Him, from the least even to the greatest." Then He shall "cause the widow's heart to sing for joy." 
             
             
                
               IX. 
               Customs and Habits. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke."
                      
                     -ISAIAH, lviii. 6. 
                   
                
               ONE day in entering a house where we taught, we were met at the door by a woman, weeping bitterly, and uttering really the most heart-rending lamentations. Holding out her hand to beg, she besought us most piteously to give her a pice. On looking at her a moment, we perceived that she must be a Zenana lady. She had on a clean sarree of very fine white cloth, which she had up all over her face, so that only her eyes were visible. She wore no jewelry, but by the red spot on the top of her head, we perceived that she was a married woman, not a widow. What looked very ridiculous, however, was the tail 
                   
                     ZEBU, OR SACRED COW OF INDIA. 
                  
                  
                   of a calf tied to one end of the sarree, and hanging down to her feet. As we approached, she increased her lamentations, and her petitions for alms, but I could not learn from her why she was thus begging, as she looked most unlike a beggar. 
               On entering the house, we asked who she was, and why she was thus begging. In tones of deep commiseration, one of the women told us her story. She was a Zenana lady, the wife of a very rich Baboo, who lived near by. A few days previously, she had gone down-stairs to cook, and she threw a piece of wood across the court, when a young calf, a few days old, ran out from under the shed. The wood, which was heavy, accidentally hit the calf, knocking it down, and in two or three hours it died. 
               To have killed a calf, even accidentally, was a dreadful sin, and, in consequence, she had to perform a great penance to expiate this crime. She must go on a pilgrimage to several holy places, walking and begging all the way. Being a lady, she had a servant to go with her, to tend and take care of her, till she had begged money enough to give a great entertainment to a hundred Brahmins, and to give to each a good sum besides. When she had done this, they would restore her to her caste. Her husband was rich, and offered to give her the money, but no, that would not do, she must beg it all, and she must wear that calf's tail all the time fast to her sarree, to tell everybody what her crime had been. The old woman told all this in tones of the deepest commiseration. 
               I saw that Miss Gray, though she felt great pity for this poor woman who would have to suffer so much for a silly superstition, yet found it very difficult to restrain her mirth. It did really seem too ridiculous. Afterwards, in speaking to me about it, she said, that though there was so much in the manners and customs of my poor, heathen, country people to depress and make a Christian sad, yet those very customs were so absurdly ridiculous to a European, that they could not fail to excite mirth. 
                
               The next day, in visiting another house, we learnt some more of the heathen rites and customs, but these failed to excite, in either of us, any merriment. At one end of the women's court there is generally, in most respectable houses, a small room, or more properly a shed, in which the cow is kept. It is about twelve feet square. It is raised just one step above the ground of the surrounding court. We had noticed, the previous week, that a piece of matting had been stretched across this shed, dividing it into two, and that the cow still retained possession of one-half, while the floor of the other half had been beaten flat, and then smoothed over with a plaster made of earth and cow-dung. This, strange as you may think it, makes a very smooth, clean flooring, perfectly inodorous; and it has the advantage of keeping away white ants, and other insects, and when in any way soiled or broken, can easily be smoothed over again with the same mixture. We had observed this shed arranged so, but did not know for what purpose this was done. On the day of which I speak, we saw one of our young pupils, Kaiminee, standing inside this but, looking very sad. She was leaning against the doorpost, and looked utterly woe-begone, while, generally, she was bright and cheerful. 
               Miss Gray directly went to her, and asked her what was the matter. At first she did not answer, only turning her head away; but upon Miss Gray's renewing her inquiries in the tenderest tones, the poor, young thing burst into a flood of tears. Miss Gray sat down on the step of the door, and made Kaiminee sit down beside her, She, however, took great care that she did not let her feet, or any of her body, go over the sill of the door. Miss Gray drew the poor child's head-for she was but a child, only fourteen-down on her breast, and spoke soothing and caressing words to her. 
               After a few minutes, the poor girl hushed her sobs, and, looking up at Miss Gray, said: "Are you not afraid of being polluted? Why do you touch me? I shall pollute you." 
                
               
                   
                     A HINDOO WOMAN OF SOUTHERN INDIA, OF LOW CASTE, DRESSED IN HER JEWELS. 
                  
                
                
                
               "Poor child," said Miss Gray, "you cannot pollute me. Nothing but my own sins against God can pollute me. But tell me what is the matter with you?" 
               Then, with many tears and sobs, Kaiminee said: "Oh! I am sure I must have been very wicked in a former birth, for Kali is very angry with me. Just two years ago, I had a dear, little baby born, and in one week it died. I knew then that Kali was angry with me, and I sent and offered a goat in sacrifice, and now the gods gave me another dear, little baby, and he only lived three hours, when Kali breathed upon him, and he was gone, and, only a week ago, I sent another goat in sacrifice to her, but you see she hates me." 
               While she had been speaking, her mother had come and seated herself on the ground in the court, at a little distance. 
               "But," I said to Kaiminee, "why are you down here in this miserable shed? Why are you not up in your room?" 
               In the shed, there was nothing but a strip of matting on the floor, for her to sit on by day, or to lie on at night, and a piece of wood for a pillow. 
               Kaiminee answered: "Oh! my babe was only born three days ago, and I must not go up to my room till the time he would have been twenty-eight days old, if he had lived." And then followed another burst of grief. This poor, little child-mother mourned, most bitterly, the loss of her babe, though it was only a few hours old. 
               "But why are you here?" I asked. "Though your room is not very comfortable, it is better than this damp place." 
               Her mother answered: "Do you not know our custom, that every child must be born here in the cow-shed. And then when the child is twenty-eight days old, the mother and child may both together go up to her room. The mother must not go out of this place till then." 
               "But who takes care of the poor little, sick mother?" asked Miss Gray. 
               "Oh! the babe is dead," she answered. "While it lived, there was an old Coolie woman who took care of the child, and brought Kaiminee all she wanted, but now the child is dead, there is no use in paying her." 
               "No!" said Miss Gray, "you are her mother, you love her very much. I suppose you like to do for her everything she wants. Poor child, she is so sad, it must be a great comfort to you to be able to nurse and take care of her. Her head is throbbing very hard now; when I go, you just come and sit beside her, and bathe her head." 
               The poor mother jumped up from the ground, and cried: "Oh! I can't do it, I must not do it!" and then she sat down again, rocking herself and moaning. 
               Miss Gray asked: "Why must you not do it for your own child?" 
               She answered: "It would be against our custom, it would pollute me and break my caste." 
               Then, by a series of questions, Miss Gray drew from her some account of the customs that prevail amongst them on the birth of a child. All the time they were talking, Miss Gray sat on the step of the shed, Kaiminee lying beside her, with her head on Miss Gray's lap, whilst she was softly stroking the poor girl's throbbing temples. First Miss Gray asked: 
               "Why can you not take care of your own child?" 
               The old woman answered: "After a baby is born, the mother must not come out of that shed for twenty-eight days. If the child lives, a very low caste Coolie woman waits upon her, and takes care of the child, and brings the mother her food. This is always brought to her on a plantain leaf, for on no account must she touch the brass plates that are generally used. No amount of cleaning could make them pure again, but the plantain leaf can be thrown away. If the child dies, the nurse is dismissed, and then some of the women of the house bring the mother's food to her. They place it on the ground outside of the shed, but near enough for her to stretch out her hand and reach it. The other women must not go into the shed, or be touched by her, or touch anything at the same time she touches it, or they would be polluted. Both mother and child are kept very warm, and no matter how hot the weather is, a fire is kept going in the hut almost the whole time, so that it is filled with smoke, and they are kept in a constant bath of perspiration. This is the custom among the higher castes; amongst the lower, a woman will often return to her work, the day after the birth of her child. 
               "Amongst the wealthier Hindoos, an astrologer is informed of the time of the child's birth, and his horoscope is cast, to see whether he will be lucky or unlucky, and the astrologer then writes down what will be his future fate. This paper the father carefully keeps, to compare the events with the prediction. This is seldom done when the child is a girl. If the child is a boy, the father sees it when it is ten days old; if it is a girl, he does not see either it, or the mother, till the twenty-eighth day. The father selects a name for the child when it is a few days old, and frequently it is the name of one of the gods, as it is considered a merit, even to mention the name of one of the gods; so if a child has that name, whenever he is called or spoken of, it helps to add merit to the speaker." 
               Poor Kaiminee, at this, began to weep bitterly again, and Miss Gray thought it was best to leave her, and not excite her any more. So, telling her she would come and see her soon again, and talk to her about her child, we left her, thinking of the cruelty of those customs which deprived a poor, sick, bereaved mother of the most ordinary comforts, and even of the solace of having dear ones to minister to her. I thought of what I had seen of sickness amongst English ladies, and how for them everything that the tenderest care and most devoted love could bestow was done, and oh! how I prayed that the day might soon come when these poor women should have their share of love and tenderness. The Gospel of Jesus is the thing that every woman should aim to spread over all the earth. Thus only can woman be liberated from her slavery. 
               How continually, as I went from house to house with my dear lady, was I led to lift up my heart in thankfulness to the great God, my loving, tender Father, who had saved me from such a lot. May my heart ever be filled with thanksgiving, and my lips with praise. Oh, how great has been His love, and tender mercy to poor unworthy me! 
               After leaving this house of sorrow, it happened that at the next we entered, they were holding a festival. A happy mother was rejoicing, and a great feast was being held, as certain ceremonies were being performed for two of her children on the same day. The younger one was just six months old, and that day they began to feed him with rice, and consequently an entertainment was to be given to the Brahmins. 
               The house had been cleaned and whitewashed, and wreaths of mango-leaves had been hung about. In the court, a small shed had been erected, near which the Brahmins were seated. Presently the mother came in, closely veiled, carrying her babe, and sat down under the shed. The Gooroo, or family priest, then got up and offered a sacrifice of rice, fruits, and sweetmeats, to the nine planets, at the same time repeating over a number of Mantras. When this was over, the married women of the house (for widows never can take part in any ceremony or festival) came near, and performed the ceremony of averting the evil eye. 
               A queer, little lamp, made of rice paste, from rice flour, was filled with oil, and placed on a brass plate, and then lighted. Each woman, in turn, took hold of the plate with both hands, and with the lamp burning, moved it seven times round the head and face of the child. This is to avert the evil eye. Had the lamp gone out, it would have been a very unpropitious sign. You must never speak to a mother about the beauty of her child, or call it fat. She would directly think you were casting an evil eye upon it. After this ceremony was over, the women ran off to a corner of the court to worship the god of the plate. This was only a brass plate which had been made a present to the child, by its maternal uncle, and from which, in the future, he was to eat his food. This, for the time being, had been turned into a god, by some Mantras uttered by the Gooroo. They threw a small quantity of earth on this plate, and then each, clasping her hands, made a deep obeisance to the god of the plate, after which they brought it and placed it beside the child. Then they rubbed the child's lips with boiled rice, after which the women retired. 
               All this had taken place in the women's court, but a servant now took the babe out into the men's court. There, the father and the Gooroo put some rice, that had been dyed red, on the child's head, which finished the ceremony. They were now ready for the feast, but, in this case, the father being economically disposed, was making the one feast serve two purposes, for his eldest boy, just three years of age, had to go through a ceremony about this time, therefore both were fixed for the same day. 
               At the age of two or three years, a boy's head must be shaved for the first time, and a feast given to the Brahmins. A small shed had been erected in the men's court, beneath which a square had been marked off in chalk, and within this square a number of geometrical figures intersected each other. In the middle of the square they placed a measure of rice, and an image of the god, Panchnnee-one of the forms of Siva. This image has five faces, and in each face three eyes. Most persons have a clay image made for just the time of the feast, and, after this is over, it is thrown into the Ganges. The three eyes denote the omniscience of the god in the past, the present, and the future. 
               To this god they make offerings of cocoanuts, betelnuts, and sugar. The barber then shaved the boy's head, leaving a tuft of hair on the crown. This, the Hindoos always permit to grow long. All who had been invited stood looking on, till the barber had finished the operation, the Gooroo, during all the time, repeating Mantras. After this was over, a great feast followed. 
               In this house the mother was looking very happy, for her two boys were both receiving the blessings of the Brahmins. The father had shown a great deal of worldly wisdom in this matter. Before any such rite as either of these is performed, the astrologer must be consulted; and the father knew that generally a day is chosen when the moon is in a certain position. Now he thought, if I tell the astrologer that I have the two ceremonies to perform, he will choose a separate day for each feast, but if I go to two astrologers and tell them each of one rite only, it may so chance that they will both select the same day for the two ceremonies, and so it turned out. 
               The preparations for these feasts always give the women of the house a great deal of labor for days beforehand, as they make all the sweetmeats, and these festivals and poojahs are of such constant recurrence, for one or another in a large household, that they are a great hindrance to our work. 
               This day we had passed out of the house of mourning, into the house of rejoicing. In this land, as elsewhere, sorrow and joy are side by side, the songs of mirth, and the voice of wailing. 
               Going home, Miss Gray remarked how much Christians might learn, even of idolaters, to let their religion mingle in everything they do. It should not be an occasional act, but part and parcel of their every-day life. 
                
                
               
                   
                     THE PRIEST CASTING A BABE INTO THE GANGES. 
                  
                
             
             
                
               X. 
               Transmigration of Souls. 
                
                   
                     
                        "For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord."
                      
                     -Romans vi. 23. 
                   
                
               OH, that the poor Hindoos knew anything of the eternal life promised to us through Jesus Christ! Alas! alas! they know it not. But the Hindoos of every class believe fully in the transmigration of souls, and this has a very bad effect upon society. I think I have mentioned this before; because every trouble that befals them now, is considered in the light of a punishment of sins committed in a former state of existence, and, consequently, instead of feeling pity, and sympathy for the sufferer, others are apt to look upon him with apathy and indifference, if not with contempt, as, they say, "Oh, he is only suffering the penalty of his former crimes," and he himself feels despair. He thinks there is no hope for him in this life, and therefore the sooner he dies the better; and that possibly in the next birth he may be better off. 
               I will try in this chapter to give you some notion of the strange ideas of a future life possessed by the Hindoos, though they are so varied that it is very hard to know what they really believe. Some castes seem to believe one thing, and others will believe quite differently; so you must never be astonished if you hear very contradictory stories with regard to the inhabitants of India. Accounts may be given you, both perfectly true, and yet quite inconsistent with each other. What I shall tell you are the ideas of the women, drawn out gradually at different times in conversation with them, when we were talking to them on the subject of death and immortality. 
               There are many sins which a Hindoo may commit, for which he may offer an atonement, and then the sin will be forgiven him; but if he do not offer the right atonement, he must suffer terribly in the next life. 
               For the sin of killing a Brahmin, even accidentally, a man must give to the Brahmins three hundred and sixty cows, with their calves, annually, or he must offer up his own life. 
               If he have killed a Brahmin's cow, he must have his head shaved; for thirty days he must dwell with cows, and eat nothing but barley boiled in cow's urine, and wear about him part of a cow's skin. Then, for two months, he must only eat once a day. He must follow the herd of cows, and eat the dust thrown up by their feet. At night, after herding them, he must sit up cross-legged, and watch them the most of the night; and then he must beg for twelve years, and whatever he gains he must give as an atonement to the Brahmins. 
               There are different prices to be paid for causing the death of different animals, but all these sums have to be paid to the Brahmins. If a man kill a thousand insects, he must make the same atonement as for killing a Sudra, that is a man of low caste. 
                
               One atonement, which is made for many small offences, is truly vile. The offender, no matter of what caste he may be, from the highest to the lowest, is compelled to eat for three days, as his only food, a mixture made of the excrements of the cow, milk, clarified butter, and curds. This vile compound is given for many of the lesser sins. 
               It is supposed that after death the soul goes immediately before the judgment-seat of Zm, the judge of the dead, and, according to his sins or merits, he will then be sent to pass some time in hell, in torments, or in the heaven of the gods in happiness, before returning to this world in some other form. After passing through innumerable births in the form of different animals, when he returns into man's form he will still bear some trace of his former good or evil deeds. 
               Just to take one or two examples. He who has killed an enemy, even in war, will be cast into hell, afterwards he will become first a deer, then a tiger, a dog, a fish, a man, and, in the last state, he will die of the palsy. 
                
               He who eats good food, without giving any to others, will be punished in hell thirty thousand years, and then he will be born a musk rat, then a man whose body emits an offensive smell. 
               A man who steals rice, will be in hell one hundred thousand years, then he will be a crow, then one or two other birds, then a diseased man. For stealing alms, he will, at the last, be a consumptive, or a blind man. For other sins he will be punished in another birth with asthma, or cancer, leprosy, or scrofula. 
               A woman who is a disobedient wife, or who despises her husband, will suffer an infinite variety of exquisite torments in hell, and then be born a female, to be married only to lose her husband very soon, and be a widow. 
               Thus you see most of the sufferings that flesh is heir to, are supposed to be inflicted in strict justice for crimes committed in a former state of existence, and thus the poor sufferer receives very little compassion from others. 
                
               A week or two after the death of her child, we visited Kaiminee. She had then left the cow-shed, and was up-stairs in her own room. The poor girl had not got over her grief; she still mourned deeply for the loss of her babe. Oh! if she could only know where her babe now was; in what form it now existed! When we told her of the multitude of babes around the throne of God in heaven, it seemed to her as if we mocked. Oh! how gladly would she believe it if she could! She sat on the floor, rocking herself backwards and forwards, and moaning. At length she seemed to become indignant, and she exclaimed, "What have I ever done that I am thus terribly afflicted? I cannot see that I have done any harm from my childhood. Why does Kali thus persecute me? Why did Sheve give me a child, and then let Kali take it away? What did I do to you, oh! bloody, cruel goddess? I never injured you, you knew I had none else, you knew I looked to this child to be my staff, and now you have taken him away. Oh! you wicked goddess, I will burn you." 
               Whilst she was speaking, another woman, her sister-in-law, entered the room. The new-comer seated herself beside Kaiminee, and began beating her breast. "Oh! sister," she said, "that wicked Kali, she has taken your child also, she is full of injustice, she has taken all mine, she has not left me one." 
               The old mother, who was sitting by, turned round angrily, and said, "Why do you throw blame on the goddess? It is your own fault in former births, you must have committed many crimes, otherwise I cannot see why you should suffer in this dreadful manner. You have done nothing but good things in this birth. You must have injured some one's child in your former life, and now yours are taken from you. You will have to suffer till you have expiated the sins of a former life. I am a widow, and oh! my sufferings are indescribable. I am now suffering for the sins of many births; if the sins of many births be not cast upon me now, why do I suffer thus?" Then, turning to the bereaved mothers, she said, "See! you have two meals of food a day, while I never have but one; you have all manner of ornaments, while I can never have any; you can be present at all the feasts, and eat all manner of nice food. I must fast twice a month, and then I must not even have one drop of water. Oh! how great are my sorrows, how many sins I must formerly have committed!" 
               Miss Gray asked this poor woman, if she could tell us anything of her belief about the places of reward and punishment in the other world. 
               "Oh yes," she directly answered. "You must know that Zm is the judge of the dead. He keeps a scribe, or secretary who writes down everything, good or bad, that a man does, and as soon as he dies, the scribe looks at his books to see whether he was a good or bad man. If he has been good, Zm sends most beautiful people to lead him to the abode of happiness, where he hears fine music, and has everything nice to eat, and beautiful women to wait on him. He has multitudes of jewels, and gold ornaments, and myriads of sweet perfumes scent the air." 
               "But what," said Miss Gray, "are the meritorious deeds by which a man can gain this heaven?" 
               "He has to perform a great many. I will tell you some. He must bathe often in the holy waters of the Ganges. He must often feast the Brahmins; he must give great gifts to the Brahmins; he must offer sacrifices; he must build temples, or set up images of the gods; he must dig wells, or set up sheds, or caravansaries by the side of the road as resting-places for pilgrims. He must go on pilgrimages to holy places, or die at one of these. He must pay perfect and implicit obedience to his family priest. But for a woman, the only way to enter heaven, is to be burnt with the body of her dead husband. She is then promised a residence in heaven for thousands of years. It is also very meritorious to die by the side of the Ganges, or with the body partly immersed in it. 
                
               "But," said Miss Gray, "except the going on a pilgrimage, and dying by the Ganges, all the other meritorious deeds can only be performed by rich men. What becomes of the poor?" 
               She answered, with a sigh: "Oh, all they can do, is to try and be as good as they can be now, in hopes that in the next birth they may be rich, and then may hope to go to heaven, but they have no hope of it immediately after this life." 
               Miss Gray then spoke to them for some time on the beauty of the religion of Jesus, that gave heaven with all its glories, to the poor as well as the rich, "without money and without price." They sighed, but could not believe. 
               "Now tell me," said Miss Gray, "something about the abode of the wicked." The poor woman moaned and groaned. 
               "Yes," she said. "I must know something about that, for there I must go. I was not burnt with my husband, so no matter what meritorious deeds I might perform, I must go there for a time. Before those, who are wicked, reach the palace of Zm, they have to travel many thousands of miles, sometimes over pavements of fire, and showers of burning cinders, or sharp instruments, scalding water, or stones falling all around. They may meet with all sorts of wild animals who will tear them; may be hungry and thirsty, without food or drink; they may hear terrible screams, and hideous noises; sometimes they may be dragged along by frightful-looking beings, who pull them by the nose, or hair, or neck. At length they may reach the palace of Zuimui. To the good he appears very beautiful, but to the wicked he looks like a hideous monster. In a voice of thunder he speaks to them, and says: 'What have you done. You have continually lived in sin? Did you never hear that there were different hells for the punishment of the wicked? To-day you shall see what those receive who do not give their minds to religion. You have pleased yourselves in living in sin, now weeping will be of no use.'" 
                
               He then orders his scribe to examine his records against each individual, and, according to their deeds, he sends them to the different places of punishment. Alas! alas! unhappy me, for what a fate am I destined. 
               The Poorannas teach that there are several different hells and heavens, and that the souls go to one or other of these places after death. The Brahmin saint, or holy man, who has, by constant austerities and meditation, become the possessor of divine wisdom when he dies, ascends immediately to the heaven of Brahma, and there becomes absorbed in the divine nature. A Sudra can never, by any possibility, ascend higher than the lowest heaven, and his only hope is that, after repeated births, he may at last return sometime as a Brahmin. 
               It is very seldom that any of the Hindoos think, or trouble themselves as much as this woman did about her future destiny. They generally are very stoical. They say: "It is my fate, it is written on my forehead, what can I do?" and they will not think of it. 
                
               Miss Gray tried to tell these poor women of the joys of heaven, which God had prepared for those who love Him. She told them of the precious Saviour, whose blood could cleanse from every sin, even the vilest, and who could and would save those who would but come to Him, from the penalty of their sins, "blotting out all the handwriting that was against them." She told of His sufferings and death for man, all men, every one who would come unto Him and be saved. But, "lo! her words were to them as a very lovely song of one that hath a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrument," but they believed it not. 
             
             
                
               XI. 
               Brahmins. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess."
                      
                     -MATT. xxiii. 25. 
                   
                
               ONE day, when we went to teach in the house of Luckie, where they were Brahmins, we found that a great feast was in progress. Upon inquiring, Luckie informed us that her son was being invested with the Poita, or Brahminical thread, that is, he was being made a Brahmin. 
               "Why," said Miss Gray, "I thought you were Brahmins by birth." 
               "Well," said Luckie, "we are and we are not. None but one who is born of Brahmin parents can be a Brahmin. But such an one is not a Brahmin, he is of no higher cast than a Sudra, till he is invested with the thread. It is simply a cord worn over the left shoulder and under the right one. It consists of three twists of cotton formed of smaller threads. Those who have a right to wear this, are as proud of it as any Emperor of his bit of ribbon denoting that some order has been conferred on him, and possibly it is just as sensible. 
               The cord has been made by the Brahmins; they themselves gather the cotton and spin the threads, so that no profane hands may touch it. A boy is invested with it at the age of from eight to fourteen, at the time the astrologer appoints. The feasts, etc., cost a great deal of money, so that if the Brahmin, the father of the boy, is poor, it is considered a very meritorious deed to give him money to help to pay this expense. 
               "My husband," continued Luckie, "was rich, and his brother takes care of his money, and he allows me very little to live on, so that he can afford to spend a good deal on this feast for my son." 
               The feast lasts from three to five days, and a great quantity of fruit, sweetmeats, curries, etc., must be provided, besides pieces of cloth and brass dishes which must be distributed to the guests, of which the astrologer and the Gooroo come in for a large share. The astrologer must be consulted as to the most propitious year, month, week, day and hour, when the ceremony should commence. 
               At all these ceremonies, there must be an image of Sheve in the form in which he is most generally worshipped,-namely, as a conical black stone, or if that cannot be obtained, a cone is made of mud and cow-dung to represent that god, and after pronouncing a few Mantras over it, this stone is changed into a veritable god by the Gooroo. He then offers him a sacrifice of insense and of rice-tinged red. 
               "Then," said Luckie, who was explaining all this to us, "the married women (I being a widow cannot take part in this, though it is my own son's feast) rub the boy with oil hang ornaments about him, give him a new cloth, blacken his eyelids, and swing burning lamps around him to keep off the evil eye. Then they have a grand feast, and this is all that is done the first day. 
               The next day, after all the guests have assembled, the father of the boy, or if he be dead, the male head of the house, in my boy's case, his uncle, presents gifts to each guest. Then follow an infinite number of ridiculous and unmeaning ceremonies, which occupy three or four days, during all which time the guests are being feasted. At one time the women carry about a large copper vessel, into which they put water, and decorate it with flowers, and it then becomes a god, to which they bow and offer incense. 
               The Gooroo and astrologer place the cord around the neck, and another series of ceremonies takes place. One of them is the following: The women get some earth from a nest of white ants, and put it into five earthen pots; the Gooroo and astrologer say some Mantras over these, and they become so many gods to whom they bow down and offer insense. The whole is, at length, concluded by the host again presenting gifts to each of his guests, of cloth, ornaments and money. 
               These feasts cost immensely: it is on these that the Hindoos spend their money, not on home comforts. After a boy has been invested with the sacred thread, he may then marry, as soon as his father can afford it. Sometimes he is made a Brahmin, or comes to the sacred birth, as they call it, at the age of three or four, whatever time the astrologer points out as most propitious. 
               Miss Gray asked Luckie whether, if she had been permitted, she could have conscientiously joined in these foolish rites; for we had begun to hope that she was almost a Christian. 
               She laughed, and said, "Yes, she could in all, except worshipping these ridiculous things which the priests call gods. The other things," said she, "are only nonsense; a little bit of fun, but I am sure it is wicked to make poojah (pay worship) to those things, and though the women do it, I am sure they do not believe in it, and what do you think my boy told me last night? There is one part of the ceremony in which the father, or guardian, is supposed to whisper a Mantra in the boy's ear, which no one else may hear, and his uncle whispered this to him, 'My son remember this, that there is one God only, the Master, the King, the Maker of all things, and Him ought every Brahmin in secret to adore; but you must remember also that this is a secret that you must not tell.' The boy, Gopal, however, who is almost a Christian, told this to me, his mother. He submitted to this rite, not from any idea of its being a religious rite, but simply because it would give him his standing in the community." 
               These different feasts, we found, were a great hindrance to our work, for even if the women would pretend to learn, their minds were so taken up with the noise and confusion in the house that it was almost impossible to command their attention. Miss Gray, therefore, used generally at such times to try to learn from them more of their manners and customs, and they were then always much more communicative. In this house, as all were Brahmins, she wanted to find out from them something more about the privileges of that caste. 
               "Formerly," said Luckie, "Brahmins were held in much higher estimation than they are at present. It was even considered a great merit for a Sudra (low caste man) to drink the water in which a Brahmin had washed his feet, and you would frequently see a poor Sudra going about with a cup of water, and asking a Brahmin to dip his toe in it, and then he would drink it." 
               "That," interrupted an old woman, "you seldom see now. Respect for the Brahmins is dying out. But every family still has its Gooroo, or family priest. All Gooroos must be Brahmins, but all Brahmins are not Gooroos." 
               "But I do not understand the difference," said Miss Gray. 
               "Sit, down here by me," said Luckie, "and I will try and explain. All Brahmins are holy men, but some are engaged in different kinds of business or professions; but a Gooroo's profession is to teach. He may be a schoolmaster, teaching the boys at school, and also teaching different families their religious duties. Each family must have its own Gooroo, and all the families that he takes under his charge, must be of the same caste, and at every ceremony he must be the leader in those houses. He may have a great many others to assist him, and as it is a very meritorious deed to feast a Brahmin, there are always a great many invited to every feast, but the Gooroos must always have thrice the number of presents of any others. And as the Brahmins, must not eat any food prepared by persons of a lower caste, Brahmin cooks have always to be engaged, unless the household are Brahmins, to prepare the portion of the entertainment appointed for them. 
               Perhaps you will wonder where they get plates enough for many hundreds of guests, but these are easily supplied. A plantain leaf always serves for the plate at these entertainments, and, in fact, a Brahmin never uses any other, as it would pollute him to eat off a plate that had ever possibly been used by any other individual, no matter how much it might have been cleansed. 
               "Are the services of the Gooroo and the Brahmins often used?" asked Miss Gray. 
               Luckie laughed. "You have often said you wondered what we did with our money," she said, "but that is where it goes. There are thousands of Brahmins that are just maintained entirely by the gifts of the people; and let me tell you how. All offerings to the gods belong to the Brahmins. Then one, or more Brahmins are called, fed, and feasted on each one of these several occasions. The birth of a child. When it is a few days old, at the giving of its name. The ceremony at six months old, to avert the evil eye. When the child is two or three years old, it has 
                     it's
                     its
                   head shaved, and 
                     it's
                     its
                   ears bored. Then a great feast must be given to a great many Brahmins. At four years of age, the boy is first taught his letters, then there is a feast again. Again, if he is a Brahmin boy, when he is invested with the Poita; and again at his marriage. Then, in sickness, a fee must be given for Mantras to be said. 
               After death, a man's son must perform the Shrad for him, twelve times the first year, after that annually, and feasts and fees must be given at each one to the Brahmins. Besides these, there are very many accidental circumstances in which a Brahmin must be employed. If a man's cow die, a priest must make atonement. If he dedicate a temple, a well, a tree to the gods. At the time of an eclipse. If small-pox appears in his neighborhood. At the time of harvest, before the farmer begins to carry in the rice, a priest must perform some ceremony. A merchant must not begin business without a feast, and a fee to the Gooroo. A fisherman must not begin to fish in a new place, or buy a new boat, till the Brahmin is paid. In a small village there will often be over a hundred festivals in the year, at which the Brahmins will be entertained, so you can see where a great deal of our money goes." 
                
               "I often see," said Miss Gray, "an old Brahmin sitting on the floor in the men's court of your house, surrounded by a number of dirty, little boys, half-naked. He seems to be teaching them, for I see they have books in their hands, and they are often writing their letters in the sand-who is he? Is he your family Gooroo?" 
               "No; our family Gooroo is at present a rich man; that is a poor, old Brahmin whom the Baboo employs to teach the poor boys of the neighborhood. It is considered a work of great merit to do this. The Baboos think that such deeds as this will gain them heaven." 
               "It seems to me," said Miss Gray, "that your religion is entirely made for the rich. What must those poor people do who have no money to pay and feast the Brahmins?" 
               "They have no hope in this life," she immediately answered. 
               Again Miss Gray tried to bring home to them the beauty of the Christian religion, that God is no respecter of persons, the rich and the poor are both alike to Him, and the poor of this world, if they are only rich in faith, are heirs of the kingdom of heaven. The Gospel of Jesus is especially for the poor. 
               Luckie realizes the beauty of the Christian religion, and she often exclaims, "How long! how long will it be ere Christ will come and claim these kingdoms of the world for His own? How long before we all shall be Christians?" 
               Luckie and her son, Gopal, this boy that has just been made a Brahmin, often talk together about the religion of Jesus. In the conversation, at this time, this boy was spoken of as the twice-born. They call this ceremony of receiving the Poita the second birth. Before this he was of no caste, though born of Brahmin parents. After he had been invested with this holy cord he is born again into the holy family of the Brahmins. He may have mingled with all of the other castes before, now he must keep himself secluded. He must separate himself entirely from everything that is impure, lest he be contaminated thereby. 
                
               Miss Gray pointed out to Luckie what the Christian calls the second birth, the being born, not of flesh or of blood, but of the Holy Ghost. He is set apart from the world. He should ever bear about with him the marks of the Lord Jesus. As no one can look at a Brahmin without knowing he is such by seeing his Poita, so no one should be in the company of the Christian without knowing he is such, and he should be ever careful to keep himself from pollution. I think Luckie understood the simile. 
               Often, very often, I feel so discouraged that we do not see many of these poor woman turning to Jesus, but my dear lady always tells me to wait patiently and remember the promise: "He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall, doubtless, come again with rejoicing, bringing his shearers with him." And she told me that this word "doubtless" did not imply any uncertainty, but that it was a strong affirmative that it would be so. 
               We must not be weary in well-doing, though the promise may be long delayed, it will come. It is not me, but the "Lord of the harvest" who is to gather in the ripened grain. In the meantime it must be ours to sow beside all waters. 
             
             
                
               XII. 
               Funeral Rites. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Thou takest away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.
                      
                     -PSALM civ. 29. 
                   
                
               AT the commencement of my little book, I told you I was not going to write a story, but to relate a series of incidents illustrating the domestic life of the people of India. I am not giving them to you in regular detail, but just as they occur to my memory. I tell you of those things which I saw or heard. For you must remember that though I was born a little Hindoo girl, yet, by God's blessing, I was taught so differently that the manners and customs of my own people were almost as new and strange to me as they were to the dear lady with whom I visited these homes. 
               One day our work called us near to the Burning Ghaut, in Calcutta, so we went to take a look at it. It was enclosed with a high wall, and immediately on the outside of this there were piles of wood and kindling materials. Clarified butter, pitch, oil, and all things necessary to consume a body were there for sale. 
               On passing within the gate, we saw many piles of wood, each with its body in the centre, in different stages of cremation, some with several attendants, relatives I suppose, standing by watching, others left entirely alone. While we stood there, a poor man came in with a dear child, a little girl, apparently about six or seven years old, thrown over his shoulder, like a dead sheep. He laid her on the ground, went away and brought a wisp of straw, which he set on fire and then applied to the face, singeing it all over. Then he took up the body and flung it into the river. In a few moments you could see it out in the stream, and the vultures hastening to their feast, and you could trace it on down the river for some distance, by the little knot of unclean birds rising above the waves. The man, the father probably, turned in a few minutes and departed. This was all the ceremony that was necessary for a child like that. 
               Close beside this burning place is a large open shed, where the dying are placed in view of the Ganges. To build one of these sheds, or to build a Ghaut is considered a work of great merit. A Ghaut is a flight of steps leading down to the water, and as frequent bathing in the Ganges is very meritorious, and as the steps are a great help to the bathers, he who builds a Ghaut is said to perform a good deed. 
               Two or three days after visiting the Burning Ghaut, we were again at Luckie's house, and, on passing through the court, we saw a litter made of bamboos, fastened together with ropes, and immediately after, we heard loud groans and cries, and a group of men came out, bearing what at first appeared to be a corpse, but which we soon discovered to be a living man. He was in a high fever, 
                   
                     A BATHING GHAUT AT BENARES. 
                  
                  
                   moaning very much, and appeared to be suffering great pain. He was placed upon the litter by men who seemed to be servants, and immediately, one of the women, who I found was his wife, rushed into the court, and threw herself upon the litter, uttering the wildest cries and lamentations. She was removed, and forced back into the inner part of the dwelling. Then, throwing a clean sheet over the litter, the bearers lifted it up and carried it off. 
               When we reached Luckie's room, we asked her who it was, and what they were going to do with him? She told us it was one of her brothers-in-law. He was supposed to be dying, and they were carrying him to the Ganges, to die there. 
               "I can read a little to you to-day," she said, "but none of the others will, and I fear it will be some weeks before you can collect together all your class again." 
               The women in that house are very bright and intelligent, but it is really a great trial of patience to teach them. There are over one hundred and fifty people living in the house, and, consequently, there is almost always some festival or poojah going on, and as they are all one family, they are all more or less interested in each one. The only pupil we can always be sure of is our dear Luckie, because, being a widow, though she has to take part in the preparations, she can never join in any of the festivals. 
               "But," said Miss Gray, when Luckie told her they were going to carry this poor man to the Ganges, "will they take him like that, with nothing but that sheet to shelter him from the burning rays of the sun? It is over three miles to the river, and it is an intensely hot day." 
               "Yes," she answered. "Oh! it is so wicked, he will have to lie there, night and day, till he dies; but the doctor thinks he will not live many hours. Why does not the English Government stop this as it did the burning of the widows? I believe a great many are killed every year in this way, when they might recover if they only staid at home, and were taken care of." 
               Miss Gray answered, that she supposed the English Government were afraid to interfere too much with their religious rites and customs. 
               "Oh!" she said "there are so many thousands who would rejoice in it. Now, in all this house, there are only five who would keep up this terrible custom, the two oldest men and the three oldest women; but they are just those who have power over all the rest in the house." That poor, dying man himself begged and implored not to be taken to the Ganges, and for all he resisted, with all the little strength he had left, till he swooned. He was an enlightened and educated Hindoo. "That old woman," she said, pointing across the court to a room, at the door of which a very, very aged woman sat moaning and crying, "is his mother." She insisted upon his being carried to the Ganges. She said he had so neglected all the rites of his religion while he was well, and the Government would not let his wife be burnt with him, and thus expiate his sins, and that therefore the only possible hope there can be for him in the next world, is that he may die in view of the sacred stream. If he is not dead by to-morrow, his mothers and uncles will go to the river and stay there with him.  
               "But," said Miss Gray, "will his mother be permitted to go there, I thought none of you women could leave the Zenanas?" 
               Luckie answered: "When a woman, who is a widow, becomes very old, she is permitted to go out a little. Often she goes where she likes on a pilgrimage, and frequently she purchases all the food for the family, but this is only when she becomes quite old. Generally not till she has seen her grandson's son. Then it is thought that going out cannot harm her. 
               We left the house soon, but, on our next visit, we made 
                     inquries
                     inquiries
                   about the dying man, and Luckie, who was very angry about it, related the whole proceedings. She had begged her son, Gopal, to go and witness the ceremonies, and he had told her all. The poor man had lingered three days before he died. The family were professed worshippers of Sheve. (The Hindoos are divided into several sects, who profess to be followers of distinct gods, but the principal ones, are Shevites and Vishnuites or followers of Sheve and Vishnu.) 
               On the day we saw him, he had been taken down to the river, and placed on a charpoy, a coarse kind of bedstead, with simply cords across it, and no bed on it. This was placed under a shed, with the feet of the charpoy in the water. Now, finding he did not die on the second day, they brought the Lignam, the black stone, under which form Sheve is worshipped, and held it up before him. It was then placed upon the ground, and the sick man was lifted up, and assisted to walk several times around it. Then many brass vessels, rice, &c., were offered to the god, and, of course, given to the Brahmins. Some of them, sat beside him, and recited portions from the Shasters, and at night a feast was given to the Brahmins, here at the house, while a servant was left to watch him. The next day, his older brother went: to him, with some Brahmins mins, and begged him to give some money to to the Brahmins to save his soul from the Hindoo hell. They told him he must have been a very wicked man, or he would have died, that it was because he was so wicked that Ganga refused to receive him. 
               He said he did not believe in Ganga, or the Brahmins, and he would not give them any money. His brother then told him that, by his death, he, the brother, would become the guardian of his property and family, and therefore the money should be given to help him in the other world, even against his own will. 
               The Brahmins then, who were present, urged him to call on the names of the gods. Ram, Sheve, Vishnu, Khistra, &c., which he would not do. So, for an hour at a time, they kept calling, or rather shouting their names in his ear. At night-fall, they took him off the charpoy and immersed him in the river up to his breast, and kept him there for a long time then again he was laid upon the charpoy, under the shed, with a servant and his young 
                   
                     BANKS OF THE GANGES, WHERE THE DYING ARE TAKEN. 
                  
                  
                   son to watch him all night. The next morning, of course, he was almost gone, for now for two days he had received no nourishment of any kind-either food or drink. Then the Gooroo took up some of the mud of the river and spread it over the breast of the dying man, with his finger writing the name of Sheve in the mud on his breast. He was again seated in the river, with the water up to his breast, and again laid back in the charpoy. Then the Gooroo stuffed his ears and his nostrils full of the wet mud of the river, and at intervals of every few minutes some of the muddy water was poured down his throat. This, at length, ended the poor wretche's sufferings. This was all permitted by a Christian government, and surely they do not remember what God says, "At thy hands will I require this blood." 
               As soon as it was all over, the mother, who had been taken there in a palky, began to shriek and scream most wildly, beating her breast, tearing her hair, and rolling on the ground, as if in great agony. The young son took up some water, and while the Gooroo repeated some Mantras, he poured it upon his father's head. He then anointed his father all over with clarified butter, and put new clothes on him. 
               I should say, that before the man died, the wood for his funeral pile had been brought and placed in his sight. Clarified butter and pitch were now poured upon this, and also upon a new piece of cloth in which the body was wrapt, and placed upon the pile. The son then lighted a bundle of straw, and, with the flame, touched the mouth and eyes of the deceased; the pile was then set fire to in several places at once. After the whole was burnt to ashes, some of the attendants brought Ganges water and washed the place, and then swept the water into the river. All who had been present had to bathe and perform several ceremonies, in order to render themselves clean. 
               The deceased being a man of high caste, more ceremonies were performed than is usual with those of lower caste. But the burning of the body, and the ceremonies accompanying it, are considered necessary for the future happiness. 
               After Luckie had related these things to Miss Gray, the latter took occasion to show her the different treatment which a sick and dying Christian receives from the hand of his friend, and of the simple funeral rites; but she tried to show her more particularly that it was of little consequence, after the breath had left the body, what was done with the poor casket, if the soul, the never dying soul, was safe for eternal life. And she showed her how peaceful and happy the Christian mind should be in that last trying hour. He had nothing to do, Christ had done all. He knew he was going to be forever with the Lord in that glorious place where God will wipe all tears from every eye-while the poor Hindoo, like the Roman Catholic, by the omission of some, even of these funeral rites for which it is impossible for him to be accountable, may be plunged for ages in terrible misery. 
               She urged poor Luckie to cling fast to the cross of Christ, and to have no confidence in anything else; "for there is no other name given under heaven whereby we may be saved." 
               Afterwards, in talking to me about it, she told me how we should take lessons from these poor heathens, what trouble and expense will they not take to secure their future happiness, and not only their own, but the everlasting happiness of others of their people, and how little trouble we, as Christians, take either for ourselves or others "to make our calling and election sure." And again she, pointed out to me, how a so-called Christian, but apostate church, taught some heathenish ideas. That unless certain rites were performed for the dying and the dead, those poor souls would suffer for the neglect of their friends, when they were powerless to help themselves. Thus, making heaven entirely dependent upon human merit and works, not the free gift of God through Christ. 
               How hard it does seem to be for the human heart, untaught by the Spirit of God, to realize that "God is love," and "that as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear Him." 
             
             
                
               XIII. 
               Rites, or Ceremonies after Death. 
                
                   
                     
                        "His watchmen are blind: they are all ignorant, they are all dumb dogs. Yea, they are greedy dogs which can never have enough."
                      
                     -ISAIAH. lvi. 10, 11. 
                   
                
               ABOUT a month after the death of this poor man, we were again at his house, and found another festival going on; so that none of our pupils, except Luckie, could or would attend to us. Upon asking her what was going on, she told us they were performing the Shrad, and, little by little, we drew from her an account of these rites, as performed after death for the well-being of the soul. 
               There were so many; and so ridiculous, and so trivial, that I could not remember the whole, nor give them to you as she told us. 
                
               The Hindoos believe
                     One statement of their faith may seem contradictory to another, but their creed is changed and modified according to their caste.
                   that, after death, the soul becomes a ghost, and it takes a sort of ethereal body about the size of a man's finger, and in this form remains for a time, in the charge of Zm, the judge of the dead. 
               If the Shrad is performed properly, this ghost, at the end of a year, assumes a large body, and is capable of enjoying happiness; it then goes to the heaven where it is to be rewarded for its meritorious actions for a time, and then returns to earth in a new form, or birth. If the departed has no son to perform this Shrad, and it has to be done by some other relative, the poor ghost has to remain a long time in its ghostly condition; and if the Shrad is not performed at all, it becomes a most malignant fiend, called Bhuta, who has the power to assume a variety of different forms, and who delights in tormenting mankind in revenge for having been thus neglected. 
               If the departed has been a bad man, and the Shrad is rightly performed for him, he remains one year a ghost, then goes to the place of punishment, and afterwards returns again to the world.
                     The Shrad is performed for women as well as men, but with very few ceremonies.
                   There is no fate these people dread so much as becoming wandering ghosts, and therefore their intense desire for a son. 
               The relations mourn for ten days after death, and on the eleventh, the Shrad is performed, and repeated on the same day each month for a whole year. Each month small offerings are made, and a few Brahmins are invited and feasted, but, on the first and last months, the expense incurred is often very great. 
               After cremation, a small portion of the ashes of the departed is retained, and being moistened with milk and water, is moulded into something resembling the human form, and this is called by the name of the deceased. 
               On the tenth day, all the relations of the departed bathe, and on the eleventh day, if it be the Shrad of a rich man, not only all the Brahmins, but all the learned and respectable Hindoos of the place are invited. Then the son, or relation who performs the Shrad, sets up the figure of the deceased, and a big stone, which they call Zm, and offers before them rice, sweetmeats, sugar, &c., and all the Brahmins utter a low, wailing lamentation, and then the crows, or the demons who they think have assumed the shape of the crows, are allowed to come and eat these offerings. Then the Brahmins repeat a number of Mantras to the gods, burning insense to some of them. Then the offerings are brought out by the son, and presented in the name of the deceased. The Gooroo sprinkles holy water from the Ganges, and then repeats a Mantra and places a flower on each one. These presents or offerings all go to the Brahmins, and often consists of piles of cloth, horses, elephants, cows, or piles of money. 
               The whole concludes with a feast, and the offering of a male calf, which is made in this way. Five Brahmins come forward leading one male and four female calves. They are all tied to a post, while the Gooroo reads some portion of the Shasters, or Holy Books, to drive away evil spirits. Each female calf has a basket round her neck, into which is put some money, a comb, and several household utensils. 
               The male calf has his horns covered with gold, and his hoofs with silver; and, with a red-hot iron, the trident, or mark of Sheve, is branded on his hip. The female calves are then given to the Brahmins, and the male calf is allowed to go where he will. In the post to which he has been tied, a rude figure of a bull is carved, which is afterwards set up in some public road where it remains till it decays away. At the close of the feast, if the person be rich, presents are given to all the guests. 
               This anniversary must be commemorated for several years, but each year with less cost. A Baboo, in the employ of Warren Hastings, is said to have expended 1,200,000 rupees, or 600,000 dollars at his brother's Shrad. 
               We could not help thinking how the Church of Rome, as she becomes more and more degenerate, has imitated and adopted the customs of the heathen nations with which she came in contact. These customs of the poor Hindoo in offering incense, and sacrifices, and paying the priests to repeat Mantras for the benefit of the dead, to release them from their hell or purgatory, have been closely followed by the Romish priesthood, in the ceremonies of the mass. Romanism is simply a modified heathenism. 
               How can we enough thank God for having given to us the light of the glorious gospel, and thus saving us from such degradation? Life and immortality has been brought to light through Christ the Saviour. We have no need of any more offering for sin. 
             
             
                
               XIV. 
               Witchcraft. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Now the work of the flesh are manifest, which are these: Idolatry, witchcraft."
                      
                     -GAL. v. 19, 20. 
                   
                
               THE Hindoos are an exceedingly superstitious people. They believe in evil spirits or ghosts, witchcraft, judicial astrology, and a great variety of imaginary beings. They have their unlucky days, their evil omens, &c., &c. They have male and female witches. Here as elsewhere, these last are generally poor, old women, and their power is very much dreaded. The people are taught that if a witch should chose to do so, she could, by a look, make another crazed. If she sits down beside them, she can, unseen, draw all their blood out of their bodies. 
               One day, at one of our houses, we found a number of the women collected together in a great state of excitement. One of the young boys of the house had been acting in a very strange, wild and unaccountable manner, and they believed he was bewitched. He had been looking out on the field near the house the previous evening, and, suddenly, there appeared before him, an old woman with her hair all dishevelled, shaking it about. This is supposed to be the way in which they summon others of their craft. In a few minutes she was joined by a number of others, who began to dance in a magic circle, occasionally stopping to gesticulate towards the house. The family declared the boy was bewitched, and had sent for the Gooroo to come and repeat some incantations, that the boy might be relieved from her power. 
               Every family has had one or more ancestors, who have become demons or Bhutas, and to them they say prayers and offer sacrifices. Not only with the hope of prevailing upon them to do the family no evil, but to induce them to avert the evil that Bhutas of other families, or that their other enemies might inflict upon them. 
               In some places a hideous figure, or shapeless stone, is set up, and worshipped as a Bhuta. These demons are said to like blood, and sacrifices of animals are offered to them; at other times, rice or fruit tinged with blood. 
               In the court of many of the houses may be seen a small Tulsee tree, and under this an ugly little image or stone, to which, daily, a few grains of rice, fruit or flowers are presented. This is the Bhuta. Some of the stories told with regard to them, are most ridiculously absurd, but are fully believed in. These superstitions are distinct from the religion of the people, and yet interwoven with it. Some of these we have heard at different times in the Zenanas, and some from the Christian, Baboos who had learnt their folly. With a great many of the Christians, there is still a lurking belief in these superstitions. But we need not wonder at this, for, in reading of other lands, we find that many silly and childish superstitions still cling to people who have called themselves Christians for centuries. 
               Among the evil beings who disturb the peace of this ignorant people is the Jogi, or anchorite; a holy man, who, by long prayers, penances &c., has obtained power, not only over evil spirits, but over the gods themselves, who are bound to obey his mandates, no matter whether good or ill. 
               A Rakshas is a sort of Ogre. Gigantic in form, he loves to feed on human flesh; he catches men and eats them, but he is very stupid and sometimes men who are keen and sharp outwit him. A Gin is another kind of evil spirit, who takes the form of various animals. Sometimes he is vanquished by men, who keep him as their slave to do their bidding. 
               One who has been murdered, or who has committed suicide, becomes an evil spirit, and has power for a time, though the murderer is afterwards sorely punished in the other world. Superstitious tales of the power of these spirits are the source of really great suffering to these poor, ignorant women so closely immured in their prison-houses. 
               One day when we went into one of the houses, we found all the women in the greatest state of excitement, with terror visibly depicted in their faces. Upon inquiring into the trouble, they told us that an evil spirit had recently appeared in the neighborhood. It came in the form of a great black cat. It had been going about in the vicinity for some time, and that morning it had rushed into the court of their house for a few minutes. It was a demon, and if it should fix its eyes on some woman and then jump upon her, in a few days she would be sure to die. 
               "But," said Miss Gray, "what makes you think that cat a demon?" 
               "Oh," they answered, "a few weeks ago a Sahib (English gentleman) was having his grounds dug up, and found a wooden box containing the dead body of a child. It could only have been dead two or three days. While he was looking at it, it changed into a big black cat and ran away, and since then this cat has been going about and jumping upon people and killing them. We are sure it is a demon." 
               Miss Gray tried to reason with them, but without avail, when one of our pupils, named Mookee, said: "We know such things are true. Before the English people came here, a Brahmin could be just as wicked as he chose; nobody could punish him. My grandfather was a Brahmin, but he was a very wicked man. He, one day, offended a Jogi, who told him he should soon lose all his money. My grandfather determined to save his money, so he took a great deal of it and all the jewels he could gather in the house, and put them in a box, intending to bury them in the the ground. He wanted a demon to guard them, and after he had dug up the earth and got everything ready, he went very softly, at night, into the hut of a poor woman who lived near by, and took up her little boy of two years old who was fast asleep, and carried him off. He then put his box in the hole, laid the little boy on it while he was still asleep, covered the whole with earth, and went home, leaving the little boy there to die, buried alive. Before he left the spot, however, he repeated some Mantras commanding this boy, when he became an evil spirit, to watch over and guard his treasures. His treasures, however, were not guarded, for the poor mother who, he thought, was asleep, had seen him enter her hut and take her child. She dare not speak or resist, because he was a rich Brahmin, and she a poor Coolie. But she got up very quietly and followed him. She saw what he did with her child, and as soon as he was gone, she fell down on her hands and knees, and wildly tore away the earth from her child, in time to save his life. She took him up, and the bag likewise, and started off, instantly, for the nearest magistrate. He examined into the case, found her statement to be true, and, to the Brahmin's utter consternation, the box of money and jewels was given to the poor woman, and she and her child were sent into a part of the country where he would never be likely to hear of them, and he was put in jail for two years. This story of the cat was talked of everywhere. 
               One day, when Miss Gray was combating these superstitious notions, one of the servant women, who had been standing listening at the door, burst out: "It is true, it is true!" 
               "What is true?" asked Miss Gray. 
               "Why, they do become evil spirits. My uncle and aunt had an enemy, a man they hated very much, and yet they could think of no way to punish him, so, at last, my uncle persuaded my aunt to kill herself by taking poison, so that she might become an evil spirit to torment him, which she did, and ever after she died, she tormented him so incessantly that he never had a happy moment. It is true!" 
               From another source I obtained this story. There was once a great rajah, or king, who was as handsome as he was brave. His palace was on the side of the city nearest to the jungle, and one night he was awakened by the most dreadful howls and shrieks, coming from that direction. He jumped up, took his sword, and though his attendants tried to prevent him, he went to the jungle to see what was the matter. They were all too much frightened to go with him. The noise had been made by a Rakshas. There had been a very wicked man hanged the day before, on a very high gallows, and the Rakshas had been trying to reach him with his long claws, wishing to devour his flesh, but the corpse was just too high for him to reach, and he was howling with disappointment. 
               When the rajah reached the place, no Rakshas was to be seen, but a very old woman, dressed in a filthy sarree, with hair all dishevelled, was rolling on the ground, wringing her hand and uttering loud screams and lamentations, under the gallows where the corpse was swinging about in the wind. The rajah asked the old woman what was the matter. "Alas!" said the Rakshas (for he had transformed himself into the likeness of an old woman), "that is my son, my only son, that hangs there on the gallows. He is dead! He is dead! I have been trying to reach the rope to cut his body down, but I cannot do it." 
               "Poor old woman," said the kind-hearted rajah, "get upon my shoulders, and then you will be tall enough to reach your son." 
               So the Rakshas got up on the rajah's shoulders. After standing there some time, the rajah thought the old woman was a long time in cutting the rope round the dead man's neck, and looking up, suddenly, he saw that instead of its being a feeble old woman who was standing on his back, it was a Rakshas that was tearing down and eating portions of the flesh of the dead man. Horrified, he started back, and the giant fell to the ground. Seating himself astride the giant's throat, the rajah pulled out his sword to cut off his head. The Rakshas begged him to spare his life, and, in return, he would tell him how he might save his own. The rajah held his sword ready to strike in a moment, while the giant told him this tale: 
                
               "Know, oh king! that when two or more persons are born at the same time and in the same luna mansions, their fates will be sure to be in some way intermingled. Now, at the time you were born, in the same division of the ecliptic, the son of an oilman, and of a holy Jogi were also born. This last has devoted himself to Kali, the goddess of destruction. He kills all he can, thus wafting the sweet scent of human sacrifice to her, whom he adores. He has already killed the son of the oilman, and he has determined to offer thee in sacrifice." 
               "But what have I done to incur his displeasure?" asked the rajah. 
               "Thou hast done nothing; but thy father offended him, and he is determined to be revenged on thee. The gods have heard him. The father is dead, thy brother is dead, and he is now plotting the ruin of thyself and thy son. He desires to offer up a king and a king's son to Kali, and by such an act of devotion he will become king of the whole world. Now, rajah, hearken to what I say. Distrust those who dwell among the dead, and remember it is lawful and right to strike off his head who would slay thee." 
               With that the giant gave a sudden bound that loosed the Rajah off his throat, and disappeared. He, thinking over what he had heard, went slowly back to his palace. 
               Some months had come and gone, and daily had the rajah been in the habit of giving alms to devotees, and granting their requests. On a certain day, one appeared before him, and after the rajah had given him an alms, he returned and presented the rajah with a magnificent ruby, of untold value. The rajah was so delighted that he immediately offered the Jogi whatever he should desire. The devotee instantly answered that he wished the rajah to spend one night with him. He was about to perform some magical rites at the Smashana, a place where bodies are burned, and to make his spells successful, it was necessary that the King should be with him and do his bidding. He might come armed, but alone. The rajah now called to remembrance the warning the Rakshas had given him, but he was a brave man, and he determined to keep his promise. 
               It was a dark and dreary night when the rajah set forth. As he came near the open space on the river-bank, where the dead bodies were usually burnt, he hesitated for a moment to tread in this vile place, trampling, as he must, on the remnants of bones. At length, close to one of the burning pyres, whose flames lit up his hideous countenance, he saw the holy Jogi. From his head streamed long, tangled locks, like horse hair. His black body was striped with lines of chalk, and a girdle of human bones was round his waist. His face was smeared with ashes from a funeral pile, and the red line across his forehead was made with blood. He was playing upon a human skull with two "shank bones." 
               The Jogi gave the king many orders, all of which he, being very brave, readily performed. Then, determined to kill the rajah, he took him into the temple of Kali, and told him to make obeisance to the goddess, intending, when the rajah was kneeling in front of the image, to strike off his head. The king, however, was on the watch, and he said to him. "Oh! holy Jogi; I am an ignorant king, I do not understand the way of worship. Thou art my spiritual guide, be pleased to teach me. Show me the way to worship and to perform obeisance aright, and I will obey you." So the Jogi knelt in front of the image, and bowed down his head till his forehead touched the ground, and when he was in that posture the king struck off his his head, and thus obtained the merit of offering him as a sacrifice to Kali. 
             
             
                
               XV. 
               The Goddess, Kali. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Man is brutish in his knowledge: every founder is confounded by the graven image, for his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in these."
                      
                     -JER. x. 14. 
                   
                
               IN the houses of most of the wealthy Baboos there is a place appointed as a sort of temple or shrine for the gods, used at the different festivals held in honor of them. This is always the upper end of the verandah that runs round the inside of the men's court. This end of the verandah is separated from the rest and is adorned with a number of arches and pillars. 
               One day, when we went to teach, we saw, in this god's house, as we may call it, a sort of skeleton lying on the ground, and another standing upon it. These were merely wooden manikins, the foundations upon which the figures were to be formed. A few days afterwards, we saw a man covering these figures with a plaster made of the mud taken from the bed of the Ganges, and lime mixed together. On going into the women's apartments, we asked one of them, whose name was Pooshpie, what the figure was." 
               "Oh," she said, "in a few days it will be the Kali Poojah, and they are making the image of Kali." 
               "But," said Miss Gray, "from what I can see, it looks to me as if it would be very ugly." 
               "Kali is very ugly," said Pooshpie, with a shudder; "she is the goddess of vengeance, and she must be ugly. I can never see her figure, or hear her name mentioned, without the feeling of horror coming over me again, that I had when I first saw her. I was a little thing four or five years of age, and my father and mother had taken me with them on a pilgrimage. On the edge of a jungle there was a little temple to Kali. It was a small building with two compartments, the outer vestibule, and the inner room, in which stood the image. There are never any windows, consequently the light was dim and gloomy. We passed over the threshold and looked into the dismal inner depths. There stood the hideous goddess, Kali; she was a gigantic figure, of a dark blue color; her tongue was hanging out of her mouth, and reached to her chest; she had a wide, yawning mouth; her eyes were red and bloodshot like those of a drunkard; her eyebrows also were red. Her thick, course, black hair hung down her back like a mantle, to her heels. She had a short tunic made of elephant's skin, dried and wrinkled; it was fastened round the waist by a girdle of giant's hands, those whom she had slain in wars. She had two dead bodies pasted over her enormous ears for earrings, and her necklace was of human skulls. She held in one hand a bleeding head, or what looked like one, and in the other three, she had knives and swords. She stood with one foot on the breast of her husband, Sheve, and the other foot was on his leg; before her were a number of dishes, cups, jugs, &c., all used in her service, but all smelling of blood. Oh! how I shrieked and screamed, and clung to my mother, when this spectacle met my eyes, and for months, sleeping or waking, I could never forget it." 
               "And is that image below going to be as ugly?" said Miss Gray. 
               She answered, "It will be as like as they can make it, only there will be no dead bodies, and no real blood, only paint to look like it." 
               "But will you let your little ones see that horrid thing, and be as frightened as you were?" asked Miss Gray. 
               She clasped her child tightly to her, sighed heavily, and said: "Yes! yes! I suppose I must. They say it is best for us to fear her when we are young, as we shall then always dread to do anything to offend her." 
               There were a number of women present, and after the lessons were over, Miss Gray turned to one of the elder women and said: "Can you tell me the story of Kali, why she is represented thus?" 
               The woman answered, "Yes, I will tell you." She put in her mouth a large quid of pawn, or betel root, and was twisting it about all the time she was speaking. She began: "Yes, I know. Kali is only another form of Doorgha, and she took this form in order to kill two great giants.
                     See, for this account, the Markundiy Pooranuis, one of the Hindoo sacred books.
                  
                
               These two giants performed great religious austerities for 10,000 years, and obtained by them so much merit, that Sheve was obliged to come down from heaven to listen to their demands. They asked for immortality. Sheve did not wish to grant this, and said that their austerities had not been sufficient to force him to give them this. He proposed to them many other things, but they would take nothing but the one boon which they had demanded. As this was denied, they again went through a series of penances for 1,000 years, after which they renewed their request, and were again denied. The giants now suspended themselves with their heads downwards, over a slow fire till the blood flowed from their heads. This they did for 800 years. 
               The gods all now began to be fearful, lest, by performing such very holy penances, the giants should be able to supplant them on their thrones. The king of the gods now called a council, and told the others what he feared. They were all very much frightened, and consulted what was best to be done. Indra, the king of the gods, at length advised that two very beautiful women should be sent to them, and that at the moment when they first appeared to the giants, Kndr, or Cupid, should wound the giants with his arrows. 
               This was good advice. The giants both fell desperately in love, and for 5,000 years they forgot all about their desires for immortality. Then one day, having quarrelled, the women told them how they had been sent, by Indra, on purpose to prevent them from gaining heaven. The giants were very angry, and sent the women away, and began to renew their austerities and devotions, cutting the flesh off their bones in little pieces and making burnt offerings of it to Sheve. This they continued to do for another 1,000 years, till Sheve was forced to grant them his blessing, to the effect, "That in riches and strength they should excel the gods. 
               Being thus, in some respects, superior to the gods, they soon began to make war upon them. After various successes on both sides, the giants at length were everywhere victorious, and Indra and all other inferior deities being reduced to great deities, besought the aid of Bramha and Vishnu, who would not trouble themselves about it, but told the suppliants to go to Sheve. He also told them he could do nothing for them, but on being reminded that it was he who had given the blessing to the giants by which they, the gods, had been ruined, he told them to perform religious austerities to Doorgha. They did so, and she at length gave them her blessing, and promised to help them. 
               She disguised herself as a beautiful woman, and wandered about Mount Himmalaya. She was so beautiful that the giants felt they might well give up all the glorious things they had obtained in plundering the gods to obtain her. One of the giants, whose name was Shooltram, sent a messenger to the disguised goddess to tell her that he had all the riches of the three worlds in his palaces; that all the offerings that used to be presented to the inferior gods, (these included all but the three, Bahama, Sheve, Vishnu, and their three wives) were now offered to him. 
               The goddess replied, that he was very kind, but she had resolved that the person she married must first conquer her in war, and destroy her pride. The messenger did not like to return to his master unsuccessful, and he still begged for a favorable answer, promising that his master would engage to do all she wished. Did she know who his master was? Before him none of the inhabitants of the three worlds, gods, evil spirits, or men, had been able to stand. How then could she, a female, think of resisting him? 
               She answered that all he said might be very true, but she had taken her resolution, and so if his master wanted her, he had better come and try his strength with her. 
               On hearing this, Shooltram was filled with rage, and ordered the general of his army to go to Himmalaya and seize a certain goddess, and bring her to him, and to destroy any one who should oppose him. The general went to the Himmalaya Mountains, found the goddess, and delivered his message, his master's orders for her seizure. She smiled and invited him to do it. But when he approached her, she set up a dreadful yell, as Hindoo warriors always do when about to engage in conflict, and the general was instantly reduced to ashes. Then she destroyed the whole of the giant's army except two, whom she allowed to escape to tell the tidings. The two giants now combined, and sent each a large army, under the command of two generals, Chund and Mund. 
               When they came up the mountains, they saw a beautiful woman sitting on an ass, laughing, but as soon as she saw them, she became full of rage, and as the soldiers approached, she would put out her hand and draw them to her, and devour them as though they were little berries. In this way she ate up fifty. She then seized Mnd by his hair and cut off his head, and held it over her mouth and drank the blood. 
               Chund, on seeing the destruction of his comrade, rushed at her, but the ass, on which she was sitting, suddenly turned into a lion, and on this she sprang upon the unfortunate general, destroying him and his army as she had Mnd's, eating some, and drinking the blood of others. At length the two giants themselves came, with a whole army composed of giants, and she destroyed these too with fearful carnage, devouring most of them. 
               The giants had requested, that "They might excel all the gods in strength," but they had said nothing about the goddesses. To frighten the giants, however, she had changed her appearance from that of the beautiful goddess, Doorgha, into the hideous form under which Kali is worshipped. One of the giants, whom she conquered, had a thousand heads, and as fast as she cut off one another would spring up. If a drop of blood fell to the ground, a warrior arose from it. Kali then called another goddess to help her, and while she was chopping off the heads, the other opened her mouth and caught the blood. Thus the giants were at last all destroyed. 
               Kali was then so overjoyed at her victory, that she danced till she shook the earth to its centre, so that all the gods, filled with alarm, applied to Sheve. He said he despaired of doing anything to calm her passion, for that she was mad with joy. At length, in the presence of the other gods, he threw himself amongst the dead bodies at her feet. Brnha immediately called out to her, "Oh goddess! what are you doing? Do you not see you are trampling on your husband? She stopped and saw Sheve under her feet, and was so ashamed that she stood still, and threw out her tongue to a great length, and it is thus she is represented to the gaze of her worshippers." 
                
               When the old woman had finished her story, Miss Gray asked: "And are no sacrifices offered to Kali?" 
               She answered: "Yes; formerly human sacrifices were offered to her. The Thugs were her devoted followers, but the English people will not allow that now. Kids and goats are continually offered to her, at her temple. She is pleased if any one will let his own blood flow in her honor, or cut off a piece of his own flesh, or with a lamp, or a hot seal burn his own body. 
               "You know, I suppose, that this city Calcutta is most sacred to the goddess, and is named after her. You English corrupt the pronounciation and call it Calcutta, but the real name is Kali Ghat." 
               "Oh!" continued the old woman, sighing, "we have none of the splendid times we used to have. My husband has told me that in former times he has seen as many as a thousand Brahmins sitting together at Kali's temple, all maintained by the offerings of the people, and he has known a thousand goats, and a thousand sheep sacrificed in one day. He knew a rich Baboo to give 100,000 rupees at one festival. 
               "The Europeans themselves used to believe in our goddess. Many of them had native wives, and they used to send rich presents and offerings to Kali, but I fear those days are all gone," and grumbling about the good old days, the old woman left the room. 
               Then Miss Gray, taking her text; as you may say, from "The Blood," explained to these poor women how impossible it was that the blood of bulls and of goats could take away sin, and told them of that precious Lamb, whose blood has been shed for the sins of the whole world. She told them of the one great God, All-powerful, and All-holy, against whom no sinner could lift up his hand with any hope of success. That no penances, or acts of bodily austerity could draw down His blessing, but only holiness of heart and life. 
               She told them how the devil, that monstrous giant of iniquity, had tried utterly to destroy man; but how Jesus had come to destroy the works of the devil, and to give to us those possessions in our Father's home in heaven, which Satan has tried to deprive us of forever. And she told them how she wanted them to think of that dear Saviour, not covered with the blood of His foes, but as having shed for us His own most precious blood to restore to us that which we have lost. She told them to think of a God of love, not of a God of vengeance. 
             
             
                
               XVI. 
               Conclusion. 
               WE teach our pupils to read, to write, and to work. In fact, we try to give them what would be called a good common-school education. We try to civilize them. But our one main object, which we endeavor to keep always in view, and for which all other teaching is given, is to bring them "to the knowledge of the truth as it is in Jesus." 
               Many of them are beginning to see dimly, like the man in the gospel. As yet they only "see men as trees walking," but we do trust that ere long they may be able to say, "One thing I know, that whereas I was blind, now I see. 
               We do feel that the leaven we are putting into the meal is gradually spreading and spreading; and we know, and are assured that "our labor is not in vain in the Lord." 
               But my object has not been to tell you of our labor, or its results, but to show you the fearful needs of the people amongst whom we labor, the terrible degradation "of our brethren according to the flesh"-those for whom Christ died; to show you how fearfully low human nature is sunk where the word of God is unknown, and to urge the Church of Christ to more earnest, more faithful effort for their salvation. "Who! who! will come up to the help of the Lord against the mighty?" 
               Sometimes we feel tempted to despair when we think of the little handful of workers fighting against the millions who are so sunk in degradation, and we are led, with the Apostles of old, to say, "What is that amongst so many?" But He who by His blessing when on earth made a small portion to increase so wonderfully, is the "same God, yesterday, today, and forever." Nevertheless, He has said, "For all these things will I be inquired of." 
               And now, in bidding you farewell, let me earnestly entreat that each one who has read this little book, even if he or she has never prayed before, would now put up this one petition from the heart: 
               "Oh! Father in heaven help me to do something, however small my power may be to hasten on that glorious time, 'When the knowledge of the Lord shall cover the earth as the waters do the sea.'" Amen and Amen. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            WORKS PUBLISHED BY T. WHITTAKER, 
            2 Bible House, New-York. 
            T. WHITTAKER will send any of the following books, by mail, postage prepaid, to any part of the United States, on receipt of the catalogue price. 
             
               ECCLESIASTICAL POLITY OF THE NEW TESTAMENT. A Study for the Present Crisis in the Church of England. By the Rev. G. A. JACOB, D. D., late Head-Master of Christ's Hospital. 8vo, cloth, 424 pp. $2.  
                     The kindness of its tone, the reliableness of its facts, the scope of its arguments and the manly ability which characterizes it as a whole, make it an admirable work.-Pulpit and Pew.
                      
                     The work is written in an exceptionably able manner, and the reputation of its author, besides its evident merit, will insure it a very general reading.-N. Y. Times. 
                     Although strongly attached to the Church of England, the author is fully alive to the necessity of Reform, a necessity which now seems, on all sides, to be recognized. His work is characterized by great clearness and fairness of statement, and fidelity to the teaching of the Scriptures. It will be found a very valuable work in moulding the somewhat chaotic opinions which prevail on these subjects in our Church.-Church and State.
                      
                  
                
               LIFE LESSONS FROM THE BOOK OF PROVERBS. By Rev. WILLIAMS STEVENS PERRY, D. D. 8vo, cloth, 361 pages. $1.75.  
                     Among the many books recently published in New-York, we call special attention to a work written by the Rev. Dr. Perry, one of our most eminent and esteemed Clergymen. It consists of a number of lectures on the Book of Proverbs, originally prepared for, and delivered to, the young people in his parish. It is written in a style at once elegant, terse and vigorous, and, dealing with the most practical subjects of life and morals, it illustrate, in a most interesting and happy manner, the lessons which can be derived from that inspired work of the Israelitish King. It is interesting to read in the intervals of leisure, and is pregnant with wise suggestions, and apt thoughts, useful to the preacher or lecturer in the enforcement of truth and morality.-Spirit of Missions.
                      
                  
                
                
               UNITY IN VARIETY. A Series of Arguments based on the Divine Workmanship in our Planet, the Constitution of the Human Mind, and the Inspired History of Religion. By GEORGE WARBURTON WELDON, M. A., Trinity College, Cambridge. 16mo, cloth, 230 pages. $1.50.  
                     This work is an able plea for the broadest Christian brotherhood and charity. It exhibits true Christian unity. Not in a forced external uniformity of faith and worship, but in a spontaneous approximation of different lines of thought and feeling developed by individual freedom in all branches of the Church.-Washington, Chronicle.
                      
                     It is the result of careful study, of deep and earnest thought, and of sound judgment. There is a vigor in the style, which, in these times, when exquisite taste and namby-pamby utterances are thought to be alone suited to ears polite, is refreshing and inspiring.-Episcopalian. 
                  
                
               LADY BETTY'S GOVERNESS; OR, THE CORBET CHRONICLES. By LUCY ELLEN GUERNSEY, author of "Winifred," "Irish Amy," "Langham Revels," etc. 12mo, cloth extra, 369 pages. $1.50.  
                     It professes to give an episode in the life of a clergyman's daughter, who was thrown upon the world, and obliged to take service as a governess in a titled family. The scene is laid in England, and the times are those of Charles I., when Puritan and Prelate were entering upon those unhappy struggles which undermined the foundations of both Church and State. The sympathies of the author are with such men as good Bishop Hall, who appears in the work; and yet she avoids assuming a party position, and deplores the sad extremes into which both sides fell. The story takes the form of a diary, which grows with interest to the end, giving many quaint and pleasing pictures of social life, and suggesting the "Chronicles of the Cotta Family."-The Churchman.
                      
                  
                
               HYMNS TO OUR KING. By Prof. J. M. LEAVITT. 18mo, cloth, gilt. 75 cents.  
                     Extract from the Introduction of Rev. Dr. Ray Palmer: "Mr. Leavitt seems to the writer to have made a valuable contribution to this most important department of Christian literature. It may reasonably be anticipated that these fresh and 
                           stiring
                           stirring
                         lyrics will quicken the devout affection of many readers whose hearts are attuned to the praise of the blessed Redeemer." 
                  
                
               THE TRUE MARY. Being Mrs. Browning's Poem, "The Virgin Mary to the Child Jesus," with Comments and Notes. Edited by Rev. W. A. MUHLENBERG, D. D. 8vo, cloth, red edges, 45 pages. 90 cents. 
               I WOULD NOT LIVE ALWAY. Evangelized, by its Author, with the story of the Hymn, and a Brief Account of St. Johnland. Large square cloth, 28 pp. $1.  
                     Dr. Muhlenberg's beautiful hymn has been well known in the Church for so long a time, that this evangelized version of it, written in the author's latter days, will be received with much favor by those who have read and listened to the original.-Church Journal.
                      
                  
                
                
               EVANGELICAL SISTERHOODS. In Two Letters to a Friend. Edited by Rev. W. A. MUHLENBERG, D. D. Square 18mo, 59 pages. Cloth, gilt, 75 cts.; paper, 50 cts.  
                     This subject, now agitating the minds of a number of Church people, has induced the publisher to issue a new edition of Dr. Muhlenberg's well-known work. In it will be found many valuable suggestions and hints to those interested in this department of Christian education.Protestant Churchman.
                      
                  
                
               EMMANUEL, AND OTHER STORIES. By ELLEN E. DICKINSON. 12mo, cloth, 123 pages, illustrated, 75 cts.; bound in tinted paper, gilt edges, $1.25. Containing: Emmanuel, a Christmas Story-Johnny Redmond-Blind Else-The Little Vagabonds.  
                     A glance into this volume will sufficiently convince the reader that the writer of these four pretty stories has the ability for writing healthy juvenile books. She will undoubtedly make her mark in future productions. 
                  
                
               THE COTTAGE ON THE SHORE; OR, LITTLE GWEN'S STORY. 18mo, 139 pages, illustrated. 60 cents.  
                     This little story is a perfect gem for children, and makes a valuable addition in The way of Sunday-school literature. It is a tale very pleasantly written, with a Good moral tendency.Church and State.
                      
                  
                
               MARMADUKE MERRY, THE MIDSHIPMAN. A Tale of Naval Adventures in By-gone Days. By W. H. G. KINGSTON. Small 4to, cloth, handsomely illustrated, 405 pages. $2.  
                     A rattling, merry story of the adventures of a midshipman of good family and gentle birth. Not a particle of vice in the whole narrative; just the book for a boy, who will devour the contents with breathless eagerness. A story that will lave its mark for good on a boy's mind and morals. A capital Christmas present, whether as a prize gift or otherwise. It is not often a tale of sea adventures is so healthy in its tone, so vigorous in its recital, so free from coarseness. It is a book very heartily to be commended, and Mr. Kingston has, in writing it, done some excellent service to mischief-loving, spirited boys, if they will but read it.-The Record.
                      
                  
                
               THE OLD WORLD SEEN WITH YOUNG EYES. With Sixteen Handsome Illustrations of Famous Places. 12mo, cloth, 262 pages. $1.50.  
                     A Diary of Travel in Europe, pleasantly written, and so full of interesting incidents, allusion, and historical information that the writer may well challenge attention. Pretty pictures of famous places and things-being illustrations of noteworthy monuments-and thoughtful reflections adorn these modest, but really instructive pages.-New York Observer.
                      
                     For travelers who intend to pass the summer vacation in visiting the same scenes, there could hardly be a more agreeable companion in the shape of a book than this attractive volume; while to those who, perhaps more wisely, stay at me, it brings the chief enticements of a European holiday before their eyes, without the drawback of sea-sickness, dusty roads, and indifferent fare.-The Tribune, N.Y.
                      
                  
                
             
            T. WHITTAKER, 2 Bible House, New-York. 
          
       
   
