
    ----CITATION----
        Bates, Lizzie.. Downward and Upward .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5753
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               DOWNWARD AND UPWARD. 
             
          
          
             
            Miss H.B. McKeever's Works. 
             
               Children with the Poets.  
                     12mo. Cloth $1 50 
                     Fine Edition, tinted Paper, Cloth, Bevelled Boards, gilt top 2 00 
                     Fine Edition, tinted Paper, Cloth, Bevelled Boards, gilt edges 2 25 
                     Fine Edition, tinted Paper, super Turkey antique, Roxburghe 4 50 
                  
                
               Silver Threads. 12mo. Cloth 1 50 
               Westbrook Parsonage. 12mo. Cloth 1 50 
               Jack and Florie; or, The Pigeons' Wedding. With eight handsome Illustrations. Quarto.  
                     Fancy paper cover. Plain plates, 25 cts. 
                     Fancy paper cover. Colored Plates, 50 cts. 
                     Cloth gilt side, Colored Plates, 75 cts. 
                     Cloth, gilt side and edge. Colored Plates, Bevelled Boards, 1 00 
                  
                
               Little Mary and the Fairy. With eight Handsome Illustrations. Quarto.  
                     Fancy paper cover. Plain plates, 25 cts. 
                     Fancy paper cover. Colored Plates, 50 cts. 
                     Cloth, gilt sides. Colored Plates, 75 cts. 
                     Cloth, bevelled boards, gilt edge. Colored Plates, 1 00 
                  
                
               Maude and Miriam; or, the Fair Crusader. 12mo. Cloth, 1 50 
             
            The above are for sale by Booksellers generally; or, will be sent by mail, postage paid, on receipt of price, by CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER, PUBLISHERS, 
            819 and 821 Market St., 
            PHILADELPHIA. 
          
          
             
             
               DOWNWARD AND UPWARD. 
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "THE CLIMBERS," "PAUL VENNER," "PURPOSE," "THE GABLED HOUSE," ETC. 
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER,  
                     819 & 821 MARKET STREET. 
                  
               
             
            1871. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. 
            
               STEREOTYPED BY J. FAGAN & SON.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER I.-FIRST STEPS. 13
                
               CHAPTER II.-AFTER THE BALL. 24
                
               CHAPTER III.-WHAT WILL PEOPLE SAY OF US? 33
                
               CHAPTER IV.-LOOKING FORWARD. 42
                
               CHAPTER V.-HELPING THE DOCTOR. 52
                
               CHAPTER VI.-REST AND TOIL. 63
                
               CHAPTER VII.-BACK THROUGH THE YEARS. 74
                
               CHAPTER VIII.-AN UNEXPECTED MEETING. 82
                
               CHAPTER IX.-OVER THE FARM. 91
                
               CHAPTER X.-THE SICK CHAMBER. 100
                
               CHAPTER XI.-FAMILY JARS. 110
                
               CHAPTER XII.-COMING EVENTS. 118
                
               CHAPTER XIII.-CHARACTERS. 124
                
               CHAPTER XIV.-FOILED. 131
                
               CHAPTER XV.-SEARCHING OUT. 138
                
               CHAPTER XVI.-CULMINATING. 151
                
               CHAPTER XVII.-INTO THE LIGHT. 157
                
                
               CHAPTER XVIII.-SHIFTING SANDS. 163
                
               CHAPTER XIX.-LEAVING HOME. 176
                
               CHAPTER XX.-EVIL PURPOSES AND PLANS. 186
                
               CHAPTER XXI.-THE BURDEN OF A GREAT SORROW. 194
                
               CHAPTER XXII.-BRAVING THE LAW. 204
                
               CHAPTER XXIII.-SETH WHITE GOES TO THE THEATRE. 220
                
               CHAPTER XXIV.-GOING AND COMING. 230
                
               CHAPTER XXV.-CONCLUSION. 241
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Downward and upward 
             
            DOWNWARD AND UPWARD. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               FIRST STEPS. 
               "DI! Di! Where has that girl gone?" and Kate Delafield threw herself into the luxurious armchair, her curls half-dressed, and her cheeks flushed with passion. 
               "Let Rachel dress your hair. Di has gone to Ellen's room." And Mrs. Delafield spoke in a soothing tone. 
               "That's the way it always is. Di knows very well that no else can dress my curls: she does it just to show her power; and I want to look particularly well to-night!" 
               "A candid confession, Miss Kate. Ha! ha!" 
               "Just shut up. You've no business here," and Kate turned to her brother, a tall, rather agreeable-looking young man, eying himself in the pier-glass, and very complacently stroking the down on his upper lip. 
               "Go down, Cyrus; Kate is in no mood for teasing," and Mrs. Delafield struck the bell. "Tell Di to come here." 
                
               "Here comes Di. That's a good girl; make haste with Kate's hair." 
               "I would like to know the use of you, any way?" and Kate's voice was choking with passion. 
               "Ellen sent for me," was answered in a gentle tone. 
               "That's it. If you were not here, we could have somebody to depend upon." 
               A bitter rejoinder was on Di's tongue, and the quick blood mounted to her forehead. A second thought, and her lips closed firmly; taking the brush, she smoothed the hair with a gentle downward motion, and turned the curls one by one over her finger. 
               While Di is arranging the luxurious mass of sunny curls, we will take occasion to say that the family we have so unceremoniously entered is considered one of the wealthiest in the city. Accustomed to luxurious surroundings from her cradle, Mrs. Delafield did not pride herself upon her wealth. Gladly would she have flung aside her robes, and remained at home; but, for her daughters' sake, this must not be: and thus the naturally quiet woman flashed her beauty on the crowd as she did her diamonds, for the simple reason that others did. 
               Not so Kate Delafield: the oldest daughter, and endowed with beauty of no common order, she appreciated her position, and determined to make the most of her father's wealth. Agnes was not far from her own age, a girl of more intelligence and less physical beauty. Each in her own style well fitted to draw a crowd of admirers. This was their first season, and a brilliant one it promised to be. The night in question there was to be a magnificent ball, and several notables were expected; and this was no doubt the reason why Kate desired particularly to look her best. 
               Of the sons, Jared and Cyrus, little could be said save that they were young men of pleasure bent upon enjoyment, as they called it, and never thinking but their father's wealth would buoy them up and along the years, in whatever capacity it suited them to move. 
               "I wonder if Jay is to go with us," and Mrs. Delafield swept through the folding-doors, elegantly dressed in moir silk, with a point-lace shawl thrown carelessly over her shoulders. 
               "Indeed, Di, there is magic about your fingers. No wonder Kate thinks Rachel will not answer," and the mother looked proudly into the beautiful face of her child, now radiant with blushes and laughter. 
               Di gave One quick glance at the mother's face, and a little sigh crept up to heir lips. She was not thinking of the ball, the elegant dress, and the attention sure to follow. She had never known a mother's love, and she thought what a bliss it would be just for one such look. 
               "Next year, and you can go with us, perhaps," as Mrs. Delafield noticed the serious face. 
               "Not till I'm out of the way," and a little musical laugh trilled through the room. Tears were in Di's eyes, but she hastily shook them off, and began lacing the white bodice. 
                
               "That will do;" and Kate stepped back, and looked at herself. "No; let that moss rosebud droop a trifle more. Now for my gloves and bouquet. What say you, mother?" and the beauty turned with a graceful bow. 
               "Charming! I have never seen you more becomingly dressed." 
               "Where's Jay?" and Agnes's voice was heard in the hall. 
               "You will not see him to-night: he's other fish to fry," and Cyrus laughed good-humoredly. A ring of the door-bell, and Mr. Flashman's card was sent up. The carriage was in readiness, and they had gone, leaving Di standing before the grate, her elbow resting on the mantel, and her eyes riveted on the glowing fire. A moment, and the tears coursed down her cheeks, while her figure trembled with emotion; then raising her head, she slowly brushed them aside, arranged the room, and withdrew to Ellen's apartment. 
               "I am glad that you have come," and the thin arms clasped Di's neck, while a small face nestled close to her own. "It has been so long." 
               "I know, darling." 
               "Mamma just came in for a kiss. I wanted to see how pretty Kate and Agnes looked," said the little grieved voice. 
               "It was late before I could dress Kate's hair. We will not think any more about it. Shall I sing to you one of our hymns?" 
               "Do, please," and the pale face brightened. 
                
               The voice was sweet and clear, and while Di sung, Ellen's eyes closed. 
               Won by the singing and also by a desire to see his child, Mr. Delafield entered the sick chamber. 
               "Poor little girl. Is she asleep?" and he kissed the pallid lips. 
               "No, papa; I was just thinking. Di says there won't be any pain there. Everybody will be happy; won't it be nice, papa?" and she nestled her face still closer to her father's. 
               "We must be happy here, child." 
               "But we can't be, papa. There are so many things to make us feel badly. The days are so long: I cry sometimes, and so does Di. Don't you, Di?" 
               "That's when I'm tired a little," and a light blush crept up to Di's cheek. 
               There was deep tenderness in the father's heart. Ellen had been a pet with him, a bright, healthy child. Last winter she was prostrated with a severe attack of scarlet fever, and since her life has vibrated upon a single thread,-occasionally able to go into the drawing-room, at other times confined to her bed. Since her illness she had become greatly attached to Di; and the father's heart went backward. Years ago he had taken his family on a visit to a neighboring city. When they reached the depot, and the crowd stepped from the cars, it was ascertained that one little girl remained for whom there was no claimant. She was apparently three or four years old, and seemed to be of English parentage. Knowing this, Mr. Delafield was greatly interested in the issue; and when he returned turned to New York, this little neglected child went with him. Gladly would he have adopted her as one to be treated in all respects as his own daughter; but this was not easy to be effected, and he contented himself with knowing that she enjoyed the same advantages, and her musical talent was not neglected. 
               With a beautiful face and a manner strangely winning, it was not Kate's plan to have her enter society; and Ellen's illness, and her great love for Di, rendered a ready excuse to detain her at times. Added to this, Di herself did not appear to mind it. With fine artistic taste, she was found to be indispensable in hair-dressing, trimming dresses, and arranging flowers, and on this account Kate and Agnes patronized her at times, and chided her at others, driving her still more frequently to Ellen's room, and leading her to depend more upon her own thoughts, and her books, and music, than upon the social influences around her. 
               "Ellen must go to sleep now; papa has to go out," and Mr. Delafield started up, once more kissing the pale cheek, giving Di a few kind words, and telling her not to sit up late. 
               Overcome with fatigue, Ellen's eyes soon closed. Leaving her with Rachel, Di went down into the parlor and opened the instrument, hardly knowing the reason she was sad. A few months previous she had, to please Ellen, dressed up in the fashion of other days. Going to an old closet, she found a suit of child's clothes beautifully made, and of exquisite material. Not dreaming of the history connected with them, she dressed a small child that chanced to be a visitor, greatly to the amusement of the invalid. Suddenly Mr. Delafield entered the room, and his exclamation brought out the truth,-they were the garments Di had worn when found in the cars. With tears she removed them, letting her fingers fall caressingly over the silken folds. Old as they were they were still very handsome, and in no wise below the style of the family she was now in. Not a day since but she looked at them, and as she looked there came thoughts of a mother's love; perhaps her own fingers had fashioned the dress, and Di fancied the delight she must have felt. Then came the mystery of her loneliness; could it be that her mother had deserted her? And, if suddenly separated from her, what sorrow that mother must have known. 
               The more she thinks, the more impenetrable it is; and leaning her head on her hands, the tears fall silently. Di's tears are like the April rain; gloom is not the element of her nature. She has been told that life is a discipline, something needful to fit the soul for its higher development. 
               Almost unconsciously her fingers press the keys, and a strain is evoked that has power to touch her heart. Running out on this sweet, mellow adagio, Di grows calm; she forgets the present, and no longer thinks of the past. Somewhere in the future she is sure there is a heart beating for her,-a mother's arms once more to clasp her. It is real, and this reality gives her courage. Time passes; the music swells out now loud and clear, then soft, low, melting ing,-the plaint of a heart burdened with a great sorrow. Too sad to think; but she can sing, and her heart is lighter, happier. What a blessed gift; lifting the heart up to heavenly resting-places. There was a step, a shadow between her and the firelight. 
               "Why, Jay! you frighten me. I thought you at the ball." 
               "Hush! Are they all gone?" 
               "Your father was the last." 
               "And Rachel?" 
               "She is with Ellen." 
               "You are sure father has gone?" 
               "I am sure." 
               "Now tell me, Di, where is mother's key? I have been to her room: it is not in the desk." 
               "What do you want to do with it?" 
               "To be honest, I must have some money." 
               "It is not a week since your mother gave you a large roll of bills." 
               "What of that: I need more." 
               "It is wrong to use money so; you ought not to have any more." 
               "Don't begin to preach: but come, like a good girl, get me the key." 
               "I do not know where the key is, and, if I did, I would not get it for you." 
               "You may as well, for I shall have it. Come, Di, I am sure you know where it is." 
               "If I do, it will not profit you." 
               "Dear me! you act as though I was going to take something not my own. I only anticipate a little. It belongs to me." 
               "No, Jay, it does not belong to you. It is not right to allow one child so much more than another." 
               "Cyrus is not as old as I am, and the girls spend more on their fine dresses than I do. But what is the use of talking. Come up-stairs, like a good girl, and give me the key." 
               "That I will not do." 
               "Very well. If it's wrong, you know of it; and if there is anything said, I will bring you in as an accomplice." 
               "You will not do any such thing; you will not dare to do it." 
               "Not dare!" and Jay crossed the room. 
               With a spring, Di confronted him. "I beg you, Jay, do not go to her writing-desk. Wait till morning, and then ask her for it." 
               "I want it to-night To confess the truth, I lost all I had at one throw, and now I am determined to win it back; that I can't do, unless I have something to begin with." 
               "Just to-night, Jay," and Di grew bold, laying her hand on Jay's arm, and looking into his face pleadingly. 
               "Whew, girl! your eloquence makes you a regular beauty. I never knew before how really pretty you are. No wonder, Kate," and Jay bit his lip and turned on his heel. "It's getting late; and the money I must have." 
               "I will not see you take it," and Di seated herself at the piano. The charm was gone; tears were in her eyes. Jay had always been kind to her, taking her part when his sisters were overbearing. Years ago, the summer they spent in the country, there was a grand picnic in the woods. They were enjoying themselves in various ways, when suddenly Kate grew angry at something unintentionally done on her part, and taunted her with having no right to be there. Passionate, with a heart full of angry thoughts, she only longed to hide away by herself. A small stream separated them from a deep wood; a log spanned it, and twice during the morning had she crossed it. She attempted it now: her eyes were full of tears, her head was unsteady; she could not see the water was not deep; but it was rapid, and, before she was aware, she had fallen in. Jay did not laugh as he drew her out, bearing her tenderly in his arms to a sunny glade, removing her shoes with his own hands, and comforting her with his words. And now, if she could only do as much for him. "If he only felt the necessity of doing something for himself," she Said, half aloud. "As it is, his father gives him a liberal allowance every week, and his mother makes up for every deficiency; and what he cannot beg, he is willing to take by stealth." 
               "You need not feel so badly; I did not take but half of what I found there," and Jay held up a roll of bills. "I knew mother had plenty; she always has." 
               "Promise me not to play to-night, Jay." 
               "I will play to-night; and, more than that, I will win back what I lost the other night." 
                
               "Oh, Jay! if you do not stop, it will ruin you; it will ruin all of us." 
               "Say no more, and see that you don't tell." 
               "I have nothing to tell." 
               "Good-night, little preacher. It's worth while to get your blood up. Zounds! a regular little beauty. I'd do it again, only I have n't time now." 
               Going back to Ellen's room, Di opened her book. Mr. Delafield had recommended it; and not till the sound of carriage-wheels was heard on the pavement did she lay it down: she would not let him know that she had neglected his advice, and, turning down the light, she slipped into bed, blessing the author for the happiness his pages had afforded her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               AFTER THE BALL. 
               IT was a late hour when the family met for breakfast, and the ball was discussed in a manner that proved, however brilliant it might have been, there was no abiding happiness to follow. Kate complained of a headache. And Agnes found it stupid to dance all the time; she liked a little conversation between the sets. 
               "I should think you indulged in it, for that matter. I really cannot see what you find in Stanton; and especially since you have learned a little of his past life," said Cyrus, in a sarcastic tone. 
               "I have not learned anything to his disparagement," returned Agnes, warmly. "I don't see why it is. I never do have a friend that the rest of you seem to think anything of." 
               "Your friends have the rare charm of looking for something that they have not, never had, and never will have, I hope," and Cyrus threw himself back in his chair, and laughed provokingly. 
               Kate was busy talking over the beaux, discussing dresses, compliments, and eatables in a tone that left it difficult to know whether she had enjoyed or only endured them. Di's was the only happy face there. A cheerful smile playing about the rosy lips, and an eye quick to anticipate the wants of each. Languidly, Mrs. Delafield sipped her coffee; while her husband sat opposite, seemingly absorbed in the morning paper. Laying it aside, he turned to Rachel. 
               "Has Jay been down this morning?" 
               "I have not seen him, sir." 
               A telegraphic look passed from Cyrus to Di, but not too quick to escape the father's notice. 
               "Do you know anything of his movements? Was he at the ball?" 
               "No, father," Agnes replied; "he said that he had an engagement." 
               A troubled look gleamed on the mother's face while an appealing glance shot over to her husband. 
               "The way that boy goes on will ruin me. I have paid several of his bills within the last few days. With more money every week than some men require to set them up in business, I cannot see, for my life, what he does with it. Two thousand dollars to a livery-stable! It does not seem to me possible. I am terribly afraid the boy gambles." 
               One by one they left the table. Mr. Delafield sat alone: moodily he resumed his paper. A sliding step was on the stairs, and the door opened. 
               "Ten to one everything is cold." 
               "Your own fault, if it is; you should have been here in time," and the father confronted Jay. "Give an account of yourself, young man. Where were you last night?" 
                
               "I had an engagement that kept me up late, and overslept myself this morning in consequence of it." 
               "Of course you had; but I would like to know who it was with. You are too much inclined to hang round a set of fellows that can do you little good. If I find you gaming, sir, your funds will be cut down suddenly." 
               There was anger in Mr. Delafield's voice, and Jay's face was burning with passion. At this instant Ellen came in, half led, half supported by Di. 
               "Papa, I am glad to come down this morning." 
               "And papa is glad to see you, darling. Did you sleep well last night?" clasping the invalid in his arms. 
               "Di sung me to sleep; and I dreamed about people dressed in white, with wings and golden crowns. It was beautiful. I almost wanted to be there, papa." 
               "Papa's little girl does not want to leave him?" and the father nestled the little one still closer to his bosom. 
               "Di learned all about it at school; and when she goes to church, she comes back and tells me what a beautiful place there is all ready for us when we go away from here. They never feel badly there; they are never sick. I am glad; ain't you, papa?" 
               "Papa does not like his little girl to think so much of these things. He wants to see her very happy all the time. Is there anything she wants to-day?" 
               "You are good, and I love you, papa; but you can't make me well again, I have such a pain in my head and here," laying her thin hand upon her breast. 
               "But when spring comes, and the flowers and the birds, then papa hopes to see his little girl well and strong." 
               "Then I shall go to church with Di. Will you go with me, papa? Sometimes, you know." 
               "Perhaps papa will take his little girl away to the springs or to the mountains; and when she comes back, she will be able to dance over the house, just as she used to do." 
               "But if I don't papa?" 
               "You must think that you will." 
               "You are a dear, good papa; and I should not be happy up there without you." 
               Jay set back his chair, hardly touching his break-fast. 
               "You have not kissed me good-morning," said Ellen, seeing him about to leave the room. "You never come to see me." 
               "It is because I am afraid of disturbing you;" and Jay came back and kissed the little wasted cheek. 
               "Don't tell father," Jay whispered to Di, in passing. "I will see mother about it." 
               There was little cheerfulness for the remainder of the day. Mr. Delafield went to his business, and Jay and his mother had a stormy interview. Cyrus plead an engagement, and Kate tried to rally as Mr. Flashman called. Herbert Lyndsey had left town for a few weeks. Agnes choked down her resentment, and solaced herself with Mr. Stanton. 
               "A most agreeable person to talk with," she said to Di. "Strange, that every person is so prejudiced against him. Then he speaks so many languages; and there is no denying that he dances in the most elegant manner. Dear me, Di! I actually believe you are asleep. That's all the sympathy I get. If I tell Kate, she laughs; and mamma is so afraid papa will find out that he calls." 
               Ellen was really improving. Dr. Landseer called before dinner. Mrs. Delafield and her daughters were out for a drive. The doctor had been to Europe during the summer, and by degrees the conversation branched off into a political channel, contrasting the peculiar governments with our own, the degradation and oppression there, the different classes. "Perhaps not differing in principle from those to be found here," said the doctor; "but immeasurably harder to pass from the one to the other." Then of the scenery and works of art, describing old castles and ivy-mantled monasteries in a manner that won the attention of Di and Ellen. 
               "With one thing in which they are greatly our superiors," and he drew his chair nearer to Ellen, and raised the thin, wasted hand in his own,-"the people have more health, finer developed figures, and stronger constitutions than are to be found on this side of the water." 
               "This is, no doubt, to be attributed to their manner of life," replied Mr. Delafield. 
                
               "Less care and anxiety, more enjoyment, the free and easy abandon of out-door existence. This is what Ellen must have. When summer comes, she must go to the mountains, hunting buttercups and daisies, chasing butterflies, and listening to the birds and looking up squirrels. Such exercise would n't hurt Di;" and the doctor rose to leave. 
               "By the way, Miss Daisy, I have not had my song. Do you feel like gratifying me?" 
               "With pleasure, Dr. Landseer. What shall it be?" 
               "I confess to a love for old songs." 
               "Music, like wine, is improved by age," said Mr. Delafield. "I often wonder at the strange power, the rare, subtle charm pervading those old songs; the haunting memories even now difficult to be thrown aside." 
               "For one, I don't mean to do it. Such memories keep the heart young," and a good-humored laugh sounded through the room. 
               Di had a peculiarly clear voice, running up the high notes distinctly, and bringing out the lower ones with a power seldom seen without the pale of artist life. She had chosen a song that she knew the doctor loved, and the tears were running down his cheeks as she closed. 
               "I never seem to appreciate art as highly as I do in music," said Mr. Delafield. "There is no material, no subject-matter to be deducted; it is made up of form and power, and it raises and ennobles whatever it expresses." 
               "To affect us properly, it must have an interpreter. The same song sung by different individuals makes an altogether different impression upon one who listens. To sing well, one must throw soul into it." 
               "Quite as necessary in other things as in music. Earnestness gives success to every pursuit, and the want of it is sure to prove a failure." 
               "Precept and example, I am afraid my patients would be unwilling to pardon, could they see how my time is going." 
               Dr. Landseer had gone, and once more Ellen was in her own room. 
               "I only hope I shall be strong enough to hunt butterflies and squirrels; and if I am, you will go with me, Di." 
               "We must not think of it with any degree of certainty. There is a bare possibility." 
               "Is it wrong to anticipate?" 
               "It is only wrong when we allow ourselves to be carried away so as to forget the present. You remember what Mr. Parton told us: we live by the day." 
               "And the leaves he told us about. I am not even leaves, Di." 
               "You are just as God would have you, a dear, little, sick girl. And now you must not trouble yourself about it. Mr. Parton said, if God willed to have us do a certain thing, he would bring it about." 
               Di had no time to finish her book; but she had tried to comfort Ellen by bringing to mind what the good clergyman had said. True, there were times when her own heart was troubled beyond words, when she could only think, and that not clearly. Would God bring it about? And did he care for her, and know just how she tried? 
               Jay did not return at night, and there was a grave look on the father's face. 
               "I have half a mind to go for him. I cannot bear to think that he plays; and if he does not, how does he manage to run up such enormous bills?" 
               Had his father been less stern, or his mother less weak, he might have been led to reform. As it was, each night involved him still further. He grew dexterous; drinking in the technicalities of the game, winning and losing with a becoming sang-froid, and thus far successful in hiding his passion from his father. 
               Hastily passing from the parlor to Ellen's room, Di was startled by the crouching figure of a man slipping in at the side-door and gliding up the staircase directly behind her. A moment, and she would have screamed with terror. 
               "Di, don't you know me?" and she turned to meet Jay, his hat slouched over his eyes, and his disguise so perfect she would never have thought of him, but for his voice. 
               "I don't want father to see me." 
               "What have you been doing, Jay?" 
               "Doing! that's it I have nothing to do with girl." 
               "Then why this disguise?" 
               "Luck seems to be against me. I've lost every night for a week; it's about time for a turn." 
                
               "Won't you make it to-night, Jay?" 
               "Whew! you little preacher; but I can't stop to see you flush up as you did the other night. Mind you don't tell the governor. When once I get back what I have lost, I am going to be as good as Mr. Parton himself." 
               "Will that ever be, Jay? Do stop before you lose any more." 
               "Stop! I can't stop till I get it back." 
               "Go to your father, and confess it all." 
               "Why, girl, father would disinherit me if he knew." 
               "He will know sometime; better tell him now." 
               "It is just to keep him from knowing, that I must try my hand again to-night. If I win, he won't need to know anything about it." 
               "And if you lose, Jay? Do think of it." 
               "I can't think of it; I must do it," and rushing up the stairs, Di heard him enter his mother's room and bolt the door. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               WHAT WILL PEOPLE SAY OF US? 
               "IT will never do to let the season pass without a party," Kate Delafield said to her mother; "and if we give one, I want it understood that it is to be fully equal, if not superior, to any that we have attended." 
               "Of course," returned Agnes. "Everybody knows that papa can afford it; and it would be called mean if we did not excel. What do you think, mamma?" 
               "If we give a party, I would like to have it pass off handsomely. Your father is not one to do any thing by halves." 
               "If we give it? Is n't it already decided upon?" 
               "I have not spoken with your father about it. He has had so many bills to pay this winter," and there was a troubled expression on the mother's face. 
               "What will people say of us, if we do not give one grand party during the season?" 
               "I do not say we are not to give it; but I must consult your father. Business is exceedingly dull, and there is no denying that our expenses are enormous." 
               "If the girls have a party, I am to have a supper. There's Ned Hawley and Dick Clement have given splendid entertainments. Jay and I went to each. It would be shabby enough for us not to invite them in return," and Cyrus walked to the mirror, and adjusted the diamond pin in his shirt bosom. 
               "I fear that your father will not be willing for both." 
               "If only one, it must be the party," cried the girls, in a breath. 
               "How many parties have you had already? and we have never had even a supper." 
               "Oh, Cyrus! just think of last winter!" 
               "Little dinner parties for a dozen or so. It's not that at all now. It must be a real smasher, if any thing. The suppers that have been given this winter have each outdone anything ever known before. Just the wine, Ned told me, cost as much as suppers generally." 
               "It would have been better for the guests, if they had not provided quite as plentifully," said Agnes, in a sarcastic tone. 
               "People expect to be a little wild and bizarre sometimes," and Cyrus leaned over his mother's chair. Like Jay, he knew how to coax, and thus far he had never been denied. He did not expect to be now. 
               "Say that we have your consent, mother." 
               "For the party, or for the supper?" 
               "For both." 
               "I will see," a thread of assurance running along the words that gave Cyrus to feel there was little doubt about it. 
                
               "It's as good as settled," whispered Kate to Agnes; "it was silly in me to think otherwise. But papa has so much to say about bills; and, indeed, I do suppose business is very dull." 
               "What if it is, we always have plenty. I don't see the use of making such a fuss about it." 
               It was a settled thing the party was to be given. Upholsterers were sent for, and the rooms freshened till it was difficult for Mr. Delafield to recognize that he was in his own house. Wilton carpets with vines and bright-hued flowers trailing over a white ground, curtains of gossamer fineness, looped over costly damask, and chandeliers blazing with brilliants. 
               "I shall give Myers a 'carte blanche' for refreshments; and now for the dresses," said Mrs. Delafield. 
               Taste had full sway, and fancy was unchecked. Expense was not thought of, gratification was the end in view. Mrs. Delafield was by no means at ease; "and still it is expected of us," she said to her husband. "This is the first season, and it would hardly do not to give a party." 
               Mrs. Delafield was not, in the ordinary sense, a manuvring mother: she loved her daughters, and was proud of the admiration that followed them. She expected and hoped to see them happily settled in life, but there was no unwomanly advance on her part, neither undue anxiety lest, like old goods, they would be left on her hands. 
               Coming into the room one morning, and finding Di busily engaged in retrimming a dress fresh from the modiste, Mr. Delafield asked: 
                
               "And what are you making for yourself, child?" 
               A deep blush crept up to Di's face as she answered: 
               "I do not expect to go, sir." 
               "What reason have you for staying away, child?" 
               Before Di could frame an answer, Kate said, naively: 
               "It is not necessary that Di comes out this winter, papa." 
               "Coming out, I know little of; but as surely as you are there, Di makes one of the party. Now tell me, child, what would you like to wear?" 
               "Unless you very much desire it, I would rather not go;" and Di bent her face still lower over her work. 
               "I do very much desire it. I insist upon it. And you will wear-?" 
               "A plain white muslin," answered Di, in a choking voice. 
               Kate twirled her rings idly, and Agnes looked her displeasure. It had not been in the heart of either to allow Di this privilege, and knowing that she would never mention it, they had looked upon it as a settled thing. Without being a beauty, Di had a face sure to win; and Kate did not care to find a rival in one upon whom she had always looked as a dependent. 
               Mr. Delafield had gone, and Di had occasion to take her work into the next room. 
               "That's just like father," said Kate, in a low voice. "Di cannot wait upon us; and get ready herself. I think it is too bad." 
                
               "Di deserves a little pleasure as well as the rest of us," Mrs. Delafield replied; "and if she does not, your father has decided, and so it must be." 
               However yielding Mr. Delafield was, it was understood that when he decided upon anything, it was to be done. So in this case there was nothing to do but to order the dress. "There is one thing; she will not wish for ornaments. But how are we to introduce her? She is neither one thing nor the other," continued Kate. 
               "Your father will see to that." 
               The folding-doors were ajar. Di could not help but hear every word distinctly. Tears dimmed her eyes, and fell one by one on the costly lace. "She is neither one thing nor the other." True; she was not a servant, neither had she the privileges of a child; and once more her heart went back to the little dress folded away in her trunk. Had she a mother? and where? And how came they to be separated? 
               During this time Jay and Cyrus were making arrangements for a supper. It was to be a magnificent affair, with a goodly number of guests. 
               "The ball first," said Kate; and she carried the day. 
               The evening at length arrived; and at a fashionable hour the rooms were filled with the elit of that great metropolis. Never had Mrs. Delafield appeared to better advantage; and Kate was a vision of loveliness, winning admiration from every eye. Agnes was sparkling with life and brilliancy. Never had happiness seemed more perfect. The very atmosphere was filled with delight. 
               Dr. Landseer was there, his good honest face lit up with humor. 
               "I shall appropriate this little lady," as he spied Ellen, enveloped in a cloud of pink tulle frosted with seed pearls, her light curls falling in graceful waves over her white shoulders, her clear blue eyes filled with the same pure light. "I have about as much right to her as anybody, I fancy." 
               Herbert Lyndsey was standing by the side of Dr. Landseer. Turning to Mr. Delafield, he said: 
               "I have the pleasure of an acquaintance with your two oldest daughters. Will you allow me the same privilege with the third?" at the same time a beaming glance was directed to Di's face. 
               "I am happy to introduce Mr. Lyndsey to my adopted daughter, Miss Delafield." 
               The name and the manner of Mr. Delafield startled Di more than the expression on Mr. Lyndsey's face. True, she had always been known by the family name when it was needful to give a name at school, or in short journeys that she had made; but she was so accustomed to being called simply Di, so few formal introductions had been made, that of late she had seemed to forget that she had ever worn it. "Merely that I have no other," was the next thought, and with effort Di controlled herself so as to speak calmly. A more splendid-looking couple were not to be seen, and Mr. Delafield followed them with delight The plain white dress set off Di's figure to the best advantage, and the absence of jewelry rendered it only the more charming. 
               Herbert Lyndsey had seen much of the world. An accomplished gentleman, he also added the grace of a Christian character; and so skilful was he in drawing out his companion, that, before many minutes elapsed, Di was feeling as much at home with him as she would have done with Dr. Landseer, laughing and chatting with the abandon of one to whom enjoyment is a novelty, and still with the earnestness of one who feels that life is not to be frittered away in selfish indulgence. Surprised at herself, Di paused suddenly. She had never spoken so frankly, even to Mr. Delafield and Dr. Landseer; and still it was not of herself, but of her teacher, a lady well known to Mr. Lyndsey. 
               "You have not said too much in, her praise. I know her well; and I congratulate you on having the benefit of her instruction and the privilege of claiming her as your friend, Those whom we love we are very apt, nay, almost certain, to imitate; and I know of no one whose example you can more safely follow." 
               There was the usual amount of light badinage, gay words, and merry laughter, and the evening passed-a joy to some, and a sting to others. 
               "I knew it would be the way if Di went; the very simplicity of her dress would have won, if nothing more," and, mortified and vexed, the flush of passion mantled the cheeks of Agnes Delafield; and she upbraided Di with artfulness in flinging herself in Herbert Lyndsey's way, rendering his attention obligatory. 
               "I don't see what right you have to complain," said Jay, who had condescended, as Agnes said, to be with them on that particular evening. "You seem to be perfectly oblivious of everybody else when Stanton is by." 
               The hot flush paled to marble whiteness, and, choking down her words, Agnes left the room. 
               Bright things the quickest fade, and soon the party had ceased to be a topic of conversation. 
               "We are to have our party to-morrow night; it will be a capital time," and Cyrus flung himself upon the divan, and proceeded to enumerate the good things in store for them. 
               "As master of ceremonies, I trust you will set an example worthy of imitation," replied Mrs. Delafield. 
               "We shall enjoy ourselves." 
               "It is a fearful thing to think that wealth only intensifies the influence we exert over others," said Di, looking up from her work. 
               "What a pity Di is not to be a preacher; she gets off so many wise things," and Cyrus gave a little derisive laugh that brought the tears to Di's eyes in spite of herself. 
               "Di only wishes to remind you that you have an influence, and that you should be careful how you use it." 
               "Everybody has to be a little wild when they are young, mother." 
               Mrs. Delafield was not a religious woman; but she could not deny that her sons were living fast, and, from listening to her husband, she began to fear,-desiring to turn, and still not knowing just where to begin, or, if she had known, with not sufficient courage to bring it about. 
               The supper came off as most suppers do,-the guests more or less oblivious as they left the table. Jay managed to reach home; but the next day he did not leave his bed. Cyrus was slightly better, and the father was exasperated beyond measure. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               LOOKING FORWARD. 
               AS the spring advanced Ellen grew stronger, and was treated to frequent drives; twice had she accompanied Di to church. 
               "It will be strange if the little girl disappoints us after all," said Dr. Landseer, as he came up with them on the way to church. "There was a time when I never expected to see her able to take this walk." 
               "There was a time when I never expected to take it," and the blue eyes filled. "Di says her teacher used to tell her that a certain amount of chiselling is necessary, and that illness is just to round the sharp corners. I wonder if it is so?" 
               "Illness, and the sharp strain of trouble of any kind, are intended as polishers. Gold is flung into the fire; diamonds have to be cut." 
               "How is it with those who never have trouble?" and Di looked up. 
               "There is trouble, and sorrow, and bitterness in every cup: some make a wry face, and by that means give others to understand how bitter it is; others take it without a change of muscle; and still others, drink to the dregs with a smiling face, because their Father holds the cup, and he knows best." 
                
               "I would like to be one of these," said Ellen, in an earnest voice. 
               "You may be, if you like. We may not only wish to be, but we may ask to be. God likes us to ask him for everything we wish." 
               "Di has told me this." 
               "I am glad Di has learned this." 
               "I am afraid I do not realize it in my own case, Dr. Landseer. It is the echo of what I have been taught, perhaps," replied Di. 
               "Do you think everything that happens to us is for our good?" asked Ellen. 
               "We are assured that everything is for good to them that love God." 
               "But what if we don't?" and there was a touch of sadness that sank into the doctor's heart. 
               They had reached the church, and, following Dr. Landseer, Di and Ellen were seated in his pew. They did not feel like strangers,-the clergyman's face was familiar, and there were many in the audience that seemed like friends. 
               The discourse touched upon the love of Jesus, the tenderness he manifested for the guilty and undeserving, the miracles he performed for the benefit of the poor and the suffering. "And the most tender and beautiful of all," the speaker continued, "was the cursing of the fig-tree. Jesus did not take a sinner and make him the monument of his displeasure, but a tree, with no feeling to be wounded, no heart to throb with emotion, no wounds to be healed; and still this tree, not capable of feeling in itself, was to stand as a beacon for those who could feel, an example to those who had not improved the privileges granted them, rejected the blessed assurance of his love and mercy. And this love, so tender, so sympathetic, we may all have. Not a heart but has some secret sorrow, some dark skeleton-chamber. When the waves of sorrow roll over us we are privileged to go to this same Jesus, casting all our care upon him. How sweet to know that we are not obliged to carry these burdens. Ask: he will help; he will not take it all, leaving us no part in the labor; he will give us something to do and something to suffer. But so sweetly will he reach out his hand, lifting us over the rugged places, the burden will not be felt." 
               A thoughtful look was on Ellen's face, and Di's eyes were full of a new light. The skeleton in each heart was an answer to her question with reference to those who never have trouble. Di was conscious there was a secret chamber in her own heart, a recess hidden away from all eyes, and into which she hardly dare to enter; and once again she thought of the small dress, and the yearning, anguished feeling as she pressed with trembling fingers the silken folds. How many tears she had shed over it, Jesus knew it all. He knew the circumstances; and he was tender and sympathizing with those who suffered. It had never looked so plain to her before; she would go to him and tell him all of her sorrow. 
               Dr. Landseer left them at their own door; and Ellen could not rest till she had found her father, and told him of the sermon, and what Mr. Parton said of Jesus and of the withered fig-tree. 
               "Do you love Jesus, papa?" 
               Mr. Delafield had not expected such a question, and he did not answer until it was repeated. 
               "Certainly, my child; everybody loves Jesus." 
               "But, papa, I mean do you love him better than anything else in the world? better than you love me, papa?" 
               "Would you like me to love him better than I love you?" 
               "Yes, papa, because he gave me to you; and sometime, perhaps, he will take me away from you." 
               "I do love him for this, and I hope he will not take you from papa. You must not think of such gloomy things. God is too good to make us unhappy." 
               "He is good, Mr. Parton says, if we love him. But if we don't, he is terrible. I could not bear to have him angry with me, papa." 
               "He could not be angry with you, child." 
               "But, papa, the Bible says everybody's heart is wicked, everybody's heart must be washed in the blood of Jesus. I do want mine white, papa. I don't want any little spots left. Don't you want your heart clean, papa?" 
               Mr. Delafield winced under Ellen's questioning, and he was glad when a summons to lunch changed the conversation. Di had been to her own room; troubled and lonely, she had now a friend to go to. Jesus knew, and it comforted her. 
                
               As the days wore on, parties were less frequent. The fashionable world had already begun to plan what they would do for the summer. Kate and Agnes Delafield were busy in arranging. Herbert Lyndsey was now a regular caller; but almost invariably Dr. Landseer dropped in at the same time, and then Di and Ellen were called down. It was unavoidable, Kate said, and Agnes did not allow her ill-humor to show itself. Not only this, Mr. Stanton had made a decided impression; and although Mr. Delafield had forbidden him the house, there were innumerable billets and stolen interviews. 
               Capricious, and dissatisfied with what she considered too rigid severity, Agnes passed entire days in her room. At such times Di endeavored, with every means in her power, to win her thoughts into a different channel. Sometimes she was induced to join Ellen in her drives; and on these occasions she seldom returned without visible improvement in her mood. 
               It had been a long day. One of those peculiar spring days, when the air is balmy with the perfume of resinous buds, the deep rich mould giving out an odorous breath. Ellen had been unusually bright all the morning, and a drive was decided upon. 
               "I give you the open carriage," said Mr. Delafield. "It affords a more extended view; and I am a little fearful about the horses," patting the noble animals on the neck. 
               "If you think there is danger, they must not go;" and a look of anxiety rested on Mrs. Delafield's face. 
                
               "They were recommended to me as being perfectly safe, and Dixon is a good driver;" and Mr. Delafield handed Agnes and Ellen to the back seat. Di sprang in without a word, and took her place in front. Their route led them out of town, skirting green fields. The tinkling of cow-bells was heard in the valleys, and lambs were skipping over beds of clover. At the farm-houses, doors and windows were open. Nature seemed animate within and without. Ellen was continually spying some new object of delight; and Agnes forgot her moodiness, and gave free vent to the pleasure she enjoyed. 
               They were passing a rustic bridge that spanned a deep ravine. A narrow stream trickled through it, and trees and vines were putting on their summer dress of leaves. In the distance it widened into a circular basin, the water, smooth as a steel mirror, breaking over a barrier, and made to turn a mill, the great wheel still in motion. Near it was a school-house, with a few children lingering in groups of three and four. 
               "How happy they must be!" cried Ellen. "I half envy them the use of their feet." 
               "And they, no doubt, fancy that you are blessed with everything that human heart can wish;" and the tears were in Di's eyes. Yes, she was thinking of the skeleton-chamber in each heart. Ellen did not know that, but she saw the tears. 
               "And so I am. It is not every one who has so many to love them as I have." 
               Each step brought them within the range of some new object; but the day was fading: it would not do to prolong their drive. 
               "We must turn here," said Dixon. 
               Agnes wanted to go farther. There was a little discussion, and Dixon turned. 
               "I can go home by another route, if it please you," he said to Agnes, with an attempt to pacify. 
               "It makes little difference. I never have any thing as I want it;" and the voice was sharp and pettish. 
               Di was hurt, and Ellen grew silent. The shadows lengthened, and the brown road was flecked with sunshine. They were in sight of the town, when Agnes caught sight of a clump of laurel, the last red rays gilding the dark-green leaves, and adding beauty to the blossoms. 
               "Stop, Dixon. I must have some laurel." 
               "I dare not leave the horses, Miss Agnes. They know they are going home, and it makes them spirited." 
               "You have become very careful all at once. You could get out easy enough when Di wanted flowers." 
               "It makes all the difference when they are headed for the stable, miss." 
               "Very well. If you won't stop, I'll jump out;" and Agnes's voice was husky with passion. 
               Di knew that remonstrance would only exasperate; but Ellen begged her to sit still. 
               "If you say I must, I must But indeed, miss, it is not safe," Dixon said. 
                
               "I must have some laurel; and if any blame comes of it, I will bear it," returned Agnes. 
               "Let me hold the reins," said Di. 
               "You may put your hand over them, but not to move them. I will keep talking to the horses. They know me; and it won't take me a minute." 
               Dixon had barely reached the laurel-bush, looking back and speaking to his horses as though they were reasonable beings, when a gun went off in a neighboring field. At the same instant a hound bounded over the fence and across the road, directly in front of the horses. Frightened, Dixon turned. It was too late. The horses were going at a furious rate. With the first dash, Agnes gave a piercing scream and fell back into her seat. 
               "Put your arm around Ellen, and make no noise," Di said, in a commanding tone; at the same time she grasped the reins tightly. There was little strength in her hands to stay their speed; but she was confident that she could guide them. Fortunately, the road was broad, and it was possible that she could check them. Planting her feet firmly against the footboard, she threw herself backward, dragging with all her weight upon the lines. It was no use. Faster and faster they went. Fear lent her strength, and presence of mind did not desert her. She knew the location of the stables. In all probability they would take that direction. In her excitement, her hat fell off, and her long dark hair was streaming in the wind. Vehicles began to meet them, and it required all her power to keep from collision. Dashing along so rapidly, hatless, and still guiding, she began to attract the attention of people on the pavement, and several rushed into the street. The horses shied a little, and kept on. This was no advantage, and the heroic girl began to think that all was lost, when she caught a glimpse of Dr. Land-seer. 
               "Turn the first corner. It will save you, perhaps." 
               "Do not let them take the direction of the bridge," cried another. 
               There was encouragement in the words. Di felt her hands growing firm. Her vision was clear. Could she make the turn? She saw at a glance the doctor's meaning. The stable was in sight. There was no time for delay. Her whole force was thrown upon the rein. The turn was made; but so quickly, it seemed a miracle the carriage was not overthrown. Great beads of perspiration stood upon her face as the horses dashed into the stable, and a dozen pair of hands were ready to lift her out. 
               "You have done bravely. I did n't expect it," meeting her on all sides. 
               Dr. Landseer came up puffing and out of breath, and with him Herbert Lyndsey. 
               "Who would have thought it possible! How in the seven wonders did Delafield let you come out with those horses?" 
               Mr. Lyndsey brushed the dust out of his eyes, and gave his attention to Agnes and Ellen. 
               "I would not have been so frightened for the world. I shall never get over it," and Agnes shook out the folds of her dress and adjusted her coquettish little hat. 
               "You ought to be very thankful that your bones are not broken, Miss Agnes. How is it with you, Ellen? Were you much frightened?" 
               "I just shut up my eyes and asked that Di might bring us in safely." 
               "And now let me take you home," said Dr. Landseer, as Di gave an account of the affair, careful not to throw any blame upon Agnes. Dixon came up in the mean time, the tears rolling down his bronzed cheeks as he saw them all safe. 
               "I just expected every minute to see them dashed in pieces. I had no idea Di knew so well what to do." 
               "Di is a brave little woman. Drive us home, Dixon." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               HELPING THE DOCTOR. 
               "WOULD you like a ride this morning, little woman?" asked Dr. Landseer, as he caught sight of Di's face under the lilac-trees. 
               A laughing rejoinder, and Di came forward and laid both hands in the doctor's broad palm. 
               "To be serious, little woman, I have a case that interests me exceedingly. You remember the young carpenter of whom Mr. Parton spoke? The week after your famous drive, he fell from the scaffolding of a building, and injured himself so badly that amputation was necessary. He has been doing as well as could be expected, until about a week since; through nervous excitement, or something else, he is running down fast. I thought perhaps a little cheerful company, a few flowers, and a little singing, would brighten up the day for him. Can you go?" 
               "Let me run up and ask Mrs. Delafield." 
               In a moment Di was back, ready shawled and bonneted, slipping on her gloves as she walked to the gate. 
               It was not far to the house,-the corner one in a long row of tenements. 
                
               "When Mrs. Clayton was a young girl, her home was very different from this. Her husband was an honest man: he failed in business, and everything was given up. Grant is very like his father, with a strict piety, and a craving for knowledge that I have seldom seen equalled," said Dr. Landseer, as he reined in his horse and handed Di to the pavement. 
               With a slight rap at the brown door, Mrs. Clayton made her appearance. 
               "How is Grant this morning?" was the doctor's salutation. 
               "He passed a restless night; but he seems more quiet this morning." 
               "Here is a little woman that I have brought to see you. She is a cheerful little body, and understands nursing; you may call her Daisy, and begin at once to feel that you have known her a long time." 
               This was all the introduction needed; and Di, or Daisy, as the doctor called her, was soon talking with Grant quite as easily as she would have done with Ellen, holding her flowers so that the invalid could inhale their breath all the while that the doctor was removing the bandages, making examinations, and renewing remedies. 
               "There! you feel better, I know," and the doctor took the hand of his patient. "You are fond of music, Grant: Daisy knows how to sing. I am to leave her here while I look at another patient farther on; and for fear that she 'll tire you with her talk, I shall ask her to sing." 
               Di did not wait for the doctor to leave the room before she began, striking into a cheerful little hymn which she was accustomed to sing to Ellen. 
               Very bright and cheerful Grant looked when Dr. Landseer returned. 
               "If I am not mistaken, you have enjoyed the music;" and once more the doctor lifted the thin hand. 
               "Very much. I shall think of it all day." 
               "And not long before Daisy will repeat her visit, and the flowers will need replenishing." 
               "We could hardly expect her to take that trouble," said the invalid. 
               "It is not a trouble for Daisy to do anything that gives pleasure." 
               Di's eyes turned gratefully to the doctor, mutely thanking him for his appreciation of her willingness; and then, with a charming blending of kindness and timidity, she said to Mrs. Clayton, "I know a little of nursing, and the days of convalescence require quite as much skill as severe illness. You will not forget, if in any manner I can serve you." 
               "I am happier for this visit," said Daisy, as she found herself in the buggy by the side of Dr. Land-seer. 
               "Improving opportunities, Daisy; concentration of thought upon one's own gratification dwarfs the intellect and deadens moral perception. To interest ourselves in the welfare of those around us is to do as Jesus did,-he went about doing good. It is ours to do as he did; and the very effort, weak as it may be, promotes our own happiness and increases that of our neighbors. It was not much for you,-a few flowers, a look, a word, a song; your own heart is lighter, and Grant and his mother will be happier all day." 
               "Where have you been all the morning?" asked Agnes, as she saw Di spring out of the buggy and enter the house. 
               "I have been with Dr. Landseer to see a patient." 
               "You and the doctor are inseparable these days. I do not think it looks well to see a young girl running about in this manner. I wonder mamma permits it." 
               "I have not seen Dr. Landseer for some time. He has a patient whom he thought I could benefit; and your mother was willing that I should go." 
               "Of course; of course it's all right; it always is. By-the-way, had you been here, you would have seen your friend, Mr. Lyndsey." 
               Di's cheeks were scarlet as she ran up the stairs, and her eyes were full of tears. Several times Agnes had taunted her with a desire to meet the young lawyer. She knew that it was done maliciously, and this morning she was not in a mood to bear it patiently. 
               "I am so glad you have come, Di," and Ellen held up her flushed face for a kiss. 
               "What is the matter, pet? What troubles you?" and Di forgot her annoyance in her efforts to comfort Ellen. 
               " Oh, Di, we have had such a time; and mamma is crying in her room. Jay came to mamma for money, and papa heard him; and he called Jay into his room, and such a talk as they had. Papa said Jay must play, or he could not spend so much, and if he did n't stop, we should all be beggars. Jay was angry, and said that Agnes spent as much as he did. And then papa read over the bills,-a great roll of them,-that he had paid within the week. Oh, Di! I do not see how Jay and Cyrus can do this, when it makes mamma feel so badly; and papa's face was as white as it could be." 
               There was little to be said; and to quiet Ellen, Di told her of the family she had been to see,-of Grant's misfortune in losing his limb, and how badly he felt about it. 
               "It seams strange that some people have everything, and others so little. Grant has had to work for a living, and Jay has papa to care for him;" and Ellen puzzled her brain over a question that has often troubled older heads. 
               "It is God's way," replied Di. "If it was n't for this, it would look strange. I like to think that he knows best." 
               "I am sure I will not trouble papa. Mr. Parton said we could go and tell Jesus all our troubles. If papa would only tell him. I wonder if he ever does?" 
               "I hope so, Ellen." 
               "Do you tell him everything, Di?" 
               "I try to tell him: sometimes I don't," and Di was conscious there were thoughts that stung her into unrest,-thoughts that she did not dare to breathe; not realizing that she had a friend who could be touched with her sorrow, a friend who had the power to help, and in whose care and sympathy she would find strength. She knew this in theory, and she felt it in part; but the scales had not fallen from her eyes, the beauty of his countenance was not fully revealed to her. 
               Too sad for words, Di took her little charge into the garden. 
               "If God did not love us, he would never have made so many lovely flowers, little keepsakes to remember him by," and Ellen stooped to the hyacinths, patting and caressing them as friends. 
               "The first spring flowers have a charm for me that I never feel at any other time, and their sweetness seems deeper," and Di gathered heart's-ease and fastened them in Ellen's curls. 
               "God made the weeds, as he did the flowers, Di." 
               "Weeds have their use; it is possible that, if we understood them better, we should see that they are to be prized just as much as the flowers." 
               "If I could choose, I would not be a weed," and Ellen stirred the earth about the bulbous roots. 
               "The honor is not in the flower, neither in the weed; but in living and growing just where his hand placed it." 
               "Would you as soon be one as the other, Di?" 
               "I am afraid that I like to choose; and still I see a beauty in willingness to be just what He would have me be." 
               The next morning Ellen accompanied Daisy on her second visit to the invalid. Mrs. Clayton was a woman of culture; and in the interchange of thought and feeling, Daisy found there were suggestions and half-spoken thoughts on which she could mount like golden stairs. Edna Clayton was not as old as Ellen, but, by reason of good health, she seemed older,-a bright, active child, with a mind open to the influences around her, a child to profit by opportunity. 
               As Grant grew stronger, Daisy was surprised with the beauty of his speech; the thirst for knowledge that he manifested, the eagerness to do something for his mother's sake; above all, the deep, earnest piety that characterized him. Not unfrequently Mr. Parton made one of the number, and her soul drank in new life from his well chosen words. 
               "Severe as this affliction has proved, there is no doubt but it was to advance your highest good here and hereafter," Mr. Parton said, as Grant talked of the accident, and his fears that it would unfit him for a life of labor. "Confined within these walls, and suffering, as you have done, the loss of a limb, it may have saved you from a more fearful calamity." 
               "I have tried to think of this," continued Grant, in a lower tone. "I was planning and hoping for so much. Leaning upon myself, I saw so much to be done, and I felt that I could do it. God saw otherwise." 
               "Rest assured his way is the best way." 
               "To work by day and to study at night was plan. It is doubtful if I can do either now." 
                
               "Will you be willing to let him open the way?" 
               "I have only strength to accept what he gives." 
               "The trial will be in waiting." 
               A smile shot over Grant's pale face. "I see the force of your remarks. I will do my best to wait patiently." 
               Through the golden sunshine to her own dwelling, Daisy was not thinking of herself, a new revelation was open to her. She had never looked upon Grant's accident as a mercy. It seemed dark and afflictive. Was it to save him from something worse? and she recalled Mr. Parton's words. From how many pitfalls we are turned aside; from how many precipices and deep, yawning chasms we are suddenly drawn back, it is impossible to tell. But this we know, that as children depend upon their parents for care and a watchful foresight, so we are privileged to look to our heavenly Father, secure and confident in his love. 
               In thinking of Grant, her own history came up before her. Was it in mercy that she was left alone and friendless? Was it to escape a greater evil? and tears bathed the ruddy face. Was it in mercy to her or to her parents? For, strange as it may seem, Daisy never thought of her parents as dead. Not a night but she dreamed of them. Not a day but visions of a mother's love softened and illuminated the path. Not a sharp word but had its counterpart in the unspoken tenderness of her day dreaming. She might never meet them. She hardly knew that she expected this privilege. It was bliss enough to think there were hearts beating for her; and her own throbbed with a stronger, healthier movement. 
               "If papa did n't have so much to pay for Jay, he would n't mind helping Grant," and Ellen's blue eyes were full of tenderness. "There are a good many things that I can do without, Di; and it won't trouble papa." 
               "An education is not won without time as well as money: to help effectually, it must be continued. One act of self-denial, however praiseworthy and easily borne, might become a fetter, if one was called upon to repeat it." 
               "But I do not care about much; and it will be a good while before I come 'out,' as Kate calls it." 
               "Before you think about it, talk with your father; he will tell you if it can be done readily." 
               After tea, as Ellen sat by the side of her father, she suddenly asked, "How much does it cost to study a profession, papa?" 
               "Some people make a profession with very little study," replied Mr. Delafield, with a laugh. 
               "I mean to go through college, papa." 
               "Are you thinking to go through college, Ellen? or is it Di?" asked Cyrus, playfully. 
               "Counting the cost merely," said Di, with a smile. 
               "You might ask Mr. Lyndsey," said Kate. "I am told that he had hard work to get through with his studies. He came into the possession of his property since he graduated." 
               "I wonder why you always answer Di in this manner," and Ellen's cheeks were crimson. "It is no sign that she wants to go through college, because I asked a simple question. But I know of somebody that does; may I tell you who it is, papa?" 
               "Certainly, my child." 
               In her own way, Ellen went on to speak of Grant Clayton, and the desire he had to study. Edna said that before his fall he used to sit up nearly all night to study his lessons; and when his mother begged him to go to bed, he always answered that he was not a bit sleepy, and in the morning he went to his work just the same. It seems to me strange that God would let him fall when he was trying so hard," and Ellen looked wistfully into her father's face. 
               Mr. Delafield was not usually sensitive to the honor of God; but it was a new thing to hear Ellen question his acts. 
               "God knows best, my child." 
               "If he does, why does he give Jay so much and Grant so little?" 
               The idea of God's giving was not recognized by Mr. Delafield. It was his own giving by which Jay had so much. Grant's father was not a successful business man. He died poor. 
               "Papa," and the soft arms were clinging round the father's neck; "papa, how much do I cost you?" 
               "You cost me a heart full of love and anxiety." 
               "Not that, papa. How much money do I cost you? Do I cost enough to make you feel badly?" 
               "Papa's little girl has not been an expense to him." 
                
               "I am glad, papa; for I do want to ask for a little money. Will you dislike me to ask, papa?" 
               "I can better tell when I know for what purpose you want it." 
               "Grant can never work as he did before his fall; but he can study. I would like to help him, papa." 
               "Are you sure Grant wants to study?" 
               "Yes, papa. I have seen the tears run down his cheeks when he talked of this, and how impossible it would be for him to do it now." 
               "And you want to give him the money that I might otherwise give to you?" 
               "Yes, papa." 
               "I will see, my child." 
               "I thought of Dr. Landseer; but I rather it would be you, papa. Just what you would give to me, you know." 
               "If it will make papa's little girl happier, he will do it," and kisses rained over Ellen's cheeks. 
               A thoughtful expression settled on Mr. Delafield's face, and Ellen ran away to tell Di. 
               When Grant Clayton could walk about his room, Ellen made known her plan, and this time the tears were not sad. 
               "I thought it was a proof that God was angry with us," said Edna, as she walked with Ellen to the carriage. "A mercy, it seems now. Dr. Landseer says Grant could never have held out to work and study as he was doing." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               REST AND TOIL. 
               JUNE came, with her wealth of roses and days golden with sunshine. The dim, dusty town was deserted. Busy days there had been at Mr. Delafield's. Some had gone to the sea-side, and others to the mountains. At first it was proposed that all should go to the country, but Kate and Agnes overruled. 
               "What is the use of all our new dresses, if we are to mope in the country?" asked Kate. "For my part, I have no taste for it. All of our set are going to the shore, and of course we are expected to join them." 
               "It will, no doubt, be the best thing for Ellen, and Di will enjoy it," added Agnes; and, very amiably, the two girls suggested the articles of dress necessary for a visit to the country. "Calicoes and ginghams, and one lawn for Sundays." 
               Kate drew still closer to her mother. "The dresses Agnes and I wore when we were in Tipton will be just the thing. A little altering, and mine will fit Di splendidly. In this case, you can afford us those lovely crapes and grenadines we saw yesterday." 
               "I will see," was the quiet reply. 
                
               "I shall want my white dresses, and so will Di," said Ellen. 
               "White dresses! They would n't keep clean any time; and then who's to do them up?" exclaimed Agnes. 
               Ellen looked as though she expected they could wash quite as well in the country as in the city. But Di was not listening. She was thinking of what Dr. Landseer had told her of the old place-the spot where he had passed his boyhood, and where she expected to enjoy so much climbing the mountains, and following the brook to its source. She did not care about her dress; and, still, Daisy could not deny that she liked to be dressed becomingly, choosing colors that harmonized with her complexion, style, and general appearance. And yet, so seldom was her taste consulted, that it came to be understood it made little or no difference with Di. Anything laid aside by Kate and Agnes was sure to be acceptable. 
               It was all arranged. Jay and Cyrus were to accompany Mrs. Delafield and her eldest daughters to the shore. Di and Ellen to the mountains. Mr. Delafield could not take a rest this summer, he said. Business rendered it needful for him to stay in the city. 
               "In that case, let us stay with you, papa;" and Ellen crept up to her father's knee. 
               "That would be selfish; and, still, papa will miss his little girl." 
               "I would rather stay, papa, and so would Di." 
               "No, no. I expect great things from country air and country living. I want these pale cheeks to be ruddy with health when you return." 
                
               Immersed in society as were his wife and daughters, Mr. Delafield's heart turned to Ellen with peculiar fondness. When he came from his office, she was always ready to meet him; and the strong man felt weak as a child at the thought of her leaving. 
               "This little girl will come back as bright as a butterfly and as gay as a lark," exclaimed Dr. Landseer, as Ellen danced out to meet him. 
               "Have they all gone?" 
               "Left yesterday." 
               "Only yesterday!" exclaimed the doctor, arching his eyebrows in a peculiar manner. "I thought they had been gone a week at least, and you had ample time to think of yourselves." 
               "Such a sight of packing! They could not go as early as they expected," returned Ellen. 
               "How long before you are ready?" 
               "Di thinks we ought to stay with papa." 
               "Papa is an old bear, or he would go with us," said the doctor. 
               "Indeed, Dr. Landseer, papa is not a bear. He has to work hard to give us all we want." 
               "Here he comes to answer for himself;" and the doctor and Ellen met Mr. Delafield at the door. 
               "Ellen says you are not a bear." 
               "Do I look like one?" 
               "Not quite as formidable, perhaps." 
               "I see you are for the country." 
               "Will you join us?" 
               "I am afraid not, doctor. To tell you the truth, the wheels are getting sadly out of order; and if I leave, I am afraid they will stop altogether." 
               "Pushing ahead without regard to health or strength. I say, Delafield, if anybody needs recreation, you do. Unless you take care, you will break down before you know it." 
               "Perhaps I can go down for a few days before they return. It would do little good to go now. There must be somebody to keep up supplies. God knows how long it will last." 
               Before they parted, it was settled Di and Ellen were to go out with Dr. Landseer and return with Mr. Delafield. 
               Mrs. Clayton, Grant, and Edna had been the last to say good-by; and bearing a letter from Mr. Parton to his college-chum, Mr. Hawley, the minister at Tipton, they set out. The cars did not take them nearer than twenty miles from Tipton. There a stage was in waiting, "large enough for passengers and baggage, too," said the driver. 
               "People that go to the country do not require the finery that is requisite at the sea-shore," the doctor whispered to Di. 
               With a good deal of wonderment in her great blue eyes, Ellen allowed herself to be lifted to the back seat, while Di sprang up over the wheel as though she had been accustomed to it all her life. The driver was a good-natured man, ready to answer any amount of questions, with a dry humor continually flashing up, to the infinite amusement of his passengers. 
                
               The sun was past the meridian, and the slant rays lay like gold bars on the fence-rails and across the brown road. Far away the mountains lifted their broad shoulders to the skies, and in the distance a river appeared, like a silver ribbon fringed with emeralds. Clusters of oak and maple dotted the wayside, and the birds held high mass on every tree. Through the openings, fields of corn were to be seen, and the green meadows were golden with buttercups. 
               "You have grown very still back there," and Nathan threw a glance behind him. "Seen all there is, have you?" 
               "Not that," returned Di; "but it is so strangely grand and beautiful, words are out of place." 
               "It does n't seem strange to one born here. About as much beauty as there is in the sunrise; one would n't turn to look at it after a few times." 
               "The sunrise! I think it's glorious! I intend to be up every morning in time for this." 
               "Get to be an old story in a month. I've heard ever so many say so. It did n't hold out." 
               "There's an old mill," and Nathan pointed with his whip. "I've been there many a time when a little shaver. Not now what it was then. Everything changes, though." 
               "This valley has not changed much since you knew it, has it?" asked Dr. Landseer. 
               "A mighty sight it has, though. None of these handsome houses then, and a good deal of timber in places. And the farms, in the room of being hemmed in with neat fences and smooth walls, were only staked out. Everything had to be done by hand. Now, machinery does pretty nigh all." 
               "A labor-saving process," replied the doctor. 
               "Taking the bread from the mouths of the children." 
               "How so?" 
               "One man can now do the work of half a dozen, driving the surplus of labor to manufacturing towns, or to anything that offers itself, when, as a matter of course, farming was the choice of these men, and about the only thing they could do with profit to themselves, or to anybody else." 
               "Would you like the old way again?" 
               "It would be a happier way of living." 
               "It does not affect you personally, I see." 
               "I've been tossed up a good bit, Dr. Landseer; but somehow I always come down, like a cat, on my feet. There are some things I like better than others, though." 
               "Have you always lived in these parts?" 
               "Off and on, here 's been my home," and Nathan went on to enlighten the doctor with a few of his adventures. 
               "When we get on that hill, we shall come upon the village,-a pretty show it makes from the ridge," said Nathan, as he reached the climax of his story. 
               The glow of sunset bathed the valley and tinged the tops of the mountains. Nathan drew up his horses. 
               "Glorious! Who ever saw a more charming prospect!" and Dr. Landseer sprang to the ground. 
                
               "You can see just as well here," said Nathan, seeing that Di was about to follow. "We shall wind down the hill into the village. 'T is pretty; but I can't see it just as you do: 't is nothing new to me. And, still, it kinder looks different every time." 
               "God makes everything beautiful," said Ellen, as she stood on the seat, holding on to Nathan's arm. 
               "I don't know much about God. It's natral, and I like it. This is just about the prettiest time in the year." 
               "Don't you know God made everything?" and Ellen's blue eyes looked up to the bronzed face. 
               "It's nater, child. This ere beauty won't last; 't is changing all the time. Trees put out in the spring, then they fade and die, and begin again. It's their nater. Everything goes by rule." 
               "But God made the rule, Nathan." 
               "Can't say; some folks think so." 
               "But, Nathan, God made us, and we are God's," and a puzzled expression clouded. Ellen's face. She had never seen one who doubted God's power; and her anxiety increased with each answer from Nathan. 
               "If God made us, and we are his, I should think he would take care of us." 
               "So he does, Nathan. He keeps us all the time." 
               "A pretty deal of care we 'd get, if we did n't bow down to hard work all the time. I've tried both ways." 
               "Do you mean that you 've tried to let God take care of you?" 
                
               "Not that, exactly; but I've tried a kind of do-nothing way of life. It did n't come to much." 
               "Bluebells, such as you never saw before!" exclaimed Dr. Landseer, coming up the path with his hands full of flowers. "I declare it makes me young again: the very spring where I used to drink when a boy, and the same old mullein stalk, for any difference that I can see. I tried to make a cup, but my hands are too clumsy, and my eyes are full of mist. We 'll try it again some day," and the doctor shook his pocket-handkerchief, and once more resumed his seat. 
               "See that house over there with a little cupola? It looks like a blaze of light," and Nathan pointed with his whip. 
               "Yes," returned Di. 
               "Mr. Hawley lives there. It's little the smartest place in the village. I always feel kind of sad when I pass it, though." 
               "Why sad, Nathan?" 
               "It was built by an Englishman nigh about twenty year ago. He come over and married a sister of Mr. Hawley. A pretty girl as one need see in a lifetime. I never knew quite what; but 't was said he was rich; belonged to one of the great families; could n't marry beneath him. It was about the time I went to Californy; can't tell it straight. His family considered the marriage illegal, and the child unable to hold the property. Mr. Hawley took it up; the Englishman went home, and somehow the child was spirited away, and the mother has been no account ever since." 
                
               "What do you mean: did she die, Nathan?" 
               "She lives; but her reason is gone. Mr. Hawley takes care of her." 
               "Did you know anything of this, Dr. Landseer?" and Di's eyes were full of tears. 
               "It is almost twice twenty years since I lived here, child, and everything has changed since that. For minister then we had an old man by the name of Denon. I remember he always prayed with his eyes open; old square pews with seats hung with hinges, which we always raised in prayer-time. You remember them, Nathan?" 
               "Leetle before my time, doctor. I can just remember I used to ride behind mother to the meeting-house, while she carried the baby in her lap: we always had a baby at our house. I see the sun is most down; guess we 'd better be jogging." 
               The golden tints had vanished as Nathan reined up at Mrs. White's door. 
               "I have been looking for you, doctor," said the good woman, as she came out to welcome them. "And these are the little girls you promised me? Are you tired with the journey?" she asked, giving a hand to Di and Ellen. 
               "Not much, as far as I am concerned, Mrs. White," responded Di. "Ellen is not as strong, and she has expended a good deal of enthusiasm." 
               "Just come right up to your room, and bathe your face and hands: you'll feel better. Here, Seth, take this little girl up-stairs." 
               Seth did not wait to ask permission, but, raising Ellen in his strong arms, sprang up the steps as easily as if he carried a rose-leaf. 
               "There, child, lay right back in this little rocking-chair; you are just tired out. We shall have you all straight in a few days. Nobody is ever sick here." 
               "It is not a bit as I thought it would be," said Ellen, as Mrs. White left the room. "Kate said it was horrid in the country. Do you know, Di, I think it's better than to be in town; and this grand old house. Why, she said the rooms were nothing but pigeon holes." 
               "Kate was thinking of society: there are fewer people to be met with in the country; and their habits and customs are not the same as in the city." 
               "I am glad they are not. I like Nathan ever so much, don't you? And Mrs. White is real good." 
               "Ready for a chicken's wing?" Dr. Landseer called out from the landing. "Think you will like it?" as the girls went out to meet him. 
               "I am sure we shall, Dr. Landseer." 
               "Right glad of that. Mrs. White knows how to make people comfortable." 
               The supper-room was large and airy; cool white matting covered the floor; the windows were draped with muslin curtains, not disturbing the entrance of pure air rich with the perfume of flowers. Pictures covered the walls, and the table was loaded with delicacies. 
               "If the doctor will take this seat, with Miss Delafield and Ellen on each side," said Mrs. White. Seth sat opposite his mother, and a ruddy-cheeked girl of twelve occupied the other side of the table. 
               "Di, if you please, Mrs. White, or Daisy, as Dr. Landseer calls me," as a cup of tea was passed to "Miss Delafield." 
               Mrs. White had hardly looked at her guests; now she had a chance to study their faces, and her good, motherly heart was drawn toward them with a degree of feeling seldom given to those of whom she knew so little. The more she looked at Daisy's face the more was she impressed with the idea that she had seen it before. This could not be, however, for she had never been to the city. Of course it was only a fancy, one of those faces that you meet with at times, a face that brings up haunting memories, as though each feature was the embodiment of something or somebody with whom you have been familiar all your life, and still not sufficiently tangible to recall the exact place and time. 
               After tea the chairs were removed to the porch, and as the shadows veiled the earth, the moon and stars appeared. Ellen nestled to the doctor's side, and Daisy grew silent, so still, it seemed the presence of the Infinite overshadowed them, the sound of his voice walking in the garden. 
               "God is nearer to us in the country," Ellen whispered to Dr. Landseer. 
               "Speaking with him face to face," replied the doctor. This was the first night at Tipton. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               BACK THROUGH THE YEARS. 
               DR. LANDSEER had gone out for two weeks only; his patients could not spare him any longer, and there was not a moment to be lost. 
               "The house has been remodelled till there is not a vestige left," he said to Mrs. White, the morning after his arrival. "I remember the large chimney behind which I used to sleep; on the projecting corners of which we dried nuts, and cracked them as we did our jokes. How rich I felt in the possession of a knife; slipping it into my pocket, and buttoning my coat over it, while I walked up and down the brook to hunt a willow suited for a whistle; and then it was all too large for my infantile strength, and Jerry had to try it, cutting it round, and slipping off the juicy bark from the white wood. With a step prouder than I have taken since, I showed it to my mother, with the knife that Jerry gave me; the dear glad eyes looking into mine with a wealth of love. Drawing me to her bosom, she pressed her lips to mine, and wept. I marvelled to see the tears, while her white lips trembled. In a few days she was ill; and before I had learned to know what sickness meant, my mother fell asleep, never to wake again. With childlike awe and wonder, I crept into the cold room, raised the white sheet, and cried myself to sleep. Long after nightfall they found me there; and Jerry carried me in his arms up to my bed behind the chimney. Since then I have known sorrow; but none so keen, a dull throbbing pain, not sharp and fierce as I knew it then." 
               Through all that day the little reminiscences of early life were cropping out. The trees were the only things that looked familiar, and these had grown large, their trunks moss-covered. Then the barn was visited, and the doctor explained to Daisy and Ellen the way he used to climb to the great beams, and jump upon the hay below. "I would hardly risk it now," and he looked up to the dizzy height. Over the large doors pigeons cooed, and made circuits, teaching their young to fly. Down the narrow path, overgrown with long dank grass to the small spring at the foot of the cherry-tree, the old bucket rimmed with moss; but the happy voices, as they dipped their tin-pails in the sparkling fountain, were no longer heard. Then across the meadow to the island, the white line of a brook girdling it in. Changed as it was, there were haunting memories, the line of cherry-trees recalling the time when he had begged his mother to let him look at the mowers in the field, rolling on the new-made hay, and eating cherries to his fill. The sun set, Jerry broke a limb weighed down with fruit, and, climbing to the top of the loaded cart, sang out to Spot and Brindle, as they toiled slowly along the narrow track. 
               The letter from Mr. Parton to Mr. Hawley won for the small party immediate attention. Morning, noon, and night he was at their service; and a better guide could not have been found, neither a more genial companion. 
               "I had no adequate idea of what the country offers," said Daisy, as Mr. Hawley came up with a bouquet of tiny white bells. "The exquisite beauty of the wild flowers exceeds all that I have known." 
               "Wild flowers are planted by His hand and nourished by His care; there is a delicacy and a beauty that we never see in hot-house plants," Mr. Hawley replied. 
               "Art can fashion nothing like these," continued Daisy, examining more closely the flowers. "What exquisite pencilling!" 
               "Modest and unassuming, they come freighted with rich lessons to those who have the willingness to hear," answered the pastor. 
               "It seems a pity that so much beauty is never to be seen," said Ellen, as she opened the long grass and gazed on the wildlings. 
               "Sitting in the place He gave. Not passive, for their fragrance finds them out," said Dr. Landseer, as he joined the group. 
               "What charming lessons of content they teach. Withholding neither beauty nor perfume because unseen," rejoined Mr. Hawley. 
               Daisy caught the words. It was the very lesson she had tried to learn. 
                
               "It makes little difference where we are, or what we have to contend with," continued Mr. Hawley, as though he divined Daisy's perplexity. "All that is expected of us is to do our best, and, doing this, be content. When dark to us, we know it's plain to Him. No need of undue care or restlessness." 
               "In the place He gave," went ringing through her ears, as she wandered back to the porch. So long Daisy had allowed herself to question, Why and wherefore? She had not deemed it wrong. Thoughtless, perhaps, and often, as she looked upon the small dress, had she been restless and questioning. "God never makes mistakes," Mr. Hawley said. " His plans have an end and aim, and good is the result." 
               It is wonderful, the effect of a few words,-the subtle power to strengthen, calm, and lift us up, or drag us down with their withering, scathing sharpness. There were walks and rides, and once there had been a picnic, to which the villagers were invited; and Daisy and Ellen were as much disappointed in the elegant refinement of these villagers as they had been in the rare views and visions of beauty that flashed upon them from every quarter. 
               Walking on the river-sands, Dr. Landseer slipped the pebbles through his fingers, or sent them skipping over the waves, to the delight of Ellen; and Mr. Hawley brought pine-cones, full of lingering perfume. Overhead, the bird singers trilled their songs, and the squirrels sat at their doors chattering a welcome to each one as he passed. 
                
               Try as she would, there was a thread of sadness in Di's heart. Wandering away, she seated herself on a fallen tree. Back through the years. How distinctly they swept before her. The hours of loneliness and sharp, stinging pain; the struggles, trials, aims, and hopes; the reaching up to a higher life. Then the gloom, the despondency, striving to attain, and not attaining; and only the more conscious of the deceitfulness of her own heart, the want of firm endeavor in the attempt to do. 
               "Moralizing, Daisy?" and Mr. Hawley crossed the river on a trembling plank. 
               "Only thinking, Mr. Hawley, how small it all seems." 
               "All the pleasure, or the trouble?" 
               "Both." 
               "I did not suppose that you had made deep acquaintance with the latter." 
               "My share," and a strange, sad smile lit up Di's face. 
               "We are privileged to live in the sunshine. Clouds may obscure it for a moment, but with the next breath they are gone. So with our spiritual and inner life. Only keep in the sunshine of His love." 
               "Can we always do this?" and Daisy glanced up with an expression that revealed the hungering of her own heart. 
               "To live in the sunshine of His love is only to live constantly in His presence. This is the privilege granted to us. We cannot be very miserable when permitted to live with those we love." 
                
               "But there are times when He seems so far away." 
               "That is because we stray away from Him, seeking our own pleasure, turning our backs upon the tender, loving face, not caring to hear the sweetly persuasive accents 'Come unto me.' Lonely and sad as we may be, all we have to do is to go to Him; and not only is He a friend willing to receive us, but He runs to meet us, to embrace, and fold us to His heart, blotting out our transgressions for His own sake. When in trouble or in doubt, cast down and be-we have only to grasp His hand tightly." 
               "I knew this, Mr. Hawley; but I do not always realize it. I am afraid that I do not reach out after this hand." 
               "Spiritual growth, as the physical, is gradual. These towering oaks were once tender saplings; sunshine has warmed them into life, and storms and tempests have strengthened them. They never would have stood so firmly, but for the winds that for the time seemed about to destroy them. We cannot come to our full stature without conflict,-self has to be subdued, unyielding will brought into subjection; and this cannot be effected without a sharp and bitter struggle." 
               "But when we feel that the contest has been waged, to find so much strife and commotion and just at a time, perhaps, when in no mood to battle with it, said Daisy. 
               "So long as we are in the flesh, so long the warfare will continue. 'Give us this day,' is our prayer." 
                
               "This in itself is discouraging; if we could only feel that we accomplished something," and there was a weary look on Di's face. 
               "Life is compared to a journey," continued Mr. Hawley; "we do not take it all at once. Each day we take advance steps; night finds us farther on our way than when we started in the morning, still the journey is not accomplished; refreshed by needful rest, we are to set out again." 
               "Dinner is nearly ready, and your reverence will be called for," said Dr. Landseer, as he flung himself at his length on the grass. 
               "A day like this lifts one up to the full height of humanity. I feel that I shall be a better man, my whole after-life gladdened by this little trip," and the doctor looked up at the white cloud-ships sailing above him. 
               "Doctors, of all people, need rest occasionally," replied Mr. Hawley. "There is a constant strain upon their vital energies. The cask that is always giving out will sometime run dry." 
               "Rest is as much a Christian grace as action; and a grace that is practically overlooked by most of us. 'Onward' is the motto, and away we go with railroad speed, rushing through life without a pause to drink in the beauty of the way. It is this that breaks down American life so early, this continual onward move without regard to age or sex; afraid, if they stop, that their neighbor will shoot ahead, and only brought up at last by the hard bit of necessity," continued Dr. Landseer. 
                
               "Dinner is waiting," and this time the order was imperative. A novel dinner, surely,-white cloths spread on the grass, and surrounded by groups careless, cosy, chatting and laughing with all the abandon of out-door life. Meals taken in this way are sure to be seasoned with good appetites, and the rich wine of enjoyment circulated freely. 
               "This has been a good day," said Ellen, as she walked home with her hand in Dr. Landseer's. 
               "And you have enjoyed it?" 
               "If papa could only have been here." 
               "I must go back to-morrow. Suppose you write and tell him your wish; and I will try and send him out earlier than he thought it possible for him to leave." 
               "Do you think they are happier at the sea-side? Mamma writes that she gets so tired bathing, dressing, and visiting. I wonder if they are happier?" asked Ellen. 
               "Happiness is an ambiguous word. Of one thing we can be assured, we have had a happy time," and the doctor pointed to the crimson clouds, and the bars of gold bridging the meadow. 
               "A day that I shall not forget. I will write to papa; and you must tell him, Dr. Landseer." 
               Proud as a man may be of his physical strength and of his intellectual capacity, when his heart is stirred, he is as weak as a child. Dr. Landseer had been living in the past for the last two weeks. It was over now; the work-day life was before him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               AN UNEXPECTED MEETING. 
               THERE was hardly a walk in and about Tipton which Daisy had not discovered; and since Dr. Landseer left, Seth and Lydia had been more frequently with her. In this way there were many items of village history creeping out, and by degrees Daisy became more or less acquainted with every family. Bronzed as Seth was, and dressed in homespun, there was nothing rude about him; and his conversation showed culture that surprised Daisy, the more frequently she listened to him. Willing as he was to give all information with regard to country life, he had countless questions to ask of the city, contrasting and drawing conclusions full of wit and good-humor. 
               "You have not been to the 'Devil's Den,'" said Lydia, one morning, as Daisy was planning an extensive excursion for the day. 
               "I had no idea his majesty had a den in this region." 
               "It's a lovely place; though I can 't imagine why they gave it such a wicked name," continued Lydia. 
               "Years ago it was likely wilder than it is now; and it may have been used as a place of ambush for wrong-doers. At any rate, it has borne that name ever since I knew anything about it," said Mrs White. 
               "I hardly think I can go with you this morning," Seth replied. "I have to go to mill, and the mare wants a shoe. Will you be afraid to go alone?" 
               "There's nothing to fear, is there?" 
               "Nothing but the name," and Seth laughed heartily. 
               "My curiosity is excited. I must see this formidable place." 
               "Will you take me for a guide?" asked Lydia. 
               "I shall be glad to have your company." 
               "And I may go?" asked Ellen. 
               "Will you go with them, or take a ride with me," asked Seth. "I can put the bags under the seat, and throw a blanket over them." 
               "I am not afraid of meal-bags. Am I free to decide, Di?" 
               "That means, are you free to give Seth the preference?" and there was a quizzical look on Di's face. 
               "I would rather go to ride, Di." 
               "There is no reason why you should not." 
               "But you won't laugh at me?" 
               "Laugh at you! I hardly know but I would like to go with Seth myself." 
               Seth was putting Dolly into the light wagon. 
               "Pity we had n't two seats; then all could go," added Mrs. White, as Seth adjusted the buckles. 
               Di was making Ellen ready. 
               "A responsible little charge," exclaimed Seth, as he lifted Ellen into the seat. 
                
               "Mind you tell me all about the mill and the blacksmith's shop," said Daisy, as Dolly trotted down the road. 
               "If you go, you had better start right off," said Mrs. White. "The sun will be hot in an hour or two. Wonder if Seth took an umbrella? That little thing will just wilt down." 
               "I don't believe he did. No, here it is. Shall I run after him, mother?" asked Lydia. 
               "Dolly gets over the ground too fast for that, child. Seth is a boy who thinks; and if it gets too warm, he will borrow one." 
               It was a perfect day,-the sun, like a great gold ball suspended in an arch of blue; the white, fleecy clouds looked like clustering snowflakes, cool, spotless, and inviting. 
               "I never see a cloud like that, but I want to hide myself in it. I like clouds. I can't help it," said Lydia, with a nervous force, giving Daisy to understand that, like her love, she could n't help it. 
               "I have to confess to a love for clouds. There is a purity about them especially inviting." 
               "Mother says that it is a waste of time to watch them; but they float easily; and when once I look, I have to look again, and before I am done, I want to be up there." 
               "Clouds are but mist. The white, fleecy ones are those that you seem to admire," Daisy continued. 
               "They are not just like the black ones, gathering up and rolling from one part of the sky to another. I can't tell which I like best. There are different thoughts with each. When I look at the white ones, I think how good God is to make everything so beautiful; and the black ones make me think of his power, the angry sweep of his eye; and still I like to hear him speak in the thunder," and Lydia stopped suddenly, and a deep blush overspread heir face. 
               "Don't be afraid to talk of the clouds and your love for them. God has hung them for curtains; not to hide his face, but to veil his glory." 
               "We are little more than half-way there. Are you tired?" and Lydia perched herself on the stile that separated one field from another. 
               "Not a bit," replied Daisy, mounting the steps. 
               "It's a good place to look from. I don't know which is the best," continued Lydia. 
               "The sky or the earth?" 
               "There's always something to see; just as though He thought we 'd forget if left to ourselves." 
               "Do you love flowers?" 
               "I never have enough of them; especially the little wild ones. Mr. Hawley has told me a good deal about them. That's one thing I like him for." 
               "You can analyze them?" 
               "Tell the order, class, and species by the number of stamens and pistils?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Mr. Hawley taught Seth, and I learned what I could. Seth always goes over the lesson with me." 
               Hardly knowing it, a great respect grew up for the little maiden. "Here is one doing what she can,-loving God, and reading the lesson of his love through his works; while I, with more ample privileges, am often murmuring," thought Daisy. 
               "The sun is getting higher; we had better start," said Lydia, after a pause. "I hope there won't be anybody at the 'Den' this morning." 
               "Is it much frequented?" 
               "The minister's folks like to go there; it's just back of their house," and Lydia jumped down, and commenced her walk. 
               "It's a good day to go to the corners; Ellen will enjoy it. I wanted to go; but then it's nothing new to me. I know every inch of ground; and Seth said he 'd bring me what I want." 
               "It was amiable in you to stay at home, and let Ellen take your place," said Daisy. 
               "I don't know; it makes me happy to think that she will enjoy it." 
               "That's a right view to take of it; it's not every one that does it, however." 
               "Mother says I like to have my own way; and so I do: but here we are, almost before I had thought of it," and Lydia stopped suddenly. 
               The place indicated as the "Devil's Den" was in a long ravine, the sides well wooded with a thick undergrowth, in places almost impenetrable with clinging vines and interlacing branches. The sun could hardly penetrate the dense foliage, and it was dark and cold. Daisy shook and trembled. 
               "Are you afraid?" 
               "From the tropics to the pole is enough to make one tremble," replied Daisy. "Let us see if we can get into the sunshine." 
               "It will be difficult to find it here." 
               Narrow paths wound along the sides, and steps were worn in the hard soil, rendering the descent easy. Calm as it was in the outer world, a breeze rippled through the tree-tops, and a weird song floated upward. 
               "You always hear that. Seth calls it the organ," and Lydia held back the boughs with her hands. 
               At the extremity of the ravine there was a cave, framed in with rocks, seamed and moss-covered. A rivulet trickled down the shelving side, and the stones beneath were slippery, tangled vines interlaced, and the branches of trees overlapped each other. 
               "A fitting name do you call it?" and Lydia's eyes were raised to Di's face. 
               "A fairy grotto, a home for the wood-nymphs rather. If there was only an opening for the sunrays, would n't it be lovely?" 
               "Seth has often thought of that; he says it would have to be cut away a good deal, and the effect would not be as good. I can show you a bit of sunshine, if it's not too early; the girls used to come here with their books at recess. It is nice and cool; but so pretty, we could n't study; and the birds were always singing and the squirrels chattering. They seemed to like it just as we did, because of the sunshine." 
               Leaving Daisy at the mouth of the cave, Lydia stepped over the sharp stones, climbing up the band, swinging from point to point by taking hold of the branches. Agile as Daisy was, she found it difficult to keep up. 
               "Hush! she 's there." 
               "Who 's there?" and Daisy was startled at the snapping of a dry limb under her feet. 
               "Mrs. Lisle, the minister's sister." 
               "The crazy woman?" 
               "Yes. Let us go back," and Lydia began to retrace her steps. 
               "There's no cause to fear her. Let us speak to her." 
               "She's just as white as a sheet," and Lydia pressed still nearer to Daisy. 
               Instantly, Nathan's words flashed across Daisy's brain, and, following along the path, she came into a little glade, bright with sunshine. Seated on the mossy carpet was a young, slender woman, her white dress falling loosely, a bright-colored shawl flung over her shoulders, and her long black hair threaded with silver. She held a book in her hand, and whether reading or talking, Daisy could not tell. One look at the pale, sad face, and Daisy would have gladly made a retreat, it seemed like intrusion; and already had she turned, when the woman raised her eyes, and rising with a graceful dignity began to talk as to one whom she had been waiting for. 
               Daisy was no longer frightened; she knew this was not unfrequently the manner with those bereft of reason; and she allowed herself to be led back to the seat, while the sick woman petted and caressed her, patting her face, then holding her a little from her and looking into her eyes with the utmost tenderness, all the while talking in a low, sad tone. 
               "She's thinking of her child," though Daisy, and all unconsciously what she knew of her own history but the grief. Her parents were English, and this woman was an American; it made her think of it, that was all, and the tears trickled slowly down her cheeks. 
               Not knowing but it would lead to excitement on the part of the invalid, she at length won her to go home, by promising to accompany her. Giving her arm, they entered a path, comparatively smooth, leading directly to Mr. Hawley's house. Daisy has twice been there; but she had not met with this woman, neither had she heard the name. Nathan's woods were the key. Before they reached the gate Mr. Hawley met them. 
               "We have been to the ravine, and coming out we intruded upon this invalid. I did not know her habit, and I persuaded her to come home. Was it right?" and Daisy made an attempt to disengage herself. 
               You did right, and I am obliged to you; I had just started for her as I saw you coming. I am surprised at the fondness she express for you. It is not her manner to notice strangers in the least." 
               "She evidently imagines me to be some one whom she has known. Is there no help, Mr. Hawley?" 
               "All the skill in the country has been brought to bear upon her case. Her sadness seems to deepen each day, and of late her physical health has failed perceptibly." 
               Soothing and quieting more by his manner than by his words, Mr. Hawley succeeded in winning her to walk with him, leaving Daisy and Lydia to pass on. 
               "It's no use," Mrs. White said, as Lydia related the incident. "If she could be helped, she would have been years ago. 'T was a cruel thing, and somebody will have to answer for it. I've heard say the child would have inherited a large fortune, and on that account she was made way with. Poor little thing! it's almost a pity her mother could n't have died with her." 
               Seth and Ellen did not return until sundown; and then there was so much to relate of the mill and the blacksmith's-shop. 
               "You have not told me of your walk," said Ellen, as she turned to Daisy. 
               "Some other time I will tell you; it is too late, and you must rest." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               OVER THE FARM. 
               AS the summer deepened, new diversions offered. It was a novel thing for Daisy and Ellen to mount Seth's cart, and drive over the farm,-going with him to bring the cows at night, or to carry salt to the sheep pastures, placing it upon the grass, and watching the gentle creatures run across the field the girls tried in vain to imitate. 
               One of the chief attractions had been to watch the mower. Mrs. White's fields were small, but when the grass was ready, a neighboring farmer came with a noble pair of matches, driving as proudly, Ellen said, as he would have done in a carriage,-the grass falling behind him like troops of gallant soldiers. 
               "It's nice; but not half as pretty as the old way," Nathan said, as he crossed his arms and leaned over the fence. 
               "How was that, Nathan?" 
               "You remember that old scythe hanging up in the barn? The man, a dozen of them, perhaps, for such a field, stripped off their coats, and grasping the scythe by the handles, swung it steadily backward ward and forward, leaving a clean swathe behind them. It was a beautiful thing to look at, but hard work to do it. Many's the swathe that I have cut; and every now and then some one stopped to whet his scythe, keeping up perpetual music." 
               "How long ago was that, Nathan?" 
               "Not so very long; I'm not an old man yet. Besides, there's plenty of farmers who do it; now. These new-fangled notions cost a sight; only rich men can have 'em." 
               "I should regard it as a very great improvement," said Daisy, looking back at the mower. 
               "He will finish pretty quick; after it is sufficiently dry, he will put one horse to a smaller machine, and rake it up into winroes," added Nathan. 
               "I never knew what haymaking was before," said Ellen. "I think it's nice to live in the country any way; and I like to bring home the cows: they seem to know just when we are coming, standing at the bars, and turning their great wondering eyes upon us; and I do believe they know Daisy's voice and mine just as well as they do Seth's." 
               "Folks that live in the country like it. We can't have everything in one place, though. What you have we haven't, and again we have a great many things that we would n't exchange for city life. Think of going home soon?" 
               "If we could only persuade papa to come out. I do want him to see just how nice everything is," replied Ellen. 
               "Would you like to live here for good?" 
               "If papa was here." 
                
               "Perhaps he could n't content himself with butterflies and birds' nests. Old eyes miss something when they come out." 
               "You don't know papa, Nathan. If he comes, you must see him. I know he will like it." 
               Not a week but Mr. Delafield sent them letters. Still it was only a vague idea, his leaving the city. Mrs. Delafield sometimes favored them, and Kate and Agnes added a postscript; but, unlike the father's, leading Ellen to say, as she finished: "I wonder what makes mamma tired? Rachel is there; and still she can never give me but a line, she has so much to do." 
               "She has to go out a good deal, I presume;" and, with accustomed tact, Daisy turned the conversation into other channels. 
               "I am going to the village. Have you letters?" and Seth rode up on Dolly's back. 
               "No letters to go out. You will please bring some when you return." 
               "From the office? or shall I write you one?" asked Seth, good-humoredly. 
               "As time is pressing, we will not exact a letter on short notice," and Daisy patted Dolly's neck, and slipped her fingers through the long black mane. 
               "Want a ride just two minutes long?" and Seth put out his long arms and swung Ellen up before him. A merry laugh rippled through the rose-leaves, and Dolly went cantering down the walk and along the flower-beds. 
               "I've been trying all summer to get a saddle. Lydia has begged me. She knew you would like it; but mother felt she could not quite afford it. Come up next summer, and we'll have it," and Dolly wheeled up to the porch. 
               "Glorious! is n't it?" and Ellen's cheeks looked almost as rosy as Lydia's. 
               As Seth started, Daisy proposed a visit to Mrs. Orcutt. "I told Nathan that we would call this week, and it is the last day." 
               "If you go, I will give you a bottle of elderberry. I have n't enough for everybody; but I've known Mrs. Orcutt nigh upon thirty years now. She 's a good woman in every sense of the word." 
               "What may I take, Mrs. White?" 
               "You shall carry something, child. Lydia can't go to-night; I want her. I don't know. Nathan is a good provider. I suppose his mother never wants for anything. It's only neighborly to think of her when she 's sick; and sometimes things cooked out of the house taste better. There 's my nice rusks for Sunday; I guess I'll send some of them." 
               "And that little pie you baked for me, mother." 
               "Don't you want it, child?" 
               "I know it's nice; but I'd rather she'd have it, mother." 
               "I declare, I never saw such a girl. I just believe you'd give away all you have. I like generosity; but this giving away all is a little too much." 
               "I have all I want," and Lydia tripped into the pantry, her sleeves rolled up, and her white arms ready for whatever her mother desired her to do. 
               "Tell Aunt Margaret it's nigh upon seven years old. If this don't set her up, I don't know what will;" and Mrs. White brought a bottle of wine from the cellar and gave it to Daisy, with a basket of rusks, and the pie to Ellen. 
               "I shall tell her who sent it," and Ellen threw a bright glance at Lydia. 
               It was a lovely evening, and the two chatted gayly as they went down the road. A few weeks of outdoor life had made a great difference with Ellen. Her forehead was brown from exposure, and her cheeks tinged with health. No longer was she obliged to measure her exercise by her strength. She could safely challenge Lydia to a race, and her dresses were all too small for her. 
               "Something makes mamma sad," Ellen said, after exhausting all her enthusiasm on the beauty of the evening. "I am sometimes afraid it is Jay and Cyrus. I can 't see why they have to spend so much. Seth is a great deal happier than they are, and he hardly ever has any money of his own." 
               "Seth cares more about books," said Daisy; and she once more endeavored to talk of something else. Ellen would not be diverted. She was anticipating letters when Seth returned, and her little active brain was already on the alert. 
               "If they could see papa as I have seen him, they 'd do differently. I just know what I'll do; I'll tell them. I will not see him troubled. If he would only come out here. Or, Daisy, don't you think we can persuade him to stay?" 
               "His business is in the city, and it might not be easy for him to make the change;" and Daisy plucked a buttercup, and held it under Ellen's chin. 
                
               Mrs. Orcutt's house was a brown, one-story building, on the outskirts of the village,-a small yard in front, filled with lilacs, roses, and mountain ash. In the background a well, with a long sweep, sheltered by a towering elm. Maples bordered the roadside, and a happier-looking place was not to be found. Nathan had made his accustomed rounds, and sat smoking in the door, his coat thrown aside, and a general air of enjoyment pervading his entire beings. 
               "Do not let us disturb you," Daisy said, as Nathan laid down his pipe, snatched up his coat, and came forward to meet them. 
               "It's no trouble for me to see ladies any time. I've often told mother you ought not to come just when you know I'm away. I brought you here, and I think I've about as good a right to see you now and then as anybody." 
               "It has not been convenient for us to come when you were likely to be here, Nathan. We were quite sure of you to-night," said Daisy. 
               "Mother will be glad to see you. She is much better to-day. Walk right in." 
               It was not the first time Daisy and Ellen had been to Mrs. Orcutt's house, and the room wore a familiar look. Seated in her arm-chair, her white hair put back under a muslin cap, her calico wrapper fresh and clean, with spectacles on her nose, the good woman was reading. 
               "I am glad to see you, children," she said, as she held out her arms. "It is good of you to remember an old woman like me." 
                
               "I am glad to see that you are able to read," said Daisy, lifting the book. 
               "It's a great comfort to me. Lying on my bed, and racked with pain, I could think of His love. His arms were underneath me. My little life was dear to Him. But I like to read His word; and the more I read, the dearer it is to me. It is a precious privilege to love Jesus. I am glad to know that you are striving to follow Him in your youth." 
               "I sometimes fear that I do not love Him in sincerity. I find so much evil in my heart-so many foolish, wicked thoughts." 
               "Yours is not a peculiar case. Paul knew what it was. It is only by His grace that we overcome; and the discipline of years is necessary for a ripe growth of Christian experience and love." 
               "Sometimes I feel that I am making some advance-sure that I shall never again feel like questioning His love or doubting His faithfulness; the next, and I find myself desponding, the glory of His face hid from my view." 
               "I used to be troubled that way more than I am now," replied the invalid. "I used to feel that, small as I was, and poor, He might forget me. I read His promises, but I did not dare to take them to myself. I tortured myself by thinking that they were intended for somebody else. It was not until I lost well-nigh everything that I learned to trust Him-that I learned to take Him at His word: 'Whosoever will.' There are not two words in the whole book so dear to me as these. 'Whosoever:' there's no shutting out; the poorest may come, the weakest, the most ignorant; there is no danger of being forgotten. Jesus knows his own, and they are known of Him; neither shall they ever be plucked out of His hand. 
               'Whosoever will.' I knew that meant me: I was sure of it; and I have been happy ever since." 
               Nathan had been with Ellen into the garden, and they had returned with their hands full of flowers and a basket of early apples. 
               "Just about as nice as you'll see anywhere, I guess, The nectarines are not quite turned. In general, the fruit is quite fine this season. When did you hear from your father?" 
               "It is a week since. Seth has gone to the office. We shall probably find letters when we reach home." 
               "If he 'll come in a week or two, he 'll find plenty of everything to eat, better than anything to be found in the city. Market fruit has not the freshness, neither the flavor, as when picked from the tree." 
               Before they left, Nathan showed them through the apple orchard, and Ellen's delight was unbounded as she passed under limbs weighed down with rich golden fruit. Going home, Mr. Hawley joined them, and before Daisy was aware, she was telling him her own little history, the circumstances under which she went to live with Mr. Delafield, etc. 
               "It is only about twelve years since?" asked Mr. Hawley, absently. 
               "Nearly thirteen. Ellen was a little thing-a baby." 
               "And you were judged to be three or four years old?" 
                
               "So I have been told." 
               Mr. Hawley shook his head. All day there had been a tangled thread. Of course there was no accounting for the fancies of delirium; but the invalid's fondness for Daisy was each day increasing, and under the influence of her presence the poor woman showed less of mental disorder. During several interviews, Mr. Hawley had watched her carefully, and there was evidently some spell or influence that he did not understand; such a look of rest on the invalid's face, such deep tenderness in the eyes, and, as soon as separated, a sorrow deeper, more impenetrable than before. But it was fifteen in the room of thirteen years. Of course it could not be the same. And to his study the good clergyman went, feeling oppressed with a question that it was in vain for him to unravel. 
               The stars were out when Seth returned-he had been unexpectedly detained-and he placed a package of letters and papers upon the table. 
               "Not one from papa!" exclaimed Ellen, as she looked them over. 
               "Here is one from Dr. Landseer;" and Daisy broke the envelope. 
               "He must be coming; on his way, perhaps, and the doctor has written to have us prepared," said Ellen, gayly. 
               "No, Ellen," as Daisy ran her eye over the page. "Papa is ill, very ill. Dr. Landseer says we must come at once. We must ask Nathan to take us to the cars, and the doctor will meet us at the depot." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE SICK CHAMBER. 
               THE transition from the charming abandon of outdoor life to a sick room would have been felt, had Daisy and Ellen found time to think of themselves. Mr. Delafield was seriously ill, and the utmost care was needful, if his life was to be saved. Hearing of his illness, and knowing that his wife and daughters were absent, Mrs. Clayton hastened to offer her assistance, and Dr. Landseer did not refuse it. 
               "We will send for Daisy," he said. "She has a ready hand; and Ellen will prove no drawback. For the rest, I shall let them remain where they are." 
               "Your father is very ill," Dr. Landseer said to Ellen, as she rushed forward to meet him. "It is possible that he will recover; and if he does, it will depend more upon nursing than upon medicines. Control yourself, and go in and out of the room just as though you had not been away. Say and do nothing to excite him. And you," turning to Daisy, "will quickly see what is wanting. I depend upon you. Mrs. Clayton is a good woman. She will not leave the house, and I will do what I can." With this, the doctor left them at their own door. 
               Mrs. Clayton anticipated their coming, and stood in the hall ready to receive them. 
                
               "Mr. Delafield is very ill; but, if it please God, he will recover," she said, as she held them in her arms. There was strength and hope in the words; and pushing down the sobs, the two girls ran up to their room. Hastily throwing off her travelling-dress, Daisy put on a light wrapper and slippers, taking care that there was nothing to rustle, or disturb the invalid. Ellen attired herself in the same manner; and, following at a little distance apart, both stood in the sick chamber. 
               Illness makes strange havoc with the faces of those we love; and as Daisy looked at the wasted cheeks, crimson with fever, and the wild, restless eyes, she trembled like an aspen. Wearily the invalid tossed on his bed, and Ellen's name was murmured fondly. Mrs. Clayton made a sign to the child. Gliding to the bedside, she laid her cool hand on the throbbing temples. 
               "Now, then, that is like my own little girl. The days have been long since I missed my little fairy." 
               "Papa, dear papa," and the rosy lips trembled on the flushed forehead. 
               "There! there! that is like her," and the wild eyes softened. Did he know her? She was not sure; but she felt that her presence was a comfort to him, and, sinking on her knees, she soothed the aching head till he slept. 
               From that moment, Daisy and Ellen never left him, and Mrs. Clayton watched with a mother's solicitude over each. 
               Dr. Landseer, from motives of his own, had not informed Mrs. Delafield of the danger. He had merely written that her husband was ill, at the same time advising her to remain. Mrs. Clayton was there, and everything was being done. If her presence was necessary, he would let her know. 
               "It will be fatal to have those rustling girls," he said to Mrs. Clayton. "I will send for Daisy and Ellen; and besides these a soul shall not enter his room." 
               Dr. Landseer was as good as his word. The waves of dissipation rolling back from the sea-shore, "Send for Di immediately," returned Mrs. Delafield. "She is a far better nurse than I am. It is now in the height of the season. Kate and Agnes would break their hearts, should I oblige them to return." 
               "They need not break their hearts," said the doctor, under his breath. "There's another way of doing it, I'm afraid;" and he wrote to Mrs. Delafield to remain, and watched and waited to see how the scale would turn. 
               Through all those dreary days the invalid hardly knew one lucid moment, while Daisy was compelled to listen to many a revelation from which she would gladly have escaped. Without attempting to unravel, she saw that perplexity in business had much to do with it; and bills of unthought-of expenditure floated out in incoherent words and half-uttered syllables. These must have been contracted by Jay and Cyrus, for, expensive as the young ladies were, the items enumerated could not have been set down to their account. When the invalid was in this mood, Daisy attempted, as far as possible, to remove Ellen and Mrs. Clayton Ellen could not command herself and Daisy could not bear that Mrs. Clayton should have the key to so much trouble. 
               "Do people in delirium usually talk of what troubled them in health?" Daisy asked of Dr Landseer. 
               "It depends upon the cause that produced delirium. Brooding long over one subject tends to throw he mind off the track. In that case, the tangled threads and broken links would cling with more or less tenacity to the subject in question. Do not be too much troubled. Mr. Delafield has been greatly perplexed. These boys are making him a great deal of trouble. Buoyed up by their father's wealth, they have run into all kinds of excess. For two years their bills have been enormous, and Mr. Delafield sees that, if this course is continued, it will crush him. It was this that kept him through all the summer days so closely at his desk; and here is the result." 
               At length there came a change,-a day when the fever left him. and he lay white and still, and almost as helpless as an infant. Tears ran down his cheeks and his lips trembled, as Ellen put her arms around his neck. 
               "Dear papa, you have been so sick; and we could do nothing but watch and wait, and tell Jesus. He has been pleased to make you better. I could not live without you, papa." 
               It was a happy hour for Daisy, when Mr. Delafield looked into her face, and knew whose hand ministered to his wants. 
                
               "And you have been with me through this terrible fever," he said, at length. 
               "You had been ill but a few days when we returned," Daisy replied. 
               "I remember, the day before I took my bed, I felt that I must send for you. But when I thought of your passing the summer so happily, and the health my little girl was drinking in, as the effect of out-door life and exercise, I could not find it in my heart to do it." 
               "I am only sorry that you did not send at once. It might have saved you days of suffering. As it is, we must do our best. The doctor says care is only wanting to have you up again." 
               "Dr. Landseer is a good man as well as a good physician. I owe him more than I can ever pay." 
               There was nothing like conversation in Mr. Delafield's room. Still, words were dropped, destined to take root and bring forth fruit. Mr. Delafield had never been a religious man; but there was something in Ellen's speech, and in the book she read, that thrilled him with new and strange emotion. Religion was not the myth that he had thought it to be. There was form and comeliness, and instinctively he began to question. Gradually light dawned upon his understanding. Not that he saw clearly. As the blind man saw men as trees, walking, so Mr. Delafield saw the rich truths of divine grace and love. 
               Strange as it may seem, these days of convalescence were the happiest he had known. A soft and soothing quiet had crept over him, and he longed to have it always last. Fruit is not gathered from neglected vines, and gold is not garnered without planning. Business pressed heavily; the wants of a household must be met. 
               "I am well enough to lay aside my gown and staff," said Mr. Delafield, as he walked across the room without the aid of Daisy's arm. "It was a fearful illness; but I have really enjoyed getting well." 
               "Not half as much as we have, papa," and Ellen slid her hand into her father's. "How nice it would be, could we live in this way all the time. I mean to read and talk just as we have been doing. When mamma comes back, the house will be full and we shall never see you, papa." 
               A cloud settled on the thin face. Ellen had touched a chord that vibrated through his being. What a false, hollow life! Not that Mr. Delafield was unsocial, but this constant whirl and dazzle the glittering tinsel of a worldly creed, "to do as others do," regardless of home and comfort. Mrs. Delafield did not court display for herself. As a mother, she felt it to be imperative; the welfare of her daughters demanded it; and if she would, she had not the courage to set the example of cultivating the hearts and the heads of her daughters. Such a course would be called eccentric, or, what was worse, strong-mindedness. Mrs. Delafield was not a woman to clamor "for rights." She honored her husband. It was not in her nature to assume the least of his prerogatives rogatives. Her realm was in the affections, and she verily believed that she was acting in just the way and manner to bring about the desired effect. Flowers, to be appreciated, must be seen. Gold is of no use hid away in the earth. The diamond and the charcoal are all the same when buried in darkness. Mrs. Delafield's daughters were of suitable age to be established in homes of their own. As a mother, she wished them to form worthy alliances. She did not stop to question if they were prepared to take upon themselves the responsibility of wife and mother. It was not the fashion to do this; besides, they would learn it as they went along. She did. 
               "I am glad that you are quite recovered," Mrs. Delafield wrote to her husband. "I felt relieved when I learned that Di was at home. She has a natural tact about many things that I have all my life found it impossible to attain. I am delighted to hear that Ellen has grown so strong and healthy. She writes me that she is as brown as a berry. I trust, now that she is with you, her complexion is duly cared for. Tell her to wear her bonnet in the rooms, or, perhaps, she had better wear a mask at night. I think Di might make one, such as Kate wore when she returned from the country. Ellen was so clear, I can 't bear to think that her cheeks are brown and coarse. Di was never fair; it does not matter so much with her. You will be delighted to know that Kate and Agnes have improved. Kate is considered the belle of the season, and Mr. Flashman is envied by all the male circle. I used to wish the choice might fall on Mr. Lyndsey. He was here a few days, and, just as we heard of your illness, he went to the country. He is certainly a very superior young man, and, although not as rich as Mr. Flashman, I would greatly prefer him for a son-in-law. I feel quite sure that Agnes's penchant for young Stanton is wearing off. I trust so; for rumor speaks not well of him. They say that he has a wife. As for that matter, however, I do not believe it. Still, I would rather Agnes would have nothing to do with him. Jay has been very attentive to me. His horses are the finest here, and he drives well. I hope he is beginning to turn a new leaf. I never knew how much trouble one has with sons. Cyrus seems to have fallen deeply in love with a lady, not pretty, and, I should judge, not amiable; but her father is said to be immensely rich, and she drives and dresses superbly. Kate does all she can to fan the flame. I hardly know how matters stand. Pardon, my dear, this little gossip; it is of our children. We shall be at home in two weeks. Tell Di to have the house properly aired and cleansed. I am glad to know that she is fresh and strong. We are thoroughly tired out, and the effort of leave-taking and packing will try us still more. With so much to do, it is possible I shall not write again before we leave. As soon as you receive this, please send a draft. My purse is nearly empty, and I promised Jay a parting supper to his friends." 
               Mr. Delafield read his letter, folded and placed it in his desk. Resting his elbow on the table, his head fell forward, and quick thoughts surged through his mind. He had just sent all the money that he considered necessary. Now another demand, and that for a supper, that would bring little real enjoyment. Should he comply with this request? or should he, for the first time in his life, refuse the least desire expressed by his wife? He did not like to do this; and, still, where was it to end? 
               How long he would have indulged this mood is uncertain. It was Daisy's voice that roused him, and then he felt a pair of soft arms clasp his neck, and Ellen nestled her face to his. 
               "Are you ill, papa? Dr. Landseer said it would n't do for you to get sick again. What did he mean by that? that you would n't get well if you did?" 
               "Dr. Landseer is very careful of papa." 
               "So are we all. We cannot live without you, papa." 
               There was a pause, and Mr. Delafield found it difficult to keep back the tears. 
               "Di said you had a letter from mamma. When are they coming home?" 
               "In two weeks." 
               "Our good times will all be gone then." 
               "Not when your mother comes, my child?" 
               "I shall be glad to see mamma; but there will be so many here, I shall never get to see you and Di." 
               "Let us hope it will be different." 
               "If we could only live in the country, papa. I am sure you would like it." 
                
               "A good while ago, when papa was a small boy, he lived in the country. He has never been as happy since as he was then." 
               "Perhaps we can go and live there again. I would like to, papa; and so would Di, and mamma, I hope Kate and Agnes would think it dull Di says." 
               Through the folding-doors came the tinkle of the tea-bell. Mr. Delafield felt it a relief. His heart was too full to talk with his child-the pent-up feeling of years seemed ready to burst forth. His old home in the country was before him; the purity and the freshness of his boyhood in marked contrast to the care and sorrow he had since known. With an effort at self-control, only learned by contact with the world, Mr. Delafield did his part to make the meal cheerful and happy, bringing up little incidents in his early life, and painting scenes that filled Ellen's blue eyes with delight. Then excusing himself on the plea of letters to write, he withdrew to his room, to puzzle his brain till morning in forming and arranging plans by which to free himself from embarrassment, his business every day becoming more and more alarming. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               FAMILY JARS. 
               AS the winds went sighing through the tree-tops, the city put on her gayest attire, sweeping from country and shore the health-seeking and pleasure-loving crowd. Mrs. Delafield and family had returned. Jay and Cyrus were driving dashing turnouts up and down Broadway instead of the sea-side. 
               "What a fright Ellen has grown to be!" was Kate's exclamation, as she seated herself at the breakfast-table, the first morning at home. "She looks like a little Arab." 
               "I have never seen her looking better," said Mr. Delafield, as he patted the rosy cheek. "Health is the crowning beauty." 
               "That's one of the drawbacks to a life in the country,-one grows dark and coarse." 
               "Forty times more beauty, as father says. Anything but a doll-faced woman," exclaimed Cyrus. 
               "Of course! of course!" and Kate clapped her hands, and laughed meaningly. "I forgot the enchantress lives in the country, drinks cream, and bathes in dew." 
               "The doubloons will reconcile a fellow to almost anything," said Jay. 
                
               A passionate glance shot out from Cyrus's eyes, and his face was white with suppressed rage. 
               "At the way you are going on, an arrangement of that kind would not be amiss. I advise you to think of it, or you may draw up when you least expect it." 
               "I wish you would not banter each other in this way," said Mrs. Delafield. "It is a habit that I very much disapprove." 
               Mr. Delafield was reading his paper, and apparently oblivious. 
               "You should see how happy people live in the country," said Ellen, naively. 
               "Hush talking of the country. We had enough of it the week that Herbert Lyndsey was at the shore. He could talk of little else, and at last made up his mind to go there. I was glad. A thousand pities that he did n't happen to fall into the place where you and Di were." 
               Di was waiting on the table; and, save that her cheeks were crimson, there was no sign that she saw or heard. 
               "I used to think there was taste and discernment about him. I was mistaken," continued Kate. 
               "It will take something besides a fly-hook," said Jay, with irony in his tone. 
               Kate sprang up, showing her small teeth, and raising her hand threateningly. 
               "I do wish Jay would n't tease Kate as he does;" and Ellen flung herself into Di's arms. "Papa don't like it. You should have seen his face behind the paper; and mamma's eyes were full of tears." 
                
               "It is a habit of his. He does not mean to annoy her." 
               "Can't you talk with him, Di? Can't you tell him how bad it makes papa feel?" 
               "I hardly think it advisable for me to speak to him about it. One thing we can do: when we are with him, we can try to keep the conversation in such a channel that teasing will be out of place. More than this: we can ask that he be led to see how much unhappiness it brings." 
               "I do wish we could see Mr. Hawley, and Seth, and his mother, and Lydia. How much happier they live than we do." 
               "We must not forget what Mr. Parton says,-that everybody has something to try them." 
               "I would n't mind it, if papa was happy." 
               "Papa will be happier, if he sees us happy." 
               "But tell me, Di, is my face so very brown? Do I look like an Arab?" 
               "You are certainly not as white and clear as before we went to Tipton. You look healthier and, papa thinks, handsomer. But you must not forget, Ellen, that it is the spirit looking out from the eyes, speaking in the voice, and lighting up the entire face, that gives beauty. This is a cultivated gift as well as a natural endowment." 
               "Kate is beautiful. I am not like her, Di." 
               "Kate has a lovely face." 
               "I would like to be beautiful." 
               "In order to be loved?" 
               "Yes, Di." 
                
               "To be amiable wins a more lasting love. The richest perfume is given to the plainest flowers." 
               "Is beauty a gift for which we are responsible?" 
               "The more that is given, the more will be required." 
               "Are we responsible for our faces?" 
               "The spirit we cherish gives expression to the face. For this we are responsible." 
               "Di, where is my velvet mantle?" and Agnes stood in the door. "I can 't find it anywhere; and mother and Kate are in the carnage." 
               "I have not seen it. You wore a shawl yesterday." 
               "For that very reason I want a change to-day." 
               "Let us look for it," and Daisy opened the drawers. "Are you sure it was unpacked?" 
               "Of course it was. That's always the way with my things. I never can find them. And my gloves and veil, Di. I wish you would have a little consideration. Going out as much as I do, I cannot be expected to see that everything is in its place." 
               "I have the mantle," and Daisy held it up. 
               "No; I want the one lined with white." 
               "Won't this answer?" 
               "That's a silly question. Yellow satin against my dress! I always knew you had no taste." 
               "Your mother is impatient," and Rachel ran up the stairs. 
               "Not till I find my mantle." 
               "Which?" 
               "The black velvet lined with white satin." 
                
               "I know where it is," and Rachel brought it from Agnes's room. 
               "It would save me a good deal of trouble, if you would put things where I can find them." 
               Drawing on her gloves, Agnes walked leisurely down stairs. 
               As the winter approached, there was still more commotion in Mr. Delafield's family. The wedding was to take place early in the season; and a countless round of calls and congratulations kept all in excitement. While Kate was basking in bridal favor, dreaming of the magnificent trousseau and the corbeille direct from Paris, Agnes was keeping up a clandestine correspondence with Horace Stanton. 
               At first, this went on smoothly. Each morning a letter was sure to be found in the corner of the shutters, and at night another was as carefully deposited in the rose-bush nearest to the gate; but as the winter set in, and the protecting leaves were carried by the winds to carpet the street, this was a dangerous experiment. At length Barbara was bribed, and the tiny missives came and went regularly. Barbara had a conscience, however,-something not found in the rose-bush and shutters; and one night she awoke from a frightful dream, and began to think that she was doing wrong. There was no priest to confess to, and, more accustomed to act than to reason, she did not see why one would not do as welt as another. It is said that every one has his ideal; be this as it may, Barbara had hers, and to Di she went to confess, with all the sanctity she would have manifested had his Holiness been there himself. 
                
               "How long have you been the bearer of letters?" asked Daisy, as Barbara faltered out her story. 
               "Ever since the masquerade, you know. I went with Rachel to help 'em dress." 
               "Who gave you the first?" 
               "The gentleman himself. I was bringing Miss Agnes a glass of water, when he slipped it into my hand, and told me that he would give me something nice if I would take one every day." 
               "And you told him you would do it?" 
               "I thought I was doing a favor; and every night I went round the corner, and sat on the church steps till the letter came." 
               "You grew tired of this?" 
               "No. I dreamed one night that, as I was sitting on the steps, a great black figure with wings came out of the church, and was about to carry me away, when I shrieked, and ran toward Mr. Delafield, who was coming up the street. In my fright I gave him the letter; and when he read it, the tears rolled down his face, and he was as white as he could be. I felt so sorry that I cried too, and when I woke up, I said I would n't take any more letters, for fear there was something in them that would make Mr. Delafield feel bad. I can't forget how good he was to my poor mother, and when she died he said that I should come to his house. I'm not going to do anything that will make him feel bad." 
               "This is right, Barbara. I am glad to see that you are grateful to Mr. Delafield." 
                
               "What am I to say when they ask me?" asked Barbara. 
               "Tell them that you will not be a carrier; that you are afraid there is something wrong that requires so much secrecy." 
               Barbara was satisfied. Like others in the household, she had great faith in Di. With her conscience free, she went singing about her work, her heart lighter than it had been for many a day. 
               Not so Daisy: she did not relish the part she had taken. There was no alternative. To allow Agnes to disobey her father would only be to render herself an accomplice. To betray her to her father she could not; what then? Mr. Delafield had said that he did not believe Mr. Stanton to be what he professed to be. Months ago he banished him from his house, and commanded Agnes not to speak with him again. Of late his name was seldom mentioned, and when it was, Agnes had seemed indifferent. Di herself had supposed it forgotten; and the truth of the affair alarmed her only the more she thought of it. Again and again did she ask herself what could be done. It was impossible to make a confidant of Jay or Cyrus. To tell Mrs. Delafield would be equally impracticable. In this dilemma a quick thought shot through her brain: she remembered to have heard Mrs. Clayton allude to the subject, and in such a manner as to leave no doubt in her own mind that there had been something of an acquaintance between them. She would go at once, and ask what ground there was for prejudice? 
                
               With Daisy, to decide to do anything was to do it. That very evening she made her way to Mrs. Clayton's. Grant could walk now, and his studies were progressing rapidly. Edna was likewise at school, and the heart of the mother was full of hope. 
               "By what happy circumstance am I favored with a visit at night?" asked Mrs. Clayton, as she welcomed her guest. 
               "Whether happy or unhappy, the end will decide;" and Daisy drew her chair close to the good woman, and told her story without a pause. 
               "The miserable man!" exclaimed Mrs. Clayton, while an expression of scorn passed over her usually calm face. "This is not the only city in which he has figured; neither is Agnes the only person whom he has won to believe him." 
               "I may trust you?" asked Daisy, as she rose to leave. 
               "Have no fears, child. I am too much indebted to Mr. Delafield to hesitate under such circumstances." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               COMING EVENTS. 
               ALONE in his counting-room, Mr. Delafield examined the bills before him. As a man in a small boat nearing the rapids, and without the power to save himself, casts his eyes shoreward, only to feel his misery more keenly, so the merchant thought of the time when his business was small and his gains less, of the content and happiness of his home, his children giving him their love and confidence. Generous by nature, and delighted to see them happy, he had fostered their love for display; and, now that they were drawing so heavily upon him, he saw plainly the danger, the terrible gulf into which he must irrevocably plunge. Cold drops of perspiration stood upon his forehead, and his frame shook as with an ague fit. Since that fearful illness, he had not fully regained his strength, and the doctor had warned him repeatedly not to give way to excitement. 
               There had been quiet days of convalescence, when, shutting his eyes to business, he had allowed himself to be diverted with Daisy's recital of country life; listening to Ellen as she rehearsed little incidents of the farm, the visit to the mill and the blacksmith's shop, standing by the side of the dun cows while Seth drew from well-filled udders the white foaming milk. Gone, like everything else; and, throwing himself back in his chair, he shut his eyes to the papers, and tried to close his heart to care. 
               Ellen had pointed him to a better way. He was anxious to walk in it; but how? As a vine blown and tossed by the wind flings out its tendrils, seeking support and finding none, so the merchant revolved in his own mind various ways and means whereby he might free himself from entanglement. Then he would have time to think of and to decide upon a question that involved so much. 
               "This is something that I do not quite understand," and Paul Browning, Mr. Delafield's confidential clerk, stood before him. 
               "What is the question?" said the merchant, with an effort to rally his scattered thoughts. 
               "A draft with your name, but not in your hand." 
               "For how much?" 
               "The paper will explain." 
               "Is it possible?" 
               Paul Browning shut the door. For months had he seen the father's agony. He could not look upon him now. Poor, the son of a widow, and obliged to labor, there was little in common between him and the sons of the rich merchant. Inexperienced and friendless when he came to the city, he looked up to them and envied them. Not for wealth merely, but for the opportunities they enjoyed for mental improvement. By paying due attention to business, he had gained the confidence of his employers, and his salary was sufficient to make his mother comfortable. Months since, he learned that Jay and Cyrus Delafield were not to be envied. Pity was in his heart; but more for the good-natured, yielding father, whose generous heart had prompted him to gratify every desire. He had made the mistake that training was unnecessary, and now he was to reap of the seed he planted a bitter harvest. The young and tender sapling is bent easily; and the fruit-tree is dwarfed or erect as the hand of the gardener trains it. Childhood is the time to mould and form character. Habits strengthen, and principles take root that will bear fruit in age,-some to honor, and some to dishonor. 
               Lights were glancing along the pavement when Mr. Delafield reached home. Ellen met him at the door. Music sounded down the hall, and fresh young voices told of happy hearts. The trousseau had just arrived,-splendid velvets, and silks, and light gossamer fabrics,-and a buzz of admiration passed from lip to lip. 
               Sick at heart, Mr. Delafield went through with the accustomed forms, his lips wreathed with smiles, as he looked upon the beaming face of his child. How could he blight her happiness, or lay a feather's weight on her young heart? All was joyous. Only on Daisy's face a shadow rested; and he thought of the unselfish care she had given him in his illness. "When this wedding is over," he murmured to himself. Again the clouds loomed up before him. He dared not think of it. 
               "Has my little girl had a happy day?" and Ellen, sat curled up on her father's knee. 
                
               "Very happy, papa. I wish so much that you could have been here. Mr. Lyndsey called here this morning. You remember what Kate said about his going to the country? It seems that he went to Tipton. Mrs. White is his aunt, and Seth and Lydia are his own cousins. He says Mrs. White was lonely enough after we left. I do hope, papa, some way will open that we can all go to Tipton next summer." 
               "Would you like to spend the winters there?" 
               "Seth said the winter was the best time, with, sleigh-rides, and singing-schools, and visits; with mountains of snow and ice, throwing back the light like huge piles of crystal. Di would like it." 
               "Would like what?" and Daisy drew near. 
               "To live in the country." 
               "We saw the country in a favorable light. Mrs. White knows so well how to make people happy," replied Di. 
               "It depends a good deal upon the acquaintance we first make," said Mr. Delafield. "I presume Dr. Landseer's influence had much to do with your happiness in Tipton." 
               "Mr. Lyndsey says that Seth bids fair to make a man of more than ordinary ability. He is studying hard, and at work likewise. Every moment is employed," continued Di. 
               "Mr. Lyndsey used to work to pay his board when in college, and now, Dr. Landseer says, he is one of the first lawyers in the city," Ellen said to her father. 
               "Dr. Landseer! No wonder you have had a happy day, two such calls in one morning!" and Mr. Delafield tried to be cheerful and happy. 
               Daisy talked freely of her summer friends; but she did not say that Mr. Lyndsey had brought a letter from Mr. Hawley, asking, as an especial favor, that she would send him the small suit of clothes she held in her possession; he would not keep them long. He had written, "I desire to know what Mabel will think of them. I would not ask it, for I know how highly you prize them; but she asks for you; and if I tell her they are yours, it may satisfy her." 
               Going to her room, Daisy unfolded the cherished dress, the sleeves still looped with coral. "I will send it just as it is," she said, and, holding it up, she could not keep back the tears. No longer the little dress: she sees a child tottering over the floor to meet a mother's outstretched hand. She hears the tender, loving tone, and feels the pressure of a mother's kiss. Alas! it is all a delusion. Memory has nothing of this to bring her, and fancy cannot long be cheated. Alone in a great city, with none to love or to care for her, Mr. Delafield saw her, and his heart was touched. Generous and kind, he took her to his home; and if trials had been hers, they had not been of a nature that he could remove. 
               Floating up and along the halls were light laughter and happy voices. Daisy wrapped up the small parcel, and, writing a note, once more stood by the side of Mr. Delafield and Ellen. With an effort, the merchant tried to rouse himself. Why anticipate? Why thus torture himself? He had done his best, and if he failed, if the leap must be made, why not fold his arms, and go down without a word? It was too much for the strong nerves; and when Jay and Cyrus entered, their manner gay and jubilant, he trembled. It would not do to delay-he must speak with Jay that very night. Nerving himself, he put Ellen from him. 
               "My little girl must find it stupid here, when everybody is happy in the parlor." 
               "I will go down with you, papa." 
               "Papa is not well to-night; and, besides-" 
               "Papa! O papa! what is it?" as Ellen saw her father turn pale, and thrust his handkerchief to his mouth. 
               "Hush! hush! Ellen," as Daisy steadied Mr. Delafield to the sofa: he was pale and helpless, his handkerchief saturated with blood. "A little salt and water," Daisy whispered to Ellen, and with noiseless speed she flew to Dr. Landseer. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               CHARACTERS. 
               HERBERT LYNDSEY and Seth White were not only cousins, but cousins between whom there was an uncommon affinity. Sought after and admired as was the young lawyer, he did not look down upon his poor relation. He honored his aunt as a woman of sterling principle and sound sense. The son of such a mother was not one of whom he could, under any circumstances, be ashamed. 
               Seth White had been the guest of his cousin for several days, and twice had he called on the Delafields. Seth had never been in the city before, and his quick eye was ready to profit by all that he saw and heard. In visiting places of interest, he was not backward. Study had made him familiar with the history of each; but in the parlor he was conscious of a want of ease and ready tact that only comes by contact with the living, moving throng. With Daisy and Ellen there was no reserve, his words running out in the same lively, piquant manner that had won them in Tipton; but with others he was shy and awkward. 
               There lacked now but few days till the wedding. 
               "How long does your friend remain?" Kate asked of Daisy, as her visitor left. 
                
               "I have not asked him," was the quiet reply. 
               "I do not see any particular object in his calling so frequently. If he should stay a month, I will not invite him to the wedding," said Kate, tartly. 
               "You need not trouble yourself about that, sister; he goes home in the morning," and Ellen's cheeks flushed. 
               "Dear me! Are you so much interested? I thought he was Di's admirer," continued Kate. 
               "I do not know that he is an admirer of either of us," replied Daisy, with a little warmth. "I only know that he was very kind to us during the summer; and it would be shameful, if we did not return it when he comes to the city." 
               "Of course; it is very natural that he should come to the city. I congratulate you. No wonder you were so much pleased with the country," and Kate laughed ironically. 
               "Seth White came to the city on business. He could not hasten it, much as he desired to. In the meantime he has used his eyes and his ears, and he will go back with more advanced ideas. Your father says he is a young man capable of improvement If so, the time may come when you will not look down upon him," returned Daisy, proudly. 
               "Bravo!" and Kate clapped her small hands. "The time may come. Who knows? perhaps I will have the pleasure of taking a glass of cream from your own dairy in Tipton," and Kate bowed herself out of the room. 
               Ellen had gone with the first rejoinder. She was not proof against Kate's bantering. In the silence of her room, she gave vent to her grief and her vexation. "I wonder Kate does delight to tease us so about the country. Seth White is my friend; and I will ask papa if he has not just as good a right to come here as anybody else has." 
               Somebody has said that feelings are only safety-valves. It certainly is a great relief to throw off the steam. Ellen found it so, and, running down to Daisy, she proposed a walk. 
               "Where shall we go?" asked Daisy. 
               "I can't think of anybody that I would rather see than Mrs. Orcutt." 
               "That is too far for a morning call," replied Daisy, with a smile. 
               "I know; but I just feel like hearing her talk," continued Ellen. 
               "Mrs. Harris is something like her in this respect. It is a good while since we were there." 
               "Let us go, Di. Mamma will be willing," said Ellen, pleadingly. 
               Mrs. Harris was the widow of a seafaring man; a quiet, dignified old lady, whose love for Daisy and Ellen was a blessing for which they were both grateful. With wealth sufficient to gratify every desire, she lived to do good, and in the fulfilment of her benevolent designs she realized the highest happiness that a mortal can know. 
               The cool, crisp air and the bright sunshine dissipated all unpleasant thoughts, and when Ellen reached the house of Mrs. Harris, she was blithe and gay as usual. 
                
               "It is good of you to come and see me this morning," said Mrs. Harris, tottering across the room. "Bright as it is outside, this is one of my dark days." 
               "Why, Mrs. Harris, I had no idea you ever had dark: days," exclaimed Ellen. 
               "So long as we are in this world, child, we are subject to dark days. Were it not so, we might want to live here always. This world is not home; it is only a workhouse, and the body droops at times; then we have to stop and patch up, and the work is delayed." 
               "I see, Mrs. Harris, that you have been ill," said Daisy, in a voice full of sympathy. 
               "And my work has had to stop. I was wrong, however, in calling the day dark; it is our consolation that, in whatever state we may be, we can, through grace, work for God. Obedience is the line of duty." 
               "If we could be assured that everything comes from God," said Ellen. 
               "Do you doubt this, my child?" asked the good woman. 
               "The little things that annoy us and try one's temper," Ellen continued. 
               "The little things are like the very small files that the artist uses to perfect his work. God moulds and fashions, chips and polishes, using these very little things to do it with," returned Mrs. Harris. 
               "I like to think he cares for little things," said Daisy. "And still, like Ellen, there are times when I feel not perfectly assured." 
                
               "These are the dark days," replied Mrs. Harris, with a smile. "The precious grain, which the husbandman cultivates with hope, grows in the night as readily as in the day; for its maturing, the dark hours are as necessary as the bright ones. Thus God gives us dark hours in the spiritual world only to mature a richer, nobler harvest for eternity." 
               "I see now why you called them dark days," cried Ellen, joyfully. "It seemed strange to think of dark days with you, Mrs. Harris." 
               "And, still, I have known many of them." 
               "If dark days bring us the revivifying influences of the night to the natural world, they are not lost to us," and a new light gleamed in Daisy's eyes. 
               "That is it; as day and night are essential to growth in the natural world, so in the Christian's growth he has his hours of light and shade. It is in this way that the choicest fruit has been matured. Health and prosperity have their seductive influence, and often seriously interfere with one's spiritual progress. In this case, we need the discipline of dark hours to counteract the world and ripen fruit for heaven," said Mrs. Harris, in a calm, firm tone. 
               "Is it an easy lesson for us to learn that everything that happens, or can happen, is for the best?" asked Daisy. 
               "We learn by faith that the way of the Lord with us is the best way. Faith is not a spontaneous growth; we must cultivate it," replied Mrs. Harris. 
               "Should dark days come, I shall better understand their design," said Ellen, as Daisy rose to leave. 
                
               "I do not doubt that through eternity it will be one source of happiness to review the way in which the Lord has led us,-a way which now we do not understand, but there will be luminous. Then we shall see how the dark hours produced bright results not only in ourselves, but in others around us," said Mrs. Harris, as she saw her guests to the door. 
               "Papa has dark hours. I will tell him what Mrs. Harris said," Ellen remarked, on her way home. 
               Daisy did not reply; she was thinking of the dark hours she had known. She knew that night followed day in the natural world, and that to the plants the shadowing cloud was as needful as the warmth and light of the sun. She had not thought it the same in the spiritual world. Henceforth the dark days would have a new interest for her. 
               As the wedding-day drew near, Mrs. Clayton was kept apprised of all that was taking place at Mr. Delafield's; and one bright, sunny morning the little woman found it necessary to visit the office of Dr. Landseer: for two hours there was a deep and earnest conversation, and the next day Mrs. Clayton and Grant left for Baltimore. When they returned there was a stranger with them,-a young, fair woman, dressed in deep mourning, and apparently in feeble health. Dr. Landseer called daily. In mild weather the doctor not unfrequently allowed Grant to drive his patient through the town in his own comfortable carriage, and on several occasions she frequented the places of amusement. In the delicate state of her health she was obliged to protect herself with a heavy veil. The air was too bracing for weak lungs, the doctor said. 
               Bridal festivities left no time for sorrow. In looking upon Kate's happy face, Mrs. Delafield grew young again, and Mr. Delafield's failing health was a cover for any uneasiness that he might feel. Jay and Cyrus were more frequently at home, and Agnes from being all tears was now all smiles and blushes. To tell the truth, there was a corner of her heart into which the confidence of her parents did not enter. Forbidden to meet one to whom she had pledged herself unwisely, she determined to fulfil her promise let it cost what it would. Thanks to little Barbara, her plans were not too deep to be understood. There were those to whom her jubilant manner was no cloak. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               FOILED. 
               ALL day the snow had been coming down, and the brown earth was veiled in soft, fleecy white,-a fitting drapery for a bridal. All day there had been stir and commotion in Mr. Delafield's house, and now the bridal train swept down the broad staircase. A temporary altar had been erected in the grand saloon, and the clergyman stood in his robes A moment they kneeled before the altar, and then arose to repeat the vows that were to unite them in the sacred union of husband and wife. 
               The words were spoken and the prayer said, congratulations followed, and the occasion was one of joy. A proud and happy mother, Mrs. Delafield performed her part with queenly dignity; while the pale face of her husband was tinged with a flush that spoke of pride to some, of pain to others. Each made a mistake. It was the feeling of despair creeping up to lips and brow, and still not master. With a deeply sensitive nature, Mr. Delafield could not yield easily. Strong as the tide, he would struggle against it. As a bird caught in the snare of the fowler flutters and trembles, its feathers torn against the cruel bars, and drops of blood trickling from its breast, so Mr. Delafield struggled against the bars that he could not wrench asunder. In that bright throng there was another heart still more painfully excited; now resolved to throw it all aside and let the occasion pass without a word of excuse or palliation, the next urged on to make good her promise by stealing, like a felon, from a father's house and a father's protecting care. 
               "It is only natural," Mrs. Delafield remarked, as she looked at Agnes's flushed cheeks, and noted the wild, troubled light in her eyes. "Kate and Agnes have been inseparable. To see Kate leave is almost too much for the dear child. We must do all we can to comfort her." 
               Well for the mother that she did not see the fearful struggle; did not know the thoughts that came and went like the waves of a troubled sea. Weeks ago Agnes had decided the question; she had resolved to obey the dictates of her own heart. Others had done so, and been happy. Doubtless her parents would feel badly. A few years abroad and then to return. Of course they would forgive her, and the love of her husband would make ample amends for the sacrifice. Wild and gay, then sad and pensive, Agnes did not imagine there was one that held the key. 
               In and out Daisy floated; her words gentle and kind, and her hands helpful. Ellen was sweet and cheerful, and Dr. Landseer everywhere. Little Barbara was on the alert; and as Grant Clayton stood at the side door with a veiled lady on his arm, she whispered to Daisy. Grant went down the walk, and the lady, clinging to Daisy's arm, wound up the back staircase. 
               "Martin," and Daisy tapped lightly at the housekeeper's door, "I have brought a lady to rest herself in your room for a little. She is an invalid; please give her some refreshment." 
               "I will be back in time," said Daisy, bending her lips to the lady's ear, and pressing the thin hand again. In a moment Daisy was standing in the drawing-room, her absence unnoticed by any of the guests. 
               "One of your smiles, if you please," and Dr. Landseer stood by the side of Agnes. 
               "Dr. Landseer seems to understand the art of winning them," returned Agnes, with an attempt at playfulness. 
               "Tendered me as charity, perhaps," said the doctor. 
               "Judging others by yourself?" 
               "Not at all, Miss Agnes. To a man flung around as I am, the smile of a bright healthy face is like the rich wine of life. Under its influence I grow young again; forgetful that there is sickness and sorrow in the world for me to heal or alleviate." 
               "With the power to do this, you are a happy man, Dr. Landseer," said Agnes, seriously. 
               "The happiness of alleviating is balanced by the long train of ills with which I must first become conversant," continued Dr. Landseer. 
               "It is a pity that a world so beautiful should be the abode of so much sorrow." 
                
               "If the people in it were only as good as they are beautiful, there would be far less of suffering, Miss Agnes." 
               "There are circumstances in which it is difficult to be good, I imagine," said Agnes, musingly. 
               "There is no circumstance under which we may not do right," returned the doctor. 
               "To do right!" exclaimed Agnes. And the color left lips and brow. 
               "The heat of the room is oppressive. Let me lead you to a seat," and the doctor gave his arm. 
               "I do not often tempt one, but, on this occasion, let me bring you a glass of wine," said the doctor as he seated Agnes near the window. 
               "Thank you: this has been an exciting evening," and Agnes tried to rally. 
               Daisy flashed through the room, laughing and shaking her finger at the doctor. 
               "A quiet little puss; and still she seems to be full of wit and humor," the doctor said to Agnes. 
               "Di is one of the good ones; it comes natural for her to do right," was Agnes's reply. 
               Dr. Landseer had not expected such commendation. Was it battling with herself that she was thus led to do Daisy justice? 
               "To do right is not a natural inheritance. It is only won by repeated striving," returned Dr. Land-seer. 
               "Unreasonable; to appropriate a young lady to yourself, while I have been left to wander up-stairs and down-stairs," said Mr. Lyndsey, with a low bow. "I see the throng is passing into the refreshment-room. As the doctor is so thoughtless, allow me, Miss Agnes." 
               "If you please. I was about to withdraw to my room for a few moments," and a sickly smile hovered around the pale lips. 
               A telegraphic look shot out of Dr. Landseer's eyes. 
               "I have counted upon this privilege;" and the young lawyer was not to be put aside. 
               "If Dr. Landseer will excuse me?" and Agnes took the proffered arm. 
               "Velvets, and diamonds, and feathers, and laces. What a dazzling array!" and the lawyer ran out the length of small talk at his command. 
               Dr. Landseer slipped into the dressing-room, put on his overcoat, and went out. 
               "In Martin's room," was said in a low voice, as he passed Daisy in the hall. 
               "You find it a trial to part with your sister," said Mr. Lyndsey, as he helped Agnes to an ice. 
               "I had no idea it would tax me so heavily," and Agnes's eyes were full of tears. 
               Softening his tone, Mr. Lyndsey endeavored to win her thoughts away from herself. A few moments, and she had recovered sufficiently to converse with ease, returning compliments and speaking gayly to her friends. This was what he desired, and following it up, Mr. Lyndsey so arranged it as to be among the last to leave the supper-room. 
               The bride was not to take a formal leave of her friends until the next day. A carriage was in waiting to convey her to her hotel. 
               "I must speak a word to my sister," Agnes said, as they walked through the hall. "And I am so weary, you will excuse me if I do not return." 
               At the dressing-room door Mr. Lyndsey met Barbara. "It is all arranged," he whispered, in passing; and there was a look of satisfaction on her face as the little waiting-girl carried the words to Daisy's ear. 
               "Di, a moment, if you please," and there was tenderness in Agnes's voice. 
               "I feel sadly to see Kate go. And I am so tired; suppose I do not come down again." 
               "You need rest. I will tell your mother that you are tired, ill," returned Di. 
               "A little rest is all I need," and Agnes tried to stop her tears. 
               "Can I bring you anything for your comfort?" asked Di. 
               "Only say that I would not be disturbed; my head aches wildly," answered Agnes. 
               "Nothing more?" 
               "Nothing more" was echoed, and so low that it was hardly audible. 
               The door was locked; but on the outside, Daisy had also secured a small door leading to the rear of the building. This done, Agnes's last request was kept to the letter; she was not disturbed. 
               The bridal throng had passed; one carriage alone remained. A trunk was strapped to the rack; and a man stood by the step, muffled and cloaked as for a journey. Not long he waited. Down the same stairs and by the door she entered, the veiled stranger tottered to the carriage. Lifting her in, the man entered. 
               "All right?" exclaimed the traveller. 
               "All right," was the answer, and Dr. Landseer mounted to the box. "All right," he muttered to himself. "If I choose to drive Horace Stanton and his wife to the steamer, whose business is it? Thanks to little Barbara, it's not Agnes Delafield." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               SEARCHING OUT. 
               BEYOND Mr. Delafield's most sanguine hope the winter was passing; perhaps he would yet weather the storm. As a strong swimmer unconsciously puts out all his force swinging out of the current, and hoping still to reach land, so with the merchant: could he hold out a little longer, all would be well. 
               Mr. Flashman was to make his home in Montreal, and thither he had borne his bride. Agnes was confined by illness to her room for a month, during which time she had full opportunity to learn from Dr. Landseer the particulars of his ride to the steamer; also of the terrible gulf into which she was about to plunge. Shocked and truly humbled, the poor girl wept as the doctor recounted the sacrifice, and the suffering Daisy had endured, and gradually her better nature blossomed out into a gentler manner. None knew her secret, save the few with whom it would be safe, and when strength returned she accepted an invitation from Mr. And Mrs. Flashman to travel with them during the summer. Released from chaperoning her handsome daughters, Mrs. Delafield was more at home; Ellen received more of her attention, and Daisy found a warmer place in her heart. 
                
               "It will not do for us to stay at home altogether," said Mrs. Delafield; and by degrees Daisy and Ellen grew to wear the easy grace of those accustomed to social life. The rich gift of music was cultivated more to give pleasure than to create display. Mr. Delafield delighted in home songs, and in his youth was no mean performer on the flute. Daisy endeavored to win Jay to attempt it. "No time," he said, and Cyrus had less. Thus was she doomed to see them go out night after night, notwithstanding the combined effort to make home as attractive as possible. 
               "Mrs. Harris says we must be patient, and keep trying," said Ellen, as she threw herself into Daisy's arms, and sobbed out her grief. 
               "It makes papa feel so badly," she continued. 
               "The time may come when Jay will see differently. In the meantime we must do what we can to help him," answered Di, and the two planned and suggested amusements and diversions to make their own house as attractive as could be found elsewhere. Mr. Lyndsey called occasionally, but his conversation was mostly with Mr. Delafield: sometimes with a book for Ellen, or a song for Daisy,-this was all. 
               Since Seth White's visit, and Mr. Hawley had the little dress in his keeping, there had been a regular correspondence; letters directed sometimes to Daisy, more frequently to Mr. Parton, keeping up a connection between the two families, and comforting Daisy by holding in check whatever restlessness and anxiety there might otherwise have been. Human nature is everywhere the same, and human hearts are more or less dependent upon love and sympathy. A word has power to flood the soul with rapture, brightening life's way by its faithful promise; or, sweeping across the spirit like a raging fire, blighting and rendering all a waste. 
               Mr. Hawley's words were not of this kind. Preaching, with him, was not a profession; it was his life, the very air he breathed. A plain, frank soul, his manhood gloried in doing good. Mr. Parton was of the same spirit, and by degrees Mr. Delafield learned to look upon him as a friend, in whose conversation there was strength and hope. Going back to the days of convalescence, he picked up the thread broken as the tide rolled in from the sea, and, stringing it anew with pearls of thought, studied it with more care than he did at first. 
               "If I could be sure that in searching after truth, I apprehend it aright," said Mr. Delafield to the pastor. "Those who love most, worship most worthily." 
               "For His sake to love and worship, or for our own?" asked Mr. Parton. 
               "There is more or less of selfishness in love. Whoever loves, derives pleasure from the object of his love; and though he rob himself of all to lay upon the altar, he still realizes happiness that holds for him more of heaven than of earth," was Mr. Delafield's reply. 
               "Such love lifts upward, and the selfishness of which you speak, etherealized to a thin white mist, tones the act, as colors blend in harmonious forms and please unconsciously," said Mr. Parton. 
               "If God is love, then all we need is to drink in as much of the divine element as we can hold. No human being ever loved too much," continued Mr. Delafield. 
               "No human being ever loved enough, unless he love the one of all others most worthy to be loved." 
               "You mean the Son of God?" asked Mr. Delafield. 
               "The only record of love that knew no guile," replied the pastor. 
               "I have thought of it not a little since I was ill. And while I would love him, I know not that I do," continued Mr. Delafield. 
               "Then you may safely count that you do not. Where the heart has need to question, there is little love," answered the pastor. 
               "To love without a thought of self, I mean; hoping thereby to escape hell, or to enter heaven," added Mr. Delafield. 
               "This is not Christian love. We love him because he first loved us; and then it follows that we long to be with him we love. It matters not where or by what name it's called. Hell would be heaven, if God was there," said Mr. Parton. 
               "It seems to me we tread the paths much in the same way. I begin with the things of sight, through the created up to him who formed and holds them in their places. You, going to the fountain-head, love the Creator, and, for his sake, the creatures that he made," continued Mr. Delafield. 
                
               "The first and best; the only offering that he will accept. He, a king's son, gave up his life to ransom man. Can we do less than give him all we have? And this a gift too small to satisfy the heart that truly loves him," said Mr. Parton, with warmth. 
               "What weighty question is on the carpet?" said Dr. Landseer, as he drew his chair to Daisy's side, and looked across the table with an eye flashing with light. 
               "Talking of love," whispered Daisy, with a smile. 
               "A subject in which we are all interested; please go on," said the doctor. 
               "Mr. Delafield claims that in all love there is a portion of selfishness," Mr. Parton replied. 
               "To love is to assimilate in some weak form to what we love. In loving God, we aim to be like him; rubbing down our prejudices, enlarging our charities, standing on the broad platform of love to all," returned the doctor. 
               "Is this love natural to the human heart?" asked Mr. Parton. 
               "The natural heart loves only what pleases taste: beauty of form, a lovely face, and a well shaped hand win stores of love. The love of God covers all: the deformed lacketh nothing in his sight; the poor disgraced outcast has a right to say 'Our Father;' and for him, if so he choose, a spotless robe, a harp, and crown of gold," the doctor replied. 
               "This is the love I want," said Mr. Delafield, while a crimson stain was on his cheek. "A good, true, honest love; loving God first, loving him most of all, and, for his sake, all else beneath the sun." 
               "If you want this love, it may be yours," said the pastor. 
               "How so?" asked Mr. Delafield. 
               "Ask, and ye shall receive." 
               "And if I ask amiss?" 
               "The earnest soul asks earnestly. The child is not loved less for speaking out his wants; he does it frankly, closing with 'if you please.' A child's privilege is ours, and there are no mistakes with God," said the pastor. 
               There was a pause, in which the thoughts of each played the same tune to a different key-the love of God to man, and man's love to God; the little given, and that grudgingly. 
               "We've not had Daisy's thought," said Mr. Parton, as he rose to leave. "I half suspect she'd make it plain without the formula of many words, or Ellen here. Hearts full of love and running over, spill the glittering drops in dark alleys and pent-up rooms, where suffering hearts are found." 
               "Love that does not prompt to this is counterfeit," Daisy replied, while her cheek took a richer hue. 
               "Doctors have need of large and frequent supply. I sometimes fear the love I. have is some adulterated thing,-lukewarm, and fit only to be cast aside," said Dr. Landseer, as he took his hat. 
               "Privileged to go to the fountain, the fault is ours if we fail to drink a draught sufficient for our need," said Mr. Parton, as he stood by the side of Daisy's chair. Laying his hand upon her head, he added: "A letter from Mr. Hawley. I was too selfish to allow you to read while I was here." 
               The embers in the grate were dying out, with here and there a ruddy gleam to break the pale, thin film tinging Daisy's cheeks, and lighting up the corners of the room. Sitting in her chair, with the letter crumpled in her dimpled hand, strange thoughts floated through her brain. The small dress she had guarded so closely, and over which her tears had fallen, was an object of interest to others. Each tiny fold was sacred in her eyes, because she fancied a mother's hand placed it there, thrusting her needle in, and holding it up to see how it would fall. A smile upon the full, round lip, as she thought of the baby's glee, throwing back her dainty head, and tossing the flaxen curls. Her lips two rose leaves cleft with pearls; the music of her little gurgling laugh thrilling the mother's heart, and her sweet lisp, "'T is pretty, mamma," making of earth a heaven. Then all was changed; sunshine had faded from her sky; no light, no voice, no little clinging arms. Was it strange that reason had fled? And still the heart is haunted by the memory of what has been. 
               "She seldom weeps," Mr. Hawley wrote. "To please her, we dressed a doll in the small dress you sent. For hours she sits and rocks the child, brushing the soft, brown hair, talking in low, soothing tones, with 'Hush! she sleeps!' if a step is heard." 
               "It gives her comfort, and I"-and Daisy crossed the room. For a moment she stood irresolute, then opening a drawer, drew forth a tiny pair of half-worn shoes. 
               "I'll send her these, I think, and this," lifting a handkerchief of finest linen, with a vine embroidered within the hem, and something like a shield in the two corners. "It only makes me weep to look at them, and keeps my heart full of gloom, when bright and gay I ought to be for all He's done for me." 
               A light shot upward from the last spent coal, tinging the hangings with a crimson hue, and falling like a veil over the faded bronze of the tiny shoes; the blue rosette was sparkling with a tear half caught by Daisy's hand. 
               "It is all wrong. It might have been; it would have been, had He seen best. Just as it is He willed, and I should be content. But this poor woman; in thinking of myself, I have forgotten her. I'll pack the shoes, and write a little note, and then my heart will lighten of itself." 
               Kissing the handkerchief for the twentieth time she had it safely folded and packed, and, taking up a pen, traced the name duly, then sealed the note and kneeling bowed her head. There was no spoken word; but silently she invoked a blessing on the gift, a ray of healing for that smitten heart. 
               The shifting light was gone. A settled calm took possession of the heart, crying out as it had done for something unattained. Crossing her arms, her head fell forward, and Daisy saw or seemed to see the long and tangled track, the cares and trials incident to one who held the place, as Kate had called it, "neither the one nor the other." Early had she learned to be self-reliant, doing for herself, and serving with untiring hand, and still not proof against passionate thoughts and speech when taunted, and held up to ridicule. In such times Jay had always come to her rescue, soothing her self-respect, and taming down the mounting passion. A good, kind heart; but crusted with the show of wealth, failing to measure manly height by principle and mental worth, not by the length of purse. 
               Through all the years his kindness had been the same, and she had thanked him for it. Noiselessly the shadows danced across the wall, her head fell lower. What could she do for him? Did she dream, or was it the tinkling of the door-bell? Again it broke upon her ear, sharp and distinct. She paused a moment, and then slid down the stairs. What a sight met her eye as she opened the street door! Jay supported by two men, his hat thrown aside, and the blood trickling over his white forehead. "What is the matter? What has happened?" Daisy exclaimed, as they led him in and placed him on the sofa. 
               "We have been to supper," said Cyrus, as he came up a moment later. "After the cloth was removed we had wine and toasts. Jay was excited; there was a general smash up; and, in the fray, a piece of glass struck him in the forehead. It is n't much. Don't waken up the house." 
               Daisy saw it all. Going to Martin's room, she roused the good housekeeper, and together they dressed Jay's wound, and made him comfortable. Cyrus, in the meantime, was talking volubly, exposing more of his life than he would have willingly done at any other time. 
               "We promised father that we would not go; but Grier and Collingwood came round, and there was no refusing." 
               "Had you only come directly home," Daisy said, seeing that Cyrus expected something in reply. 
               "We have always been with that set; and now to shut down, as father wants, is more than we can do," continued Cyrus. 
               "If you could only realize how badly it makes him feel; and he is not strong this winter. You should think of that," said Daisy. 
               "I know; and I don't like it more than you do. To tell the truth, Jay and I are going it too strong. But Jay can't bear to lag behind, and I 'm bound to do pretty near as he does. We do spend too much, and I know it," added Cyrus. 
               "Is the bill yours to-night?" asked Daisy. 
               "For what we broke, of course." 
               "You won't be any happier to-morrow," was said, gently. 
               "Plague take it! If we could only think of this," exclaimed Cyrus, with a muttered curse. 
               "Try it, Cyrus. Let this be your last time." 
               "I hope it is. Can't say though," was the careless reply. 
               "If anything should happen to your father. His health is miserable, and his business troubles him," said Daisy, with feeling. 
                
               "Why, In that case, we should have to do for ourselves," and Cyrus made an attempt to laugh. 
               "Can't you do that now, Cyrus, and keep what you have?" plead Daisy. 
               "I've been trying ever since Kate left. Have n't you seen how steady I've been?" 
               "I have seen with pleasure that you are more frequently at home; and I had hoped Jay was viewing things differently," continued Daisy. 
               "We'll learn by degrees. Don't feel badly. Everybody has to sow their wild oats. Mine are almost gone. I'm going to settle down after a little." 
               "I am afraid it will be too late. Look at Jay, and promise that you will not do it again," said Daisy, with a voice full of entreaty. 
               "If I promise, I shall break it; and, still, I don't mean to. It does seem as though the evil one gets into us at times. Try as hard as I will, I can't do differently," said Cyrus, as he reeled to the door. 
               "Is n't it fearful, this thirst for drink?" Daisy said to Martin, as Cyrus sought his chamber. "What would I not give to save him from this terrible curse!" and the poor child threw herself on her knees, and hid her face in Martin's lap. 
               "There is but One that can help him, child. You can ask Him," answered Martin. 
               "I know; and I have not failed to ask with all the earnestness I have. All winter I have hoped, and now-"and Di's words were lost. 
               "Do not distrust His goodness, and His ability to save. It is for us to ask, to importune," continued Martin. 
               "But when we see everything going wrong, it is so hard," murmured Daisy. 
               "In all our troubles, and with all our complaints, we are to go to Him. Tangled paths He can straighten. He sees from the beginning, and He knows the end," said Martin, as she caressed the bowed head. 
               A groan from Jay startled them. 
               "I fear this wound in the forehead is more than we at first thought it; and he seems to have a high fever;" and Martin bent over the couch, and laid her fingers on the throbbing temple. 
               "Would it be well for Dr. Landseer to see him?" asked Daisy. 
               "I don't feel quite satisfied without him; and, still, it is so very late," replied Martin. 
               "If you think best, I will go for him," Daisy said, in a more cheerful tone. 
               "I shall not allow you to go out to-night. If either of us, I will go," returned Martin. 
               An hour passed. The blood was still trickling from the feverish wound. 
               "If you are not afraid to stay by yourself, I will go," said Martin. 
               "I am not afraid," was the firm response. 
               Low, incoherent words broke from the parched lips, followed by jeering laughter. Were there fiends in the room? Jay thought so, and, sitting up in bed, his eyes glared wildly. Laying her hand gently on his arm, Daisy soothed him, talking in low tones, and passing her cool fingers over his burning forehead. Shrinking, trembling with affright, and the next instant anxious to measure his strength with the spirits of the air, it required all Daisy's tact to keep him from outbreak, A night of horrors; but it passed. Morning found Dr. Landseer beside the bed. His patient was a raving maniac. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               CULMINATING. 
               A MONTH passed,-a month of torture such as had never been known in Mr. Delafield's home. To spare the parents, to hide their anguish from the world, the good Martin removed Jay to her own room, barring the door and windows that his infuriated screams might not be heard. It was pitiful to look upon one so nobly endowed, so richly gifted with all that could make life happy, and think that drink placed him there. Fearful to listen to his imprecations against the God that made him, the incoherent and muttered curses, the battling with spirits, at intervals a lucid moment, like a flash of sunlight in some dark abyss. Then, as if seeing his danger, he would cry out for help, with a voice of such anguish and deep, piercing despair. 
               With such misery, it required all the nerve Daisy could master. Her heart was filled with pity for the mother, vibrating between love for her child and shame and sorrow at his disgrace; while the rich merchant, with his heart tortured till his lips were bloodless, went daily to his store, blunting his pain with toil, and determined, if possible, to outride the storm that threatened him. How unfathomable the human heart! How few know the heights of joy that may be won, the beautiful fields in which the soul may bask, or the depths of misery, the sting of sorrow, the deadening, withering, blighting anguish in which the soul may be plunged, despairing and crying out, and still the face be wreathed in smiles, the lips tossing gay words, the eyes bright. 
               Mr. Delafield was ambitious. Conscious of mistakes, and aware that in his blind love he had not exacted from his sons the obedience due; that he had failed to teach them the responsibility of life; that for them there was something to do, powers of mind to be cultivated, right principles to be adhered to; even for the worldly advantages they possessed, that they must render a strict account. Conscious of this, and humbled in view of his neglect, he was one to be pitied. He had not counted upon the natural evil in the human heart. He loved his children. It had been his aim to see them happy. He had toiled to heap favors upon them. They were cradled in luxury, lapped in indulgence. Labor was, unknown to them. He could afford to spare them every hardship, and, in return, he expected their love. He could not believe that for all his benefits they would, as they grew older, bring down his gray hairs with sorrow to the grave. True, others had done so, and the record of Divine law had come down to him, "Train up a child." He had ministered to their physical wants, to the refinements of taste and to social culture; but he had not trained them to withstand temptation, building up a strong, pure principle within them-teaching them to feel that for every gift received they must make good and responsible return. 
               Try as Mr. Delafield would, immerse himself in business as far as possible, he could not set aside these thoughts. Precious souls had been intrusted to him. The path was narrow and steep. There was danger. The rough stones looked formidable. He had not urged them. Below, it was broad and fair. The flowers pleased them; the gold-green mosses won them to wander. He had not called them back. He liked to see them enjoy themselves. By and by they would, of their own accord, begin the ascent. From his present standpoint, Mr. Delafield saw it all. The mountain heights were fresh and pure: the narrow path, at first rough and thorny, became easier as they made the ascent. The flowers they had so much prized were poisonous; the gold-green moss was only to conceal the dark morass: serpents hid away in secret places, luring their victims, and, at length, crushing them in their hideous folds. Seeing all this, was it strange that he suffered? that his life-blood oozed out in drops of agony? 
               While Jay was tossing upon his bed, Cyrus went in and out of the room, silent and still. There was little that he could do; but, for a time, the demon drink lost the supremacy. As a dreamer, suddenly awaking, finds himself on the verge of a fearful precipice, starts back with horror and affright, so Cyrus recoiled from the hot, fiery breath-the lurid flames ready to envelop him. Taking advantage of this, Daisy endeavored to rouse his better nature, pointing him to others, and entreating him to turn from the old paths. At times, he listened patiently; then, prompted by some unseen influence, he poured into Daisy's ear the story of his life, the excesses to which he was accustomed, the devouring thirst for drink, and, when he tried to leave it, the almost visible presence of the tempter, goading him on, until he was almost ready to peril body and soul to gratify his passion. It was a new phase of life, and one of which the poor girl had never so much as dreamed. Burdened with sorrow that she could not share even with Ellen, Daisy felt, for the first time, the inestimable privilege of companionship with the only friend that could help her in such an hour, pouring into His ear her wants and her desires, asking for advice and counsel to enable her to do all that there was for her to do. Thoughts of self no longer intruded upon her. She had forgotten the path by which she had come. Neither did she look forward to see where it was tending. Her cry was for another: that Jay might be spared, and that this terrible thirst for drink might be stayed. 
               Every day Dr. Landseer gave his patient as much of his time as possible, and every night Grant Clayton was sure to come, with gentle words and noiseless steps, to exorcise the spirits that were, or seemed to be, leagued against the prostrate youth. In health, there had been little sympathy between the two young men. Now, Jay seemed to have a warm love for the manly youth, saying, as his smiling face appeared, "I am glad that you are strong and well. You make them all afraid of you, and I can rest." 
               "Yes, that is just what you are to do. You are to sleep. I shall keep a sharp look out; have no fear," answered Grant Clayton. 
               This was the time for Martin to get a little repose and Daisy slipped away to comfort Ellen. 
               "There is so little for me to do," murmured Ellen, flinging herself into Daisy's arms, and pressing her tear-wet cheeks to the pale, sad face. 
               "And that little may have more blessing in it than the weightier work of the hands," returned Daisy. 
               But I want to do something that I can see," plead Ellen. 
               "Do you remember the vine that Mr. Hawley showed us-how he planted it, and, sitting at his study-window, watched it day after day, admiring its glossy leaves and clinging tendrils? He had been told so much of the beauty of the blossoms; and during all the summer days, neither bud nor blossom appeared," asked Daisy. 
               "I remember; and after he had given it up, thinking it a mistake, it blossomed into beauty far beyond what he had dared to hope," answered Ellen. 
               "But the blossoms were on the other side. It was the fence that prevented him from seeing them," said Daisy. 
               "And so, when we try to do anything, we may not see the good of it?" asked Ellen. 
                
               "Not at the time. Mr. Hawley said it was for us to plant, and, very possibly, the bloom would not reveal its beauty till viewed from the other side," added Daisy. 
               "But I have not even leaves. Mamma asked me to write a letter. I did n't more than half do it; and when papa came in, I could n't say a word. All I could do was to sit beside him, with my arms about his neck," said Ellen, in a desponding tone. 
               "I have no doubt that comforted him more than any form of speech. Silence expresses sympathy that sweetly touches the heart," answered Di. 
               "You always have something comforting to say: and I try; but it sticks in my throat," rejoined Ellen. 
               "A smile, a word, a hand clasp, with these be content. When you are older, there will be other work. I hear Cyrus's step in the hall. Let us go and say something pleasant to him. I would be sorry to have him find us dull and gloomy," Di returned, with a smile of encouragement. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               INTO THE LIGHT. 
               IT was a winter morning. The sun gilded the mountain, and crowned its snow-capped summit with shifting and many-colored lights; far away, the undulating ranges striking against the dark blue of the sky, making the distance short from earth to heaven. Like human beings, Nature has her gala days, and glories in them. 
               "Glorious in all His works!" and the good pastor in Tipton walked up and down the veranda, letting his thoughts run up and down the mountain passes, as though a ladder on which he saw, ascending and descending, hosts innumerable. The valley lay beneath,-a silver cord, knotted with human dwellings. Praise was written upon his face; prayer was in his heart. On his right was the small village, a charming foreground to the picture. As he looked, a tear glistened and fell on the book he had been reading, his finger still pressed between the leaves. For twenty-five years he had ministered to the people; and his heart was bound to them in love. Yonder, in the little church-yard, slept the wife of his youth, and with her the children she had borne him. But one was left of all his kindred, his youngest and only sister, a poor, heart-broken woman, with reason clouded. A mysterious rious providence; but His purposes were good-in His own time He would make it plain. Another look at the white, glistening peaks, and the good man saw, or seemed to see, the battlements of a city, glorious as being the dwelling-place of the Most High. No tears in heaven, and the face of the good pastor grew luminous. "God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes." In heaven, discipline will not be needed. The soul, refined by the fires of affliction, will have parted with every impure element and come forth as gold, "complete in all the will of God." Slower grew the pastor's step. He was thinking of the sad bereavement that mother had known. "No tears, no night there, no sad bereavements. No clouds to intervene and settle darkly over the horizon. There will be no eclipse of the divine favor-our Father's face unobscured forever." Insensibly his face fell lower. He was thinking of the partings, tears flowing down the faces, and the entire being trembling with emotion. No heartaches there; but all will be joyous, happy, singing the song of redeeming love. 
               A click of the white gate, and Mr. Hawley turned his head. 
               "Good-morning, Seth. I am glad to see you. When did you return from the city?" 
               "If that means when did I return to Tipton, last night. It is nearly two months since I left New York." 
               "Now I think of it, your mother told me. Have you arranged everything as you desire?" asked Mr. Hawley. 
                
               "I believe so. I am to enter college at the next commencement," Seth replied. 
               "You will have to study between this and that time, I suppose." 
               "That is the chief thing that brought me here this morning. I must study, and I must work. My studies must not burden my mother," said Seth, while his face flushed with manly pride. 
               "She can get along quite as well this year as she did last," and a smile lit up the benevolent face of Mr. Hawley. 
               "That is what I wanted to know, Mr. Hawley. Will you have time to hear me once or twice a week, at such times as I can give?" and Seth looked pained and embarrassed. 
               "That you have allowed this to trouble you, is evident. You should have known me better, Seth," was Mr. Hawley's response. 
               "I am so much your debtor; and knowing, as I do, that your time is taxed, I did not feel free to ask, much as I desired it," added Seth. 
               "True, my time is occupied; but it is given to the needs of my people. You require my service, and profit by it, consequently it is yours. Neither should you hesitate to ask me. It is a pleasure for me to teach you in my study, as it is from the pulpit. So consider this question settled. Study as much as possible, and recite when you can. Now, tell me of our friends. You saw them, I suppose?" asked Mr. Hawley. 
               "Miss Delafield and Ellen?" queried Seth. 
                
               "And Mr. Lyndsey," added Mr. Hawley. 
               "Yes, I saw them each. Ellen sent her warmest love, and Daisy made me the bearer of a small package for your sister. She remembers her summer trip with pleasure, and trusts some day to be able to come again. The family in which she lives lean upon her; some giving love, and others something akin to hate. One can see that she tries to walk between the two, as in duty bound. You say that you have time, and I may come?" and Seth turned to go. 
               "Knowing your strait, I shall be ready, never fear. My kind remembrance to your mother, Seth." And the pastor watched the young man as he walked firmly away, speaking half aloud, as he turned to his room, "He's a noble lad, and sure to make a, man, if God spares his life;" and with this the pastor closed his study-door and bolted it. 
               The parcel lay open upon the table, the note beside it. The pastor paused, and bowed his head. During all the summer days, a voice seemed to say that her place was here. Stronger than reason is the love implanted in a mother's heart. By what law, I know not, but there sprang a sudden love between them, asking no proof, and giving none. And again the good man recounted the little incidents, the looks and words, as they chanced to meet; the feeling of rest and quiet on the sick woman's face, sitting with her hand in Daisy's, her eyes no longer tearful. At times he thought her better, the inner life smoothed out, the tangled thread of thought unknotted. Then a doubt would come to mar the plan, and send the airy structure to the ground-the dates were not the same. But might not Mabel's child have been nursed tenderly at first? Might not the plan to rear her gradually have changed-a sudden loss or death won them to desert the child they had promised themselves to treat with kindness? There was no answer-there had been none from the first. All means had been used, but no traces could be found, and, as the years rolled by, all hope had vanished. Was it wrong to let a thought of what might have been trouble the serenity of a heart washed of earthly ills,-a heart that had been emptied of worldly goods? The pastor did not question. A guide to others, he was himself led. Pointing others up the narrow track, he did not fail himself to keep the guide in view-the hand of faith reaching up for help. Tribulation could not separate him from the love of One whose heart could be touched with the story of his woe. He realized that each event in life was only a link in the golden chain to draw him nearer, and knowing this, he left it in the Father's hand. 
               How sweet, how precious is it, when the heart is torn, to have a God to go to in our need-the One able to turn the sharpest afflictions into the greatest blessings-the One who would never smite, if he were not willing to heal. Neither would he withhold a privilege, if he had not a better substitute. 
               With such thoughts the pastor tried to console himself, Now looking upon the tiny half-worn shoes, the delicate handkerchief, and then pouring out his heart in weakness,-comforted, as a mother comforts the least of her children. Thus occupied, the good man failed to hear the slight rap at the door; and not till a low, plaintive voice called his name, did he lift his head. 
               "Mabel, what troubles you?" as he went to meet the stricken one. Then, turning for the tiny half-worn shoes and the gossamer handkerchief, he led her to her room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               SHIFTING SANDS. 
               IN a shrouded room, solemn and still, a soul was passing from its earthly home. Yesterday Paul Browning entered the counting-room. The merchant was sitting at the table, his head bowed on his hand, the crimson tide pouring over the pallid lips; and, to-day, there is no hope. Dr. Landseer has no remedies-love has no healthful agencies. Sobbings have almost ceased, and tears are no longer given. For hours have they battled with their grief. It is spent. The waning life is almost done. 
               Over the threshold totters a thin, pale youth. Fever has died out, and the wild light in his eye vanished. He kneels beside the bed. "Father! father! speak to me." 
               The languid eyes open; the lips move. A whisper light as air. 
               "My son." 
               "Father, forgive. I was mad. I did not know." 
               "We have both erred, my son. May God forgive; and for the future-" There was a pause, a fluttering of the breath. 
               Kneeling beside her first-born, the mother clasped the death-cold hand. 
                
               "For your mother's sake, my son. Is Cyrus here?" 
               Alas! for days Cyrus had not been at home. In a strange passion he left the house; and now a father's blessing will not meet his child. A look of anguish crept over the ashen face; the death-damps gathered. "Tell him," and his eye sought Daisy out. "Help him." The words were caught up on the other side-the messenger had gone. 
               It was the mid-day hour; and in the market-place, and along the public squares, it quickly passed: "A rich man's dead." Some praise him as a good, kind-hearted soul, with generous purse held open to his friends; and others blamed: "Too easy by half. Those sons of his have squandered all his gains. No wonder that he's dead." 
               Each had a word, and then he was forgot,-the man on whom they had fawned in life, eating his suppers, and crowding in at his hospitable board. So much for love. And, still, this man had a heart to prize it, to yearn after it as the goodliest thing earth had to give. 
               From a princely home, a richly-blazoned coffin was carried forth. Then followed a long train of sumptuous carriages, winding along the street to the place of graves. Solemn and slow, they placed him in a sculptured vault, and turned away. Their hearts were lighter with a duty done. 
               A week passed, and there was rumor of a broken firm. The rich man died a bankrupt. 
                
               "No wonder," said the world, and rolled along. One grain of sand is never missed, one withered leaf unnoticed. 
               "His goods will have to go," said one he called a friend. 
               "There'll be a chance to make a figure," said another. 
               "His horses will just suit me," cried a third. 
               "And his house. I knew the time would come. Such lavish expenditure could not last. There will be no more driving up and down the town, and less champagne those boys will guzzle down." Thus each had something to throw against the coffin of his friend-while, in her humble home, a widow sat and wept. 
               "When Grant was ill, he was our faithful friend. His kindness saved us. I could not have kept my children but for him." 
               Struck down in her grief, the failure did not astonish Mrs. Delafield. In a manner, she was prepared for it; and Daisy and Ellen sustained themselves as those who had thought of the possibility of such an event. For months, Mr. Delafield had battled with his fears, and freely had he spoken to his wife and children. 
               To Jay and Cyrus it was unexpected. Stunned by the blow, they could not realize it. There was some mistake. True, their father had warned them; but he was ill. It could not be that his wealth had really disappeared. And not till the red flag was perched in the front window did they begin to feel it was anything but a myth,-a bugbear conjured up to frighten them. Jay was better, but he was not strong. Cyrus was more erratic than before. What was done, Daisy must do; and bravely she endeavored to fulfil the task. 
               In these circumstances, frequent consultations were held. Dr. Landseer was made still more of a confidant The house in which they lived must be given up. Jay protested, and Cyrus urged a delay to the last limit of the law. 
               "I would rather do it now," said Mrs. Delafield. "This plan your father would have resorted to had he lived. A smaller house will better suit us, and, if we find that more is left us than would now appear, an arrangement can easily be made more in keeping with our taste." 
               Affliction weakens some natures; it strengthens and ennobles others. As the fiery furnace to purge the dross from the pure metal, so sorrow burns into the heart, sending a white heat through the nooks and crevices of each secret chamber, bringing out in palpable shape and form whatever is good and worthy, and burning up, like dross, the glittering tinsel of selfish indulgence. Mrs. Delafield's energies were aroused. She was capable of being a true woman. Possessed of a lofty spirit, she would not have it flung in her teeth that she was living on money that belonged to her husband's creditors. Mrs. Delafield was too proud to be vain. Besides, she saw, as did her husband, the mistake made in the education of her children, and her love was awakened, her prudence startled. Her sons were young. This would rouse their better nature. When they saw the sacrifice that she could make, they would be induced to put forth every effort. Thus nerving herself, and hoping in every turn to see amendment, Mrs. Delafield allowed Daisy to plan and arrange for the comfort of a smaller house, a less expensive establishment. 
               "We are each of us to do something," said Daisy, as Dr. Landseer called to offer a little of his practical wisdom. "My voice has been praised for sweetness and power. Expense has been lavished to cultivate it; and I am glad that I have a gift whereby I can support myself and benefit others." 
               "There was a time when it would have cost me more to make this change than it does at present," Mrs. Delafield remarked, as, with the freedom of a friend, Dr. Landseer spoke of her sons. "We have been too indulgent with our children. In our love, we thought it the greatest good to save them as much as possible from actual contact with the stern realities of life. We flattered ourselves it would be time enough when they grew up," and the tears rained over the mother's face. 
               "When vines are weak they are propped," replied the doctor; "but when strong enough to stand alone, they are suffered to climb, with but a narrow thread to run upon." 
               "And thus you argue human vines have to be trained, supported, not carried." 
               "There is nothing brought to perfection without labor. Favoring circumstances add greatly to harmonious growth, but persistent effort overcomes and smooths the ruggedness of the way-the beauty and symmetry the more marked because of unfavorable surroundings," was the reply. 
               "There is but one thing that troubles me," continued Mrs. Delafield; "a fear that the routine of business will be deemed drudgery, from which they will be anxious to escape by some other door. Without business habits, and with less to spend, it will require a good deal of moral courage." 
               "There are turning-points in every life-times when the soul looks over the field of promise and wisely resolves to win a position. Let us hope for the best. In the meantime, we are to help them all we can," returned Dr. Landseer. 
               Friendship is a plant of delicate growth. A breath mars its beauty, and a word may kill it. Like seed dropped into different soils, its growth is affected by the circumstances in which it is placed. Rough winds are unfavorable to its perpetuity. Mrs. Delafield was led to philosophize. It was autumn with her friends; and the few wafted to her door by the spent wind of kindly favor, loitered just long enough to remind her of the past, and with a sigh, whether of loss to themselves or of condolence for her, swept gracefully away. 
               "There is one advantage. We know those who care for us in reality," and a blush mantled Daisy's cheek. 
               Thanks to Mr. Delafield, Grant Clayton could walk, and a path was opening up to him of usefulness and honor. Humble as he was, he had the courage to offer deeds, and the bare consciousness that his services were accepted thrilled his manly spirit with still deeper feeling. The generous soul realizes an exquisite pleasure in being able to return a favor. Much of the weariness and labor of change Mrs. Clayton and Grant took upon themselves, leaving Mrs. Delafield to see little of the roughness of the way, and helping Daisy materially in her new and untried plans. Since Jay's illness, Grant had been on more intimate terms with him; and, still, there was little in common,-the one obliged to do, thereby increasing in mental as well as in physical strength; the other, self-indulgent and fond of dissipation. Unselfish in his effort, Grant made bold to suggest plans, speaking of those who had come up through the agency of their own persistent effort. Jay listened at times, and at others grew impatient, while Cyrus manifested decided dislike for anything like business. 
               The new home was in the near vicinity of Mr. Parton's dwelling, and the kindly relations subsisting between the pastor and Daisy and Ellen strengthened tenfold. Not alone on the Sabbath day did they receive new life and encouragement from meeting in the sanctuary, but during the week,-the words scattered tending greatly to stimulate exertion and to keep their hearts from fainting by the way. Gradually Mrs. Delafield was won into more thought-fulness, the story of His love opening up to her beauty and tenderness unseen before,-the days not as lonely, self and selfish sorrow forgotten in realizing, to some extent, the watchful care round about them. If old friends deserted them, they made some new ones, and of a class which they had not previously encountered, their pulses beating more in harmony with suffering souls, a quick, generous sympathy springing up, leading them out of themselves, and thus increasing their happiness in proportion as they endeavored to sustain others. In these little schemes, Jay and Cyrus took no part, absenting themselves as much as possible; and, still, under the name of business, going out at night, and returning beside themselves with drink, unheeding the warnings and the entreaties of those that loved them. Then confined to his room by that fearful illness that succeeds days of dissipation, it was pitiful to listen to Jay, the yearning, heart-devouring restlessness, anxious to do, and still irritated by reason of the change. Confined to the drudgery of business, when he had all his life been accustomed to habits of ease and indulgence, the excitement of drink, the surcease from care. 
               "You would not wonder at it, if you knew just how I feel. Try as I will, I cannot settle myself to the dull, plodding round of a day laborer, goaded and stung in thinking of what I was and, now, what I am," and, burying his face in the pillow, such bitter, burning tears, such withering sobs, as made them all weep. Won back by care, and soothed by unwearied tenderness, to go forth again, only to return turn in the same manner, the good within him weaker, the evil influences stronger by reason of indulgence. 
               A year had passed. It was a June day. The earth looked up with a smile of faith and love into the clear, blue sky, whose mysterious depths seemed to give promise of a brighter, better future. A gentle west wind came up the pleasant street, and stately trees and odorous flowers sent a love-greeting. Upon the veranda of a quiet house stood a young girl, and looked admiringly upon the sunshine and the clouds. Rich bloom was on her cheek, and her red lips parted. Her glowing face was full of expectation. A vine-rose was struggling up the rustic porch. "Suppose I help it climb," was murmured to herself, and, plunging her hand within the depth of green, she drew it to its height, and fastened it with a blue thread to an outstanding nail. 
               "Your vines have a healthy look. I'm glad to see them thrive so well," said a well-known voice, and Daisy turned to welcome Dr. Landseer. 
               "I was not quite sure: I was in hopes," and the blood mounted in rosy waves, then left the face with that calm pallor that denotes high resolve. "I wanted you to see how nice we look: and there is something else," and Daisy snapped a rosebud from the stem. 
               "You do not fear to tell me, child?" 
               "I do not fear; but I have been to you so many times. For three days Jay has been in bed; and this morning he raves much as he did in that fearful illness." 
               "It is too bad; and, still," and a vexed look was on the doctor's face. "It is not a week since I took him out to ride, and told him that the only way for him and Cyrus to do was to give it up at once. He promised-promised faithfully, poor boy." 
               "His mother feels it far more than she did at first; and Ellen sleeps not a wink," continued Daisy. 
               "Where is she now?" asked Dr. Landseer. 
               "I sent her to Mr. Parton for a book. I did it purposely. She is too young to feel so sadly over what she cannot help." 
               "That's a mistaken theory; and, if carried far, would strand her where the others lie. Sorrow and joy blossom in paths trod by the young as well as by the old. Standing upon the shore the boy will never learn to swim, but plunging in and battling with the waves, he learns to conquer," said the doctor, earnestly. 
               "You must confess it's hard to see a child bearing the burdens of middle age," returned Daisy. 
               "The child bears his own burden suited to his strength, and just as needful for him, as a child, as the one sure to be given in after years. I remember when I felt as sadly, looking at a crushed butterfly lifeless in my hand, as I have since done in losing those I love," rejoined the doctor. 
               "I like to think He fits the burden for us. Still, I have sometimes thought it is easier to bear than to see others suffer," was Daisy's reply. 
                
               "In whatever sorrow, remember that He will bear by far the greatest share, comforting as He did of old the two walking in company to the small village where they lived; and when He would go farther, with one accord they cried, 'Abide with us,' and He did not refuse," said Dr. Landseer. 
               A step was on the stair, and Mrs. Delafield spoke cheerfully: "It's pretty, is n't it? and cheerful with its song of birds, and scent of roses such as I've seen in country places growing wild. I always knew Daisy for a handy little woman, but I had not tested her fine skill in fitting up small rooms." 
               It was said bravely, to hide her grief, and the doctor knew it. Pausing, he laid his finger on her arm. "Have no concealments. I'll serve you, if I can." 
               Tears dimmed the mother's eyes. 
               "Jay feels degraded in the room of being roused, as I had hoped. He says he has tried; but it is hard to meet with those he used to know; and then, to drown his thoughts, he flies to drink. I cannot bear to think of it; and, still, what can I do?" 
               "Is he in his room?" asked the doctor. 
               "He is in his room, half wild, and doubtful what to do. He thinks sometimes that it would be easier for him. somewhere else. I have thought of that; but, oh, I cannot bear to have him leave me now. So long as he is with us, we can watch over him to some extent; and should he fail-" while sobs shook the thin frame, and the mother's tears fell fast. 
               "Let us take heart Reforms are not effected without continual struggle. To accomplish anything worth doing, one has to strive; and to keep from doing requires as much strength of nerves and force of will as to keep doing," and the doctor's voice was full of tenderness. 
               "Your words are helpful, and I owe you much. Will you see Jay?" and leaving Dr. Landseer to enter alone, Mrs. Delafield turned to the silence of her room to weep and pray as stricken mothers only can. 
               The sun was waning when Dr. Landseer left his patient's room. Ellen was sitting on the steps reading her book. Her eyes filled as she looked up. Mrs. Delafield was sitting near. 
               "Jay is sorry for his fault, and says it frankly. Sitting at home, we may not know how sorely he is tried. To help him may demand that he should leave the city, and Cyrus with him," said the doctor. 
               "Do you advise it, Dr. Landseer?" asked Mrs. Delafield. 
               "I do not advise it; but perhaps it will be best." 
               "If we could go with them," said Mrs. Delafield. "Without a home to go to, not even a friend to influence them aright, I shall feel still more anxious with regard to them." 
               "Others have to swing up from round to round. It is an easy thing to go to the mast-head, but quite another thing to come down. It is the coming down that troubles Jay, and, on that account, it may be easier to begin on new ground I see that Barbara bara is with you," continued the doctor, as the air of a quaint song floated out to them. 
               "Barbara has never known any other home. I could not bear to send her away so long as she chooses to remain," replied Mrs. Delafield. 
               "Here is a note for Daisy. I forgot to give it as I came in," added the doctor, as he was taking his leave. 
               "She is here to take it for herself, and also to tell Dr. Landseer what he will be glad to know-that she has already a fine class in music," said Daisy, coming from an inner room. 
               "Not fashionable, of course, or they would not practise through the summer," rejoined the doctor, with a laugh. 
               "Neither am I a professor," replied Daisy. 
               "Professors do not make the best teachers," continued the doctor. 
               "My fame is to be won," added Daisy. 
               "Singing birds are always prized. Have you no curiosity about the note?" and the doctor's hand closed over it. 
               "Another pupil, perhaps." 
               "I would n't wonder if it is. Don't refuse, Daisy. I judge, from the handwriting, it is from one that can be trusted," said the doctor, making his bow. 
               "It is something to be thankful for,-a friend like Dr. Landseer," and Daisy ran away to read her note. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               LEAVING HOME. 
               THE little village of Tipton was bathed in the golden glow of sunset. A crimson fringe of cloud rested on the brown hills, and melted into shadowy waves to meet the crisp stubble-fields. 
               At the door of her home Mrs. White sat, the perfume of the flowers stealing into her heart, and stirring memory with thoughts of earlier days. Her eyes caught the rippling brown of Lydia's hair, as, seated on the steps, she looked for the dun cows coming down the lane. A quiet summer they had passed, and, if they seldom spoke of what had been, they thought of it the more. With work and study, Seth had been content, while Lydia's thought was merged in his life plan, and her hand was quick to help in little nameless ways. Autumn trailed her robes across the fields, and, with the help of Nathan Orcutt and his team, the frugal sheaves were gathered in. 
               To Lydia, this darling brother Seth was the ideal of manly strength and excellence. She dreamed of him at night, and feasted her soul with stolen looks by day, careful to guard her tongue when once his eye rested upon his book,-a woman's instinct rendering her quick to guard his time as something more precious than she called her own. Quiet and sweet her love, asking for nothing and giving all, without the shadow of a thought the time might come when other longings would spring up to mar her restfulness. 
               A merry whistle broke upon the air, and Lydia bounded like a fawn, dropping the brown bars with her dimpled hand, standing in quiet grace, as Bess and Nell and May, looking their welcome with great mellow eyes, passed down the lane. 
               A handful of bright-hued flowers, asters and golden rod, knotted with long brown grass, Seth brings. "I've robbed the pasture," as he placed them in Lydia's hand. 
               "I'm glad you thought of me," ventured Lydia, and blushes met the golden of her hair. 
               "I'm always doing that," replied Seth, and one by one the bars shot into place. 
               "Keep them, mother, till I come in," said Lydia, as she sprang gayly to the porch and down again, armed with a pail, and taking one for Seth. Then crouching down by the side of Bess, she brimmed her pail with foam. "You are a good Bess. Goodnight," nodding her head. With this she swings her pail with steady step to the small dairy, where her mother waits to strain from speck and hair the creamy wave in pans to set upon the glistening shelf. This done, and the dun cows fed, Seth fills the basin at the pump, and bathes his heated brow and toil-stained stained hands, wiping his face on the crash towel hanging by the door, changes his coat, and brushes out his hair, his work done for the day. 
               "I took the office in my round; and here's a letter only half read," as quietly he took the chair Lydia had placed for him on the narrow porch. 
               "From Cousin Herbert," and Lydia rested her head on Seth's broad shoulder. "What does he say? Please read it, Seth." 
               "He writes to tell us of his summer tour, perhaps," and Mrs. White rocked in her easy-chair. "I was in hopes he'd spend a week with us. I like him for himself as well as for the mother's look he wears." 
               "He's hard at work, and with but little time," Seth replied. "The letter turns not upon himself. He has a plan for me." 
               The words dropped slowly, every one distinct. Quick beat the mother's heart. Strange thoughts had floated through her brain all day, with sense of change and presage of something shadowy and undefined. It was of this she dreamed, as sitting on the porch, the sunset radiance tinged the distant hills, a keen thrust stinging her heart. Full well she knows it is the mother's lot to bear, to rear, to lose. How quick the children slip from loving arms. 'T was only yesterday Seth was a baby, pulling at her gown and denting her bosom with his pearly teeth. That's gone. She does not feel so very old, and he's fast merging into bearded manliness. She sees his father in his face, this boy on whom she's leaned, and now her prophetic heart tells her of change. Longing to hear, and still she dreads to know, a moment passes. 
               "Tell us, my son." 
               "You know my plans were frustrated last year. I wrote him of it, and also of my studies, the books I'd read. He says he thinks it would be well for me to take a private class,-enough to pay my way,-and study just the same myself in class, and under the guidance of professors, every day. He knows of such a place, and, if I wish, he will secure it for me. It seems to me a goodly offer, my very wish, only the leaving home." Seth dropped his voice to a low whisper, and his misty eyes saw not the anguish in his mother's face. 
               "I have known, sooner or later, it must come to this," and there was a gurgling sound in the mother's throat; while Lydia twined her white arms around her brother's neck and sobbed heavily. 
               "If your heart is against it, mother, and you, my little sister," lifting her head and kissing her brown cheek, "the answer is yours to give." 
               "You must go, Seth. I've felt something was asked of me through all the day. I've had such thoughts before. It would be wrong to keep you back from work that you can do. God opens paths, and, if we fail to enter, the penalty is ours. When does he think you had best leave?" asked the mother. 
               "Within a month." 
               "So soon! And yet 't is best Have you seen Mr. Hawley?" 
                
               "No one but you," returned Seth. 
               "I know he will approve. Still, it may be well to counsel with him. I heard to-day his sister, Mrs. Lisle, is very ill; and, as her body weakens day by day, her mind is more at rest, with glimpses not unfrequent of reason," continued Mrs. White. 
               "He has been a faithful watcher. Would he could see her all that she was to him," said Seth. 
               "There is a rumor that her husband has been heard from, and this has caused the change," replied Mrs. White. 
               "It is strange: the wanderings of tangled intellects, the wisdom sometimes displayed, and the wild vagaries-the saddest of all human ills," added Seth. 
               "I should not think she'd care to see her husband. Was I in Mr. Hawley's place, he should not look at her," and indignation gleamed in Lydia's eyes. 
               "We must not condemn without full hearing of his story," said Mrs. White. "That there was blame and grievous wrong is sure; by whom inflicted is not known. The child was stolen, doubtless murdered, that she might not claim the property in her father's right," and Mrs. White stood up, pausing a moment to tangle her fingers in the mesh of short, crisp curls that fell over Seth's forehead. "Your letter has made me half forget the supper waiting, all but the quick drawn tea." 
               "That I am to make," and Lydia slid behind her brother's chair. 
               The sweetest drops of bliss are concentrated in the smallest space of time. The mother's heart was drinking in a joy, the memory of which would gladden life for years to come. 
               "Come, mother, for a cup of tea. I know it's nice; and the cakes Seth loves so well, crisped to a turn," said Lydia, in a voice bright and clear. 
               Mrs. White was not one to brood over what could not be helped. Hers was too healthful a nature to find fault. She did not dream to hinder Seth in his course. Her pride was only equalled by her love. She would not have him dwarfed and stinted because of weakness on her part, and resolutely flinging her grief aside, she led the way to the small supper-room, turning the channel of thought, and at once beginning to plan for the coming change. 
               The autumn moon was looking in at the window of the pastor's study, tinging the books and laying bars of light across the wall. Warm as the days, the nights were crisp and cool, and a small fire of sticks was burning faintly on the hearth. 
               In his study chair, the pastor sat before a table piled with folios, papers, and manuscripts. In one hand he held an open letter, and in the other pillowed his chin, his elbow on the table. At his feet lay a graceful hound, with head stretched out to meet the fire. Like her master, she was dreaming, perchance, of what had been. Above the mantel hung the pictured outline of a lovely girl, her sunny curls and laughter-loving eyes like liquid wells of well-directed thought. The play of moonbeams on the rug, and Blanche started, yawned, and stretched herself self, then turned and rubbed her graceful length of nose against the pastor's knee. The charm was broken, and, with a sigh, the good man raised his head. 
               "You are a good friend, Blanche," and he laid the letter on the table, and patted the silken head. A little whimpering cry was Blanche's response. 
               For twenty-five years this small room had been the pastor's favorite resort. Not alone to study, but to think and dream. An uneventful life, and, still, sharp and fiery trials had been his. When first he came to Tipton, his heart was rich in love of wife and children; while a young sister left to his care, as the last charge of a dying mother, made his home happy as a home could be. For years his wife and children had slept in the quiet churchyard, and this one sister was a faded, broken-hearted woman. There was a struggle in the pastor's heart. This letter was from one to whom he had given the priceless boon of a sister's love. In all the land there was not a happier home. Then came a tiny birdling to the nest, folded its wings, and grew on the glad smiles it won. The father was beside himself with joy, and it was hard to tell which worshipped most,-the mother, in her gushing wealth of love, or the proud father, his heart brimming over with tenderness. Then came a change: the world was dark, and that sweet mother's thoughts wildered and jangled, like discordant bells. 
               It was not his fault, the husband writes. A victim he had been as well, mourning for years the loss of wife and child. What answer could the pastor make? Should he forgive, and take him to his home to see the wreck and hapless ruin of the one he loved? Or should he nurse a cold and haughty spirit, and spurn him from the door? "Forgive, as you hope to be forgiven," went sounding through the pastor's heart. Unconsciously his head fell to the level of his hand, and a low prayer went up. A shadow came between the pastor and the fire. 
               "Pardon, if I intrude. I rapped three times, and ventured to come in. Blanche is glad to see me." It was Seth White. 
               "And so am I," replied the pastor, rising from his chair. "To tell the truth, I did not know I'd been here quite so long. Tired with my watch at Mabel's bedside, with letters waiting to be read, I came in here. The sun was not then down, and now 't is night." 
               "I hope your sister is better," and tenderness was in the full, round voice. 
               "I left her sleeping sweetly as a child. But tell me of yourself. Our evenings have been broken in upon," and the pastor drew Seth to a chair beside him. 
               "My lessons have gone on. Sometimes I found it hard; but I have mastered them. I come to-night with fewer questions than I used to bring. I knew that illness kept your eyes awake, and chose out one. 'T is clear, and still it puzzles me," said Seth. 
               "In metaphysics or philosophy?" asked the pastor. 
               "Strictly, it belongs to neither. It is a question of expediency. With your leave, I will read from a letter I have just received from Cousin Herbert." 
               "Yes, yes; he wrote to me a week ago. 'T is strange I had forgotten. The very thing for you, my boy. I told him so," returned the pastor. 
               "'T is easy to fall in with advice when it suits our will. I'm glad to know you think it best Much as I wished, I dare not fully trust it to myself. 'T is hard to leave my mother with only Lydia to lean upon." 
               "Your mother will miss you, boy; but she is no woman to cry out with pain because her child no longer thrives on pap. The marble in the quarry will avail the builder nothing. It must be taken out, fitted and squared and polished to its place. Each has his niche, and God expects he'll fill it. What says your mother?" 
               "She said it bravely, 'You must go.' But she could not hide the breaking of her heart, the low, stifled sob. I saw it all; and had you said you thought it best for me to stay, in sympathy for my mother's loneliness, I could have yielded it." 
               "'T is a sweet sorrow, after all, mothers are doomed to bear. Manhood is heavier than thistledown, and every step it gains it has to fight; and if at last it conquers, 't is by right of principle, firm and unyielding. Your cousin Herbert knows what it is to struggle up through difficulties that would have overcome a weaker, worldlier nature." 
               "My cousin Herbert is so far above me, I hardly dare to hope to look upon the summit he will gain. He has talent far beyond the generality." 
               "He has a pure principle of right within him. Based on this firm foundation, he is sure to rise, like some tall palm, a beacon and a guide," said the pastor. 
               "Herbert is good. I owe him more than I can ever pay," was Seth's reply. 
               "Selfishness is no part of his nature. He lives to do for others,-swaying the public mind, not for his own pet schemes, but to raise and make better those with whom he has to do. The good such men do lives after them. Did Herbert write you of our summer friends?" asked Mr. Hawley. 
               "You knew their father died a year ago?" 
               "I heard as much." 
               "And their wealth vanished?" continued Seth. 
               "Mr. Parton wrote me of this," returned the pastor. 
               "They live in a small house. Daisy gives music lessons, and Ellen is struggling to be of use." 
               "Mr. Delafield left sons?" questioned Mr. Hawley. 
               "Yes, two," answered Seth. 
               The tinkle of a bell caught the pastor's ear. 
               "Mabel is awake. When do you propose to leave?" 
               "Within a month," returned Seth. 
               "God willing, I will see you soon again. Do right. Live nobly, Seth. Manhood, like every other gift of God, comes not by chance." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               EVIL PURPOSES AND PLANS. 
               IT was night: a heavy cloud of blackness shut the world in, and ominous voices in tones of muttered thunder, with long, deep gushes of electric flame, caused stout hearts to tremble. The wind swept through the deserted streets, and the fiends of air seemed hurrying on to some grand carnival. 
               Not all deserted. Here and there a loiterer at some festal board, or a poor staggering wretch seeking his cheerless home. Here, one creeping along with stealthy tread, thankful for night and darkness to conceal his murderous plans. On he presses through by-ways and alleys, escaping corners where the sentry walks, hugging the walls like some vile reptile, starting at every sound. Dark and grim as the night it loomed before him,-dark walls, dark wings, and something on the top like a huge crown of blackness-no light, no sound of life, the windows closed and barred. A lightning glance from out the blackened sky, and the poor wretch sank back against the wall frightened as though it had been the eye of God. Why was he there? and how? and his limbs trembled while his brain grew wild. Should he go back, his life would be the forfeit of his promise. Should he go on?-cold damps stood on his forehead, his limbs gave way, he groped along on the mouldy pavement. There was a muffled tread, then a whistle three times given, the bolts slipped back, and through a crevice in the door he saw a dark form enter. The light glancing outward thrilled him. Had he been seen? and, nerved with courage born of his despair, he stood upon his feet; the whistle three times three was repeated; the door opened, and another dark form entered. 
               "How now! you are late coming. We began to fear you had given us the slip," and the new comer felt the hot breath of his interrogator, as he drew him to the light and scanned his face closely. 
               "You have nothing to fear; I'm with you hand in glove. But prudence is as good as valor. I could not get away; and but for this storm, I had not come at all." 
               A muttered curse escaped the mustached lips, and the dark eyes flashed. 
               "Look to it, if you prove false." 
               A clap of thunder shook the building to its foundation, while the half dozen men seated around the room pressed closer to their leader. 
               "Why this distrust?" and the youth shook himself from the strong grasp. "I have more to lose than you have, if we fail. Your life is well-nigh spent. I have my youth, and the sweet memory of what it was to me." 
               "That's it; that's what I fear. Lapped as you've been in luxury, you'll faint to soil your fingers with the toil we know, and, creeping out when most there's actual need, give us the slip." 
               "You make a grand mistake," and flinging off his cap, he thrust his fingers through his hair. 
               "Teach me to make gold, and you will find no better pupil," continued the youth, resolutely. 
               A demoniac laugh resounded through the room, echoed in chorus by the bearded men and the wild spirits without. 
               "He's right; make haste. Teach us all that. Gold! gold! But stop! are we agreed? What we make we share alike? and if-" 
               "No if's; we must succeed. Did I not tell you! Just listen to the thunder. 'T is a good night to work. Jardon and Stilling will keep watch, and despair itself is not darker than these streets." 
               "Ho, Winston! are you ready?" 
               A light stroke upon an inner door disturbed for a moment the death-like stillness of the room, but produced no other effect He struck again louder, and listened. There was a shuffling sound, a woman's voice, and the door opened. 
               This room was not as long as the outer one, with no side windows; and if the sunlight was ever permitted to enter, it must be through an opening above. A large table stood on the middle of the floor, and on this quantities of wire, skeleton keys, dies, gold leaf, and delicate paper, with any quantity of coins galvanized, and made to look like real specie. A furnace filled with glowing coal stood on the hearth, and over this the man Winston. 
                
               "The fates are propitious to-night," said the youth, who, from being suspected, felt that he must make an effort to prove the honesty of his intentions. 
               "The fates! why, boy, we make or mar our own fate. The power's in us: only have the grit. Just look! what a lovely color. A bagful for each will pay us well for this little job." 
               "That it will," responded the one who had been spokesman in the outer room, and whom the men called Crawford. 
               "What think you, Delafield? Gold is not so hard to make as many imagine," continued Winston. 
               "This is all very well," and the youth took up a few pieces, twirled them in his fingers, and dropped them on the table. 
               "If you could only give them the ring." 
               "You must give 'em that yourself. If I stay shut up here to make 'em, you've got to see that they go. So many a day; and, mind you, the real thing must come in at night." 
               "I'll do it; but the paper, you know, is a great deal easier to get off Somehow, folks understand to a hair when coin falls short." 
               "I never saw a prettier bit of paper than that five hundred you drew the other night," said Crawford. 
               "And I was rid of it easily. There was a little twinge as the man held it up, rubbing it between his thumb and finger. I turned away, and tried to feel indifferent; but I tell you it was a great relief when he pocketed it," answered Delafield. 
                
               "That's because you're a fresh hand. When you've been at it for a time, it will come easy," returned Winston. 
               "Delafield knows little of the rough and tumble of life," and Crawford slapped the young man familiarly on the shoulder. 
               "The very reason that I am with you. You better believe a robin dropped out of his nest feels the ground cold and dreary. You cannot suppose that he would scruple about means to get back again." 
               "Worse than that," joined in one of the men. "Not alone to tumble out of the nest, but to have it swung before him constantly. It's enough to drive a man to anything." 
               "Here, Madge! bring us the grub," cried one. "What the deuce of a turnout there is to-night; it is impossible to hear anything for the confounded thunder. Madge! Madge! Where is she, Winston? I'll be bound she was here when we entered." 
               "If she was, she's too wise to let you set eyes upon her. Open that little closet, and help yourself. It's a pity you can't find something else to do than to guzzle down your throats, while I am broiling over this fire." 
               "Here's to your health and the beauties that you deal in," and Crawford raised his glass. A tinkling sound went round the, table. 
               "Fill up! fill up!" cried another. 
               "Success to our undertaking," exclaimed a third, and the glasses were lifted as before. 
               "Now to his grace for his agency in getting up such a storm," and another bumper was drained easily. 
               "Enough for the present, gentlemen," and Winston straightened himself. 
               "I have never seen neater work. It's sure to succeed, and if it does"-while a fierce smile played over the blackened face. 
               "As soon as we get enough, we must be off to the distant cities. Perfect as it is, caution will be necessary. To be discovered too soon would spoil all," exclaimed Crawford. 
               "To be discovered at all," exclaimed Delafield. 
               "It's plain enough to see that you are a raw hand. With pockets full of the real stuff, we must be off for Europe, Madagascar, or somewhere else, just for a few years, you know, and then back to do as we will. Only have a heart, boy, and it will all come back to you." 
               There was a fiendish smile on Winston's lips and a wild light in his eyes. Years of playing bopeep between government officials, and his own questionable acts, had rendered him cautious; and still did he never hesitate, when occasion offered, to carry out his plans, assuring himself that it was practical and sure to succeed. A philosopher in one sense. True, the law had pounced upon him more than once, curbing his ambition for a specified time: he bore it patiently, and when the restraint was removed, tried again, sure, if he kept on, of final success. The furnace glow was failing and the battery was no longer in motion: some of the men were dozing in chairs, and others were seated on the table, while Winston and Crawford planned. 
               "No two must be seen together. And if, by chance, it should happen, let there be no word or look of recognition." 
               "There is another thing of more consequence to our future," said Crawford. "It is possible that, in passing money, one may be discovered. Let us bind ourselves by an oath to suffer alone, if need be; but on no account to betray one another. In this way the money making can still go on, and the hounds set to scent us out none the wiser." 
               "Another bottle!" cried Winston; and all pledged themselves to act with prudence, and, if discovered, to bear the burden as individuals; and never, by word or look, to recognize each other in the presence of a third party. 
               In the weird light, the haggard faces, shaggy eyebrows, and tangled mass of coal-black hair contrasted strongly with the well-turned head and high, white forehead of young Delafield,-like fiends escaped from dark despair, their stake a soul. 
               "Hark! there's a sound," and Winston's quick ear had caught at something in the street. 
               "Quick, men, to the side door!" 
               "No occasion for alarm," and Jordan entered. 
               "The storm is spent, and day begins to break. It's time to fill our pockets and be off." 
               "You are sure there's no one at the door?" questioned Winston. 
                
               "Sure, your honor; and now be generous. To wait is quite as honorable as to work." 
               "Cloaking yourself with honor! Well, well; there's no denying honor is what we make it." And Winston laughed, and passed the bottle to his neighbor's lips. 
               "Where's Stilling? He has earned the right to wet his throat." 
               "Make haste; the daylight will be here!" roared Crawford. 
               "Now let the police come. There's nothing but a furnace of spent coal, a woman's gown and shawl. All is not gold that glitters. But what difference, if the people find not their mistake? With well-filled pockets, let us do our best; and as the clock strikes twelve at night, meet here again." And Winston pulled his hat over his bloodshot eyes. 
               The dawn was breaking when Jay Delafield sought his room. Noiseless, as he thought, his steps did not escape his mother's ear, touching her heart with a keen sense of pain. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               THE BURDEN OF A GREAT SORROW. 
               SHRILL November winds were rushing up the street, whirling the dust in clouds, and dancing dead leaves against the window-panes. A dreary homesickness was in the air; the birds forgot to sing, balancing themselves, and drawing up their feet beneath their wings. Dogs and men were walking in the streets; no useless jostling after the sunny side. Conflict without and a hard warfare within, the good and evil forces all called out. 
               Drawing her chair still closer to the grate, Mrs. Delafield stitched with redoubled ardor, Ellen was getting to be so tall; and the mother was fashioning a dress Agnes had laid aside. It was a new task, and her fingers trembled. Suddenly she stopped, and the tears rained down her pallid face. Through all the summer days she had borne the change bravely. Leaving her home had cost her fewer pangs than the sad thought that her children had outgrown their love, wandering away, and making sad mistakes. Stripped of the glittering forms that bound her to the life that others knew, the scales had fallen from her eyes. She saw that principle must be the ground-work of each act, and she felt the need of something on which to fix her hopes more lasting than she had ever known. 
               A month ago Agnes was with her. She came to stay, she said. A week had barely passed when her trunks were packed. 
               "Such little, pent-up rooms!" exclaimed the child. "I do not believe it was so bad as you were led to think; and if it was, we might have kept the house. My father's creditors were no better than other men." 
               "But your father was," returned the mother. 
               "I don't believe he lost it all; I never will!" said Agnes. 
               "His bills were heavy; heavier than you know. It was the burden of his life for months before he died," was the trembling response. 
               "A peg convenient on which to hang his whims. We spent too much," said Agnes, in a pettish tone. 
               "Your father, child, deserved your warmest love. His error was in loving all too much." 
               Sitting in the shadowy light, it all came back to the mother's heart. Agnes had gone. Cyrus had quarrelled with a fellow-clerk, and, joining a band of travelling play-actors, had left the town. 
               Light steps and pleasant voices were in the hall. "You have been lonely, mother," and a small arm stole around the mother's neck, a kiss was on her forehead. 
               "A little tired, perhaps," and there was a sense of sorrow in the words that touched Ellen's heart. 
                
               "We waited for Jay," and Daisy stood on the rug, and held her hands to the cheerful blaze. 
               "It has been a chilly day; but, for some reason, I feel better than for weeks before. I am in love with stormy days and black, tempestuous nights. I can work better," and Jay rubbed his hands, and looked with a pleasant smile upon the inmates of the little room. 
               "And now, Barbara, let us have tea," said Daisy, as the small maiden placed the lamp, and put fresh coal upon the grate. 
               "I was out on an errand, miss, or it would have looked cheerfuller when you came in." 
               "We will make it cheerful now, Barbara," and Daisy's voice was gushing with the joy of having Jay at home. With a quick eye, she saw the struggle in the mother's heart, and branching off into what she had seen and heard, she soon won both smiles and laughter. 
               At the tea-table, Jay was unusually lively, his words sparkling with wit and humor. It was a new phase, and the mother's heart vibrated between fear and hope. Through the long summer days he had been fitful and melancholy, at times endeavoring to settle himself to business, determined to overcome the thirst for drink; the next, unnerved and disquieted, by reason of drudgery that confined him when others were free to come and go as they pleased. 
               "I have a plan by which I can get it all back," he said to Ellen, as a name was spoken that recalled the past. 
               "How is that?" asked Mrs. Delafield. "You are not speculating, Jay?" 
               "Would that be so very dreadful, mother?" and a red flush crept up to Jay's white brow. 
               "Your father never favored it. Especially if one has limited capital." 
               "The very one I should think to try," returned Jay. 
               "Staking his all, and, if he loses, losing all. Honest gains are slow. Be satisfied with these, my son." 
               "I am sure my gains are slow enough," and a wild laugh resounded through the room. 
               "You have not told us of your plan," continued Mrs. Delafield. 
               "Oh, it is as Daisy says,-to keep to work. She is to be a prima donna some day; go to Germany and give concerts; and I expect to get piles of gold, and not only buy back what we have lost, but as much more." 
               "Would n't it be a fine thing if we could make gold," exclaimed Ellen. "I would not only have some for myself, but there are plenty of others who need it as much as I do." 
               "I hardly know what we need more than we have. If there is not as much silver and glass as there used to be, the bread is just as white, and the butter equally good," said Daisy, merrily. 
                
               "Bread and butter do not satisfy," said Jay. "It is one thing never to have, and another thing to do without." 
               "You mean by that, to one who had never had better, this small home would be beautiful?" asked Daisy. 
               "Certainly. Habits and customs of life make all the difference. We like, and must have, what we have been accustomed to, or we are unhappy," replied Jay. 
               "Our habits may have been wrong, our tastes not in keeping. There comes a time when these are to be corrected. It may be felt for a season, but the very struggle to overcome more than repays us in the strength we gain," said Mrs. Delafield. 
               "I have not realized much strength yet, and I have tried," was Jay's reply. 
               "Oaks do not grow in a day. A strong, permanent growth is almost imperceptible," rejoined Mrs. Delafield. 
               "I trust mine will be permanent, for I can hardly see it," and Jay pushed back his chair. "You will excuse me. I have two or three engagements, and to be back in any kind of season, I must hurry away." 
               "Oh, no, Jay; stay with us," and Ellen tried to detain her brother. 
               "Yes, Jay; it is a long time since we have had any music. I long to hear your voice again," and Daisy hastened to help Barbara with the table. 
               "Stay, my son, if possible. I hardly know why, but I have been sad to-day; and music, as Daisy says, will help us all." 
               "I have promised to be at three places. You see that I am getting to be a business man." 
               "When Cyrus was here, I did not so much mind if one was away; but now-" and Mrs. Delafield was fairly weeping. 
               "Don't fret over it, mother. When I get everything arranged, I will be as steady as you can ask," and Jay leaned over his mother's chair and kissed the pale cheeks tenderly. 
               With all his faults, Jay was kind and affectionate. He would not wantonly have injured a worm; but he loved to indulge himself, and he despised restraint. To confine himself to the dull round of every-day life was intolerable. In a word, Jay lacked moral principle. 
               Persuasion did no good; and as the door closed on the young man, keen anguish stung the mother's heart. What were his engagements? What plans had he? How did he think to realize a fortune? Where had he gone? 
               "Ellen is to read, and you are to listen," Daisy said, playfully, to Mrs. Delafield. 
               "And what is your part?" asked the mother. 
               "I am to finish this dress," taking the work on which Mrs. Delafield had been employed. 
               "I will knit," replied the mother. "And as for the dress, I fear you cannot do it." 
               "Let me try, please," and there was vivacity in Daisy's voice, that helped materially to free the brain from shadowy forebodings. 
               When Ellen laid aside her book, the dress was done. 
               "Now for a little music," and Daisy shook out the dress, and held it up to Ellen. 
               "There is one drawback to lesson giving, and that is a gradual decrease in enthusiasm, at least I find it so in my case. Listening to pupils, correcting mistakes, and constantly saying 'mind your time, and count one, two, three,' is sure to disgust the musical goddess, and the ear is no longer caught and the heart entertained with airs of angelic sweetness," said Daisy. 
               "Give us old songs," said Mrs. Delafield. 
               Daisy was in one of her musical moods, her voice rightly keyed, with just enough sadness in her heart to give it that peculiar tone, sure to touch and thrill a soul that has suffered. Good music is always sad,-blending sorrow and joy, mingling and melting, and running into a perpetual plaint for something higher, holier, than we find on earth. 
               To Mrs. Delafield's sick heart it was a comfort; and leaning her head against her chair, she listened to the sweet inspiration, now low, sweet, plaintive, then louder, bolder, lifting the soul up and filling it with rest. 
               A low rap at the parlor-door. 
               "I am just in time," and Herbert Lyndsey entered. 
               "You are very welcome," as Mrs. Delafield rose to receive him. "One of our petite soires, with only myself for listener." 
                
               "A select audience. Allow me to join you," was the pleasant reply. 
               "Indeed, Mr. Lyndsey, we are in want of a tenor; you will not refuse?" and Daisy turned to the instrument. 
               "In that case we shall bring down the house. As yet, we have not had a single bravo," remarked Ellen. 
               "I had forgotten," and Mrs. Delafield was laughing now, "that applause inspires and invigorates the artiste. You should have said to me, as Sir Godfrey said to the little poet of Twickenham, 'You know I can't do as well as I should, unless you praise me.' Go on; I promise the bravos." 
               Mr. Lyndsey knew how to sing, just as he knew how to read and how to study. Endowed with a voice, he had cultivated it, making it the messenger of his thought. 
               Old songs Mrs. Delafield had requested; and still was she conscious of that mystic power,-each strain only the echo of a voice heard long ago, visions of what had been, and sleeping memories awakened by every song they sang. Touchingly tender, and her eyes grow misty;-the very song that she used to sing; her husband was fond of it. Was it strange that she forgot the bravos, forgot everything-save what had been? 
               "I have brought you something quite new. You must try it," and Mr. Lyndsey unrolled a sheet of music. "I heard it once, and thought it beautiful," as he placed it on the stand. 
                
               "I can hardly hope to please where another has charmed," and Daisy ran her fingers over the keys. 
               "I am one to enjoy the second act better than the first," Mr. Lyndsey replied, as he turned the page. 
               The clock was striking in the church-tower as the music ceased. 
               "I have one regret," was said naively, as Daisy left the piano, and her guest seated himself with the audience. "It is too late for my budget of news." 
               "I can only say that I have been to Tipton, saw Mrs. White, and Seth, and Lydia, and good Mr. Hawley. On leaving, they freighted me with so much love and esteem for certain young ladies of my acquaintance, that I was forced to throw aside the weight before I could return to business," returned Mr. Lyndsey. 
               "I am glad to hear from them. And Seth is still at home?" and Ellen ran on with questions, while Daisy's face grew white in listening. 
               "Seth is no longer at home. He is now at the Belden Institute, teaching and studying in the place of working and studying, as he has been doing. Lydia bids fair to make a beautiful woman. I used to think her plain; she has improved astonishingly," continued Mr. Lyndsey. 
               "Did you spend any time with Mr. Hawley? Did he speak of his sister?" questioned Daisy. 
               "I spent an hour with Mr. Hawley. He has grown old rapidly within the last year. Expressed himself as quite well, however. His sister has been very ill. She is now better, and there are intervals when she is perfectly herself," was the reply. 
               Try as she would, Daisy could not keep back the tears; she had unconsciously thought so much of the woman, the sad, pale face continually rising up before her. 
               Mr. Lyndsey had gone, and, clinging to each other, the three sat looking into the spent fire. It was pleasant to be remembered by one whom they used to know,-one who did not pass them by because they no longer had the means to live expensively. Silent and still, the fading embers reproduced pictures in keeping with the thoughts of each. Instinctively, Mrs. Delafield mused of Jay and Cyrus. Where were they? and what doing? She remembers Seth White. A life of toil had been his from the cradle; gradually he was mounting upward. Never an idle moment had he known, never a pleasure,-as Cyrus would call it, climbing the cold, hard stairs of necessity. 
               Mrs. Delafield saw this in the dying fire. She did not always see it. Daisy and Ellen saw; but they did not say what. Let it be as it would, each knew that she would be happier for this evening. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               BRAVING THE LAW. 
               IT was the last of the sweet Indian summer days; a silvery haze, deepening to purple gloom, floated midway between the earth and sky. Languor was in the air; the butterfly, with curiously-mottled wings of black and gold, poised dreamily, brushing the glittering dust against the leafless stems. The din of labor and the roll of wheels was tempered to a soft and mellow sound, and the street-goers gliding by seemed as unreal as the broken fragments of a dream. As the sun went down, a lustrous gleam shot through the purple curtain, changing it to a cloth of gold. 
               No sound disturbed the silence of the room where Daisy, by the low window, sat and dreamed. All day her lessons had been given, her pupils tasking her time, "one, two, three," clear and distinct. Another day is added to the list, and for a few moments she is free to tangle her brain in "idle vagaries." Be it so; it rests her for to-morrow's work. Ellen has gone to Mrs. Clayton's. Grant is in Dr. Landseer's office. The new home is farther from the doctor's residence; they do not see him as often as they did. And to-day, tempted by the untold beauty everywhere afloat, he has prevailed upon Mrs. Delafield to join him in a ride. 
               "The air will do you good; and I can talk and drive, and so save time;" and Mrs. Delafield, knowing him for a friend, went gladly; and thus, save Barbara, busy with the thought of the good supper she will get, Daisy is by herself. Such hours have not been frequent; busied from morning until night, there has been little time for idleness. The mood is on her now, and, leaning her head upon the window-sill, she feels the play of the soft air on brow and cheek, tangling the meshes of her hair till she almost fancies it is the touch of human fingers. Once more she sees the small dress, the tiny pair of half-worn shoes. Mr. Hawley has never told her how they were received. "Thanks for the package" was all he said. She knew not why, and still she had looked for more. There was no resemblance. Mrs. Lisle's sorrow made her think of what her own mother's must have been. It was a strange idea, no doubt; but, gathering up the broken threads let fall by Mr. Delafield years ago, and still more by the words flung out when children at their play, she had never thought of her mother as being dead. She could not now. Somewhere in the world there was a heart that beat and throbbed under a great loss-a heart that lived and loved and prayed for her. It was this hope, as well as knowing that He doeth well, that kept her life in poise. The seed sown by a faithful teacher had taken root; and, although of slow growth, as usual with unsheltered plants, there were still vitality and bloom. "He knoweth the path, and His hand will guide;" and, insensibly, she thought of the evening at school, when, sitting in her room, the teacher spoke of her own youthful experience: 
               "I know what it is to hunger for a mother's love. My father was a man devoted to business. He had not time to think of me, farther than to provide for my outward need. When very young, I was placed at school, and when I left it as a pupil, it was only to take upon myself the office of teacher. Led by an irresistible hand, in a way not of my own choosing, and dependent at every step for guidance, often has it been sinuous, and its corners and angles have been perplexing. Sometimes on the mountain top, then treading the valley. It has ever been narrow, skirted on each side with thorn hedges, stinging my flesh if I turned wearily. Never have I been able to see but one step at a time, and when that was taken light was given for another. Of necessity, my steps have been slow, giving me time to think and to ask for needful direction. Sometimes, urged forward by an irresistible force, I have tried to obey, raising my foot and setting it down, led by the voice, and finding in every case something to lean upon. Thus have I made my way; never able to do more than present duty, leaning more and more upon my guide. This you must do." With the play of the wind upon her cheek, Daisy almost feels it is her teacher's kiss. "Had I foreseen the roughness of the way, I should have been dismayed, and my courage would have failed," and thus, learning wisdom from the experience of another, the faint heart was strengthened. 
               The shadows were deepening and the air grew chill. Daisy lifted her head and closed the window, drawing the curtain tightly. 
               Through the half light, Daisy did not see that some one entered the door. A long, deep sigh, and she turned to see Jay standing on the rug before the fire. 
               "Are you ill? Pray tell me what has happened?" asked Daisy, as she looked into the white face. 
               "Hush! they are after me. I must go as soon as it is quite dark," whispered Jay. 
               A terrible suspicion crossed her mind. Could it be that Jay was again suffering the horrors that he had before known? She pressed very near him. No; it must be something else. 
               "Tell me, Jay, what has happened?" 
               "To tell the truth, I have been making gold. A few days since I had the ill fortune to pass it to a man who knew the difference, and he is after me. I could not bear to work day after day: I determined to have it back. They told me of a plan that others had tried and made their thousands," answered Jay. 
               This was the plan; and by coining and passing a spurious article, Jay hoped to get all back, as he said. 
               A cold shudder passed, over Daisy's face, and her limbs trembled. 
               "And if they find you, Jay?" 
               "Imprisonment, of course. But I will not be taken. I will die first. You must secrete me. Quick, Daisy! I hear voices. They are here!" 
               "Only Barbara that I hear," and Daisy made an effort to speak calmly. 
               "But she must not see me. If she is questioned, she must know nothing," continued Jay. 
               "Is there no other way. Is it really as you say?" 
               "It is indeed, Daisy. The other day I passed a five-hundred-dollar bill. It was not detected; but the small coin will bring it out. If I can escape before they have time to look it up, well; if not, I shall be imprisoned." 
               "O Jay, it will kill your mother!" exclaimed Daisy. 
               A sigh broke over the quivering lips. 
               "It was as much on her account as on my own that I did it. I could not bear to see her give up everything to which she had been accustomed. I felt it would be a proud moment when I could reinstate her in the old home, and you and Ellen. It has been a comfort to me through all these weeks, and now it's ended," said Jay, despairingly. 
               Pity filled Daisy's heart. What would she not give at that moment to save him from the stain of sin and wrong. His white face and trembling voice: she could forgive him; but the law would not. 
               There was a sound of wheels, and Dr. Landseer's buggy was at the door. 
               "It is your mother. The doctor will not come in," Daisy said. 
                
               "I cannot see her. Let me go, Di." 
               "Up to my room, and turn the key: I will keep watch," answered Daisy. 
               "Do not tell mother. Let her sleep one night in peace. And Ellen-no. I must not see her," returned Jay. 
               Jay had barely left the room as Mrs. Delafield entered. Dr. Landseer did not come in. Fortunately, it was too dark for Mrs. Delafield to see the expression of Daisy's face, and with accustomed tact she began questioning of the ride, thereby giving herself time to recover from the effect of Jay's sudden visit. 
               When Ellen returned, Grant Clayton was with her. With effort Daisy could command herself, while her flushed cheeks and glistening eyes drew the attention of the young student. 
               "No, not ill," she said, in answer to his kind inquiry. "I have been giving lessons all day; a little tired, perhaps." 
               "You confine yourself too closely. I will propose that Dr. Landseer take you out occasionally." 
               "I have not much spare time," was said vaguely. 
               It was over. Grant had gone; tears rolled down Daisy's face. She knew that he had little time, and visits were not of everyday occurrence. She was afraid that he felt wounded. He could not understand how she suffered. 
               Twice Barbara had rung the bell. Mrs. Delafield would not take supper till Jay came. Daisy endeavored to look unconcerned. All at once she called to mind that Jay had said in the morning that he might not return until late at night. The mother's face lost the cheerful look her ride had called forth; mechanically she seated herself at the tea-table. There were few words, an unusual restraint seemed to be upon each. 
               After tea, Mrs. Delafield remarked: 
               "The doctor has heard from Cyrus. He says the boy has the talent for an actor. I'm sorry: still, if he can do this well, it will be better than to do something else ill. Certainly I should not have chosen the profession, had it been left to me. As it is, I shall not oppose him. I only wish he would return. Study is needful; he might do that with us. The doctor says I had best write to him. As he left suddenly, he may think we blame him. I will write tomorrow, and tell him that I want him to come home. You could help him if he wants to be an actor, could you not? There must be training and rehearsals." 
               There was a choking in Daisy's throat. She tried to answer; then whispering to Ellen, "Interest your mother, I must be absent for a half hour," she began to help Barbara to remove the tea things to the kitchen-table; then filling a small waiter, she disappeared up the back stairs. 
               "Had it been any one else, I should not have waited; but I was sure that you would come. Does mother know that I am here?" asked Jay. 
               "Your mother still expects that you will come. O Jay! how can I tell her? Here is your supper; let me see you eat it," said Daisy, in a choking voice. 
               "I cannot, Di; I am not in the least hungry." 
                
               "But you will be. No knowing when-" and the tears were running over Daisy's face. 
               "I know; but I can't, Di. It is time for me to go. Tell mother I should n't have done it, if I had not thought to make her more comfortable." 
               "Your mother wants to see you a good, honest man, Jay." 
               "And this was not honest, you mean to say," and a bitter smile broke over the pale face. 
               "Honesty has nothing to fear, Jay." 
               "That is true, Di; and I fear being caught and cooped up for a few years. Good-by; bad as I am, you will think of me sometimes?" and he seized Daisy's hand and covered it with kisses. 
               "I am your sister, Jay; kiss me good-by," and Daisy held up her tear-wet face. 
               "Here's another for mother and Ellen. If I escape-" and the poor youth covered his face with his hands. 
               "You will be a good man, Jay; you will never again do anything the least bit wrong?" 
               "It does not seem now that I will," was the choking reply. 
               "I will tell your mother that you are to be a good man; it will comfort her," continued Daisy. 
               "Tell her anything to comfort her, and I will try," said Jay, uncovering his face. 
               Taking a small bundle in his hand, Jay went down the narrow stairs, and out into the darkness. 
               Falling on her knees, Daisy wept and prayed. She was not conscious of the time. Suddenly, she felt Barbara's hand on her arm. 
               "Do you know where Jay is?" was whispered in a hoarse voice. 
               "Jay! Jay! he went out this morning," and the half-bewildered girl stared at Barbara. 
               "What do you want of him?" asked Daisy. 
               "I have just been to the grocery, and, coming out, I heard them say Jay had been counterfeiting, and that he would be arrested." 
               "Hush! hush! Barbara; there is some mistake. Don't breathe a word of this." 
               "I thought perhaps, if there was danger, you could save him," Barbara replied. 
               "You did perfectly right to come and tell me," said Daisy, recovering herself, and seeing that Barbara looked troubled. "We must know more about it before we repeat such news to Mrs. Delafield and Ellen." 
               Shaking off her sorrow, Daisy bathed her eyes, and went down. Ellen was engaged with her book, "Life for a Life." 
               "I am sorry your head is so bad; I have been looking every moment to see you enter. Ellen deserves a better listener than I am," said Mrs. Delafield to Daisy. 
               "My head does ache badly, and, if you please, I will retire early," was the calm reply. 
               "You had better, and let Ellen or Barbara bathe it for you. I will sit here for Jay," returned Mrs. Delafield. 
                
               "I am afraid that he will not be in till late. Will it not be prudent for you to retire also?" asked Daisy. 
               "It seems to me that I must see him before I sleep. I want to tell him what Dr. Landseer says of Cyrus." 
               "He is detained so often, and he may be to-night," plead Daisy. 
               "It may be best to wait till morning; and, still, I feel that I could sleep better, could I only see him," answered the mother. 
               Alas! for the little deceit, the poor mother would not sleep to-night, longing to see this son that would not come, perchance would never come again. 
               "I cannot do otherwise; and, if wrong, may I be forgiven," murmured Daisy. 
               Leaving everything as if she expected Jay to enter, Mrs. Delafield was persuaded to go to her room. Daisy and Ellen entered their own. For years they had occupied the same chamber. There was no concealment between them. Closing the door, Ellen threw her arms about Daisy's neck, and burst into tears. 
               "Tell me, I beg of you, what has happened to Jay." 
               "What leads you to think that anything has happened to him?" 
               "Oh, Daisy! do not keep it from me. I know it by your face. There is something terrible. Has he been here to-night?" 
               "Yes. Jay has been here, and he has gone. I could not tell his mother." 
                
               "Gone! Where?" exclaimed Ellen. 
               "Counterfeiting money has been traced to him; the officers are on the watch: if he does not elude them, he will be arrested, and probably imprisoned." 
               "Oh, Di! it is n't possible!" and Ellen was weeping bitterly. "What can we do for him?" 
               "There is nothing that we can do. I half suspect the officers will be here to-night. If we can delay pursuit for a day or two, that will be all that is left to us," was the trembling answer. 
               "Do you remember, Di, I said, only a few evenings since, how nice it would be could we only make gold? I did not think it would come back to me in a way like this," murmured Ellen. 
               "This was the plan that Jay has talked so much about," continued Daisy. 
               "It will kill mother. She has failed so much since Cyrus left; and to-night it seemed to me that I never saw her so anxious to see Jay," responded Ellen. 
               Grief was too deep for words; and sitting with their arms twined around each other's neck, the night passed. 
               "I cannot sleep," Ellen answered, as Daisy urged her to try and rest. "I shall never sleep again. What if they find Jay?" 
               "Let us hope that he will escape; and, if he does, he said that he would try to make a good man," and Daisy tried to speak encouragingly. 
               "At the best, he cannot be with us any more," said Ellen. 
                
               The dawn was breaking. Sleep overpowered them; and when they awoke the sun was shining. 
               "Breakfast is ready," said Barbara, surprised to find the two girls dressed, and the bed not tumbled. 
               "Make no remarks as you go down," said Daisy. "We will follow you directly." 
               At the breakfast-table Mrs. Delafield asked for Jay, and even sent Barbara to his room. Daisy anticipated this, and had locked the door, taking the key. 
               "The door is locked," Barbara said, on coming down. 
               "Poor boy, I suppose he is tired. He has been steadier of late. I begin to hope he will yet make a business man. If he only does," said the mother. 
               As the day advanced, two policemen called at the door and asked to see Mr. Delafield. 
               "It is not his custom to come in before dark," answered Daisy. "If you can call at nine, perhaps." 
               They turned abruptly. She did not think to deceive them; she only wished to give Jay the advantage of a few hours in advance. Before night it was noised abroad. Jay's place of business was visited. He was not there. Mrs. Delafield took the alarm. Daisy felt that it would be a mercy, and as gently as possible she told her all. There were no tears. She did not even cry out; but there was a look of despair on her face that told the iron had entered into her soul. 
               Morning held them in suspense. Had Jay escaped, or was he confined in a felon's cell? Eagerly Daisy seized the morning paper, and ran over the items of the day. 
               "Last night the police succeeded in breaking up the haunt of noted counterfeiters; three of those arrested are old offenders. Suspicion rests on several others, who are still at large." 
               "Old offenders!" Of course Jay is not one; he is still at large. And her heart was lightened. "Oh! if he escapes, the memory of this will make him a better man. It will be a warning, a safeguard for the future." She could not tell Mrs. Delafield; but, leaving the paper where she was sure that it would be read, Daisy turned to her lessons. 
               All day a pale, shadowy woman went in and out of the small rooms, restless and sad. A mother mourning the loss of children-the sharp tooth of anguish eating into her heart. She had made a mistake, and the thought tortured her. From her own standpoint she could not deny that it had been hard to feel herself like some worthless thing left on the rocks by the retreating tide. It had been hard for Jay to battle with temptation; and the mother forgets every thing else in thinking how much he suffered. 
               Up and down the room she walked. Here was the remnant of a letter, and there a cap and coat; tenderly she stooped to raise it, letting her fingers fall caressingly. It had pressed the head of her dear boy, and on that account was invested with a sort of sacredness. Next she opened the drawers. Jay had a woman's sense of order about his wardrobe. It was all there, and he was gone. Faintness crept over her, and, trembling like some guilty thing, she groped her way back to her room. 
               "O God, have pity! Spare my child!" 
               It was a mother's prayer, and the great Father heard. Once more the head was bowed; "For Christ's sake." 
               Night found them grouped around the parlor-fire, with faces rigid and white. In vain Barbara puzzled her head to tempt the appetite with something new. It seemed a mockery,-the cheerful room and bountiful supply,-while Jay was cold and hungry, a wanderer like Cain. 
               A step was in the hall, and Mr. Parton entered. Sorrow is lightened by sharing with another, and a friend is proved in adversity. 
               Up to this time, it was clear that Jay was not arrested. There was no proof, perhaps. The leaders were secured. Jay was young; and there was hope that this would prove a lesson-punishment enough. There was no reply, while the lips moved. The good man saw, and did his best to comfort. "In every life there are turning-points," and this was one so sharp and terrible he surely would remember. 
               "Too late I see that love of right is a principle to be cultivated from the germ-not a bud to be grafted on a half-grown tree," said the mother, with effort. 
               "Mistakes are not to be mourned over to the loss of present good. Way-marks they well may be to guide our future steps. Straying from the path, there is no time when we may not return; and, if we ask, there stands One ever ready to point us to the way," said Mr. Parton. 
               "Is there not such a thing as going too far?" asked the mother. 
               "Can Jay go so far that you will not be glad to see him return?" 
               "Jay has done wrong, but I cannot love him less. I would gladly give up my life to have him back, and know his heart free from the stain of wrong," was the answer. 
               "If this is your love, what must have been His? To see His children straying away into the paths of sin; unmindful of His love, not moved by His tears, to save them, to bring them back, He gave His own most precious life, bearing the punishment of their sin, that they might be reinstated in the Father's house. What love! Unfathomable to human hearts," answered Mr. Parton. 
               "If we make mistakes, and go astray; we can still go back?" 
               "Your mother's heart can answer. The Saviour loves with a tenderer love than mothers know." 
               "My boy! my boy! Would I could have him back!" exclaimed the mother. 
               "'Come unto me,' He says. There never was sweeter invitation. As you long for the return of your child, so God longs for the return of his child. His love never wearies," plead the pastor. 
               "He loves all?" was the trembling question. 
                
               "His love is free to all, whosoever will. Freely he forgives, blots out, and will no more remember." 
               "Alas! too late I've learned to ask. My children are lost to me. He cannot give them back," and there was agony in the mother's voice. 
               "There is no limit to his power; none to his grace," was the tender response. 
               "Will he hear?" 
               "Would you hear Jay?" 
               "A whisper, lighter than the summer air, would fill my heart with rapture." 
               "Then judge by this faint measure what his joy must be. 
               "As one whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you,'" said the pastor. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               SETH WHITE GOES TO THE THEATRE. 
               IN a small apartment in the east wing of the Belden Institute, a young man sat at a table covered with books and manuscripts. His eyes were on the open page, and, had the professors seen him, they would have been delighted with the utter abstraction of look and manner. Deeply absorbed he was; but it was not of his studies he was thinking. An open letter was in his hand, and a playbill was spread out before him, the great red letters staring him in the face. Could it be that Seth White, the persevering young tutor and the indefatigable student, was thinking of the stage? Could he find time to go to the theatre, provided he had the wish to see the representation? 
               The theatre was not a standing institution in Belden. It was a new idea, an innovation on established usage, in that time-honored town, calling forth the indignation of some and the curiosity of others, and making, on the whole, a "good thing," the manager said. Whatever it was, everybody had something to say; and, between the crying down of professors and the laughing of students, the actors were favored with a capital house every night. 
                
               To go or to stay, was not the question with the young tutor. Neither did he take it upon himself to decide upon the merits of the drama. Studious as he was, he was not without a good degree of imagination. He knew that Paradise Lost, though an exceedingly religious poem, was largely dramatic, and could easily be prepared for the stage. To make the matter short, he enjoyed a drama; and still, he had never been inside a theatre, never seen a representation on the stage. It was not the drama, neither the acting that disturbed him; he was thinking simply of the actor. "Cyrus Delafield" was before him, "a rising star in histrionic art," the paper said; and again Seth White lived it all over,-fresh and distinct before him, his first visit to the city, and to Mrs. Delafield's house. Who would have dreamed of such a change? And there was pity in his heart. The letter was from his cousin, Herbert Lindsey, and made it all plain. 
               Sitting in the midst of his books, the one lamp sending a fitful light over the room, it all came back; the diffidence he felt, and the mistakes he made. His cousin was careful to take him to all the principal places of resort, encouraging him as one from whom he hoped much. Grateful he was for such exhibition of kindness, profiting by every word and look, and more and more determined to improve himself to the extent of his ability, Daisy and Ellen received him warmly; they did not mind his mauvaise grace, meeting him as an old friend and speaking tenderly of their acquaintance in the country try. It is a long time since he has thought of it, and now it all comes up before him,-the passing bow from Jay and Cyrus, the stately hauteur of Kate and Agnes. He made no effort to appear what he was not; neither did he strive to hear what was not intended for him; and still he did hear Kate's expression with regard to inviting "the clod-hopper" to her party. This had stung him to the quick. He felt that it was true; that he was constantly outraging the usages of metropolitan life; that his coat was coarse and uafashionably made. He knew that his appearance warranted her in laughing at him behind her fan. He did not wonder that she did it; and still it stung him, causing him to appreciate all the more the kindly welcome of the two with whom he had spent a summer in Tipton. 
               Mr. Delafield had also rendered him service in the Business on which he came. Try as he would, he could not deny that he was pained; and the defects of which he was conscious weighed him down with heaviness. More than once after that did he find himself murmuring against the circumstances that hedged him in-the hard, narrow path in which he had been compelled to walk. Looking to Jay and Cyrus, he felt that his manner would have been as smooth, his bow as graceful, had he only been more accustomed to society. Why did God give so much to some and so little to others? And he remembered that he felt dissatisfied with himself, and still resolved to do all that was in his power. 
               With all the mortification, that visit was an event in his life from which he dated many a high resolve. It had stimulated him. Others had risen to eminence with less favorable surroundings than he had known. What had been accomplished in the past could be effected in the future. He was led to see his own deficiencies, and he determined to make them less. And at last the memory of the kindness he had received was made to balance the derision and scorn that at first so distressed him. Never had he exerted himself as he did after that visit. And now he is reaping the fruit of his labor. Less than three short years, and what changes had taken place! The rich merchant dead and his family scattered. 
               Once more Seth reads the letter, and his eyes fill with tears. There is nothing of envy in his heart now, but pity, real and unaffected. If not intruding, he would like to see Cyrus Delafield; perhaps he could render him a service. At least, he could show him there was nothing remembered to his disadvantage. To do by others as we would like to be done by was his motto. But how to bring this about? 
               A significant rap on the door, and Thomas Cline entered. 
               "Studying as usual, White. Just put up your books for once, and come with me to the play. They say it is well worth seeing; and the principal actor has a very commendable degree of talent; bids fair to excel in this particular art." 
               "To tell the truth, I was just thinking of it," returned Seth White. 
               "This is the last night, and his favorite rle, I am told." 
                
               "I would like much to meet this young actor. I care not so much to hear him," continued the student. 
               "That can be easily effected. Fortunately, I know the manager. He will be delighted, if I introduce you as 'Professor,'" added Thomas Cline. 
               "Not quite that; but I've half a mind to go." 
               "Come on; don't stop, or your half resolve will grow cold." 
               And thus suddenly and unexpectedly Seth White went to the theatre. 
               The play was half through when the two friends entered. Curiosity was awake. The students, scattered liberally among the audience, looked up as the young tutor passed along; they had not thought of him in such a place. The seat to which they were directed commanded a good view of the stage; while through the folds of the curtain they could catch glimpses of by-play between the acts. 
               It was a Roman play, and they could not deny a certain kind of dignity in the noble senators seated on the boards. The entire scenic display was better than they anticipated; and as the hero made his appearance in the last act, he was greeted with shouts of applause. In his white hair and venerable-looking beard, his tall and dignified figure enveloped in the Roman toga, Seth White failed to recognize the youth he sought. His acting was creditable, and his entire bearing gave evidence of spirit and ability; bravos greeted him on every side; and when he made his bow and reeled gracefully from the stage, his companions meeting him with a glass "to fortify," the young tutor determined, for the sake of his dead father, to warn him of the peril that surrounded him. 
               To effect this he followed his friend into the hotel, and was by him duly introduced, and among the rest to Cyrus Delafield. For an instant their hands met, and their eyes looked into each other's faces without recognition. The tutor, dubbed professor by his friend, seemed far removed from the rustic whom Cyrus Delafield remembered as Seth White; while the flushed face and wandering eyes of the actor were as far removed from the high-bred, graceful youth accustomed to all the elegancies of city life. 
               Conversation turning upon the drama, the actor grew brilliant. What reforms were not to be effected by this means,-prejudices overcome, and elevation and refinement carried to the highest perfection. "And why not? Shall we never see these wonderful creations of master minds reproduced upon the stage without the fear of losing caste, provided, we are led to patronize them? May not a theatre be conducted with strict regard to the principles of morality, taste, and refinement? The very fact of your being with us to-night shows me that you are above the narrow prejudice that we so often have to combat." 
               "And still there is a practical difficulty in this reform. It is not that the drama is essentially wrong, or that the composition is not commendable, but the associations connected with it," returned the tutor. 
               "The inherent quality of the drama can only be known by representation, bringing it out clearly and distinctly before the mind, giving a tangible form and shape; and this can only be done by the actor." 
               "I hardly agree with you there," returned the tutor. "Shakspeare is enjoyed by thousands who never entered a theatre. The imagination of the reader supplies all scenic effects. I remember, in listening to the reading of one of our most eminent elocutionists, he said: 'It is even doubtful whether the most cultivated minds receive a deeper impression from witnessing the performance on the boards, simply because the unavoidable imperfections of the stage fall far short of the ideal perfection of the imagination, and take from the seeming reality of the persons themselves and the events.'" 
               "To a limited number this may be the case; but the mass would be more affected by a representation," continued the actor. 
               "That may be; but the drama does not turn upon this point. The drama itself is not wrong, neither is the acting inherently wrong. To read a play is to act it to a certain extent. The reader throws himself into the character whose utterances are before him, and by modulation of tone and varied expression of feature and gesture making the reading like life. In this consists the charm of reading. The same may be said of conversation. Story-telling, for instance, stripped of the peculiar action necessary to give effect, would be like some lifeless thing. Neither is the stage itself a more hurtful place than the parlor. In one case the reader has a book, in the other he speaks from memory, and with all the appearance of being the very person he represents. But while we admit all this, these things themselves are not the theatre, nor is the theatre all these together." 
               "Pray, what is it, then?" asked the actor. 
               "The theatre is a long-established institution. The word stands for a certain understood combination of facts and influences. To the theologian it presents itself as a unit. We speak of the theatre just as we speak of the Church and the State. The word carries with it the idea of a playhouse, nightly exhibitions, and professional actors, with a variety of tragic and comic plays, suited to all degrees of intelligence and taste. Almost as invariably it carries with it the idea of late hours, frivolity, profane language, intemperance, loose morals, and the companionship of the vilest characters," answered the tutor. 
               "A little good, you admit, with an immensity of evil. Then why are you here?" and the eyes of the actor flashed indignantly. 
               "I came to see one who is said to excel in the art of representation." 
               "And you have seen him. Pray, what do you think of him?" was asked in a tone of irony. 
               "I think of him as the son of one who did me a service in my need, and whose memory is linked with the sweetest and most sacred reminiscences of my life," was the feeling response. 
               "Pray, who are you, if I may be so bold?" 
               "Do you remember Herbert Lyndsey? And do you recall an evening when he brought a country cousin to your father's house in New York?" 
               "Seth White?" exclaimed the actor. 
               "The same." 
               "I have a distinct recollection of Seth White, from Tipton; but you have changed astonishingly. I did not dream of your being one that I had ever seen." 
               "Have you heard from home recently?" asked the tutor. 
               "You know that our home is not what it used to be?" 
               "I knew that you had lost your father." 
               "My mother lives, in a small way, and I am here." 
               "It is the profession of your choice?" questioned the tutor. 
               "I had no choice. I was obliged to resort to it. Besides, I am to create a reform. The wrongs that you have enumerated must be expelled. The theatre is destined to carry with it a different meaning than you have given it," and the actor spoke calmly. 
               "At present, you acknowledge that I am right?" 
               "All this is the effect of prejudice," was the reply. 
               "Prejudice that requires more than one lifetime to overcome." 
               "I shall do what I can," said the actor. 
               "Use the same amount of labor on something that is not so restricted. Success will be more permanent, and not so long coming," continued the tutor. 
               "That may be; and still I tried it for a year or more, worked hard, and gained nothing." 
                
               "You win more here?" 
               "Certainly," said the actor, starting to his feet. 
               "You also spend more," questioned the tutor. 
               "I cannot deny it; but these are trial days. When, by study and practice, I become a favorite, I shall reap more abundantly." 
               "How will it be with your moral character? Will it be possible for you to escape influences that will drag you down?" 
               "I admit that there is danger. As I have said, the theatre is not what it is destined to be. You allow there is some good. This is to increase, and the ill tendencies to decrease." 
               "It is hard rowing against the tide. I am more afraid that in attempting to do what you imagine you can do, you will be drawn into the vortex, from which you will find it impossible to withdraw," said the tutor, tenderly. 
               It was late. "You will pardon the freedom that I have taken. Had my regard for you been less, I had not seen you this evening," added the tutor, as he took his leave. 
               "Allow me to say that I am sincerely obliged to you for your kindness. I will think of what you have said; and if I cannot do for the stage all that I propose to do, I will certainly endeavor to keep myself from the evils you have enumerated," returned the actor, and the interview was at an end. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               GOING AND COMING. 
               ONCE more the soft, sweet spring was dispensing gifts-rare tufts of hyacinths, with violets and lilies. A healing balm was in the atmosphere, and the brown earth was flecked with sunshine. 
               A cold, bleak winter they had passed; and as they gathered in the small room at night, their words caught something of the outward brightness. To Mrs. Delafield it had been a long continued trial. From the day Jay left, she had not heard from him. Only this: she knew that he was free; the thought consoled her. He was young; she was sure he would reform. All winter Ellen had been at her books, and Daisy giving lessons. Old ties are all sundered, save some few friends who cling to them unmindful of the change. They have no complaints. So completely has Daisy grown to think of others, so busy are her hands, that fancies no longer trouble her brain; one, two, three, leaving her at night too tired to dream. But now the spring has come, and it is impossible to be sad. The teeming earth is full of praise, and heavy hearts thrill with gratitude. 
               Alas! human hearts are strong to endure; but there is a point beyond which they cannot go. With the elasticity of youth, Ellen and Daisy felt the general revivification of the season. Not so Mrs. Delafield; as the air grew soft and balmy, she began instinctively to droop. One by one the long-taxed nerves gave way, the springs of life were sapped. Dr. Landseer called often; his kindness can assuage, but cannot change. 
               "Are you making calculations for a recess, or does your term extend the year 'round'?" asked Mr. Lyndsey, as he called with Dr. Landseer. 
               "That will depend upon my pupils," answered Daisy. 
               "A little respite would invigorate you." 
               "I am not unnerved by the heat of summer. I breathe freer with the thermometer at a high figure." 
               "That does not do away with the necessity of rest. The body is not only a machine to act as directed, but a machine that needs to stop occasionally for repairs." 
               "Oh, I wind up at night," and a light laugh sprang to Daisy's lips. 
               "I have just received a letter from Mrs. White. She sends a pressing invitation for you all to spend the summer with her. She says you will be welcome," continued Mr. Lyndsey. 
               "Mrs. White is kind; and there is no place that would please me as well. It is doubtful, however," and Daisy threw a glance in the direction of the invalid. 
               The visitors had gone; and, drawing their chairs still nearer to Mrs. Delafield's couch, Daisy talked of the summer spent with Mrs. White-the valley nooks, climbing the mountains, and looking over fields golden with sheaves. Then of the morning walk with Lydia, the sorrowing woman they had met, the visits to Mrs. Orcutt, and the quaint talks with Nathan. It was not so long ago; and still Daisy feels that she has grown much older-so changed the circumstances of her life, the lessons given and the lessons learned. As a traveller drinks in new views at each step, so Daisy feels that the way has not been barren. If the track looked dark at first, it is brighter now. Faith sees clearer, and hope mounts up on stronger wings; while Ellen clasps her mother's hand, and tries to speak cheerfully of the future. 
               Great waves of tropical heat rolled over the city. In her small home, Daisy was still giving music lessons. "Because my own heart is sad, I must not disappoint my pupils," she said to Ellen; and the days passed on. 
               "You need rest, and must have it; and, as for Ellen and Mrs. Delafield, I have determined to appropriate them to myself." And Dr. Landseer interrupted the lesson one morning. 
               "Here is a letter from Mr. Hawley. He asks that you come to him for a few weeks. His sister was thought to be greatly improved. She is rational at times, and converses readily; but her health is failing. She can live but a short time. You are perhaps aware that her husband is expected daily. The poor mother's heart is true to the first promptings. She thinks-Good heavens! are you ill, child?" and Dr. Landseer caught the fainting figure in his arms. 
                
               The doctor had gone. Daisy was alone with Barbara. 
               "Say to my pupils that I am ill: our lessons must be suspended for a time," and Daisy read the letter from Mr. Hawley. The handkerchief had been sent to England, with the tiny pair of half-worn shoes. "There is no mistake: the child that wore this handkerchief must have been our own," was the answer. 
               Tears rolled over the white face. Is it possible? Had she a mother? and were these words traced by a father's hand? Was there a heart pining for her-a heart capable of penetrating all disguises and recognizing its own through the mere force of instinct? Now was explained the strange, subtle emotion during their first meeting,-the rising sympathy, and tender, yearning love on her own part; the quiet, restful expression on the poor sufferer's face. Is there, then, a voice stronger than reason-a tender, subtle tie between mother and child, something impalpable in the soul, and sure to be recognized, despite obstacles or estrangement? 
               "After all these years, is it for me to know a mother's love, to rely upon a father's care? Great God, have mercy! Spare her but to speak to me but one word! May I hear it from her lips. May I be permitted to breathe the one word-mother," and Daisy was overcome with emotion. 
               "I shall not leave you to go alone," said Dr. Landseer, as he made preparation for Daisy's journey to Tipton. "I would take you myself, but Mr. Lyndsey sey goes out at the same time. I would not hasten you; but there is a fear." 
               Daisy understood that he would say there was a fear her mother would not live. She had no wish for delay, and the next morning left for Tipton. 
               Days passed. Nestled in her mother's arms, Daisy learned the secret of the rest, the turning of the face, when she had thought the tangled brain fancied her to be some other than she was. 
               "I asked for proof," said Mr. Hawley, as he clasped the thin fingers. "But for the handkerchief and the tiny shoes, we might not have found you." 
               Then came a day when a lone man, bent with grief, not years, clasped to his heart the wife and child so long sundered. It is said joy kills as well as grief. Be it so or not, the bliss of meeting on the mother's face seemed a sweet foretaste of what there was in store; but not here,-the bloom and beauty on the other side. 
               The day of burial was a day to be remembered in Tipton. A day when the people came out to sympathize with the good pastor whom they loved, and whose silent suffering for years had rendered him only the more earnest in the work given him to do. Sad hearts! but over all the shadow of a great joy. Leaning on the arm of her father, Daisy walked, calm and tranquil, although the tears were streaming over her cheeks. God had been good to that sorrowing mother, giving back her treasures, and permitting her to recognize the gift. Was it in mercy that her reason was clouded, her sensibilities, in a measure, blunted? 
               Standing by the grave of that dear mother, Daisy learned how much her father had suffered,-his letters all returned, made to believe his wife and child were dead, the years he had passed a solitary man, his only solace his books and a sweet trust in God. 
               Among the villagers that crowded around to condole with and to congratulate her on being restored to a parent's love, there was none more welcome than Mrs. White. Her good, motherly heart was brimming over with thankfulness, as she spoke of the summer passed there, and of the strong conviction she herself felt, as she saw the effect of Daisy's presence on the invalid. 
               "A woman does not live in her intellect," said Mrs. White. "Her affections are the well-springs of her being. The mother's love was warm and active, if her intellect was clouded." 
               "Franklin made a trial of this theory," Mr. Hawley observed; "suddenly presenting himself before his mother as coming from the same city where her son resided, representing himself as being an associate and a friend. His mother did not recognize him." 
               "That some souls are more ethereal, more capable of receiving impressions, or how can we account for the statements with regard to those who have made known their impressions relating to events connected with the welfare of intimate friends and relations?" said Mrs. White. 
               "There is room for a good degree of speculation here, and also many fine-spun theories; such minds not unfrequently inhabit very frail bodies. I cannot deny that I have been led to sentimentalize not a little. Still, it is no clearer: try as I will, a dim, misty veil hangs over the subject, and when I dare to lift it, I find a wall, an impenetrable barrier, 'thus far and no farther, O man!' and, trembling and dumb, I retreat, ashamed that in my pride I left the beaten track, seeking to unravel what He had purposely veiled," returned Mr. Hawley. 
               "My father used to relate impressions of this kind connected with his mother's memory," continued Mrs. White. "His family was from Scotland; and when his father left, he promised his wife that she should return in a given time to visit her mother, between whom there was more than the common attachment of mother and child. Before the time specified, and while they were anticipating the visit, the wife suddenly appeared before her husband, and said to him that she no longer wished to return, for she felt sure that her mother was dead; and to return to a desolate home was more than she could endure. It made very little impression upon him at the time; but sufficient to note it down, and soon after a letter was received, bearing the intelligence of the sad event, and proving to have taken place at the very time the wife spoke to her husband." 
               "I do not pretend to understand, much less to explain, these coincidences. I have never supposed that we used our powers to the limit of their capacity; the sensibilities of our nature refining and becoming coming more acute by the study of those subjects that lead upward, pressing against the invisible barrier that separates the real and tangible from the spirit world around us. Quick feelings are checked by the rough winds of our present existence; and keen sensibility does not bring happiness to mortals. Hearts susceptible of the most exquisite enjoyment are also the ones to be plunged in the deepest woe," was Mr. Hawley's reply. 
               "It is better to suffer than to go through life without the blessedness of joy," replied Mrs. White. 
               "It would not do for all to have the same temperament; diverse as our work, so varied is our capacity. To use what we have to the best of our ability is all that is required; and if a soul receives an impression in advance of others, it is only what we see in the natural world. The highest peaks are the first to catch the sun rays,-the rosy gleam deepening and rolling away in waves of golden light to the distant valleys," continued the pastor. 
               "The most exalted are the most isolated," said Mrs. White. 
               "In one sense, perhaps; and still I question if the impressions of which you speak are not more frequently received in such an atmosphere." 
               "I am not equal to reasoning; and yet I feel there are some souls with more of God in them than others," said the woman. 
               "We have the privilege to drink from the same fountain. Some of us touch our lips, and start back as we feel the electric influence running along our being. Others quaff from a full pitcher. These are the God-filled souls," was Mr. Hawley's reply. 
               To Daisy Delafield, or, as she was now called, Daisy Lisle, the days brought rest. For years had her nerves been strung to the utmost, and the strain was beginning to be felt. In general, sudden changes are not calculated to increase individual happiness. It was not the tornado,-uprooting all that was beautiful in her nature, tearing and rending asunder,-but rather emerging from a rough, thorny way Into a smooth plain, filled with flowers and enlivened with singing birds and gurgling rivulets. 
               Herself changed, she found change in others. Lydia was no longer the timid, awkward girl. Her form had rounded into beauty, and her face wore the expression of lofty and pure thought. Making use of opportunities, she had gathered a creditable share of knowledge, and her conversation was seasoned with wit and humor. 
               Summer vacation brought Seth from Belden, and the atmosphere of Mrs. White's house was full of delight. To Mr. Lisle, the companionship of the young students had the effect to unlock the rich stores of knowledge he possessed, opening his treasury, and unfolding truths gathered in as the fruit of his own study and research. A summer of rest to some and of rare enjoyment to others-sitting with Nature in her temple gates, and learning lessons not written down in books. 
               "How much we lose," said Herbert Lyndsey, as from the porch they watched the sun go down. "Seeking far and wide for objects to admire, forgetful that His hand fashioned the wayside flower, and gave it beauty beyond the form of human thought." 
               "It requires a lifetime to learn the use of common things," Mr. Lisle replied; "or, rather, for us to learn His wondrous love, surrounding us wherever we may be with forms of beauty marvellous to eyes from which the scales have fallen." 
               "It is our mistake to do, then to enjoy," added Herbert. 
               "I question if we do not make too much of that 'to do;' using our powers to the full stretch working, not enjoying; and, by reason of continual labor, dying before we have accomplished half of what, by moving slower, we could have done," replied Mr. Lisle. 
               "I suppose this feature of life is more, to be seen on this side of the water. I do not consider it the natural outgrowth of our institutions; and still, when it is left for one to carve out for himself, the enjoyment must be, in a great measure, in anticipation. He can chisel and think; but he cannot lay aside his chisel, even for needful relaxation. I have sometimes felt, in my own experience, that of all the gifts to crave, would be the power to do to the utmost limit of what is due, and at this point to drop it, let it be as it may; giving myself to enjoyment with just as much zest as before to my labor," answered Herbert. 
               "You cannot do it," and a smile broke over the face of Seth White. 
                
               "No, I cannot do it," was the quiet reply. 
               "I have tried," continued Seth; "tried conscientiously, all the while conscious of thoughts creeping stealthily back; thoughts that would not be restrained by a sense of duty, neither won by all the allurements it was mine to set before them." 
               "I presume we have all felt more or less of this," said Mrs. White. "I have to confess to an earnest endeavor in this direction; and it was only as I came to feel in my heart that all there is required is to do what we can, that I was able to work and to enjoy as I went along." 
               "God has given us work to do," said Mr. Hawley, as he emerged from his study. "And if we act, he will show us how to do it. In the meantime, he has given us taste to enjoy, and set us in a world of beauty. If labor is a command, to enjoy is not less binding. What would a parent think to see a child always toiling, never stopping for a pleasant word, taking no notice, and spending no enthusiasm on the beautiful objects which had come to him from time to time as tokens of his father's love? There is a time for everything. Labor is essential to our mental growth; enjoyment is needful for our physical well-being. God treats us as children." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               CONCLUSION. 
               BEFORE the summer passed, Dr. Landseer and Ellen Delafield made a trip to Tipton. 
               "I must come out every season, if only for a few days," said the doctor, as Mrs. White welcomed him to her house. "And, agreeable as I have endeavored to be, there is no denying that since her mother's death, Ellen has pined for a glimpse of Daisy's face." 
               The two girls were walking on the porch, talking of all that had passed, running out into all the little confidences refreshing to young hearts. 
               The tears were running down Dr. Landseer's cheeks as he joined them. 
               "Herbert has written me of all the changes; and, while I sincerely rejoice in this union of hearts so long separated, I am sad that your father has decided to take you to England." 
               "On a visit, merely; he has promised to make his home here," returned Daisy. 
               "This is as it should be," and the doctor turned to Mr. Lisle. "I am very glad to know that you are to return. I was fearful this little friend would be induced to marry a lord for the sake of being near you." 
                
               "I half suspect her choice was made before I had an acknowledged claim," and the sad eyes rested on Herbert Lyndsey. 
               "Be assured there is not a worthier man; not one of whom you may be more justly proud," Dr. Land-seer replied. 
               At night Ellen crept up to Daisy. 
               "It seems like old times to be with you, Daisy. You never can know how lonely I have been; how much I missed you; how much mamma missed you. I knew it was wrong; but that did not make me think of you less. I had so long been accustomed to go to you for advice, and when I felt badly." 
               "There is One who is always willing to give you advice; and when you are sad and lonely, He is all tenderness," said Daisy, with all the old warmth. 
               "I know; and when I have felt badly because I could not hear from Jay and Cyrus, I have gone to Him and felt comforted; but I can't help feeling badly. Cyrus is still on the stage; as an actor he has a good degree of merit, Dr. Landseer says. But oh, Daisy, it was the burden of mamma's heart; through all those last days her cry was to see them, to know that they were good, true men. I don't even know where Jay is, or what he is doing. I could but think of it to-night. I hope it is not wrong. To see Seth at the table, fine-looking and graceful! You remember that Kate laughed at the way he held his fork? Jay was beyond him then. Oh, if I only knew that he is equal to him now!" exclaimed Ellen. 
                
               "Seth was obliged to work and to study, and a blessing it has proved to him," was Daisy's reply. 
               "Grant Clayton has known a still harder life, and Dr. Landseer says that he will make one of the best physicians in the city. Daisy, would n't you think those parents who love their children would pray to be poor?" 
               "We must not undervalue riches because some have made mistakes; rare advantages are open to those who have the means, and, as a matter of course, more harmony in mental and physical growth in an atmosphere not frigid from necessity." 
               "But something else is needed, Daisy." 
               "A good firm principle as the ground-work, whether we be poor or rich," answered Daisy. 
               "Dr. Landseer says there must be exertion; and when our wants are all supplied, there is nothing to prompt us." 
               "True, diamonds are not found without a careful search; and so it is with our intellectual and spiritual gifts." 
               "I would be afraid to be rich, Daisy." 
               "If you are ever rich, you will know how to use it. Wealth is to be used judiciously. The mistake is in feeling that it is ours, and not realizing that we are only the stewards. The responsibility is ours, and an exact account will be demanded of us." 
               "It is fearful, any-way," and Ellen was weeping passionately. 
               Above them the stars were shining, and the night air was heavy with perfume. 
                
               "Have you heard from Mrs. Flashman recently?" Daisy asked. 
               "She wrote me, after mamma died, several times; the first was to tell me she did not think it necessary for her and Agnes to put on black; it would make no difference, she said, no one knew mamma in Montreal. Then, again, to tell me that Mr. Flashman had lost a large amount, and that she would be obliged to stay at home during the summer. Agnes writes occasionally, but she seems unhappy. I sometimes wish," but Ellen did not say what she wished, and Daisy was silent. 
               The few days that Dr. Landseer remained, he insisted on passing as much as possible in the open air. "Climbing the hills, as we did that first summer," he said to Daisy, "drinking from the same spring, and carving our names anew upon the trees." 
               Seth and Lydia were not averse to this. And Herbert Lyndsey was again a boy, making whistles, climbing trees, and shouting out in boyish glee and abandon. Once more Ellen and Daisy went with Seth after the dun cows; but Mike was there to let down the bars; and when they returned, he insisted that Lydia could not milk, that privilege belonged to him. 
               Sweet day of unbending from study and toil; days to be remembered for the good they brought, the rest, the suggestions, and promptings received from nature herself, drinking in the health-giving influences, and only the more able to do effectual work. 
                
               "I feel ten years younger than when I came out," said Dr. Landseer, as he took his leave. 
               "There must be a feeding time for the mind as well as for the body and for the soul of man as well as for his intellect. Nature is a grand teacher; the more we love her, the more she repays that love." 
               Dr. Landseer returned to New York alone, Ellen was to remain a month. In the meantime Mr. Lisle and Daisy were making arrangements to sail for England. 
               "A year or two and, Providence willing, we shall return," said Mr. Lisle, as the villagers crowded around them to say good-by. A few low murmured words and stifled, heart-breaking sobs, and it was ended. New paths were to open, new experience to be theirs. 
               "A year or two," murmured Ellen, as she sank down by the side of Mrs. White, and covered her hands. "What changes may not take place in that time?" 
               "And what lessons of patient love and trust may not be learned, dear?" 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
