
    ----CITATION----
        Avery, M. A.. The Rebel General's Loyal Bride .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5681 wright2-0162
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  She opened her lantern and flashed the light upon the prostrate body. Page
                     316.
               
            
         
         
         
            
               THE REBEL GENERAL'S LOYAL BRIDE
               A TRUE PICTURE OF SCENES IN THE LATE CIVIL WAR.
            
            BY M. A. AVERY.
            
            
               SPRINGFIELD, MASS.
               W. J. HOLLAND AND COMPANY.
            
            1874.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873 By W. J. HOLLAND, In
                  the Office of the Library of Congress at Washington. [ALL RIGHTS
                  RESERVED.]
               BOSTON:
               RAND, AVERY, & CO., STEREOTYPERS AND PRINTERS.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               I.—The Wedding at Hunter Hills 6
               
               II.—Scheming.—Broken Bonds 21
               
               III.—Family Jars.—The Elopement 44
               
               IV.—The Rebel General.—The Proposal 62
               
               V.—Bull Run.—The Overseer 81
               
               VI.—The Guerillas.—Death of Major Hunter 99
               
               VII.—Going to Camp.—The Brother's Danger 122
               
               VIII.—The Brother's Escape.—Old Acquaintances 141
               
               IX.—Marriage of the Rebel General.—The Noble Work 164
               
               X.—Philip Atherton.—The General's Return 182
               
               XI.—The Abduction.—Catharine's Illness 196
               
               XII.—An Old Admirer.—Riding in State 213
               
               XIII.—The Overturn.—Early Love too Late 230
               
               XIV.—Catharine in Libby Prison.—Released 254
               
               XV.—No Home.—Again in Bonds 274
               
               XVI.—Escaping.—The Field of Battle 294
               
               XVII.—Theodore.—The Memorable Seven Days 315
               
               XVIII.—The Rebel General.—Home at Last 326
               
               XIX.—The Child's Rescue.—The General's Danger 344
               
               XX.—The Rivals.—Death of Philip Atherton 369
               
               XXI.—Catharine's Mission.—The Rebel General's Death 385
               
               XXII.—Going Home.—The First Love at Last 398
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The rebel general's loyal bride
            
            THE REBEL GENERAL'S LOYAL BRIDE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE WEDDING AT HUNTER HILLS.
               
                  UPON the brow of one of the lower range of of the Hunter Hills, in
                  the Old Dominion, once stood a handsome stone mansion, that was noted for its
                  large size and admirable proportions, and was the pride and glory of the
                  surrounding country.
               This grand old mansion, with its quaint turrets, gables, and cornices, was built
                  in the old Colonial days, and baronial style, by a younger son of a prominent
                  English nobleman, who came over to America at that time to seek that fame and
                  fortune the laws of primogeniture denied him at home.
               From its commanding position, this mansion overlooked a large extent of territory,
                  and probably for that reason had been occupied as a fort in Revolutionary times,
                  and the still earlier wars with the Indians.
               The house had never passed out of the hands of the descendants of the family who
                  reared it. And Major Hunter, its
                  representative and possessor in the year 1860, was quite as proud of "Hunter
                  House" as he would have been of Windsor Castle or the palace at Versailles, had
                  they belonged to him. It had spacious halls, parlors, and drawing-rooms, abundance
                  of long galleries, kitchens, closets, pantries, and sleeping-rooms, with a great,
                  roomy library. This was filled with choice books, costly pictures, beautiful
                  statuary, and rich and rare carvings in blacks walnut and English oak, with
                  antique furniture of the grandest description.
               The treasured relics of past generations were in fact gathered at Hunter House;
                  nor would their owner submit to the desire of his comparatively young and
                  fashionable wife to have them replaced by modern improvements, and inventions.
               The house had fine out-buildings, handsome gardens and shrubberies, spacious
                  orchards, and a long line of whitewashed slave-cabins in the rear; while thousands
                  of acres of rich plantation and grazing lands, belonging to the same princely
                  state, surrounded it in every direction. A road crossed the grounds from east to
                  west; though the house itself was more than a mile from either of the great
                  northern and southern thoroughfares that crossed the country.
               But, though Hunter House was somewhat isolated, the scenery around it was very
                  beautiful, with its background of rocks and hills and magnificent forests, and its
                  foreground of cultivated fields and (in their season) abundant harvests.
               And so evidently thought the gay cavalcade of visitors who rode up towards the old
                  mansion one fine afternoon during the Christmas holidays of 1860; talking of the
                  ancient glories of the race who occupied it, and gazing ing upon the magnificent
                  scenery. It was a gala-day at Hunter House,—one long to be remembered in the
                  annals of the family; for sweet Lucy Hunter, the major's eldest, and indeed only
                  daughter by a former marriage, was that day to become a bride.
               Preparations commensurate with the wealth and cultivated taste of the family had
                  been made in every department of the household for the pleasure and entertainment
                  of a large number of guests, some of whom were to remain several days. The rooms
                  were adorned with flowers and evergreens, the tables with the old family plate and
                  china, as well as with every delicacy that could please the eye or gratify the
                  taste. And the longs lines of servants standing at every angle, ready to do the
                  bidding of the guests, were evidently partaking of the general joy of the
                  household. Major Hunter, a tall, portly, white-haired old gentleman of seventy,
                  with keen gray eyes, a florid complexion, and decided Roman features, appeared to
                  excellent advantage as a host that day; while his lady, a handsome, black-eyed
                  woman of forty, Was the very perfection of a hostess. Her friends, the Athertons
                  were all there; and, conspicuous among them, her brother, Col. Atherton, who had
                  just returned from a two-years' residence in Europe. He, with his son and
                  daughter, and Judge Tremont and his two daughters, the uncle and cousins of the
                  bride, had fortunately been recalled from their European tour just in time to be
                  present at the marriage. And most of the distinguished families in the county were
                  there, as well as a good many from Richmond, and still more distant localities out
                  of the State.
               The hour fixed upon for the ceremony arrived at last; the chandeliers were
                  lighted, and the guests were arranged to
                  their satisfaction in the great drawing-room.
               Mr. Harlowe, the aged clergyman, took his place, and all was eager expectation;
                  when the band in the anteroom struck up a grand march, the drawing-room doors were
                  opened with an extra flourish by Uncle Nick, a favorite slave, and the bridal
                  party entered the room. They immediately took their places; and the solemn
                  ceremony was performed that made James Hamilton and Lucy Hunter husband and
                  wife.
               They were not by any means a youthful pair: but, though more than thirty, the
                  bride looked good and lovable in her white satin, orange-blossoms, and costly
                  bridal veil; and the bridegroom, who evidently thought so, was one of the
                  finest-looking men in the room.
               The bridesmaids, too, in their ethereal white robes, with coronets of white roses,
                  came in for their share of admiration.
               But there was none among them all who excited greater attention than the lady who
                  leaned upon the arm of Lloyd Hunter, the brother of the bride, who seemed to be a
                  stranger to most of the company.
               "What a splendid girl!"
               "Who is she?"
               "Which do you mean?"
               "Why, the first bridesmaid of course," was echoed presently from lip to lip in a
                  distant corner. 
               "I can tell you," said Mrs. Clyde, a proud, aristocratic-looking lady, with a
                  scornfully-curling lip: "it is the governess! Only Mrs. Hunter's
                     Yankee governess."
               "Why, Philip, as sure as the world, it is Catharine!" exclaimed Grace, the eldest
                  of Judge Tremont's daughter ters, to Philip, her present cavalier, and the son of
                  Col. Atherton.
               "I believe you are right," he returned. "But where did she come from? I do wonder
                  how she comes to be a favored guest in Aunt Jane's drawing-room!"
               "And I wonder your aunt will permit such an exhibition of democracy, or that Lloyd
                  Hunter will consent to exhibit himself in such a way at
                     such a time!" echoed Mrs. Clyde. "I assure you, Mr. Atherton, that
                  neither my daughters nor I have taken much pains to
                  cultivate that girl's acquaintance."
               "Of course not," said Philip dryly. "Yet I assure you, Mrs. Clyde, that we all
                  used to do it when we were at school up in New England,—Lloyd among the number. He
                  and Grace and Nell and I boarded two whole years—in her mother's family."
               "That, then, explains it,—an old flame of his, I suppose."
               "Yes: but one we thought burnt out long ago," echoed Nell, the sister of Philip
                  Atherton.
               "Don't be ungenerous, Nell. Catharine Hale was a noble girl; and I, for one, shall
                  be delighted to see her," said Grace Tremont.
               "Ay! but wasn't her brother Theodore nobler, and wouldn't you be glad to see him?"
                  Nell returned sarcastically.
               "I certainly should be glad to see the whole family," said Grace with a conscious
                  flush. "But come, they are congratulating: let's go and see Kate too."
               "You can go, if you like," said Nell. "I am in no hurry to look up
                  the Yankee governess, or any of her plebeian relations."
               "Why Nell! Have you forgotten, that, but for Theodore odore, Harry, and Jim Hooker, we should once all
                  have been drowned? that, but for Theodore, I should have gone over
                  the cliff, and been clashed upon the rocks below? Whatever misconstructions came
                  afterwards, I, for one, can never forget what I owe to Mrs. Hale's family. You can
                  scorn her if you like; but I shall do no such thing!" and she tossed
                  her bright golden curls defiantly at both.
               Philip laughed, yet not very joyously; for he was now a suitor for the hand of
                  Grace Tremont, with the full knowledge that she had once, when they were all at a
                  celebrated Northern classical school together, six years ago, cared much more for
                  Theodore Hale than himself; and he also knew how much he had then thought of
                  Catharine, the fair Yankee governess. As he had said, for two years they had lived
                  under the same roof, and eaten at the same table. They had studied in the same
                  classes at school, been rivals for its honors, and not always generous ones. They
                  had played the same games, sung the same glorious harmonies, and rode and walked
                  and rambled over the New-England hills and valleys together, in search of nuts and
                  berries and fish and game.
               And this intimate acquaintance, overcoming strong prejudice, culminated in strong
                  attachments, but ended, through some mysterious means, in doubt, misconstruction,
                  and disappointment. They were mere school boys and girls together then, full of
                  youth's bright hopes and dreams, crude fancies and unformed plans,—living in the
                  present, and comparatively careless of the future. Now they were men and women,
                  meeting for the first time upon a new arena; where, though they knew it not, they
                  were about to become actors in some of the grandest yet most terrible scenes of a
                  nation's history.
               The meetings between Grace and Catharine was indeed a joyful one, for they had
                  loved each other fondly and truly; and later in the evening, when the elegant
                  supper was over, they had a long and to them deeply-interesting conversation. It
                  was interrupted by Lloyd Hunter at last, who said, as he and Philip came up to
                  where they were standing, —
               "Ah, Catharine! I have been looking for you everywhere. They are getting ready for
                  dancing; and I believe you promised me the first set."
               "Yes," she replied; "and I am ready, if Grace will excuse me." She did of
                  course.
               Lloyd took her hand, and marched away with a step as light as air, his hopes were
                  so buoyant, and with a glance at his fair companion that spoke volumes of love and
                  trust and admiration.
               "Do you see that, Philip?" said Grace familiarly, after watching them a
                  moment.
               "Of course I do. And Kate has improved wonderfully; hasn't she? She is really
                  beautiful; and Lloyd evidently thinks so. You know he always had a fancy that way.
                  Can it be, that, in spite of his pride, he is really going to marry her?"
               "I hope so, for I always liked her; and I don't know her superior anywhere. But
                  won't Nell fume?"
               "Why?"
               "Do you need to be told, you stupid fellow, that Nell, in spite of her shabby
                  treatment of him in Paris, has come home determined to win him back to his
                  allegiance?"
               "I suspect she has thought of it. But she was a fool to break off with him in the first place. Lloyd is
                  a noble fellow, and worth all the Count Larois in the universe."
               "So I think. But Nell deserves to lose him for playing such a double game."
               "She always plays a double game; didn't you know it? But what matters that, if it
                  is only the winning one?"
               "I don't know: I like an open, honest deal far better."
               "Then, why will you not give me one, dear Grace, and make me supremely happy by
                  setting an early day for our marriage?"
               "Because I want my freedom a little longer," said Grace, laughing and
                  blushing.
               "But won't you be just as free as my wife? There'll be no crusty old
                     people to look after you then."
               "But there would be a young one, who might be more tyrannical."
               "You know me too well to believe that, Grace. You have kept me waiting for years,
                  but do have some pity upon my lonely condition now," said he pleadingly.
               "I think you, as well as myself, have been quite satisfied with your freedom till
                  now. And, if you could have suited yourself better, you know you have always had
                  the privilege."
               "Well, I will own that our conditional engagement has hitherto suited me far
                  better than to have felt myself tied hand and foot. But now that we have seen a
                  little of the world, and our travels are over, we ought to marry, and settle down
                  at home, contented and happy for the rest of our lives."
               "Contented, with every thing and everybody in a turmoil! Don't you see that every
                  thing is getting into a whirlpool here? and don't I know that you
                  have come home on purpose to put your foot in it? Don't talk to me about marrying,
                  Philip, till we can see what it's all coming to."
               "Then you may have to wait till doomsday," said Philip angrily. "These troublesome
                  elements of which you speak have been boiling over for years; and there is little
                  prospect of their resting very soon."
               "There, the music has struck up; and it's time for us to go. We will talk over
                  this subject another time."
               Grace was half angry, and had a great mind to refuse; but, seeing Major Hunter
                  and. Col. Atherton coming towards them, she took Philip's arm, and walked away
                  without more ado.
               "You are an elegant dancer, Atherton: why don't you look you up a partner, and
                  join them?" said the major suggestively to his friend.
               "I am in no hurry: I may do so by and by," was the reply.
               "Come, then: we will go and look on a while."
               So they went out into the ball, where the sets were forming, stationed themselves
                  in a retired window-seat, and began their observations. The dancing commenced very
                  soon; and for a time both gentlemen silently watched the performances.
               "You have seen, and taken part in, a great deal of this kind of amusement in
                  Europe, I suppose, colonel," said the major at last.
               "Yes: especially in Paris, where it is cultivated to perfection. Our young people
                  took lessons there, you remember. You can see now whether they profited by them,"
                  returned the colonel.
               
               "Ah! they do dance beautifully, and especially Nell. She glides over the floor
                  like a sylph. She always did do every thing that she undertook ingeniously; and
                  she is really beautiful."
               "Yes: but she made one awkward blunder when she broke off her engagement with
                  Lloyd. I wanted to express to you my deep regret for that occurrence, which, I am
                  quite sure, she is heartily ashamed of and sorry for. She thought she was playing
                  off a harmless piece of coquetry, as silly girls too often do, and did not dream
                  of serious consequences,—consequences that might, I think, have been prevented had
                  I known the truth previous to his departure from Paris."
               "You cannot regret them more than I did at first, Atherton; nor could I believe it
                  until assured by Lloyd of the truth. He blamed her, of course; but you know,
                  better than I, whether the blame ought equally to rest upon him."
               "No: I do not blame him; and yet I can but wish that he had had a little more
                  patience with her folly."
               "Well, after all, colonel, there seems to be a kind of fate or fore-ordination
                  about these things. It seems in vain for us to try to have them all our own way.
                  Nor is it best perhaps that we should. As an instance of this, there, now, is
                  Lucy, who looks so proud and happy to-night, and at least ten years younger than
                  she did six months ago. Sixteen years ago I refused her hand to that noble-looking
                  man,—whom I am now proud to acknowledge as my son-in-law,—for no other reason than
                  that he was unable to support her in the style to which she had been accustomed.
                  He went off to Kentucky to seek his fortune, and wear away his disappointment
                  while she pined and faded at home, like a lily with a broken stem. She would marry
                  no one else, as I wished, because of the old Hunter blood in her veins, which, you
                  know, when pure, is constant, and true as steel. Last summer we took her to the
                  Springs; and there, to her surprise and our own, we found Hamilton, now a noble
                  and successful man, on his way to see her once more. The dénoûment you can see for yourself; and I shall bear it in my mind
                  as a lesson for evermore."
               "Well, I suppose we do look too much at hereditary and mercenary distinctions here
                  in Virginia. Our descent from the old chevaliers, and English nobles leads us to
                  that. And the gold we need to keep up our aristocratic dignity leads some of us to
                  make unhappy marriages, as you well know."
               "Yes, indeed. But to return to my own family. There, now, is Lloyd: he don't look
                  much like a disappointed invalid; does he? Well, we all, I suppose, considered him
                  and Nell as good as married when they went off to Europe. But they get to Paris,
                  that high school for all kinds of deviltry,—get mad and jealous, have a little
                  tiff, and off he flies to Germany. He gets ill, either from disappointment or
                  eating their abominable Dutch cookery; and home he comes, sick, hopeless,
                  desponding, and, I suspect, hypochondriacal,—thinking he had come home to die. His
                  letters had miscarried, so we knew nothing of his coming; and, when he arrived, we
                  were away at the Springs. But we had left the children at home with Miss Hale, our
                  admirable governess; so, in our places, he found, to his surprise and her own, the
                  very girl he had loved in their earlier days, when they roamed over the
                  New-England hills together. They had parted in doubt and misconstruction, it
                  seems; and for a time they avoided each
                  other: but the old magnetic attraction brought them together at last; and the old
                  love has triumphed."
               "Indeed!" and Col. Atherton's countenance betrayed his surprise and
                  disappointment. He knew now that his own labor was lost in trying to pave the way
                  to Lloyd's reconciliation with Nell.
               "Yes," continued the major; "and, strangely enough, Jane and I—blind instruments
                  in the hands of a higher power perhaps—had brought it all about ourselves. Our
                  governess left us about the time you went to Europe. We wanted another; and,
                  hearing of this Miss Hale,—of her remarkable talent for teaching, and that she had
                  finished her engagement with the Masons, who were about to leave the country,—we
                  took a ride of twenty miles to intercept her journey home. By tempting offers, we
                  succeeded in securing her services, and at once brought her home with us. By her
                  correct deportment and many endearing qualities, she won our regard as no
                  governess had ever done before. Afterwards, when we all came down with the fever,
                  and the servants were frightened half out of their senses, and the neighbors dared
                  not come near us, I have no doubt but that she saved all our lives, by her calm
                  courage in the hour of danger, her firmness in managing the servants, and that
                  tender, protecting care, that surrounded us day and night with all a sister's or
                  daughter's watchful solicitude. Could we be otherwise than grateful? She, took the
                  disease from us, and came near forfeiting her life to her philanthropy. But she
                  has a good constitution, and recovered very soon. She has ever since seemed like
                  one of our own family,—as dear almost as Lucy herself. What, then, could I say,
                  when we came home last summer, found Lloyd here, and was told by him, that, in
                  spite of his affair with Nell, he had loved Catharine always; that their
                  estrangement had cast a dark shadow over his life; and, now that it was
                  dissipated, he wanted my consent to make her his wife? What indeed could I say,
                  but that we all loved her, owed her a deep debt of gratitude, and, if she cared
                  for him, I would not be the one to stand in his way? I think my experience with
                  Lucy made me a little more lenient than I otherwise should have been. Yet, after
                  all my condescension, he had hard work to get her consent, she was so strongly
                  opposed to slavery; and it took me—proud old aristocrat as they call me—to
                  convince a poor Yankee governess that she could do more good by becoming my son's
                  wife, and the lenient mistress of hundreds of slaves, than in any other way; so
                  she yielded the point at last."
               "But do you know any thing of her family?"
               "Oh, yes! Lucy, who, you know, was educated in New England before the others went
                  there, also boarded in her mother's family. Though not rich, she says they are
                  highly respectable, and that Mrs. Hale, who is a widow, is a sensible,
                  noble-souled Christian woman, who was then making the most energetic and
                  persevering efforts to educate and bring up her family respectably. There were
                  four of the children: Theodore, who was about the age of Lloyd and Philip, won the
                  valedictory, both in school and college, and is now studying law; while Harry, the
                  younger brother, is in the engineering service. We see for ourselves what
                  Catharine is; and Lucy, who loved her as a child, is quite ready to receive her as
                  a sister. She says, too, that Jessie, the pet of the flock, who is about to marry
                  a young Dr. Morven, was the sweetest and
                  loveliest child she ever saw. But, if all the rest of us are well enough suited,
                  Jane is not; and, though she says little, I can see that she thinks Lloyd is
                  making a sad mésalliance. She says Lloyd is
                  blinded, and that I am old and childish, or I would never have given my consent.
                  Perhaps I am; but somehow, of late, true love seems more precious to me than gold,
                  or all merely worldly distinctions. I value personal qualifications, too, a great
                  deal higher than I did; and I think there are few to be compared with our
                  Catharine in mind or person. She is going home in June; and in the autumn Lloyd
                  intends to bring her back as his bride. I tell you all this in confidence,
                  colonel; for as yet no one knows it out of our family: and I prefer it should not
                  be known, I would like to have you become acquainted with her, so as to see if
                  your opinion will not justify Lloyd's choice."
               "It does already, so far as the eyesight is concerned," said the colonel, smiling
                  at the old gentleman's confidences, yet not with the satisfaction he would have
                  felt, had that choice been a different one. "She is certainly beautiful. She has a
                  splendid form; and no lady on this floor queens it with quite so royal a grace,"
                  he continued.
               "Ay! Queen Elizabeth, Victoria, or even the fair Eugenia herself, ain't a touch to
                  her, in my opinion; and I'm a pretty good judge of women. If I was forty years
                  younger, and a single man, I think the lucky dog wold have a rival, and a
                  persevering one too;" and the old major laughed merrily over the idea. "What say
                  you, colonel? Shall I introduce you when this dance is over, and secure her for
                  your first partner?"
               "As you please. She is probably engaged;" and his eyes followed her admiringly, as
                  Lloyd led her to a seat.
               "Come, then; we will see;" and, advancing at once, the major presented his friend
                  and brother, Col. Atherton.
               Of course Catharine was pleased to receive such thoughtful attention from the
                  father of her affianced husband; but, when she looked up to meet the gaze of Col.
                  Atherton's dark, magnetic eyes, she felt a tremor of the nerves for which she
                  could not account, and received the introduction with unusual embarrassment. She
                  had never seen Col. Atherton before; and, though somewhat prejudiced against him,
                  as the father of Nell and Philip, whom she had long ago had reason for
                  distrusting, was particularly, and not unfavorably, impressed by his
                  appearance.
               He was tall and commanding in person, courteous and gentlemanly in manners, easy
                  and polished in his address, and with a peculiar tact in conversation that set
                  Catharine at her ease when he once began to address her. 
               He asked her hand for the dance; and, though much surprised, she accorded it, and
                  continued conversing with him, upon different topics, until they were ready to
                  begin.
               She rather liked him upon the whole, and was not sorry she had accepted him for a
                  partner when Philip, too, came to ask her, and she was rather amused than
                  otherwise at Philip's suspicious glance at him when he left them together.
               In music and dancing; and song, and games of various kinds, the evening passed
                  delightfully away. The elderly ladies discussed fashions, etiquette, their
                     children dren, servants, and domestic
                  matters generally; while the gentlemen talked of foreign affairs, as well as dogs
                  and horses, negroes and crops; but, more than all, of Secession,
                  which was beginning, just then, to agitate the heart, and unsettle the brain, of
                  Old Virginia.
               It was known throughout the house that South Carolina had seceded from the Union
                  but a few days previous. Before the evening was over, a note was brought to Major
                  Hunter, from Gov. Letcher, excusing his non-attendance, on the plea of urgent
                  business; and saying, informally, that he was about to call a convention relative
                  to joining the proposed Southern Confederacy, and taking Virginia out of the
                  Union.
               "Take Virginia out of the Union!" exclaimed the major indignantly, as he read it.
                  "Why, it is rank treason to talk of it, much more to act upon it. I advise you all
                  to have nothing to do with it, gentlemen. I have fought too long under the
                  glorious old banner of the stars to consent to see it trailing in the dust."
               "Better trample upon a soiled old banner than the brave hearts of our Southern
                  people. They have borne that from the cowardly North long enough, in
                  my estimation," said a bystander.
               "When, where, and how?" demanded the major with flashing eyes and excited
                  tones.
               "In Congress and out of it; at home and abroad; in city and country; at hotels,
                  and in steamboats and railcars,—everywhere, in fact, where Northern and Southern
                  people come together, we have to hear their eternal abolition howling."
               "Would it be less, were we, like a rotten branch, severed from the glorious old
                  Union tree?"
               "Yes: for then we would have nothing to do with them."
               "Ah! but, if we had nothing to do with them, who would manufacture our clothing?
                  and where would be the market for our cotton, tobacco, and cane?"
               "In Europe, where we could find perfection in manufactures, equals for associates,
                  and friends who would be true to us."
               "And where they despise our peculiar institutions much more than they do in New
                  England," said the major excitedly; "where they consider slavery the most horrible
                  crime on earth, and a slave-breeder worthy of the hottest berth in hell."
               "Father! father! this is not the place for such discussions," whispered Lucy
                  anxiously at that moment. "Pray remember what is due to our guests!"
               "Yes, yes: all in good time, my daughter," said he impatient. "I am an old man, of
                  full threescore and ten. I have seen a great deal of the world. I may not live
                  long. And there may never come a better time for me to tell these gentlemen, that,
                  if they touch this red-hot pitch of secession, they will get their fingers burned.
                  I know that the spirit of it is burning in their hearts: I see it flashing from
                  their eyes. It needs but a spark to kindle it into a flame. Once kindled, all the
                  water in the Potomac could not quench it. Water! It must be blood! Rivers of that
                  will flow, if Virginia joins in this hot-headed conspiracy against the
                  government."
               "Little fear of that, major,—little fear of that," said his opponent. "The Yankees
                  will boast and brag and cheat and bluster; but, when it comes to
                     blows, they are all cowards, and will stuff their lying mouths
                  with cotton, and run like a pack of whipped hounds."
               "I know you all think so," returned the major; "but you'll find yourselves
                  mistaken; for I have fought beside side
                  Northern troops long enough to know what stuff they're made of. Though not quite
                  as ready as we are to rush into a fray, their courage is quite equal to, and their
                  endurance far greater than our own. Toughened, many of them, by hard labor, they
                  have nerves like steel; while we of the better class are, some of us, enervated by
                  life of luxury. You may frown, gentlemen; but you know that it is the truth: and
                  you deceive yourselves when you think such men will not fight till their last
                  breath to prevent the downfall of this republic, and the dissolution of the
                  Union."
               "Let 'em fight, then," said his opponent doggedly. "If it comes to blows, we'll
                  whip 'em within an inch of their lives, and string that renegade Southerner,
                  Lincoln, up on a gallows higher than Haman's, in a fortnight."
               "Don't you believe that," said the old man solemnly. "Those bloody-minded seceding
                  States at the South of us, thinking just as you do, are but waiting for the
                  countenance of old Virginia to commence the strife, and march on to the Capitol;
                  considering its treasures and rich spoils an easy prey. But remember what I tell
                  you, gentlemen: if Virginia does this thing, it is at a fearful price,—the price
                  of blood,—the blood of her best, her bravest, and her noblest sons,—and the
                  desolation of her fairest fields, forests, and homesteads. For here would they all
                  congregate,—from east and west, north and south,—because it is a central point,
                  and near to the Capitol; and here would be some of the bloodiest battle-grounds of
                  the Union. Here brother would meet, and war with brother, and father against son;
                  destroying every human and fraternal tie that binds us to our nation and our race:
                  and bitterly would we rue the day when we joined in so unholy an alliance!"
               As he uttered these words, which, though few there believed them then, have since
                  proved so prophetic, the white-haired, noble old man's face, grew pale with
                  emotion; his wide-open eyes fixed themselves on vacancy, with a deep far-reaching
                  expression, as if he were looking off into the distant future, and, with a solemn
                  prescience, beholding the bloody scenes since recorded upon history's pages,—in
                  one of which he was destined to become a victim.
               So different did he seem from the jovial, garrulous, and somewhat childish old man
                  of the past few hours, that many were particularly struck by the change; and
                  though still disbelieving his opinions, and sure of the truth of their own
                  convictions, they thought it best to let the subject drop.
               As it was getting late, most of the guests soon afterwards bade adieu to their
                  entertainers and the bridal party, and the company dispersed.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               SCHEMING.—BROKEN BONDS.
               
                  AMONG the guests who were invited to spend the week at Hunter House
                  were the Athertons and Tremonts, who, as we have already said, were near
                  connections of the Hunter family.
               Having been separated so long, by the absence of the two former families in
                  Europe, they of course had a great many things to talk over; though the Athertons
                  were as yet a little careful about displaying their strong secession proclivities.
                  For Grace Tremont and Helen, her half-sister, and Lloyd Hunter and his sister
                  Lucy, had inherited large fortunes from an uncle of theirs, who was the judge's
                  only brother, as Lloyd's mother had been his only sister. And knowing all this,
                  and knowing, too, the loyalty of the two families, the Athertons had thought it
                  advisable to secure this wealth, if possible, before fully and finally and openly
                  announcing their determination to join the secession party.
               So Miss Nellie Atherton, who knew of his engagement from her aunt, did her best,
                  in the succeeding days, to excuse her conduct in Paris, and win Lloyd Hunter back
                  to his allegiance. And Philip took this last opportunity for daily intercourse to
                  urge Grace Tremont to fulfil a partial and long-standing engagement by an
                  immediate marriage. He pleaded, urged, reasoned, and entreated, but all in vain;
                  and at last he got so angry, that he would not speak to her for several days. Then
                  he was all attention to Catharine, Nettie Clyde, and Bess Hamilton; and, being
                  remarkably handsome, polished, and captivating, made his attentions to the two
                  latter very acceptable. But Catharine distrusted, and was shy of him. By a mutual
                  understanding, she and Lloyd, though sufficiently polite, avoided each other, not
                  caring just yet to publish their engagement; yet, because they were engaged,
                  careful about encouraging the attentions of others. Yet Catharine appeared to
                  great advantage in the days following the bridal; winning golden opinions by her
                  rare musical and mental gifts, and disarming by her unobtrusiveness some who were
                  inclined to be intolerant.
               Miss Atherton, however, took pains to make it pretty evident that she
                  considered her beneath her notice, and especially after trying in vain to win
                  Lloyd back. It maddened her to see the eager flush come over his cheek, and the
                  love-light in his eyes, when Catharine came near him, and compare it with the
                  indifference with which he evidently regarded her. She flirted desperately with
                  Harry Clyde and Hugh Carrol, old admirers of hers; while Philip did the same with
                  Bess and Nettie: but it was all of no use, so far as winning Lloyd back was
                  concerned, or driving Grace from her defensive position.
               But, notwithstanding these and a good many other little by-plays, every thing
                  seemed to go on merrily; and every effort was made by the generous and truly
                  hospitable family to amuse and entertain their guests. The weather had been fine for the last of December;
                  and there had been innumerable walks and drives to view the varied and beautiful
                  scenery around the Hunter Hills, with athletic games, and shooting excursions out
                  of doors, and gentler sports within, such as music, dancing, amateur theatricals,
                  and tableaux.
               The gentlemen had discussed farming, politics, law, theology, and secession; and
                  the ladies domestic affairs until they were tired, and it was decided unanimously
                  that their own required them at home. The evening before their departure, and the
                  breaking-up of the party, Lloyd Hunter went down to the slave-cabins for
                  something, and was returning to the mansion, when he came across Philip Atherton
                  going the same way as himself.
               There had been a great friendship between these young men in days past and gone,
                  even though they were opposites in character. But since their return from Europe,
                  and Lloyd's engagement to Catharine, a coldness and distance had grown up between
                  them, that it was no easy matter to get over. During the last day or two, however,
                  they had had considerable debate upon the all-absorbing topic of secession; and
                  now it was renewed again. They entered the garden by a little wicket, to shorten
                  the distance to the mansion, and walked up towards the fountain. Becoming earnest
                  and excited in their discussion, they sat down upon a garden-seat, deeply shadowed
                  by evergreens, and at once went into the subject as they had never done
                  before.
               For, angry with Grace and her father, and tired of concealment, Philip had
                  resolved to throw off the mask, and, if he could, win Lloyd over to the ranks of
                  secession.
               In spite of his father's contrary opinions, Lloyd believed, like multitudes of
                  other young Southerners, in the right of a State to secede, and have an
                  independent government, and that it was the duty of every good citizen to uphold
                  her in that right, if a majority of her people so decided. But he did not think it
                  politic or wise to do so at that time; that any of the States had as yet any just
                  cause for doing so; or that they could at all sustain themselves if they did.
               Philip, however, thought secession not only just and right, but that Lincoln's
                  election, which had shorn the South of her power, and of course endangered
                  slavery, had made it absolutely necessary for her to throw off the galling chain
                  that had bound her too long to a Union that oppressed her, and had no sympathy for
                  her peculiar institutions. He believed, too, that, united in one, the South could
                  abundantly sustain herself against all the power that could be brought to bear
                  upon her by the Federal government.
               As the sun went down in a flood of golden glory, and the soft, wintry twilight
                  fell around them, the two young men eagerly continued their discussion, each
                  bringing his best arguments to bear upon the case, to convince, if possible, his
                  sturdy opponent.
               Suddenly they were startled by the sound of low, sweet-toned female voices,
                  apparently quite as eager in debate as their own; and then a couple of female
                  figures cam sauntering slowly down towards the fountain, near which they were
                  stationed. With an exclamation of impatience, Philip paused in the middle of a
                  sentence; and both were silent in the hope that the intruders would pass on.
                  Instead of this, however, they stepped up to the fountain, and, turning their
                  faces to the light, Lloyd saw that it was
                  Miss Nellie Atherton and her pretty quadroon attendant, Jett, who had been her
                  waiting-maid during her stay in Europe, and also when she was at school years
                  before in New England.
               The fountain was covered in frost-work and glittering icicles; and, as their
                  animated discussion went on, Nell began whipping them off with a willow twig she
                  held in her white, jewelled hand.
               "I say, miss, you'll be sorry if you don't," said the slave-girl eagerly.
               "I expect to be," Nell returned; "yet I can't bring myself to the point of doing
                  what a sense of right and truth and justice demands."
               "Or let me do it?"
               "Or let you do it, for that would be just the same as I doing it myself."
               "But Jett thinks it too bad to let sich a grand family as the Hunters—your own
                  aunt's family too—be so awfully imposed upon by that good-for-nothing Yankee
                  trollop. And Massa Lloyd sich a fine, handsome young gentleman, too, and the
                  biggest match in all the country."
               Lloyd, out of politeness, had risen from his seat, and was just about stepping
                  forward to make his presence known, when these words smote upon his ear with the
                  force of a blow. It levelled him at once, in his descent unconsciously grasping
                  Philip's arm, and holding him like a vise, when he was apparently trying to rise
                  and rush forward.
               "I know it's too bad," echoed Miss Nellie; "but what can I do? I commanded you to
                  be silent when we discovered her shameful intrigues and midnight meetings with Dr.
                  Morven, more than six years ago. And, when I knew that Philip found it out, I
                  swore him to secrecy. He was very ready to do this, because he was so bewitched
                  about that silly little flirt, Jessie. For her sake he wished to save the honor of
                  the family. Philip thought Lloyd had discovered the intrigue himself, and that the
                  discovery was the reason he left her as he did, after paying her so much
                  attention. But, if so, I can't imagine by what hocus
                     pocus she had got round him at last. I wouldn't let you tell of it
                  when we got home, because I didn't want people to know that we had associated so
                  long with so vile a creature."
               "Jett knows all that; and, if the girl stay to home, where she belongs, nobody
                  care. She good nuff for them abolishum fellers. But, when she cum down here to
                  trap fine Virginny gentlemans, she think it alter the case, and miss orter
                  tell."
               "O Jett! you know well enough why I cannot; if I had not myself loved Lloyd
                  Hunter; if I had not been engaged to him; if I had not lost him by my own
                  thoughtless folly, sacrificing the whole happiness of my life for the pleasure of
                  flirting with one I despised and scorned," she passionately exclaimed, "then Lloyd
                  Hunter should know the truth; and"—
               "Hold! Stop, Nell, for God's sake!" gasped Philip, as if just recovering from a
                  trance of surprise, and seized with a sudden fear of Nell's exposing to Lloyd
                  Hunter the hidden secrets of her heart.
               And Nell, with a little shriek of wounded delicacy, turned towards them for an
                  instant, and then, followed by her sable attendant, ran swiftly towards the
                  mansion.
               It was indeed a well-acted performance. And who, in Lloyd's place, would have
                  dreamed that it had all been rehearsed, not an hour before, in Miss Nellie
                  Atherton's chamber.
               
               To describe the feelings of Lloyd Hunter, as, with a face turning to a deadly
                  white, he listened to those damning words, would be impossible. Nor did he know,
                  till the treacherous Philip cried out with pain, how tightly he was grasping
                  him.
               For several minutes after Nell was gone, Lloyd sat still as death: then, turning
                  fiercely to Philip, he said,—
               "Philip Atherton, was that—that the truth?"
               "I fear so," returned Philip in a deprecating tone.
               "But did you know it to be a fact?"
               "Did you not know it yourself, Lloyd Hunter?"
               "Alas! yes,—at least by circumstantial evidence."
               "And that was the reason you left her, without an explanation or one kindly word,
                  more than six years ago?"
               "Yes: that is the truth," groaned Lloyd. "I found a note, addressed to
                     him, and signed by her name, appointing a midnight
                  meeting; and, at the hour named, I saw some one wrapped in her shawl go to the
                  summer-house, and there meet a man who came in from the adjoining grounds."
               "Well, what more do you want? And how did you get over that?"
               "Oh! she looked so innocent, and acted so nobly, and I loved her so well, that I
                  was ready to believe her assertion that it was all a vile plot and forgery, got up
                  by some enemy to ruin her in my esteem."
               "And now that you know others saw it too, night after night?"
               "Oh! I must renounce her, if it breaks my heart."
               "Ah! hearts are not so easily broken. I thought; mine would break, when I found,
                  years ago, that sweet little Jessie was no better than she should be; but it
                  didn't: and I guess you will survive, if you do step out of the siren's snare. I
                  believe we were all bewitched in those days, and saw every thing through
                  magnifying-glasses,—Grace as well as the rest of us. She seems perfectly
                  fascinated by Kate still, and is thinking of Theo I fancy. But she had better look
                  out how she plays high games with me now; for I will not bear them."
               The two young men continued to converse for some time upon the same old
                  subjects,—Philip fully substantiating every vile assertion regarding poor
                  Catharine by numerous facts that had come to his own private knowledge at the time
                  of their occurrence, and bringing such a weight of corroborative evidence to prove
                  them, that Lloyd could doubt no longer.
               To believe, brought with it the keen agony of separation, the bitter necessity of
                  renouncing one who had become dear as his life to him; and, with such a multitude
                  of facts staring him in the face, how could he disbelieve?
               It maddened him, too, to think what a dupe he had been; and Nell's confession of
                  love for him, and forbearing nobleness, in comparison with Catharine's falsehood
                  and deception, raised her at once far higher in his esteem than she had ever been
                  before.
               The suspicion that there was any plot or complicity between Nell and Philip,
                  though it occurred to him, seemed disproved by all the attending circumstances;
                  for he had overtaken Philip a long way from the mansion, and going towards it;
                  while the others were coming directly from it.
               Silly fellow! As if Philip had not been sent out on purpose to be waylaid, so as
                  to bring his victim into the toils, and, when it was all over, returned triumphant
                  to report his complete success.
               
               For having been born of, and reared by, a proud, scheming, irreligious mother,—to
                  say nothing of the father,—intrigue was the breath of life to both Nell and Philip
                  Atherton; and, to the few who knew it, it was a sad drawback to the beauty,
                  graces, talents, and accomplishments every one allowed them to possess in a very
                  high degree.
               Catharine noticed during the evening that Lloyd watched her furtively, but never
                  once came near or spoke to her;, and she felt that something had gone wrong. But
                  her true heart did not take the alarm until she heard the announcement, that he
                  had decided to leave next day with the party who were going to Richmond,—including
                  the Tremonts and Athertons. He had said never a word to her of such a plan; so the
                  news came over her like a shock. She felt instinctively that something had
                  happened to alienate him, and that it was to avoid her that he was leaving his
                  home at this time.
               She had feared some such thing from the hour of Nellie Atherton's arrival, and
                  persevering attempts to ignore and put her down as far as she could. She had felt,
                  years ago, as if the mystery of Lloyd's alienation pointed to Nell, more than any
                  one else, for its solution. And the almost certain knowledge, that, in the
                  school-rivalries of other days, Nell had procured and destroyed a fine composition
                  of hers, upon which a handsome prize depended, assured her that she would do
                  almost any thing to carry out her plans. She had herself, by chance, found the
                  remains of the burned composition behind the fireboard in Nell's room; secretly
                  and indignantly rewritten it at the last moment; and, most unexpectedly to Nell,
                  won the first prize. And for this she felt as if that young lady had never
                  forgiven her, even though no one knew it but themselves.
               That was a sleepless night to both Lloyd and Catharine; and both looked pale and
                  wretched enough at the breakfast-table next morning.
               When the meal was over, as had been previously arranged, the carriages were
                  ordered, and amid smiles and tears, kisses and fond embraces, the farewells were
                  spoken, the bride bade adieu to her early home, and the bridal party broke up.
               Amid the general bustle, no one but herself noticed that Lloyd said never a word
                  to his betrothed, and that his only farewell was a cold parting clasp of a hand
                  that left within her own his letter of renunciation. She took it, with a pale
                  cheek, quivering lip, foreboding heart, and questioning glance, that had in it a
                  world of appealing tenderness; and, with trembling fingers, she transferred it to
                  her pocket, and turned away to bide the gathering storm of tears until the guests
                  had departed.
               Once alone in her room, the restraints were thrown off, and she wept long and
                  bitterly, with such a feeling of loneliness and desolation as had never come to
                  her before.
               She had forgotten to lock her door; and, in the midst of her trouble, a dark form
                  glided in, and a hand that seemed just like her mother's was laid upon her bowed
                  head, and began smoothing her soft, shining auburn hair.
               She raised her tear-stained face, and seeing that it was Aunt Dinah, the kind old
                  slave-nurse and housekeeper, exclaimed almost angrily, "Why are you here?" for she
                  was ashamed to have even a slave witness her weakness and humiliation. "Don't,
                  don't!" said Dinah deprecatingly and
                  pityingly. "Dinah see an' hear it all, goin' up an' down-; an' she sorry, drefful
                  sorry. She know it all wrong somewhere."
               "Pray don't speak of it, Dinah," Catharine implored.
               "Never you fear. Mebbe it all come right bimeby. Any way, ole Dinah know, dat, if
                  Miss Kate mean right and act right herself, de good Fader can cure de pain; an' he
                  only can. He know all about it. He can make it come right if Miss Kate on'y ask
                  him."
               "Thank you, Dinah. I, a professing Christian, ought to know it too. Now go,
                  please," she sobbed.
               Dinah silently left the room; and Catharine, awed, reproved, and yet doubting
                  God's goodness, knelt down, and offered up a fervent prayer for help and guidance.
                  And, she did rise up comforted, and strengthened for whatever trials were before
                  her, and gathered courage to open Lloyd's letter, the purport of which she had
                  already guessed:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "O wretched girl!" it began, "was it not enough that you had darkened
                              six of the best years of my life with bitter memories, that you must
                              come here to my own home to renew your enchantments, deceive me to my
                              ruin, and wreck my peace of mind forever? Oh! must I believe that fair
                              face is but a decoy to the innocent and the unwary; that graceful form
                              but a whited sepulchre,—a tomb of lost innocence; those eyes, through,
                              which I thought a pure soul looked forth, but lures to entrap ignorant
                              dupes to their undoing? You thought, no doubt, that no one here would
                              ever find out your true character; but, in spite of all your
                              precautions, the truth has followed, proofs of your infamy that it is
                              impossible to disbelieve. As a consequence, here and
                                 now I renounce all claim to your hand.
                           "If you are mercenary enough to want pay for our broken engagement,
                              the law would perhaps give it you. But I, without that intervention,
                              will give you any reasonable sum you may demand, rather than link my
                              fortunes with those of one whom every principle of honor teaches me to
                              despise and scorn.
                           "I have not informed my family of what has transpired, and cannot do
                              it, at present. As I am going to Richmond, you can do as you like
                              about leaving, or spreading reports that would only disgrace yourself
                              while you remain in the Southern country.
                           "But for the shame to us all in proclaiming the truth, I would not
                              have my young brother and sisters under your care another day. But,
                              just now, I can't bear to have my best friends know how shamefully I
                              have been imposed upon. I beg that you will remember that God will
                              require an account of your stewardship, and that you will do them no
                              harm. May you repent of your misdeeds! and oh, may you never know the
                              bitter agony that wrings my heart in bidding you an eternal
                              farewell
                           
                              "L. H."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Catharine's tears blinded her as she read this outpouring of a noble heart, that
                  she knew felt itself cruelly deceived and wronged.
               But, though his accusations wrung her own soul quite as cruelly, she could not
                  blame him as she would have done, had she not believed some enemy was at the
                  bottom of the whole affair.
               But, sustained by her own conscious innocence, and the hope of help from on high, her mind at last
                  became tranquilized. She would not leave her position, or fly from the country
                  like the guilty thing he thought her, unless obliged to do so, she told Lloyd
                  Hunter in her reply; and that she would be glad to stand face to face with her
                  accusers. They had undoubtedly some strong motive that would appear in the end for
                  defaming one who was utterly incapable of lowering herself to any thing that was
                  immoral or infamous. God, who knew all hearts, would, no doubt, make the truth
                  manifest, and support her through the bitter trial, she added.
               She neither expected nor received any reply to this letter; so, burying proudly
                  the memory of her wrong in her own bosom, she began once more her usual round of
                  duties.
               
               Long before the wedding at Hunter Hills, the monotonous mutterings of secession
                  and discontent had been heard throughout our land, like the roll of distant
                  thunder. Soon afterwards, like the play of forked lightnings, could be seen the
                  fitful flashes of a strife that was soon to be hot and deadly; threatening the
                  disruption of all ties of interest and, affection, as well as those more enduring
                  ones that bind the States together in one nation.
               Yet few of us at that time realized the imminent danger. Scarcely any one dreamed
                  that this was but the prelude to an earthquake shock that was to upheave existing
                  institutions, convulse a continent, disturb the commercial and financial relations
                  of a world, and bring distress and ruin, not only to multitudes of our own people,
                  but also to many in distant regions of the globe. But, after the time of which we
                  have spoken, began a new phase, not only in the history of those old Virginia
                  families, but also of the State and the whole nation.
               The feeling for and against secession every day grew stronger and stronger. As the
                  people began to take sides, many who were near relations, or had been dear and
                  tried friends, found themselves in opposite ranks; and very soon, by the mere
                  force of circumstances, they became mortal enemies, ready to appeal to arms to
                  establish their rights and opinions, and imbrue their hands in each other's
                  blood.
               It was late in December when South Carolina recklessly put herself out of the pale
                  of the Union. Before January was over, five or six other States had joined her,
                  and openly avowed their secession principles. There is no doubt that Virginia, the
                  mother of presidents, and queen State of the South, was, by her emissaries, in
                  league with them from the first; though she was kept in check by the large number
                  of her loyal people. So she waited until the Confederacy was declared, Fort Sumter
                  taken, and other public property along the Southern border purloined or destroyed,
                  and the new President had called for a large army to put down the rebellion,
                  before she ventured to come out openly, and join in a strife that was, as Major
                  Hunter had said, to immolate thousands of her noblest sons, and drench her fair
                  fields in the most precious blood of the nation. The leading secessionists in
                  Virginia had only waited for the excuse that their rights were about to be invaded
                  by the Federal power to justify them in the eyes of the world.
               The longing for the power they had wielded for fifty years, but lost, as they
                  thought, by the election of the new President, and the fear that, through him,
                     their right to enslave, and enlarge
                  the bounds of slavery would be interfered with, undoubtedly provoked the whole
                  South to rebellion at that time. Yet their ambitious leaders had been looking
                  forward, and preparing for some such movement for years. During the previous
                  administration, wherever they could, they had been draining the public treasury,
                  getting the best arms into their power, and sending every available government
                  vessel to distant regions of the globe, so as to weaken the hands of the incoming
                  party, and place it at the mercy of the leaders in the intended rebellion.
               Soon after the wedding at Hunter Hills, and while the family were preparing to go
                  to Richmond to spend the winter, Major Hunter was attacked by a fit of the gout,
                  which rendered him for the time perfectly helpless. While thus confined at home, a
                  patriotic, noble-souled, yet exceedingly troublesome invalid, the Montgomery
                  Convention met, and chose Jefferson Davis as their leader; while the Peace
                  Convention, which met in Washington about the same time, failed to do any thing to
                  satisfy the clamors of the Southern people. 
               The major fumed and fretted and chafed, and sometimes swore, when he heard the
                  news,—Catharine was generally employed to read to him; and he cursed the disorder
                  that kept him an invalid, and prevented his taking an active part in the stirring
                  scenes that were being enacted all around him. His lady, however, gave him little
                  consolation. Much younger than himself, with few feelings in common, she had
                  little sympathy for the ailments that kept her at home when she was longing for
                  the gayeties of Richmond. And, more than all, being connected with many
                  distinguished rebel families in the South, her sympathies were all with the
                  rebellion. Having been a belle and beauty in her younger days, though
                  comparatively poor, she was still vain enough to wish to keep up her popularity in
                  society. This made it peculiarly irksome for her to stay at home with the aged and
                  invalid husband she had married for his wealth and position, and who, in his age
                  and helplessness, when she herself had unexpectedly inherited a fortune, she would
                  sometimes gladly have seen laid beneath the sod. Her three children, in whom she
                  worshipped her own beauty, as well as some of their father's noblest attributes,
                  were all that reconciled her to her present mode of life at all; and in watching
                  their improvement under Catharine's guidance, and in witnessing their wild
                  frolics, she managed to exist until this great trial was over.
               Yet, so far as she could, Mrs. Hunter threw the care of nursing and entertaining
                  her invalid husband upon Catharine and her children and servants. And to the
                  former, with her mind burdened, not only by her own private griefs, but the woes
                  and distresses of her country, it was perhaps a benefit, by occupying her mind,
                  and keeping her from dwelling too much upon the darkened personal and political
                  horizon.
               Major Hunter had been in the army in his youthful days, and had afterwards
                  travelled extensively. He was possessed of vast stores of information, and general
                  knowledge of the world, and liked to talk over his past experiences. This was
                  irksome to his wife, but afforded pleasure to Catharine in her present mood.
                  Moreover, Major Hunter continually admired her judgment and discriminating taste,
                  as well as the ingenuity and fruitfulness of a mind that could relieve the
                     ennui and wretchedness of his wife's restless
                  soul.
               
               He had himself been educated at the North, from whence he had brought a good many
                  ideas regarding human freedom that would never have disturbed the serenity of his
                  soul had he remained at home. With these liberal ideas, he had acted in such a way
                  as to give offence to some of his slaveholding neighbors, who, believing that
                     slavery and the lash were made to work together, were
                  constantly reproached for their cruelty by his uniform kindness to his slaves. He
                  had inherited them, and believed he could not get along without them: yet he hated
                  slavery in the abstract and at his death designed setting those of them he thought
                  able to care for themselves free.
               Though she dared not oppose him openly, his wife thwarted his views and liberal
                  measures whenever she could. Of course, in such a household, Catharine had little
                  opportunity of seeing much of the horror and dark side of slavery. And seeing the
                  slaves so generally happy there, was what, more than aught else, reconciled her to
                  the thought of becoming a slaveholder's bride. She could not bear to add to the
                  affliction of this family by telling them that her character was suspected, her
                  engagement broken off, and her peace of mind wrecked. So, conscious of her own
                  integrity, and believing she was in the path of duty, she kept steadily on her
                  way, wondering how soon the truth would be made manifest.
               Lloyd wrote frequently to his father, always enclosing notes for the children,
                  telling of the distinguished men convened in Richmond; of the measures and
                  opinions they were adopting; of the doings of the war and peace conventions; of
                  the mustering and marching of troops, and the many exciting reports in
                  circulation; but never a word about Catharine or his broken engagement.
               As she, too, had Richmond letters, no one seemed to suspect any thing; though hers
                  were from Grace Tremont, who, in the bustle and whirl of city life, found time to
                  keep Catharine posted regarding her own affairs, and those of their mutual
                  acquaintances. By midwinter the major was a great deal better; though the news
                  arriving by every mail kept him in a continual fever of excitement.
               At last a letter came from Lloyd, saying that he was about convinced that the
                  South was right, and justified in quitting a Union that oppressed and trampled
                  upon her most sacred rights; that he was tired of waiting for the slow but sure
                  voice of Old Virginia, and, at the earnest solicitation of some of her leaders, he
                  had concluded to go South to confer with the ruling spirits there. Then, if the
                  government really attempted to coerce them into submission, he might conclude to
                  join them, and take office under the new confederacy; and believing, that, under
                  such circumstances, a marriage with a Northern lady would be unadvisable, he had
                  concluded for that, and other reasons she would understand, to cancel his late
                  engagement with Miss Hale, and fulfil another made long ago, as they all knew,
                  with Miss Nellie Atherton. They were to be married in church the next Tuesday; and
                  he hoped his father and all the family would be able to be present, as they were
                  to start, immediately after the ceremony, for Charleston, South Carolina.
               Thus far the poor old major got, reading this letter to his wife, Catharine, and
                  Dr. Stearnes, who had brought it from the office, when his voice began to falter,
                  his hand to tremble, and his face to blanch to a sudden whiteness, as he stood by
                  the parlor-window: then he put out his
                  hands, clutched at the empty air, and fell heavily to the floor.
               The knowledge that his first-born son, the pride and hope of his declining years,
                  was about to turn traitor to his country and his betrothed bride, was too much for
                  the poor invalid to bear, and almost broke his heart.
               By the application of strong stimulants, he was revived, but could not be
                  reconciled to the unlooked-for dispensation.
               Catharine had known, from Grace's letters, that Nell was trying her best to win
                  Lloyd back; and yet, perhaps unconsciously, she had treasured a hope of his return
                  to her, and that all would in some way be satisfactorily explained.
               The sudden overthrow of this hope came like a blow to her; and for a moment her
                  senses reeled, her head swam, and she sat down dizzily in the nearest chair, pale
                  as marble, and almost glad that something, she scarcely knew what, took the
                  attention of those present from herself. Every one pitied her, and admired the
                  fortitude with which she bore up under her disappointment; though it must be
                  confessed that Mrs. Hunter's pity was mingled with joy at her niece's success in
                  winning Lloyd from a mésalliance. She liked
                  Catharine in her place; she felt as if she could hardly live without her a day;
                  she had always treated her with kindness. Yet the feeling was very strongly
                  impressed upon her mind, that she belonged to a lower caste than the Hunters and
                  the Athertons, who were some of the oldest families in Virginia.
               The major had had something of this feeling at first, until a knowledge of
                  Catharine's goodness, virtue, and amiability had won a daughter's place in his
                  heart. And, now he seemed to feel for her, in her desertion and disappointment,
                  quite as much as if she were at daughter of his own; and, all the more, in that
                  his own son was the cause of her trouble.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               FAMILY JARS.—THE ELOPEMENT.
               
                  CONTRARY to all expectations the major was up betimes the next
                  morning, and announced his determination to go immediately to Richmond.
               His lady feebly remonstrated, saying that he was certainly not well enough; yet
                  fearing only, that, in his present state of mind, he would say or do something to
                  break up the match, or disgrace the family. She had a great many preparations to
                  make before leaving, and the wardrobe of herself and family to prepare for the
                  great occasion; and all they wanted was to get there the evening before the
                  bridal, she said. So, in one way and another, she contrived to delay him until the
                  sabbath was over; and then they made the journey to Richmond.
               Catharine did not want to go to Richmond at all, and had a great mind to go home
                  at once. She did not want to see Lloyd Hunter. To be near him, when she knew he
                  was falsifying his vows to her, and solemnly slighting them to another, would be
                  very trying to her feelings. But neither the major nor his lady would consent to
                  her going home when the children needed her so much; and it was so difficult for
                  them to get any one at all competent to fill her place.
               So, after a confidential interview, it was decided that she should remain at
                  Hunter Hills until Friday, when Uncle Nick was coming back to look after the rest
                  of the baggage, and servants, and then return with them. Before the end of
                  February, they were all comfortably installed in their elegant town mansion; and
                  Mrs. Hunter was once more in her glory. She had always been noted for her
                  hospitality; and now she kept an open house, and spent most of her time in going,
                  and receiving company.
               The major bore his journey very well, but his moods and state of health were
                  variable.
               Sometimes he would see and talk with every one; dealing out his denunciations
                  against secession and treason with an unsparing hand and tongue. Then again he
                  would be confined to his room, usable to sit up, and yet chafing and worrying
                  continually about the state of the country generally, and the doings of the
                  Convention, then in session, of which he was a nominal member. When he was able,
                  he attended its sittings, and did all he could, by voice and vote, and by public
                  and private influence, to prevent the State from going out of the Union.
               But his wife's influence—and, in one way and another, it was fully equal to
                  his—was all the other way; and she did all she could to prevent him from
                  influencing the minds of her friends and acquaintance. And later still, when the
                  inauguration they had hoped to prevent was consummated, and Sumter was bombarded
                  and the new President had called for an army to support his tottering power, and
                  she knew from her friends that the final vote of the Convention was about to be
                  taken, this woman secretly gave her husband an opiate, that caused him to sleep through the terrible crisis that gave
                  Virginia over to the horror and devastation of a bloody civil war.
               When the old man woke to a knowledge that all was over, and that no effort of his
                  could now prevent that dire calamity, his anguish and despair, though not stormy,
                  were terrible.
               Suspecting the truth, and disgusted with the meanness and chicanery that he knew
                  had produced such lamentable results, he resolved at once to retire to his
                  estates, leaving his giddy wife and family to enjoy town life as long as they
                  pleased. So he left the next day, with Nick, his faithful servant, greatly to the
                  pleasure of his lady. From that hour she made her house the home of all the rebel
                  leaders in the city, and especially of her brother, Col. Atherton, and Philip, his
                  son, who had previously boarded at a hotel.
               And thus it was that 
                     Catherine
                     Catharine
                  , though disliking it much, was brought into close communion with the
                  Athertons, and had a chance to see, and make the acquaintance of, those who were
                  afterwards leaders in the rebel armies.
               She knew that both Nell, and Lloyd were gone; yet, strangely enough, no one, not
                  even Major Hunter, had told her how or where. This was partly out of regard to her
                  feelings, but much more from the mortification of their own at the way things had
                  turned out. The truth was, that, after every arrangement had been made for the
                  bridal, which was to be attended with great splendor, Count Laroi, Nell's Parisian
                  lover, arrived in Richmond. Having come over from Europe on purpose to secure the
                  great Virginia beauty and heiress, he took measures accordingly.
               Finding how matters stood, he procured a private interview terview; and, after
                  ascertaining that Nell still fancied him, he proposed a private marriage, and
                  elopement. Wishing to gratify her fancy, shame Lloyd, punish him for his
                  attentions to Catharine, and at the same time make a romantic sensation, Nell
                  concluded an elopement with a live count would be just the thing. She knew very
                  well that Count Laroi had been a suspected character in Paris, and that neither
                  father nor brother would consent to their union; so she resolved to take the
                  responsibility into her own hands, and do as she liked, in defiance of everybody.
                  So she gathered up all she could secure of her own private property, was secretly
                  married to Count Laroi the evening before that appointed for her marriage with
                  Lloyd Hunter, and immediately set sail for New Orleans.
               She was determined to be a rich countess, in spite of them all, she told her
                  friends in her farewell letter. Her father and Philip were terribly shamed and
                  offended. But Lloyd, though mortified by the publicity of the affair, really felt
                  relieved, because he had, by this time, begun to suspect the duplicity of her
                  character. And it was because all the connections were so chagrined, and had
                  forbidden the children and servants to speak of it before Catharine, that she
                  failed to learn the truth.
               Mrs. Hunter knew that 
                     Catherine
                     Catharine
                   was invaluable to her in her present position; and now that Lloyd was
                  gone, and there was no one of the family to be deluded by her charms, she was very
                  glad to bring them into notice.
               That an Atherton, with her own blood and pride in his veins, could think of her
                  seriously, was something of which she did not dream.
               She knew that she could trust her to look after her children and servants, and have every thing managed
                  to perfection, because they all esteemed and loved her. And she fully appreciated
                  the rare personal and mental charms, that she knew helped to make her house so
                  attractive to the rebel officers. Her musical and conversational gifts were
                  constantly called into play, in assisting Mrs. Hunter in the entertainment of her
                  company; and, if she was ill or absent, Catharine must receive her guests, and
                  make her excuses. Catharine disliked the publicity of the part she was desired to
                  act at first, and the notice she received from the Confederate officers. But,
                  forced into it by circumstances over which she had little control, she learned at
                  last to appreciate and enjoy their society. Knowing her Yankee proclivities, some
                  of them loved to draw her out upon the political questions of the day, even though
                  she sometimes wound them up and worsted them in the argument. But she was
                  generally shy of expressing her opinions, knowing it could do no good.
               Among the rebel officers whom Catharine particularly attracted at this time, was,
                  strangely enough, Col. Atherton, the father of Nell and Philip, and brother of
                  Mrs. Hunter. He had been a widower for years; and, from his age, position, great
                  wealth, and unbounded family pride, no one who knew the man would have suspected
                  him of such a weakness. He had avoided rather than sought her society at Hunter
                  Hills, after he knew of her engagement; but, now that was broken off by the
                  intrigues of his own family, he seemed anxious to cultivate her acquaintance, and
                  win her confidence. Distrusting both the son and the father, because she thought
                  they had had something to do with Lloyd's desertion, she treated them at first
                  with uncommon coolness and reserve.
               When they became domesticated in the family, she found it more impossible to do
                  this without attracting special attention. So, by degrees, as the colonel won upon
                  her esteem, her reserve and haughtiness wore away; though she could never quite
                  forget certain suspicions of Philip's conduct in their earlier years.
               Both the Colonel and Philip had daily military duties to attend to, yet managed to
                  spend some part of each day or evening at home; and, though neither suspected the
                  other of ulterior motives, they generally managed, not only to avoid each other,
                  but also Mrs. Hunter, whose hours for her siesta, dressing, and calls were the ones selected for being at home
                  with Catharine and the children, who were, of course, always uncertain
                  companions.
               Catharine noticed this, but never dreamed that she had aroused in both some of the
                  strongest passions of the soul. She knew something of the lofty pride of the
                  Atherton family, and sometimes wondered why they would condescend to talk to a
                  Yankee governess, and labor so hard as they did to convert her to their own views
                  and opinions.
               Both admired her beauty, though every one did not call her beautiful. But there
                  was something in her pure and elevated sentiments, in her lofty patriotism, in the
                  clear, decided, yet musical tones of her voice; besides the nameless charm always
                  thrown around a cultivated intellect and polished manners, that singularly
                  fascinated both, even though they could not respond to her sentiments, or feel
                  that national patriotism which inspired her true and loyal heart.
               Philip had admired Catharine more than any one else in early life, and was
                  provoked by her preference of Lloyd to
                  himself; yet he had no serious intentions regarding her then. His greatest
                  ambition then was to win Grace Tremont and her large fortune; but Grace had
                  rejected him before her departure from the city, for his avowed secession
                  sentiments. This rebuff rankled deeply in his vengeful heart; though it left him
                  more at liberty to follow out his own impulses than he had been for years.
               But Philip worshipped wealth and position; and Catharine's want of both made him
                  hesitate how to act. He knew in his own heart that he was unworthy of her; yet he
                  felt as if he would be a better man if he could marry her, and make up as well as
                  he could for the wrong he had done her.
               That he had schemed and lied her out of one husband, did not worry him much,
                  however, so long as she did not know or suspect the truth. But it did trouble him
                  that she should always express such decidedly religious, moral, and thoroughly
                  loyal sentiments; that she met every attempt at freedom or familiarity with a
                  dignity befitting an empress; and that she had never, by word, look, or tone,
                  seemed to be seeking his favor, or given him the least shadow of encouragement.
                  Yet he could not believe that she, a portionless Northern girl, would refuse, if
                  he once brought his pride down enough to ask her, to marry him,—which as yet he
                  did not intend to do.
               Catharine knew that there was great excitement among the Southern people. She knew
                  that large bodies of troops were gathering near Richmond, and all through the
                  Southern country. She heard a great deal said against the Federal government and
                  Northern people that irritated and pained her; and she sometimes freely expressed
                  her own opinions. Yet, like almost every one else, she believed those deluded,
                  hot-headed Southerners were but blowing off steam, like a locomotive, to frighten
                  the North to terms, and that the rebellion would not amount to much after all. And
                  there is little doubt that most of the leaders in the movement were of about the
                  same opinion, and little dreamed of the storm of woe and blood they were evoking
                  when they raised their rebellious hands against the government.
               Believing thus, and not at all alarmed for her own safety, Catharine resolved to
                  finish her engagement, in spite of the threatening elements around her, and then
                  set out for home.
               The bombardment of Fort Sumter, the investiture of Pickens, and the President's
                  call for a large army, roused her a little from her dreams of security. But
                  somehow the boasting tone of the public prints, and conversation of those around
                  her, tended to allay, rather than to excite, her fears, and induced her to wait
                  until the coast was blockaded, and, the country filled with troops in every
                  direction.
               June came at last. She had promised to stay no longer than this; so, in spite of
                  the children's tears, Mrs. Hunter's urgent entreaties, and the distracted state of
                  the country, she decided to go home at once.
               It was hard to part with those who loved her, and were so kind to her; but she had
                  come to believe that the strife might be a long and bloody one. Duty to her
                  immediate friends, her country, and her own loyal opinions urged her to leave the
                  ranks of her country's mortal foes before it was too late.
               The day before her intended departure, while Mrs. Hunter was out for a call,
                  Catharine was surprised by the arrival of
                  Mr. Garland, a near neighbor of Major Hunter, whom she had known and highly
                  esteemed at Hunter Hills.
               He had come to inform them that the major had taken a heavy cold on his way home,
                  which had produced a fever and inflammation of the lungs, and that he had now a
                  racking cough, and every symptom of a quick consumption. He had no one but slaves
                  to attend him; believed it was his last illness, and was very anxious to see his
                  wife and children before his departure. If his wife refused to come, as he feared
                  she might, he begged Catharine, whom he regarded as a daughter, to come to him
                  with his younger children.
               Catharine was deeply affected by this news, for she loved the desolate old man as
                  a father. As it was but a dozen miles out of her way, she readily promised to
                  accompany Mr. Garland the next morning.
               When Mrs. Hunter arrived, Catharine left the room; but she knew afterwards that
                  she and Mr. Garland had a very exciting interview. She was wilful and
                  unreasonable: she would not believe in the reports of her husband's danger. She
                  knew that he had sent for them to get her away from Richmond, and prevent her
                  using her wealth and influence, as she designed, in the cause of the
                  rebellion.
               And for that reason she utterly refused to return to Hunter Hills, or let her
                  children go with Catharine, with whom she was vexed because she was going to leave
                  her. Mr. Garland tried to reason the case; but, finding it only angered her, he
                  desisted, and left the house.
               But there was, unfortunately, a listener to this interview, who was deeply
                  affected by it, and who made his presence known by his bitter sobs as soon as it
                  was over. This was Walter, Mrs. Hunter's little son, who happened to be sitting in
                  a window-seat, and thus, became an unnoticed observer of all that transpired. 
               This boy, who was ten years old, and the youngest and pet of the flock, almost
                  worshipped his old father. He lead wondered, and questioned and worried his mother
                  continually regarding his absence, and was now wounded in his tenderest feelings
                  to have the truth made known to him in such a way.
               "My father ill,—dying! and the mother I love so bitter against him, for such a
                  cause!" he exclaimed, as he threw himself at her feet, and besought her to take
                  him to his poor father.
               Not without reason, Mrs. Hunter was extremely proud of Jennie and Fannie, her
                  beautiful and amiable daughters; but this boy she almost worshipped, he was so
                  spirited, handsome, and talented, her youngest-born, and her only son. But she was
                  angry and unreasonable at that moment; so she rebuked him sharply for his
                  eavesdropping, and sent him from the room without listening to his exonerating
                  explanations.
               Alas! she little dreamed of all the consequences to him, to herself, to Catharine,
                  and all with whom she was connected, that would result from that thoughtless
                  act.
               Col. Atherton had been away from home for a week, and of course knew nothing of
                  Catharine's early departure. But Philip did know of it; and he grew more restless,
                  moody, and taciturn every day. Just before sunset the last evening of her stay, he
                  drove up in an open buggy; and, as the family were just about getting into the
                  carriage for a drive, he asked Catharine to ride with him.
               
               From one excuse and another, she had always refused before; but now, encouraged by
                  Mrs. Hunter, as it was her last day with them, she accepted the invitation.
               It was a delicious June evening, and the streets were thronged with people,—on
                  foot, on horseback, and in carriages; many of them richly dressed, or in
                  glittering uniforms,—so suggestive of coming events,—seemingly so far off, and
                  yet, alas, how near!
               Philip, too, was in the stylish uniform of a staff-officer; and he looked so
                  handsome and manly, with his fine form, jetty hair and eyes, and clear-cut
                  features, that Catharine could not help admiring him, as he sat beside her, even
                  though she doubted his principles, suspected his past conduct, and felt as if it
                  were wrong for her to have any thing to do with him.
               The sun went down in a sea of golden glory, tingeing the church-spires, and tops
                  of the loftiest buildings, with a glittering halo; and the sweetest perfumes were
                  wafted upon every breeze, from the thousands of beautiful flowers that were
                  blooming all around them. And the bands, playing martial airs in the distance,
                  contributed, with all other pleasing sights and sounds, to lull the senses into a
                  happy forgetfulness of the past, and a serene enjoyment of the beauty and harmony
                  all around them. They rode on for some time in perfect silence,—she looking and
                  listening, yet never dreaming of the struggle going on in his bosom; he oblivious
                  of outward objects, yet keenly sensitive to the strife within, and trying in vain
                  to make up his mind how to act.
               He had never fully realized, till they were about to part, how dear Catharine had
                  become to him, how necessary she was to his happiness. But, though passion sion
                  clamored, pride still held him in chains; and he could not make up his mind to
                  speak the words that, he believed, would make her his own forever. That she would
                  refuse to wed one of his high birth, manly beauty, and large fortune, he could not
                  believe. But could he, with all those advantages,—he, who knew he could choose
                  from some of the greatest beauties and fortunes in the realm,—wed a portionless
                  Northern bride, who mocked at slavery, despised his opinions, and, more than all,
                  loved another better than himself? No: he could not bow down his pride to that, or
                  wed one whom he thought Nell and his proud father would despise.
               And yet how he loved her! How could he bear to part with her. He drove out among
                  the green fields, lowing kine, and fine country residences, where every thing
                  breathed of peace; and for some time Catharine did not observe his unusual
                  taciturnity.
               "Catharine," he said at last in a tone not unmingled with emotion, "why will you
                  leave us? Will no Southern heart or home content you longer?"
               "I have no claim upon any of them; and it is time the weary, wandering bird should
                  seek its parent-nest," said she, smiling.
               "You have long been weaned from that, Catharine, and, if you will only stay with
                  us, may one day have a warm nest of your own;" and he flashed upon her a glance of
                  peculiar meaning.
               "I do not want one. I feel myself more of an alien among your people every day.
                  Our thoughts and views and feelings are of a different color; and among you I
                  should never feel perfectly at home."
               "You did not tell Lloyd Hunter so," said he sourly.
               "How know you what I told Lloyd Hunter?" and the telltale blood surged over
                  Catharine's face.
               
               "I have heard that you were engaged to him at one time."
               "Perhaps you know how I was disengaged?"
               "No: I do not. But I would really like to know."
               "When you see him, you can ask."
               "I would not ask him now for a kingdom; nor do I care, if you will only forget
                  him, and think of me."
               "I shall never forget him or the lesson I have learned through him. I shall
                  treasure it as a warning through life."
               "Throw it to the winds. He is a moody, critical, cold-hearted fellow, who is never
                  of the same mind long at a time. Whoever has him is to be pitied."
               "I do not think so," said Catharine mournfully. "I still believe him to be one of
                  God's and Nature's noble-men,—high-principled, pure, and true, yet not above being
                  deceived and wronged."
               "How can you think so highly of one who proved himself to be so inconstant and
                  changeable?" he said with a guilty, conscious flush.
               "I would be just to others whether they are so to me or not, especially when I
                  believe they mean to be. That higher Power who shapes our destinies probably sees
                  that it is not best for me to stay here, with all my Northern prejudices, through
                  a bloody war; so he orders it otherwise."
               "I do not believe that; yet I do think you will be in great danger to go to the
                  North alone and unprotected at the present time. For the country between here and
                  Washington is already alive with armed men, some of them villains of the deepest
                  dye, gathered from among the uncivilized borderers of the frontiers, who are ready
                  to stop trains, waylay travellers, or commit any other lawless deed for the sake
                  of plunder."
               "Then the sooner I get out of it the better."
               "No, Catharine: you had better stay in Richmond, where there are those who will
                  guard you from all danger,—those who love you well enough to lay down their lives
                  for you."
               "That is all moonshine, Philip; though, as regards the danger, there may be truth
                  in what you say."
               "Believe me, it is not all moonshine, Catharine. You do not realize your power
                  over human hearts."
               "You and I have heard a great many thrilling tales of deathless affection, Philip;
                  but I, at least, have got past believing them," said Catharine, with a scornful
                  curve to her expressive lip.
               "Don't you believe that I love you thus, dear Catharine?"
               "No," she quickly responded, blushing, and drawing herself up with a haughty
                  dignity.
               "But I do most truly and fervently," he said, almost in spite of himself; "and I
                  would do almost any thing to win a return!" His every look and tone testified to
                  his sincerity.
               "You surprise and pain me by such doubtful professions, Philip. Must I believe
                  they, are such as you make to every lady of your acquaintance?"
               "No, indeed! But why should you doubt?" he asked, with, an angry flush, and keen,
                  questioning glance.
               "Because I had supposed you all this time engaged to my friend, Grace
                  Tremont."
               "Grace Tremont indeed!" and Philip's face grew dark with rage at the thought of
                  the indignity of her refusal. "I was once engaged to Grace Tremont: I am not now.
                  I would not marry her now, if she had the
                  wealth of the Indies at her disposal, and knelt to me for the favor."
               "You surprise me: I thought you were the best of friends."
               "We were once: now we are bitter enemies. But, Catharine, I solemnly swear to you,
                  that I never, never loved Grace Tremont as I now love you. I admired you more than
                  all others in our earlier years; and, had you favored me, I believe I should have
                  loved and been more worthy of you, than I am to-day. But such as I am, I feel for
                  you now a stronger love and a wilder worship. And if, for my sake, you would stay
                  in the Old Dominion, forget the past, and love me as well as you could, I would be
                  everlastingly grateful, and allow you to mould me into your highest ideas of
                  perfection and virtue."
               "Could I make of you a good Christian, and a patriotic Union man?" said Catharine,
                  who had little faith in his rhapsodies, and could not help putting a little
                  sarcasm into her tones and words.
               "I don't know but your love might Christianize me, Catharine. I believe myself as
                  patriotic as any man in the nation. I would lay down my life for Old Virginia, God
                  bless her! And no one is more strongly in favor of Union,—a union with you, dear
                  Catharine, than myself," said he, smiling.
               "You know that is not what I mean, Philip," said she seriously, "as well as you
                  know that you are solemnly pledged to do all in your power to divide this glorious
                  Union, and give the death-blow to our national life."
               "I do not deny it. Yet did I not hear you say this afternoon, that difference of
                  political opinion ought never to divide true friends?"
               "Nor had it, when, like your uncle and aunt, to whom I referred, they have sworn
                  before God to love and to cherish each other till death. This we have not done;
                  nor would I now, under any circumstances I can think of, to any man, love him as I
                  might, whom I believed to be an enemy to my country."
               "And you regard me as one: do you?" he eagerly questioned.
               "I regard every man as one who takes up arms against our lawful government, and
                  schemes and plots to overthrow it."
               "You say this deliberately, when you know that I acknowledge no allegiance, except
                  to my native State, and shall do all I can to uphold her in her right of
                  sovereignty."
               "I do, Philip. And yet I would give all I have to be able to convince you, and all
                  other misguided. Southerners, of the fallacy of a doctrine that is about to plunge
                  this country into a horrid civil war, which, if it does comes, will drench the
                  land in blood. It may be yours—or Theodore's."
               "Don't talk of that: it makes me shiver. Let us hope it will not come to so deadly
                  an issue."
               "God grant it! But it must be getting late. How far are we from the city?"
               "Some six or eight miles perhaps."
               "Six or eight miles! Why, it will be ten o'clock before we get home! What will
                  Mrs. Hunter say?"
               "I don't care. But, Catharine, do you know how strongly I am tempted to run away
                  with you, and hide you somewhere, to prevent your going home?" he said, as he
                  wheeled around in the homeward direction.
               "You would not do so mean a thing as that."
               
               "I don't know but I would: the thought of parting with you is not a pleasant one.
                  Why won't you show me some present favor, or at least give me a promise to come
                  back to Richmond, after making the major a visit?"
               "No promise between a secessionist and a Yankee will be good for any thing, if
                  this war goes on."
               "Just make me one and see."
               "No, Philip. It is too serious a subject to trifle with. I am grateful for your
                  good opinion, and the pleasure your society has afforded me; though I did not
                  dream you had any serious object in seeking mine."
               "Nor had I, till you bewitched my senses, and wiled my heart away from me."
               "Pretty Bess Hamilton can wile it back again."
               "Bess Hamilton is a pretty coquette, but less than nothing to me."
               "As I shall be, after a week's absence."
               "Catharine, why is it that you trifle with my affection, and have so little regard
                  for my deepest and tenderest feelings?" he passionately exclaimed.
               "Forgive me if I have wronged you, Philip, or undervalued your affection. I do not
                  mean to trifle with any man's feelings. I was simply trying to do right."
               "How, pray, and wherefore?"
               "Philip," she said, blushing, hesitating, and smiling, "do you not know that you
                  are a very handsome, polished, and fascinating young gentleman; and that, if one
                  had no previous prepossessions, it would be just the easiest thing in the world to
                  love you?"
               "Why don't you then?" said he eagerly.
               "You do not need to be told, Philip. There are some who can never love but one.
                  But would you be satisfied to have a poor, dependent, but ambitious girl pretend
                  to an affection she did not feel, for the sake of winning your name, position, and
                  large fortune?"
               "Certainly not."
               "Say no more then. Do not add to my temptations, but let us part in
                  friendship."
               He took the hand she offered, pressed it passionately to his lips, then threw it
                  from him; and little more was said during the remainder of the ride. They got home
                  at last; but, as soon as they entered the house, a new trouble presented
                  itself.
               Little Walter was gone,—no one knew what had become of him; and Mrs. Hunter had
                  been in paroxysms of fear, lest some evil had befallen her beautiful boy. A little
                  note was found at last upon her dressing-table, printed with a pen, telling her
                  that he had taken the money given him for a Christmas present to buy a ticket, and
                  was going on the cars to see his dear father. He hoped she would forgive, and take
                  no trouble about him, and come with the girls very soon.
               When this note was found, Mrs. Hunter's fear turned to anger; and she told
                  Catharine to "send the little rascal home just as soon as she got to Hunter
                  Hills."
               There were a good many last things to do, a good many last words to be spoken; and
                  it was very late before they retired to rest.
               Catharine's mind was so troubled about her affair with Philip, Walter's curious
                  escapade, and the dread prescience of coming events, that she did not sleep at all
                  this last night of her stay in Richmond.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE REBEL GENERAL.—THE PROPOSAL.
               
                  MR. GARLAND called for Catharine quite early the next morning, as he
                  had promised; but it was only to bring his excuses.
               He had found it necessary to remain a few days longer in town. If she did not like
                  to wait, he would take her to the cars, and place her under the care of a good and
                  true friend of his, who was going out to Hunter Hills to make the major a
                  visit.
               Catharine was all ready, and dressed for the journey. She was deeply anxious to go
                  home as soon as possible, and did not like to wait longer. So, tearfully kissing
                  and bidding the family and servants "Good-by," she entered the carriage, and was
                  driven to the depot.
               They were just in time. Mr. Garland procured her a ticket, and checks for her
                  baggage, found her a convenient seat; and she was just thanking him for all his
                  kindness when the whistle sounded. He turned around quickly, presented his friend,
                  Col. Atherton, who came smilingly up at that moment, bade her "Good-morning," and
                  immediately left the train.
               Catharine was confounded. She had not dreamed of her escort being any one she
                  knew,—least of all the father of Philip Atherton, who, though she knew it not, had
                  contrived business to detain Mr. Garland in Richmond, that he might have the
                  pleasure of her company to Hunter Hills.
               He was going out, it was true, to make one more effort to win over the old major
                  to the secession cause; though but for his meeting with Mr. Garland, and knowledge
                  of her proposed journey, he would have waited a few days longer. He did not suffer
                  this to be seen, however; and she had not the least suspicion of his object, when,
                  with a polite bow and "By your leave," he took the vacant seat beside her.
               Of course there could be no refusal of the companionship of one of whose escort
                  any lady in Richmond would have been proud. So she blushed, bowed a silent
                  acquiescence, and rather unquietly settled down beside him. Though he had a son of
                  twenty-five, Col. Atherton was at this time, four years less than fifty. Though
                  not a handsome man, he was yet so distinguished in his personal appearance, that
                  you would instantly have selected him, out of a hundred promiscuously-gathered
                  men, as the superior in ability to nearly every one. He was full six feet high,
                  with a form of perfect symmetry, dark, unsilvered hair, a high, broad brow,
                  prominent Roman nose, and an eye at once black, penetrating, and magnetic. His
                  features were marked, decided, and stern in repose; yet when he smiled, as he did
                  rarely, they lighted up with a most genial and magical glow. Educated, talented,
                  and accomplished in all the arts and habits of good society, he was in, fact as
                  fine a specimen of a polished Southern gentleman as one would often find.
               He had been quite distinguished as a successful and courageous officer in the war
                  with Mexico. Wise in council, and brave
                  in the field, he was one who was well calculated to be a leader of men. And,
                  though you may not find his name in the list of Confederate officers, you may be
                  sure that the man was there. He was indeed a man whose will was
                  generally the law to those around him, and one, too, who might at times be
                  unscrupulous as to the means to make that will a law, though this did not often
                  appear upon the surface of his character.
               From the first hour of their acquaintance, Catharine had been conscious of a
                  strange species of fascination in this man's society,—far more indeed than in that
                  of his polished and handsome son. She felt and acknowledged his superior ability,
                  dignity, and strength of character. His voice was singularly deep-toned yet
                  melodious. He was specious, eloquent, and highly gifted in conversation. She had
                  often found herself listening spell-bound to his descriptions of thrilling scenes
                  in the Mexican war, as well as of distinguished persons and places in foreign
                  lands. And when he had talked to her of slavery and secession, and the rights and
                  wrongs of the South, with the justice of her demands upon the nation, and of the
                  grasping, over-reaching spirit of our Northern people, he would succeed so well in
                  making "the worse appear the better reason," that she would be almost convinced of
                  the truth of his side of the argument, and ready, in spirit, to yield to all the
                  South demanded. In his presence, her spirit bowed to his superior will, and
                  strength of intellect. His deep, melodious tones enchained her attention in a room
                  where the sound of many voices mingled. His eye held and attracted hers by a
                  species of magnetism, which she felt, but for which she could give no reason. Did
                  she love him then, this stern domineering, unscrupulous man of more than twice her
                  own age? Far from it. She was uneasy in his presence, and though conscious of a
                  strong attraction towards him, yet felt a stronger and more irresistible one to
                  get out of the danger as soon as possible. And now, when he sat down beside
                  her,—nearer than he had ever been in her life before,—a strange thrill that was
                  almost a shudder crept through her frame; and a sudden but intangible fear; like a
                  warning shadow, swept across her mental sky. It was dispelled the next moment,
                  however, by the sound of his voice, as he said, with one of his rarest smiles and
                  most winning tones,—
               "I hardly know whether you accepted or rejected my escort, Miss Hale, the cars
                  started so suddenly."
               "Oh! I would like it, if it is not too much trouble to you, sir," she returned
                  with a bright blush and a slight tremor in her tones; "though I am not afraid to
                  go alone."
               "It is no trouble, but really a positive pleasure to me to have such society as
                  yours to beguile the monotony of the ride to Hunter Hills."
               "To judge by what I see around me, you might have that which would far better suit
                  your taste," said Catharine; for she began to observe that the train was crowded
                  to its utmost capacity by soldiers, and officers in fall uniform, some of whom she
                  knew, and that there were very few ladies on the train.
               "A thing is precious just in proportion to its scarcity," said the colonel,
                  smiling as he read her thought. "I presume there are few gentlemen present who do
                  not envy me the pleasure that no temptation would induce me to resign to
                  them."
               "Gallant speeches are a part of a soldier's tactics, I believe," said she, smiling; "and ladies are wise
                  who do not attach too much meaning to them."
               "Soldiers have eyes and ears and hearts, too, Miss Hale. And sometimes—as in the
                  present instance—they mean more than their words imply," he said with a look so
                  admiring and significant as to startle and set her to thinking.
               Could it be possible that this stern man, old enough to be her father, could have
                  a serious thought of her, a poor Yankee governess, and abolitionist at that? Or
                  could it be that Philip had told him of his partiality, and begged his
                  intercession with her in his behalf. He would not get it if he had: she felt sure
                  of that. And she was glad that no love for Philip bowed her own honest pride down
                  to the feet of so haughty a race. If Col. Atherton knew any thing about her affair
                  with Philip, he was glad, no doubt, to assist in getting her out of the
                  country.
               While she sat thinking thus, with her eyes cast down, the colonel was seriously
                  regarding her, but with very different feelings from what she had imagined. He
                  knew nothing of Philip's passion, and had enough to do to master his own
                  conflicting emotions. She instinctively shrank from the strange light in his eye's
                  when she raised hers to ask why so many of the soldiery were on board that
                  day.
               "I don't know that there are more than there has been every day for weeks," he
                  replied. "You must know that large bodies of troops from North and South are
                  massing upon the line of the Potomac; that collisions are of daily occurrence; and
                  that we are probably on the eve of a bloody civil war," he continued in a low,
                  solemn tone.
               "I read and hear so, but have hardly begun to realize it yet. It does not seem
                  possible that our people can be so mad as to imbrue their hands in each other's
                  blood. Oh! why will you not accept such terms as the government can honorably
                  offer, and cease this strife about slavery?"
               "Because slavery is the strength, the vitality, the life-blood of the South, and
                  we should be slaves ourselves were we to yield up the right to extend it as we
                  please. But we have discussed this subject before; and this is not the place for
                  it, if we had not," he said in a lower tone, as he saw the attention of the people
                  around began to be attracted by their conversation.
               Little more was said of special importance during the remainder of the ride;
                  though Col. Atherton sought, by many little attentions, to establish an interest,
                  and secure a confidential intercourse, with his fair companion.
               When at last, sometime in the afternoon, they reached the station nearest to
                  Hunter Hills, they found, as they expected, Mr. Garland's carriage awaiting them.
                  After partaking of some refreshments, they entered the carriage for a drive of
                  twelve miles. Once on board, seated side by side and alone, as the driver was on
                  the outside, Col. Atherton's manner changed very perceptibly.
               "I have been greatly concerned to hear that you are about to leave Virginia, Miss
                  Hale," he said in deeply-earnest tones.
               "And glad to get rid of even a female representative of the 'Yankee abolition
                  nation,' I presume;" and Catharine tried to laugh off the uneasiness she began to
                  feel by using an expression she had often heard at the South.
               
               "No," he exclaimed with sudden energy, and a look that thrilled her. "You should
                  never go home if I could help it."
               "Why, surely, surely, you do not suspect me of tampering with the slaves?"
               "No: but rather with their masters, whom you are robbing of their best treasures,"
                  he replied, smiling at her frightened look.
               "You are pleased to joke, sir. But really I am beginning to fear that I have
                  tarried here too long, and that my journey home will be a serious if not a
                  dangerous undertaking."
               "That is perfectly true. If you had gone home, instead of coming to Richmond, last
                  winter, you could have done so in perfect safety, and saved more than one from a
                  heartache. As it is, I think you had better remain here. And indeed we cannot
                  allow you to leave us."
               "But I must. I fear I am unsafe here even now."
               "There is a way in which you can easily become safe."
               "How is that?" she eagerly asked.
               "By casting your prejudices to the winds, and becoming one of us," he said with a
                  keen, searching glance.
               "That is impossible: they are ingrained in my whole being. And besides, you
                  Southern aristocrats with whom I have associated as an inferior would never
                  consider a poor Yankee governess your equal. At home I am as good as anybody; and
                  I can never feel, and I will not acknowledge, my inferiority to the best of you,
                  or allow myself to sink to a lower level."
               "I do not ask it, or wish to lower you from your loftiest tiest standard," he
                  said, smiling at her spirited words, and proud, queenly manner. "We have
                  prejudices, I must admit, and strong ones, against your people as a class; and
                  perhaps we do them some injustice: but we have none whatever against yourself; you
                  have overcome them all. You are better and nobler than the race whence you sprung.
                  We admire your beauty and talents. We acknowledge your superior powers, and would
                  gladly exalt them to the high station you are so well fitted to adorn."
               Catharine, even now, had no suspicion of the colonel's object in addressing her
                  thus; so she indignantly answered, "I will not suffer you, Col. Atherton, to
                  flatter me at the expense of my race and ancestry. There are thousands of Northern
                  girls who are my equal, and even my superior, in every quality that can ennoble
                  and exalt the sex. And you wrong and undervalue our men when you place them so low
                  as you do in the scale of courage, ability, generosity of soul, and all human
                  excellence. You will find this out to your cost, if this dreadful war goes on;
                  though God grant that it may not come to a fearful issue!"
               "That issue has already come, Miss Hale,—from which there is now no honorable mode
                  of retreat."
               "Oh, there is,—there must be! And let me entreat of you, Col. Atherton, to use
                  your great influence towards the peace and harmony of the nation."
               "Your abolition President inaugurated war when he re-enforced forts and
                  fortresses, and set State rights at defiance. The war must come."
               "Must! Oh, I believe I could lay down my life to prevent a strife in which
                  thousands of other lives must be sacrificed!"
               
               "I think you overestimate the danger. Your people had rather work and traffic than
                  fight; so it will soon be over. And you can do better with your life than to
                  sacrifice it, even in thought, to a chimera."
               "Perhaps not. Life is but a series of troubles and disappointments; and death is
                  sometimes welcome."
               "But not to one like you, whose life would be the most precious thing of earth to
                  him, whose home your love would make a paradise."
               "That home and that him, I think, will never be found by me," smiled Catharine.
                  "The only home upon which I have a claim, seems a great way off just now, with
                  rivers of trouble rolling between it and me."
               "There is a home and a him on this side of that river,—a home of beauty and
                  wealth, comfort and luxury, awaiting your acceptance; whose owner would endeavor
                  to make it a paradise, if you would become its mistress. Won't you, fair
                  Catharine?" and he eagerly grasped her hand, and looked searchingly into her deep
                  blue, downcast eyes for his reply.
               "Whose,—whose do you mean?" she asked tremulously.
               "Mine! mine alone!"
               "Then Philip has not"—
               "Philip has had nothing to do with it, and dare not interfere with my wishes. It
                  is I, Edward Atherton, who ask you to become my wife, the sharer of my destiny,
                  and to make a hitherto joyless home a happy one," he said in atone of deep
                  emotion. "Will you do so?"
               She was really frightened now; and her hand trembled like a leaf in his strong
                  clasp. He felt it; and her rapidly-changing color and continued silence alarmed
                  him at once.
               "Is there indeed no hope for me?" he eagerly questioned. "Do I seem old and
                  repulsive to you, Catharine?"
               "No, no! But this is so sudden, so wholly unexpected!" she gasped.
               "But Philip,—you mentioned his name. Has he indeed dared to rival me?" he
                  exclaimed with a darkening frown.
               "Col. Atherton, there must be no question of rivalry between you two. If there
                  were, I might prefer the elder to the younger. But I think now of other and more
                  insuperable objections,—one of the strongest of which is, that I have loved
                  another too well ever, ever to love you, or any other man, as a wife ought to love
                  her husband," she murmured blushingly.
               "Oh! I know, and deeply regret, all that; yet I would heal the wounds another has
                  made in your heart by his inconstancy. I believe there is a strong chord of
                  sympathy between our souls, and that I can teach you to love me
                  better than you ever did him. I know you could not
                  resist the power of the deep, strong passion I feel for you, if you were once my
                  wife!" and his eager, ardent looks and eloquent tones testified at least to his
                  truth and sincerity.
               "Possibly it might be so, Col. Atherton. I know you are strongly attractive: it
                  may be that I might learn to love you. And yet, if I did, our home could never be
                  a happy one; for, aside from those strong political prejudices, that would be sure
                  to breed strife, I know that your children would hate me as they
                  would a viper, and surely make my life wretched; while your other friends would
                  look down upon me."
               "Must I, then, be beholden to children and friends for the happiness or misery of my whole future
                  life?" said he passionately. "I yielded all once to their solicitations. I married
                  one older than myself, whom I did not love, to please her and them by securing her
                  fortune. Knowing well that she had bought me, body and soul, she was ever inclined
                  to treat me as a slave, until the inheritance of wealth greater than her own made
                  me in her eyes her equal. There could be no happiness in such a union; and, when
                  it was broken by death, I resolved never to form another. It had defrauded my
                  youth of love, the sole creator and diffuser of happiness; and I had grown to be a
                  disbeliever in its existence until I met with you. I had then been a widower for
                  years, and had seen hundreds of beautiful and talented ladies, who might perhaps
                  have been won, without a wish to make them mine. But you took my heart by storm
                  before we had exchanged a word. You were betrothed, and unapproachable to me then;
                  but fate ordained that we should meet again under other circumstances. And our
                  familiar intercourse in Richmond has served to strengthen the bond by which you
                  lead me, until it has brought me here, an humble suppliant for your favor. O
                  Catharine! must my loveless youth, my defrauded manhood, my unbounded love, plead
                  in vain to you for affection and sympathy?"
               Her heart was softened by his eloquent appeal. Lloyd Hunter had deserted her; and
                  she was sure she never would find another who would love her so fondly: so there
                  were tears in her eyes as she said,—
               "I do sympathize with you, Col. Atherton. I am deeply grateful for your
                  preference; and if you were alone in the world, and engaged in what I considered a
                  holier cause, I could almost find it in my heart to respond as you wish. As it is,
                  I do not dream of it. Your family have demands upon you that cannot be silenced or
                  ignored. And more than all, and above all minor considerations, we stand, in a
                  national point of view, in the light of mortal enemies. You are, if I mistake not,
                  a leading conspirator against what I consider our lawful government, and all too
                  soon probably will be in arms against my country and my own kindred. I hear
                  nothing from them of late; but I know their patriotic spirit too well to believe
                  my brothers will hesitate one moment in offering their lives and services to their
                  country. Without doubt, they are already upon the banks of the Potomac, awaiting
                  the terrible onset; and God's curse would fall on me, were I to send a husband in
                  all the panoply of arms against them. So, if there were no other reasons in the
                  universe for declining your suit, Col. Atherton, this alone would compel me to do
                  it."
               "Must, then, my devotion to what I consider a just cause prevent and blast the
                  happiness of my whole future life? Oh! it is a fearful price to pay for a mere
                  difference of opinion."
               "Col. Atherton, if this war goes on, you will have to pay a far greater price than
                  that. For what is one man's happiness or misery to the devastation by fire and
                  sword of all this beautiful land, the bloody sacrifice of thousands of her best
                  and noblest sons, and the utter ruin of numberless happy families? Oh! I beseech
                  you, by all you hold dear on earth, to give up this wild scheme of separation from
                  the Union, to return to your allegiance, and to use your eloquent tongue and
                  noblest powers in persuading others to give up this mad plan of secession."
               "No, Catharine, I cannot do it, even though your love, the most precious treasure
                  of earth, were to repay me; for I have
                  had too much to do with planning and forwarding this grand scheme of secession to
                  retreat from it now ingloriously, without covering my name with infamy and
                  dishonor. I believe with my whole soul that the North and South have such
                  different interests, tastes, and feelings, that they can never live and work
                  together harmoniously. They must separate. And it may as well be now as ever. I
                  have thoroughly studied the principles of human governments. 'I know that
                  republics are but the resource of small communities: they are never adopted by
                  mature nations, who have passed the period of pupilage. We have outgrown that; and
                  are now impatient of a system founded on past necessities.' We of the old noble
                  Cavalier descent, too, are impatient of the domination of the descendants of the
                  old Puritan exiles of New England, who come from a far lower grade in
                  society."
               "Why, then, do you desire to ally yourself with one of their humble descendants?"
                  said Catharine with spirit.
               "Because you have talents of the highest order, and a spirit as soaring and
                  aspiring as my own. You must know that I am a proud, ambitious man, Miss Hale;
                  and, if I judge you aright, you have enough of those feelings to understand mine,
                  when I tell you, that all my hopes and ambitions for the future are centred in
                  this scheme, which is to found one of the grandest empires on the globe. I have
                  already a general's commission offered me; but that is nothing to the positions of
                  honor to which I may attain if our plans succeed. O Catharine! listen for once to
                  the councils of wisdom and prudence. Renounce your cold-hearted Northern people;
                  become my bride, the idol of my heart and home; and I will raise you to a position
                  in which your beauty and talents would command the homage of a nation. And is it
                  not better to share such honors; to have wealth at your disposal for purposes of
                  benevolence; to be able to surround yourself with luxury and splendor; to have
                  every thing that can please the eye and gratify the taste,—than to condemn
                  yourself to a menial station for life, and doom yourself to poverty, toil, and a
                  thousand privations, until death puts an end to your misery?"
               "It may be so, Col. Atherton. And to an ambitious girl, as you rightly judge that
                  I am, the temptations of wealth and a high social position are almost
                  irresistible. And yet, to my mind, there are worse things in the world than
                  poverty, toil, and an humble position in life."
               "What, I would like to know?"
               "The continued upbraidings of a guilty conscience, which would be mine, were I to
                  sacrifice principle, home, friends, and the most sacred national and individual
                  ties, to a vain and paltry ambition; and for that alone to consent, by my example
                  and influence, to fasten upon the necks of millions the yoke of a more enduring
                  bondage. Ah, Col. Atherton, do not try to tempt me further: it can do no good to
                  yourself or me. The prejudices of my Puritan education are too strong to be broken
                  by your fallacious reasoning. And no fear of poverty, toil, or an humble position,
                  shall induce me to renounce principle, and do human nature so foul a wrong."
               "You promised to wed one slaveholder. In what am I worse than he?"
               "There was not then this fearful issue to contemplate,—no empire founded on
                  slavery talked of; and I hoped to ameliorate the condition of two hundred human
                  beings."
               "I have five times that number,—here and in Georgia. Can you not as well do good
                  to them?"
               
               "I am wiser now than I was then, Col. Atherton. I realize more what slaver is, and
                  is to be."
               "What is it to be?" he questioned.
               "A bone of contention between North and South, until a mightier hand than ours
                  sweeps it from the face of the continent."
               "There you are grandly mistaken. I believe it is to increase and prosper, until,
                  like a giant tree, it overshadows the whole country. But here we are at Hunter
                  House; and I have not time to convince, you, as I believe I could, if I had the
                  opportunity, that your positions are false, and that we are in the right. Of that
                  I must convince you before we part, for I cannot give you up SO. If, as you say,
                  you have no personal objections to me, I shall not take this as your final
                  decision. I want you to think of it well before you positively reject one who
                  loves you as his life, and would gladly surround you with every blessing."
               "Col. Atherton, though I respect, esteem, and even like you personally, I believe
                  that every hour at this time but; adds to the weight of my objections."
               "Let us hope not," said he gloomily. "I cannot bear to part with you, Catharine.
                  Oh! if you were my wife I would be the happiest man in the universe. For your sake
                  I could resign the hope of fame, broad lands, or the most precious earthly
                  treasure; but not for your love must I consign the honored name that has come
                  clown through many generations to shame and infamy."
               "If you were ready to do so, I would not accept the sacrifice, Col. Atherton. I
                  can see very plainly that it is better for us both to part as we are; and you will
                  see it hereafter. You will see, that, in wedding a poor Yankee governess, you
                  would have yoked yourself most unequally, in every way, and filled your life with
                  bitter regrets. I have neither wealth nor fame nor power; yet, as a child of the
                  same loving Father, I feel myself your equal. But with the inborn pride,—child of
                  that noble birth of which you boast,—and the prejudices created by a life long
                  training, I know that you would not think me your equal long, even though love may
                  blind you now."
               "Do not believe it. I am no changeling; and I feel that I love you too truly and
                  fervently ever to undervalue you in the least. But we will talk of this further
                  before we part," he said, as he helped her out of the carriage.
               Though it was growing dusk, Walter at this moment discovered, and came running out
                  to meet them. He was delighted to see Catharine and his uncle; but his eyes filled
                  with tears when he told them how very ill he had found his father. He had found no
                  difficulty in getting a man at the dépôt, to bring him home; and he had a warm
                  welcome at the end of his journey.
               Catharine was surrounded, welcomed, and disrobed by the delighted servants, as
                  soon as she entered the house. They were all eager to hear the news, wondering why
                  mistress did not come home, and anxious to tell all the particulars of master's
                  illness.
               The moment he heard of their arrival, Major Hunter sent for them to come to his
                  room. His face was pale and cadaverous, his cheeks hollow, his eyes sunken and
                  glittering, and his form thin and attenuated, as he lay upon the bed, with Uncle
                  Nick's anxious black face bending over him. They saw at once that he was indeed
                  sadly changed, and felt that his days were numbered. He shook Col. Atherton warmly
                  by the hand, and said that he was glad to see him, but drew Catharine down to him,
                  and kissed her tenderly.
               
               "O Catharine!" he exclaimed in a faint, feeble tone, "you don't know how I have
                  longed for your presence, and that of my family; how much I have suffered from
                  pain and loneliness. If you had, I believe you at least would have come to
                  me."
               "I certainly should, my dear friend," she returned. "I came at the earliest
                  possible moment after I knew the truth; though Walter, it seems, got the start of
                  me."
               "Yes: poor boy! he has braved his mother's anger, of which she will repent some
                  day. God bless you for coming! and grant that it may not lead you into danger in
                  these troublous times." Then, turning to the colonel, he said "Well, colonel,—or
                  perhaps I ought to say general,—secession begins to work bravely; don't it?—you
                  will be getting out a patent for the article. You see I am beginning to reap some
                  of its benefits. You will be getting them by and by. Catharine, dear, you look
                  tired and nervous. Pray, go and get you some tea, and then retire to your room,
                  and sleep off your fatigue; while the colonel and I will take ours together here,
                  and have a quiet chat."
               She did as he desired, and, knew little of their eager, exciting interview, except
                  that it exhausted the major's strength, and was thoroughly unsatisfactory to
                  both.
               The colonel left soon after breakfast next morning, but not before he had sought
                  and obtained an interview with Catharine, and used every argument in his power to
                  induce her to retract her decision. But she was still firm in her refusal; and,
                  though not unmoved by his eloquent appeals, felt it impossible to accede to his
                  wishes. She had heard a great deal from the servants since her arrival about the
                  troubled state of the country around the Hunter Hills. Bands of soldiery and
                  guerillas illas were plundering plantations, burning houses, murdering unoffending
                  inhabitants, and committing all sorts of lawless depredations. All this tended to
                  excite her fears, and would have hurried her home, if she could have found it in
                  her heart to leave her helpless old friend, who clung to her like a little child,
                  begging her to stay with him, and whose life she thought was nearly ended. Col.
                  Atherton was sure of this, and thought he might die at any time; so he encouraged
                  Catharine and little Walter to remain with him to soothe his last hours on earth,
                  and smooth his passage to the tomb. He promised to make the boy's peace with his
                  mother; persuade her to come to them, if possible; and, when all, was over, to
                  give Catharine a safe-conduct out of the country. They parted in a friendly
                  manner; for, although his last interview with her had been even more
                  unsatisfactory than the first, he had not yet given up all hope regarding her.
                  Major Hunter had been so ill as to be unable to sit up a moment, worn out by a
                  racking cough, night-sweats, and bloody expectorations; but, cheered by the bright
                  presence, careful nursing, and tender attentions of Catharine and little Walter,
                  he soon began to mend. His cough grew easier; his dangerous a symptoms vanished;
                  his strength and appetite gradually returned; and very soon he was able to sit up,
                  and at last ride out every day. They had saved his life by coming, the doctor
                  said; and there was now a fair prospect of his recovery. What he lived for, when
                  hope had almost ceased, and death would have been a blessing, will be seen
                  presently.
               Col. Atherton wrote to Catharine as any other friend might have done, saying, that
                  he could not persuade Mrs. Hunter to return to her husband; though she was willing that Walter should stay, under
                  Catharine's supervision. He begged her to write, and tell them how the major was;
                  and whether she had concluded to go, or remain with him.
               She replied, that the major was much better, but so very anxious for her stay,
                  that she could not find it in her heart to leave him at present; and that Walter,
                  though lonely, could not be induced to leave his dear father.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               BULL RUN.—THE OVERSEER.
               
                  THINGS had worn a very serious aspect in Virginia for a long time
                  previous to this. The people had thought and talked and argued upon the subject of
                  secession; and, though there were many strong Unionists, there were more who had
                  played a double game,—mystifying both parties, so as to be able to join the
                  strongest by and by.
               Now, however, when large bodies of troops from the more Southern States—the
                  hot-bed of the rebellion—were daily arriving, to bully and overawe all who were
                  unfavorable to their views, these were obliged to show their colors, and act. As
                  the rebellion gained strength, the bitterness and hostility between the opposing
                  parties grew so hot and deadly as almost to surpass belief. Pillage, murder, and
                  every other known crime, was committed without a scruple of conscience. The whole
                  country was in a state of turmoil and contention. Hundreds of escaping slaves, and
                  bands of desperadoes, roving in every direction, made it unsafe to travel without
                  a military escort, or even to remain at home.
               The tocsin of war, and rebellion against the government, very naturally sounded
                  like the trump of freedom in the ears of
                  the poor slaves: it suggested very strongly to them the idea of rebellion against
                  their legal masters. So as soon as hostilities really commenced, and they felt as
                  if there was a friendly arm somewhere to protect them, they began to escape in
                  large numbers. And, even when driven back at the point of the bayonet by some of
                  our misjudging proslavery officers, they continued to brave death in every form to
                  regain freedom,—"that dearest gift of God to man." This, of course, added a
                  thousand-fold to the turmoil, wretchedness, and strife of the people in the border
                  States, and fed the fires of passion, until the whole country was in a blaze, and
                  the white people were ready to pour out their blood to regain what was indeed, in
                  most cases, lost to them forever.
               But time sped on, with quite as hurried a march of events as was ever, known in
                  the world's history. By the last of June, a hundred thousand patriotic Northern
                  men, fired by the insults offered to their national flag at Sumter, were gathered
                  upon the line of the Potomac to protect the Capitol,—that fancied bulwark of
                  freedom. More than a hundred thousand, well-armed and better equipped, with arms
                  surreptitiously obtained from the national armories, faced them upon the opposite
                  shore. Both parties were eager for the contest that was to decide their supremacy;
                  but neither as yet dreamed of the length and breadth and deadliness of the
                  conflict in which they were about to be engaged, or the wonderful events they were
                  preparing to record upon the pages of a world's history.
               Already battles had been fought at Big Bethel, in Missouri, and in Western
                  Virginia, in which our Northern troops were for the most part victorious, when the
                  defeat—nay, total rout—of our army in the advance upon Bull Run cast a shadow upon
                  our national arms, and a pall of deep gloom over the hearts of all who were true
                  and loyal to their country. It is not our purpose to describe that battle, or
                  dwell upon that terrible disappointment of individual and national hope. We will
                  only say, that it was fought within a few short miles of Hunter Hills, where the
                  sulphurous smoke could be distinctly seen, and the thunderous roar could be heard
                  and felt.
               To describe the feelings of Major Hunter, Catharine, and indeed all who listened
                  to those dread and ominous sounds, during those two dreadful days, would be
                  impossible. It seemed as if that sweet July sabbath that dawned so brightly and
                  beautifully over the land, would never, never come to an end. This battle had
                  taken them by surprise. They knew the Confederates were massing their troops at
                  Manassas Junction, but nothing of the advance of our lines, until the murderous
                  roar saluted their ears. Immediately after this battle, more than ever before,
                  small detachments of troops and bands of guerillas, flushed with victory, and
                  lusting for rapine and plunder, began scouring the country in all directions.
               Though more than a mile from either of the great thoroughfares, the plantation had
                  already been visited several times by foraging and patrolling parties, to whose
                  demands Major Hunter had been obliged to yield an unwilling assent. Still he would
                  not believe there was really any danger to be apprehended there from opposing
                  factions of his own countrymen. Catharine wished him to go North with her as soon
                  as he was able to travel, or else back to Richmond.
               
               The first was too dangerous, and was indeed impracticable then, he said; and, as
                  for the last, he never would go back, and force himself into his wife's presence,
                  after she had refused to come to him in his need. No: a man's house was his
                  castle; and be had plenty of arms, and two hundred able defenders, who would fight
                  till their last breath for him. He would stay there, in spite of every thing;
                  yielding on]y his substance because his country, however wrongly, demanded it, and
                  had the power to enforce her demands.
               Catharine, as may well be supposed, was uneasy enough under the circumstances,
                  but, seeing no present mode of escape, tried to content herself, and make the best
                  of it. As it was, she would not have cared so much, had not a new source of
                  annoyance presented itself.
               The old overseer, under whose judicious management the major's affairs had thrived
                  for twenty years, had resigned and gone to the West three years before; and a new
                  one, a Yankee by birth, had taken his place upon the plantation. This man, whose
                  name was Sweep, was at heart a scheming, unprincipled, time-serving rascal, but
                  had contrived thus far to deceive the major by his speciousness. He was heartily
                  disliked by the slaves, but soon subdued them to his will; so that they dared make
                  no complaints to the master. Sweep was there when Catharine entered the family;
                  and as he had none of his own, and frequently took his meals with them, she had a
                  chance to see him almost every day for months. From reasons she could not have
                  explained, she took a dislike to him from the first, though one of her own
                  New-England people, and avoided him when she could. She could not do this as well
                  in the absence of Mrs. Hunter after her return, as he had contrived to make
                  himself very necessary to the major, and was forever around him when he had the
                  opportunity. So she unavoidably saw a great deal of him, and very soon, to her
                  great annoyance, received from him an offer of marriage, which she politely
                  declined. To Catharine and the major, this man professed Union sentiments; but,
                  from some things she had heard whispered among the slaves, she suspected him of
                  underhanded dealings with the Confederates, and of instigating the raids upon the
                  major's property.
               One evening, a few days after the battle, it was very warm; and the family at
                  Hunter House were gathered upon the broad piazza, watching the going down of the
                  sun, and the gathering of the evening shadows over the landscape. They were
                  talking of the details of the battle, and the blighting effects of the war upon
                  the country. The major had been sadder and far more depressed that day than usual.
                  Catharine's music and conversation, and his son's glad voice, seemed to have lost
                  their power to cheer him. And now, as he sat there in his easy-chair, with her on
                  one side of him, and Walter on the other, with one arm thrown lovingly around his
                  father's neck, and the other hand playing with the tassels of his rich velvet
                  dressing-gown, the old man's head was bent down, and rested on his hand; and his
                  whole manner betokened the deepest dejection.
               "Catharine," he said at last, raising his head, "I have loved you, I believe, as
                  well as if you were my own child; and you have done that for me which gold can
                  never repay. Yet I begin to fear I have done you a great wrong in selfishly
                  keeping you here, when you ought to have gone home. Perhaps, too, I was unwise in
                  refusing to go with you and Walter to Richmond. But you know my reasons. Surrounded by so many strong hands and
                  loving hearts, I felt safe, or I would never have asked you to stay, or kept
                  Walter, whom I might have sent back with his uncle. Yes: I felt safe enough here;
                  but, strangely enough, last night, my sense of safety vanished before a dream. I
                  was told that Hunter House was in ruins; that the strong arms upon which I leaned
                  were broken reeds that would pierce my heart, and warned to flee at once from some
                  great danger. Now, I never believed in dreams, and I always considered it a mark
                  of weakness to place the least reliance upon them. Yet this one has affected me
                  singularly; and I cannot get it out of my mind. If it hadn't looked so silly, I
                  don't know but I should have acted upon it to-day by taking you and Walter to
                  Richmond. Perhaps you had better go to-morrow, if you think it; safer there than
                  here; for I would not have you harmed for the world."
               "Oh, do go, papa, and let us all be happy together once more!" said little Walter
                  with a homesick sob.
               "We may live together; but we never can be as happy as of yore, my son. I hope you
                  and Catharine may be, for you are both young, and may live to see the end of these
                  troublous times."
               "And you too, my friend," said Catharine fervently. "May the dark clouds in your
                  political and domestic horizon soon pass over, leaving you to a serene and happy
                  old age!"
               "I do not hope for it; I know but too well that these troubles are long, while my
                  span of life is short. I have been hoping all along for a peaceful solution to our
                  national difficulties; but now that blood has been shed, and victory won, our
                  people will consider themselves invincible. No amount of coaxing can win them
                  back; until rivers of blood have rolled over the land. Our people are rash and
                  impetuous; and political fanatics have been kindling the flames of discord among
                  them for years. But still, if the North had been actuated by a conciliating
                  spirit, and yielded what they might without the sacrifice of one particle of
                  honor, this war would never have been. But, those old, stiff, puritanical
                  principles that actuate your people would not allow them to do this. They knew
                  that slavery was wrong, and that they were in the right; so they would not concede
                  one jot to Southern prejudices; and we must abide by the consequences."
               "If our countrymen had known each other better, known that there were souls as
                  pure and as true, hearts as brave and as tender, and feelings as warm, and kind
                  and sensitive, at the South as at the North, at the East as at the West,—it might
                  never have been," said Catharine with a sigh. "I am sure a more thorough knowledge
                  of each other would have dissipated many of our strongest prejudices."
               "That is true; and yet slavery would have remained a festering sore, a blight and
                  a blot to any nation, and, most of all, to one professing to be free. Yet, if our
                  people had treated their slaves as they ought, there would never have been such a
                  hue and cry about the Fugitive Slave Law, which, first and last, has created more
                  than half the trouble: indeed, there would never have been a Fugitive Slave Law at
                  all. You know how my slaves are treated; and never, until after Sweep came here,
                  has a single one left my service. He means well, and is a grand hand to get a
                  great deal of work out of a gang; but I can see that they do not like him as they
                  did Grover. Now, however, the whole band will be scattered. I have already been obliged to fill a large requisition to
                  work on the defences at Manassas Junction; and I can see that the time is at hand
                  when this land is to be overrun with hostile armies,—the one battling for slavery,
                  the other strong in the cause of freedom; yet both devastating the country, and
                  sounding the trump of freedom in the ears of these very slaves for whose
                  possession the South are fighting so madly. They cannot resist that bugle-call.
                  They will rise against their masters. And if, when that time comes, your people
                  are true to the principles they profess, and improve their opportunities, the bond
                  that holds them will not be worth a straw. I told Atherton so when he was here;
                  but he, like all the rest of the leaders in this rebellion, is thinking more of
                  founding a glorious empire, of which slavery is to be the chief corner-stone, and
                  they the rulers and nobility, than of the interests of humanity, or best good of
                  the nation."
               "Yes: he mentioned some such thing to me."
               "Ah, he avows it then? Atherton is not a bad man by any means; but he is madly
                  ambitious, and as well fitted for a leader in an unjust cause as his daughter was
                  to entice and mislead my apostate son. O my God! that he upon whom I had hoped to
                  lean in my old age, should turn traitor to his country, and that my wife and my
                  other children should be joined to their idols, and leave me to die uncared for
                  and alone! Walter, my youngest-born and dearest child of my old age, sole scion of
                  my house that is left to me, promise me, that, whatever happens, you will ever be
                  true to your God, your whole country, and the noble principles I have taught you;"
                  and he laid his hand tenderly upon his son's head.
               "I swear it," said the noble boy, reverently holding up his hand as he had seen
                  others do.
               "It is enough," said the old man solemnly. "I have felt to-day more than ever
                  before, that my life is almost ended. I shall not live to see the close of this
                  war. But when I go, Walter, I shall now have the satisfaction of knowing that I
                  leave one to bear up the name who will never disgrace his noble lineage. I wish he
                  could go to our dear Lucy and her noble husband, who are true and stanch and
                  loyal; or else home with you, Catharine, for I know you would make of him a good
                  and noble man. But I ought not to ask it; for you have already had trouble enough
                  to wear the bloom from your cheek. God forgive those who have caused it!"
               "Don't speak of it," said Catharine tearfully. "It was all for the best, I am
                  sure. As to our dear little Walter, I would take him if I could;" and she looked
                  tenderly and pityingly into his great, dark, loving eyes.
               "Well, I suppose that is impossible just now. His mother no doubt will claim him;
                  and I believe you must take him to Richmond to-morrow. Though the city is wedded
                  to secession, it must be safer there than here, where lawless bands, belonging to
                  no party but Satan's, are roving in every direction. I fear now we are too
                  isolated here to be safe; so you and Walter had better go. Then, if you still wish
                  to go home, you can call on Atherton for the pass he promised to give you."
               "But you are not going to remain here, alone and in danger?"
               "Yes, Catharine. My wife refused to come to me, even when they thought me dying;
                  so, whatever comes of it, I will not force myself into her presence now. I truly
                  pity and forgive her for what must ever be a weight upon her conscience. I know my darlings,
                  Jennie and Fannie, would have come to me if they had had a choice; and I want you
                  to give them my blessing."
               As she looked and listened, Catharine's heart began to thrill with a strange
                  feeling of dread. The old gentleman seemed quite as well as usual; yet his
                  pathetic words, solemn tones, and deeply-impressive manner seemed so much like
                  those of a dying old patriarch, that she began to feel as if she was in the
                  presence of death.
               "Major Hunter," she said at last, "you have been very, very kind to me; and I
                  cannot think of leaving you in danger and alone. If there is a safer place, you
                  must go to it with us to-morrow. We can go to a hotel, or a friend's house, if you
                  dislike going home."
               "No, Catharine: that would be just publishing our disgrace to the world,—nothing
                  more. But there comes Sweep. I wonder what news he brings to-night."
               The news he did bring was a great many soul-stirring and heart-rending particulars
                  of the late battle; of the terrible rout of the Union army, which was represented
                  four times as large as it really was; of the large number of prisoners and wounded
                  who were being carried by every train to Richmond; of the great strength of the
                  fortifications at Manassas, and the arrival of large re-enforcements from the
                  South; and, finally, that the whole country was full of roving bands, who were
                  stripping and devastating the plantations.
               "It is a horrible state of things," said the major, "but no worse than I have
                  anticipated for months. I have prepared for it as well as I could. Since my return
                  here, sick as I was, I have forwarded, by a trusty hand, most of my money, plate,
                  and most precious papers to Washington, intending to go there myself just as soon
                  as I was able. That is now impossible. But if it should happen, Catharine, that
                  you or any of my family are in want, go or send to my old friend, John Brandon, in
                  Washington; and he has my orders to supply you with whatever funds you need."
               "To Washington! Every thing sent to Washington, and I know nothing about it!"
                  exclaimed the overseer, in a sharp, surprised, interrogative tone.
               "There was no necessity for any one's knowing that my friend Randolph took more
                  away in his trunks than he brought here," said the major coldly.
               "Randolph!" echoed Sweep. "Strange that I never suspected!"
               The major looked at Sweep in surprise and displeasure, if not suspicion, until he
                  adroitly changed the subject. "It is getting late for you to be out, major: hadn't
                  you better retire?" he suggested.
               "Perhaps so; but I would like to wait and see the moon rise: I am not sleepy in
                  the least."
               "But you are still feeble; and it might be dangerous," said Catharine.
               "I know; but the house is stifling. I am too strangely excited and nervous to
                  sleep. I could not be more so were I going up in a balloon—as I wish I were—to the
                  clouds, and above them, where the woes of old Virginia would never afflict me
                  more."
               "Those dreadful details have been too much for you, my friend," said she
                  anxiously, putting her arm around him caressingly. "Pray let Walter and me
                  persuade you to retire."
               "You know you can always coax me, darling; don't you?" said he, smiling, as he
                  rose to his feet. "There, give me a
                  good-night kiss; and may Heaven bless you for all your kindness, my child, and
                  soon restore you to peace and happiness!"
               Catharine kissed him tenderly, receiving as warm a return. Sweep came forward
                  officiously with Nick, his favorite servant; and the major, taking Walter's little
                  hand in his, bade Catharine good-night, and left the piazza.
               For some time she paced back and forth, anxiously musing upon the major's strange
                  manner, and thrilling with horror at the thought of those dreadful battle-scenes.
                  Dreading lest some dear friend of her own was among them, she longed for invisible
                  wings, that she might go at once, and see and succor and save. "Who knows, after
                  all," she mentally murmured, "that my stay here may not be providential? Can I not
                  contrive to see and care for my suffering countrymen in Richmond as I could never
                  have done at home?" While musing thus, she sat down in the major's easy-chair,
                  watching the glimmering beams of the rising moon, and the rapid fading of the
                  lights in the slave-cabins; inhaling the fragrance of the flowers that were
                  blooming all around her; and listening to the croaking of frogs, and the incessant
                  chirp of crickets, katydids, tree-toads, and multitudes of insects. All at once
                  she became conscious that she was not alone.
               "Plaguy fine evening'; ain't it, Miss Catharine," echoed the squeaking,
                  disagreeable voice of the overseer.
               "Yes," she replied rather curtly, hoping to get rid of him.
               "I thought you'd be lonesome out here by yourself."
               "Not at all: I generally enjoy my own thoughts about as well as anybody's."
               "Well, I see you wanted to get the old man an' boy off; but I didn't know but
                  you'd want to talk to somebody."
               "I was about to retire, Mr. Sweep," said she, rising; "so I wish you a pleasant
                  night's rest."
               "Don't be in sich a hurry, Miss Kate. Pray be seated, an' listen to a feller once
                  in yer life. You'll be sorry to the day of your death if you don't hear what I've
                  got to tell ye this night; for, as sure as you live, it's the crisis and
                  turnin'-pint in yer destiny."
               Awed a little by his manner, she dropped again into the seat, and looked up at him
                  inquiringly, though the looks of the man were not encouraging. He was a tall,
                  gaunt, broad-shouldered, yellow-skinned, weazen-faced individual, with a low,
                  narrow forehead, little twinkling gray eyes, a long nose, thin, cadaverous
                  features, sandy hair, and a smirking, deprecating manner. In age he was probably
                  about forty. Catharine inwardly shrank from him, as he came and placed his arm
                  familiarly over the back of her chair.
               "These are terrible ticklish times; ain't they?" he began. "It's my opinion that
                  we Yankees would be a plaguy sight safer t'other side of the Potomac; don't you
                  think so, Miss Catharine? "
               "Of course I do. But to, get there is out of the question just now, as they grant
                  no passes to Northern people."
               "No, tain't out of the question, by ginger! for I can get there 'most any time,
                  for all the rebel pickets, and be as safe as a thief in a mill."
               "Why don't you then, if such is the fact?"
               "Cause I'm waitin' for somebody to get willin' to go with me," he returned with a
                  smirking laugh. "You see, Miss Kate, we
                  never half done that talk we had t'other day; and I wanted to finish up the
                  argyment before I left Old Secesh for good. I forgot to tell ye, strangely enough,
                  how I'd been down South here, one place and another, this dozen year or more, and
                  have got together over twenty thousand dollars, all safe an' sound up in New
                  England, besides four or five thousand more with me here in Virginia. Now it
                  stands to nater that a gal of sense like you would have a feller that's got the
                  rhino a leetle quicker than a poor scalawag who might let her starve. Now, I took
                  a shine to you, Miss Kate, the minit I set eyes on ye; and I felt like wringin'
                  Master Lloyd's neck when I see him shinnin' round ye. He was a rich gentleman; and
                  you wa'n't to blame, in course, for tryin' to du as well as you could. I was
                  darned glad, though, when he quit; and I won't be at all stomachful about it, if
                  you'll only come round, and have me."
               "I have told you already, Mr. Sweep, that I could not do that," said Catharine
                  almost angrily. "So, if there is nothing else"—
               "But there is something else. Now, I happen to know that you ain't at all safe in
                  these diggin's, unless you want to be toted off some dark night by a young
                  Confederate officer I see down to the village inquiring after ye."
               "Who, pray?"
               "Oh! a tall feller, with a handsome face, midnight hair, big black eyes, and a
                  small scar on the left cheek." 
               Catharine was a little startled. The description just fitted Philip Atherton; but
                  she would not show interest enough in the subject to ask if it were he.
               "I guess you know well enough who it was," he continued tinued. "But say, now,
                  hadn't you rayther get spliced to a feller that means honestly by ye than to run
                  the resk of bein' toted off by one of them proud devils? They can talk moonshine
                  by the hour; but they would no more marry a poor Yankee governess, than they would
                  be hanged."
               "Do you mean this for an insult, Mr. Sweep?" said she indignantly. "We are going
                  to Richmond to-morrow, where there are those who will protect us; and I am not
                  afraid of your Confederate officer."
               "To Richmond! Ay! But hadn't you rayther go back with me, now, to old New England,
                  where, with my money and yourn put together, we could cut as big a swell as the
                  best on 'em?"
               "No!" said she decidedly. "You and I, Mr. Sweep, could never become congenial
                  companions."
               "But why? Ain't I good enough for ye?"
               "You may be too good, for aught I know; but our ideas, opinions, ways of thinking,
                  and past associations have been wholly dissimilar; and we never could be mutually
                  happy in each other's society."
               "In what do we differ, I should like to know, except some little notions about
                  niggers?"
               "Well, that is enough, if there were nothing else. A Southern man, with a Southern
                  education and prejudices, inheriting slaves, to many of whom he is strongly
                  attached, has some excuse for retaining and ruling them. But a Northern one, born
                  and reared in the land of the free, and then coming down here to be a slave-driver
                  for the sake of gain, has none at all, in my estimation."
               "So that's' the talk is it? I guess, though, if he was as rich his gold would
                  tempt you jest as quick as Lloyd Hunter's or Philip Atherton's."
               
               "Never! I abhor slavery; and no amount of gold would tempt me now to wed either a
                  slave-owner or a slave-driver."
               "What's a poor Yankee governess better than a rich Yankee slave-driver, I'd like
                  to know? It strikes me that the condescension, if there is any, is all on his
                  side, ma'am." And his thin lips curled with scorn, and his gray eyes glittered and
                  flashed in the bright moonbeams, and his low brow contracted into a dark frown, as
                  he said it.
               Catharine was angry and excited, or she would not have said what she did; and,
                  when she saw his ominous looks, she began to feel as if this fawning, sycophantic
                  man was neither silly nor trifling, and that she was making of him a dangerous
                  enemy.
               "Yes, yes," he continued bitterly: "you were very ready once to wed a slave-owner,
                  but not at slave-driver, forsooth. You had sense enough to see the difference. But
                  what is one better than the other?"
               "Perhaps not any. Both commit the sin for the sake of gain, but it is none the
                  less a sin; and I shall respect myself more to have nothing more to do with
                  it."
               "Or me."
               "Yes, Mr. Sweep. I wish you well, and am sorry for your disappointment, if it is,
                  any; but conscience compels me to decline the honor of your hand."
               "Very well. You may wish it didn't, though: for, mark my words, I am not used to
                  bein' thwarted; and, this is not the end of the matter."
               "It is of no use to carry it further. Good-night, sir," said she coldly, as she
                  rose and entered the mansion. She felt troubled not a little by his covert threats
                  and sinister manner.
               "That man is a villain! I always felt it instinctively. For gold he would sell his
                  own soul, his father's bones, or his sister's honor. Whoever trusts him does it at
                  his peril. How I blush that my own State should suffer the disgrace of rearing so
                  degenerate a son! Thank God! there are few like him," were Catharine's mental
                  comments, as she laid her head on her pillow. But she was too much excited to
                  sleep. The clock struck ten, eleven, twelve; and still she was tossing upon her
                  pillow, or sitting up watching the moonbeams, thinking of all that had transpired,
                  or listening to noises in the major's chamber, which was next to her own. She
                  knew, from various sounds, that he was waking, and two or three times, when she
                  had almost gained the land of dreams, a smothered groan would thrill her nerves
                  like an electric shock; and in an instant she would be sitting up, wide awake
                  again.
               "Any ting de matter, massa?" she would hear Nick say.
               "No, Nick. But speak lower, or you will wake little Walter. Poor fellow! he has
                  sobbed himself to sleep. He's an early student in the school of sorrow," was the
                  reply to such questionings.
               Since his arrival, Walter had insisted on sleeping there: so a bed wag made for
                  him in one corner; while Nick, as usual, slept on his mat near the door. After the
                  clock struck twelve, Catharine, tired out with watching, sunk into a deep
                  slumber.
               From this she was awakened by a dream of horror; and, starting up with a shriek,
                  she found her room brightly illumined, and her bed surrounded, by a band of black,
                  fierce-looking men. Terror froze the wild cry upon her lips; and, though for a
                  moment it seemed but the continuation of
                  the fantasy of her dream, the reality soon enough forced itself upon her startled
                  senses. There was no mistaking those fierce, malignant, blackened faces for any
                  her imagination had conjured up; and she knew very soon that she was in the
                  presence of a band of desperadoes.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE GUERILLAS.—DEATH OF MAJOR HUNTER.
               
                  STAND back, comrades, or you'll scare the gal like thunder!"
                  exclaimed a tall, bony, grizzly-bearded villain, who appeared to be the leader of
                  the band. "And you, miss," he continued, "jest put on your clothes, and pack up
                  your duds, and get ready for a little journey to-night. "
               Catharine did not faint; but she sat there, dumb and stupefied with terror, like
                  one bereft of her senses. Her eyes were wild and distended, her cheek and lips
                  pale as marble; and her shining auburn hair rippled in heavy, tangled curls, over
                  her white shoulders, as she gazed upon the villanous faces around her. Secure in
                  their villany, the men soon began searching for valuables, and at last opened
                  Jenny the slave-girl's door.
               "Halloo, Blondel! here's a likely wench, half-white, and worth six hundred any
                  day," said one of the gang. "There! get up, you black beauty, and help your
                  mistress dress;" and he gave her a kick with the toe of his boot that roused her
                  pretty effectually.
               "Who are you? and what is the meaning of all this?" exclaimed Catharine
                  tremblingly as soon as she could command her voice.
               
               "You'll find out soon enough, I reckon. All you've got to du is to submit, and do
                  as I tell ye."
               "And if I refuse!" she exclaimed with flushed cheek and flashing eyes.
               "This!" and he drew a glittering bowie from its sheath, and flashed it up before
                  her eyes.
               She recoiled instinctively; and her lips grew white with the fear that now
                  assailed her.
               "Is the argyment convincin'?" said the wretch with a loud laugh, in which he was
                  joined by the others.
               "If so, dress yourselves,—you an' that gal,—tie up what things you want in
                  bundles, and march down stairs with this man: for we've other work to do;" and, at
                  a sign from the leader, all left the room but one,—a dark, low-browed villain—the
                  cruelest-looking of the gang. He had previously been rifling trunks, drawers, and
                  closets of the most valuable things, comprising nearly the whole of Catharine's
                  wardrobe and jewelry.
               Seeing there was no way of escape but death, she roused the terrified girl, who
                  was crouching beside her bed, and proceeded tremblingly to do as he required.
                  Luckily she put on her best travelling-dress, which she had taken out the night
                  before, in anticipation of her journey to Richmond; and in the waist of this had
                  been stitched most of her ready money, which, with the watch under her pillow,
                  that she managed to secrete, and a few of her commonest garments, was all she
                  succeeded in saving. The poor girl saved a few articles, the man all the time
                  watching them grimly, and, as soon as they were ready, ordered them to march.
               Just as they emerged into the upper hall, they were met by a volley of oaths, and
                  angry voices: the major's door was burst open; and the white-haired old man,
                  undressed as they found him, and madly struggling with his captors, was dragged
                  out and down the staircase.
               He was followed by Nick, and poor little shrieking half-naked Walter, who was
                  striking right and left with his puny fists, yet pleading in piteous tones for
                  mercy.
               "Stop yer bawlin', or I'll give yer a settler, you young lion's whelp!" exclaimed
                  Blondel fiercely. "I'll teach ye what it costs to despise and tyrannize over us
                  poor white folks, Mister Major."
               "We have never wronged you, sir, in word or deed, that I know of; and why do you
                  outrage us in this way?" said the poor old major tremulously.
               "Aha! you never wronged me,—did ye? and, through me, my whole class!
                  As if I didn't get an honest livin' tradin' with the niggers, till you come to the
                  estate, an' broke it all up by your tarnal Yankee inventions."
               "So—so—you are Blondel; are you? I thought you were in"—
               "States prison,—out with it. No thanks to you, I wa'n't in for life. Wonderful
                  'fraid you was of havin' yer nigs cheated, and encouraged to steal, and trade for
                  knick-knacks an' whiskey: so you must furnish 'em every thing to home, an' spite
                  my trade, an' blege me to rob housen to get a livin'; an', instead of whippin' on
                  'em, as they desarved, payin' the devilish nigs premiums for their smartness an'
                  sassiness: an' preachin' an' prayin' till ye shamed all the planters round. But
                  we'll teach ye what it costs to fly in the face of the good old fashions, and
                  honester men than you. We'll larn ye Yankee reforms with a vengeance. So come
                  along, you old rebel!"
               "My God! what are you going to do with me? Hallo, Sweep! Nick! Jerry! Tom! Dinah!—where are you all?"
                  shrieked the wretched old man, struggling at every step, and clutching at the
                  balusters in frantic eagerness.
               "Here, here, massa! We'd help ye if we could!" shouted Nick, as he pressed forward
                  eagerly. But his efforts were cut short by a dozen eager hands clasping his
                  struggling limbs, and, in spite of all his efforts, pitching him down stairs, over
                  the head of his unfortunate master, and landing him, stunned and apparently
                  lifeless, upon the marble floor of the hall.
               Catharine and the slave-girl, with their escort, waited until the way was cleared,
                  and then descended. Notwithstanding their terror, the sight that met their gaze as
                  they emerged from the house filled them with curiosity and wonder.
               In front of the mansion a large fire was burning, that cast ruddy gleams upon the
                  windows, the lofty trees that shadowed it, and the weird figures of some thirty or
                  forty villanous-looking men who surrounded it; while drawn up on the spacious lawn
                  before the door were some half-dozen of the major's best mule-teams, already
                  loaded with valuable plunder. Upon the tops of these teams, as drivers, were
                  seated some of the smartest negroes belonging to the plantation. Beside each wagon
                  sat an outlaw upon one of the major's best horses, revolver in hand, ready to fire
                  upon the least symptom of disobedience. At a little distance the poor old major
                  was bound to a tree, with a halter around his neck; while poor little Walter was
                  clasping his knees, and sobbing piteously.
               "All ready?" shouted the leader to the guards beside the teams.
               "Ay, ay, sir!" was the ready response.
               "Move on, than, as if the Devil was arter ye, as I s'pose he is; and don't let the
                  grass grow under yer hosses' feet. Turn off from the road where I bade ye, and be
                  sure you're out of the way of pursuers when we have the illumination by and
                  by."
               The teams moved off at a rapid pace, amid the cheers of the motley crew just as
                  Sweep, followed by Dinah, Lulu, Dell, and the rest of the house-servants, rushed
                  out wildly from the mansion.
               "Good God! What is the meaning of all this?" he exclaimed.
               "That's a good one! I guess you know about as well as anybody, you long-legged
                  Yankee snipe!" said the leader with a shout of laughter.
               "What should I know, pray,—just roused from sleep as I am by your hellish noises?"
                  and he rubbed his eyes vigorously,, as if to prove his assertion.
               "Jest hear him, you old skeleton," echoed Blondel. "He wants to make b'lieve he's
                  innocent as a lamb. But you'll find out, the minit you get to t'other world,
                  you've been harborin' a jackal. Tell old Beelzebub he's comin' fast as time can
                  carry him."
               "Good heavens! You here, major, and in that condition? And you too, Miss Kate?"
                  turning to her, pretending not to hear what Blondel said. "Wretches! what are you
                  about to do to that white-haired old man? Unbind him instantly! Here, Tom, Nick,
                  Harry, run to the quarters,—rouse the niggers and dogs. We'll see who is master
                  here!" he eagerly exclaimed, as he opened his jackknife, and ran towards the major
                  as if to release him. But a hand was laid on his arm, in which a knife glittered,
                  and a voice hissed in his ear,—
               "Look out, or you'll go too far, you lyin' scoundrel. We come to du our part of the work, jest as we 'greed;
                  but you ain't done your'n. You've hid the gold an' silver, an' then come out to us
                  with a lie in yer mouth, pretendin' 'twas all sent off to Washinton. Then you
                  dodge back inter the house to cut up some prank, an' come out with a mouthful of
                  lies to deceive an' cheat the poor old fool who's harbored an' b'lieved in ye so
                  long. But I don't b'lieve in one lie more than in t'other; and if you don't bring
                  forrard the proofs, man, you, tu, shall swing at the end of a rope."
               The overseer turned pale as death. Once or twice he opened his lips to speak to
                  prevent Blondel from exposing him, but could utter no sound. For the first time he
                  began to realize that he had been playing with edged tools to work out his
                  dishonest purposes, that were now to be turned against himself, and that his
                  hypocrisy would avail him nothing. "I did tell ye the truth," he said at last
                  tremblingly; "and you solemnly promised not to have me known in the affair. You
                  ain't done as you agreed."
               "I should, if the gold had been forthcoming; and I'd divided it fair. You might
                  lied yourself out of it as much as you pleased. Bring that forrard, an' I still
                  hold to my side of the bargain. If not, the gals and nigs are our'n, with all the
                  plunder; the house burns, an' you swing at the little end of nothin'."
               "I can't bring it forrard: I ain't got it!" screamed the frightened wretch, with
                  his teeth chattering with terror. "I didn't know as it was gone till to-night: the
                  major and Miss Kate will tell ye so tu."
               "Is that true?" said Blondel, turning to the major. He received no reply; for the
                  wretched old man, overcome with weakness and terror, had fainted, with his head
                  fallen forward upon his bosom.
               "He's got a fit, captin!" exclaimed one of the merciless crew.
               "No, no: he's on'y shammin'. Jest give him the licks, Blondel; and you'll bring
                  him to his senses," echoed another.
               "Well thought of, Cooper. Pass along the cat, Ring: we'll wake up the old
                  scoundrel."
               Poor little Walter heard the cruel words as he lay there upon the ground sobbing;
                  and, rising with a wild shriek, he encircled his dear old father with his feeble
                  arms.
               "Aha, my fine young game-cock! You've got too much flash in your eye to stan'
                  there an' take the licks when ye begin to feel 'em. But ye can du as ye like about
                  it."
               The blow that descended upon the poor child's bare and defenseless shoulders also
                  drew blood and groans from the wretched father. But the barbarian was right: there
                  was too much flash in the boy's eye, and spirit in his soul, to bear such
                  indignity unavenged. Springing with the agility of a squirrel and the fierceness
                  of a young lion, with his face aflame and his eyes flashing, he caught a knife
                  from the villain's belt, and would have sheathed it in his heart, had he not seen
                  and caught the blow with his left hand.
               "So, so, you little devil! You have got the snap in ye; ain't ye?", he exclaimed
                  with a frightful oath. "Here, some on ye bind up this ugly cut with my
                  han'kercher, and hold this young tiger-cub till I can finish that business. I'd
                  whip the devil out of him, tu, if I had the time."
               When all was ready, the villain again took the cat, and was preparing to strike,
                  when the wretched and writhing old man began in piteous tones pleading for
                  mercy.
               
               "What is it you want?" he groaned. "Take all I have, but do not, I entreat of you,
                  treat me with such indignity."
               "Did you never have a white man or a nigger treated so, you old tyrant? I mean you
                  shall feel what I have felt more than once, through your means, before I swing you
                  off. But tell me, first, what has become of your plate, jewels, and money."
               "If I am to die, you shall never know from my lips," said the major firmly.
               "For God's sake, du tell, major, or they'll kill me tu," snivelled Sweep in
                  pleading tones. "They won't b'lieve me; and it's tu bad to have to
                  die for other folks' duin's."
               "Hannibal Sweep, do you deserve to live? My senses deceive me, or you have been
                  plotting to betray me, and all I have, to those bloodthirsty
                  men."
               "No, no, major: I never meant to betray you. It all comes from a little
                  misunderstandin'. So pray du tell 'em what they want to know."
               "And I say, yes!" echoed Blondel. "True, he didn't bargain for my
                  private vengeance; but he did for the plunder and the nigs and the gal, if she
                  scorned him. And he it was who shut up the mouths of yer yelpin' curs, dosed all
                  yer nigs with drugged whiskey,—on'y them we wanted,—left all yer doors ajar, stole
                  yer gold an' silver, an' then came out with a lie in his mouth,—for which he, tu,
                  has got to swing. Here, fix a rope round his neck, boys, an' tie him to that tree
                  for a preparatory lecture; for, as sure as fate, we'll send a pair of the pretty
                  birds to glory."
               "Help! help! murder!" screamed the frightened wretch, struggling madly with his
                  captors as they proceeded ceeded to fix the fatal noose. "Oh, I can't die! I ain't
                  fit to die! Major Hunter! Miss Kate! O Miss Catharine! for God's sake, pity and
                  save me!" he shrieked.
               Little reason as she had to pity and save, Catharine could not resist this wild
                  appeal. So, stepping forward, trembling in every limb, she exclaimed, "It is the
                  truth he tells; and this very night I heard it from the major's own lips."
               "Yes, yes," echoed the major at length. "The rascal deserves no mercy at my hands;
                  but let him live—to repent. I did send all my treasures to Washington to save them
                  from such rapacious wretches as you. But spare us all, and you shall have the
                  whole of them."
               "And be cheated of my vengeance! No, no: that is dearer than gold to me. You can
                  have all the plunder, boys. My part shall be a sweet revenge. Now, some of you go
                  and set fire to that old rookery; while you, Cooper, give that snivelling scamp a
                  dozen for his knavishness, and then untie, and kick him out of my presence."
               In spite of Sweep's shrieks, both orders were instantly obeyed.
               "And now," he said, turning back to Major Hunter, "prepare to take what you have
                  deserved this many a year!" and, drawing the sharp, cutting thongs of rawhide
                  through his fingers, he glared upon his doomed victim with the ferocity of a
                  fiend.
               Brave as a lion in battle in his younger days, and ready, even now, to fight till
                  his last breath, if his hands were free, the poor old man's heart sunk within him
                  at the thought of such an ignominious end.
               "Oh! is there nothing I can say or do to prevent this horrible outrage?" he
                  groaned.
               
               "Aha!" laughed the villain. "An outrage, is it, upon your boasted chivalry! An
                  outrage upon your rich aristocracy! But none at all upon me, a man as white as
                  yourself, who was whipped within an inch of my life through your means, and then
                  sent to the chains and stripes and ignominy of the State's prison!" and, with a
                  face fairly fiendish with evil passions, he raised his vengeful arm; and the blows
                  descended until Catharine, forgetful of her own danger, rushed frantically forward
                  in a vain attempt to save the major's life. There was a flash, a loud report, and
                  a rifle-ball whizzed through her bonnet and raised left hand, cutting the veins
                  upon her temple, and stunning her so that she fell forward to the earth nearly
                  senseless.
               "What did you do that for, Sharpe?" exclaimed Blondel, turning to him fiercely.
                  "The gal's mine."
               "I jest obeyed orders, that's all."
               "Ah! I remember. Take her away, some on ye;" and again the blows descended.
               But we sicken of the horrible details of a scene that was but one out of hundreds
                  that were being enacted through the South at that; time. We will only say in
                  conclusion, that, when the poor old man was insensible to pain and indignity, he
                  was strung up by the neck until life was ended; and that poor Walter screamed and
                  struggled and implored until he wore out the patience of his keeper, who then
                  struck him down senseless with a heavy club, and left him, supposing him dead.
                  Catharine, meantime, dragged out from under foot, revived, and, her wounds bound
                  up by the pitying slaves, was standing at a little distance, trying to avert her
                  horrified gaze, and shut out the awful sights and sounds from her keenly-aroused
                  senses. Every groan, and every stroke of the whip, cut to her heart like a knife,
                  until she was glad when the poor victim's sufferings were over. By this time a
                  cloud of dark, frightened faces began to gather upon the outskirts of the scene,
                  roused by the thunderous din: but the true hearts and strong arms upon which the
                  master had relied were palsied and stupefied with drugged liquor; while many of
                  their comrades were still dead-drunk the cabins. The overseer had indeed done his
                  work well, much better, in fact than he anticipated. Knowing there were some
                  disaffected spirits in the slave-gang, he had for some time been tampering with
                  them, and promising them freedom; so they proved willing tools in his hands to
                  work out his own dishonest purposes. But, though Sweep was villain enough to plan,
                  assist, and share in this raid and robbery of the major's property, he had never
                  dreamed of their burning his buildings, outraging his person, or taking his life.
                  He had thought to share a large sum for the night's work, get Catharine into his
                  power, if she otherwise refused him, and still retain his place at a large salary,
                  until such time as he could make off in safety with his plunder. As to Catharine's
                  destiny, he had not yet fully decided. For, accustomed all his life to rate every
                  thing at a money value, her refusal, after hearing of his wealth, had so surprised
                  and angered him, that a desire for revenge now ruled him quite as much as any
                  fancy he had ever felt for her. But, in thinking and doing all this, he had
                  wrought a just retribution on himself. For all his papers, clothing, and money—the
                  hoarded gains of the past three years—were in the burning dwelling. The feelings
                  of such a man may be imagined, as he looked back, smarting with pain, and burning with anger and shame, after
                  gaining a secure hiding-place. To see the flames beginning to pour from the lower
                  windows, and know that his gold, more than half of which had been surreptitiously
                  obtained, was to be sacrificed to his dishonest rapacity, was more than his
                  avaricious nature could bear. Gold was the idol of his worship: he could not
                  endure the thought of losing it; so, in spite of the double danger, he resolved to
                  make one effort to secure it. The band of outlaws were in front of the house, busy
                  with their nefarious work; while he had got round in the rear of the long line of
                  slave-cabins at the left. By crossing the large orchard and kitchen-garden, he
                  thought he could gain the rear entrance unperceived. There seemed to be no fire
                  there as yet; so he thought he could go up the back staircase to his room, and
                  regain his treasure with little danger. All this he stealthily accomplished to his
                  perfect satisfaction. He gained his room, secured his valuables, and was upon the
                  landing with his best suit thrown over his arm, when, to his horror, his egress
                  was cut off by an unexpected obstacle.
               But sly and stealthy as had been his approach, it had not been wholly unperceived;
                  for Uncle Nick, the major's valet, though stunned, was not killed by his fall over
                  the balusters, but subsequently revived, and crawled out, bruised and bleeding, to
                  be a vengeful witness of deeds that set his blood aflame with the fires of
                  vengeance. His clear intellect at once comprehended the facts. He knew, from what
                  he had gathered from the slaves as well as their dying master, that they had been
                  betrayed by the wily overseer, whom they all hated. Nick would almost have laid
                  down his life for his master; but what could he and the few sober slaves do,
                  unarmed, against thirty or forty bloodthirsty desperadoes armed to the teeth? As
                  he could not look on coolly and see his master and darling little Walter murdered,
                  he crawled off to the slave-cabins, roused a few old men and women, and armed them
                  with clubs and pitchforks. They were just coming up to the rear of the house,
                  undecided as to what they could do, when they saw Sweep stealthily enter it.
               "Dere, dere he go, de ole Satan dat make all de mischief!" he exclaimed. "He goin'
                  to get de gold an' tings: dat's what he arter. Now, boys, we got 'im in a trap,"
                  he whispered in clear, sharp tones. "You gals sly in, an' brung out all ye can o'
                  mistress's tings, dat de rogues dun left to burn up; while we boys fetch de
                  fagits, an' smoke out de ole coon."
               The order was instantly obeyed: those who dared rushed in, and, in defiance of the
                  stifling smoke, saved a great many useful articles of furniture; while Nick and
                  the men seized great bundles of fagots and shavings, piled them in the stairway,
                  and, when they thought Sweep was about to descend, with burning brands set fire to
                  them in a dozen places. Dry as tinder, the fire caught them with devouring fury,
                  and roared up the narrow staircase in a fierce column of seething flame, instantly
                  cutting off all egress in that direction.
               Met by the stifling smoke and roaring flames, Sweep knew at once that he had
                  enemies in the rear as well as in front of him. But, knowing that the one within
                  was more to be dreaded than either, he rushed back through the upper hall,
                  breathless, gasping, and despairing, to find the magnificent front staircase one
                  mass of smouldering ruins, into which, blinded by the smoke and stifling heat, he
                  came very near plunging headlong. He
                  knew there was but one other mode of egress; so, rushing back to his room, with
                  his hat gone, his hair singed off, his clothes smouldering, he opened a window,
                  and looked down upon the depths below. It was the end of the building, and no one
                  was there. There was no alternative but to leap from the window with a bare
                  possibility of escape, or to meet sure and certain death by the flames. Fanned by
                  the draught from the window, the fire was fast approaching: yet, cautious to the
                  last, he waited to tear his bedclothes into strips, tie them together and to the
                  bed-post; and then, with his frail rope, he attempted to descend.
               But alas for the miserable man! just as he got cleverly out of the window, and was
                  hanging by the sill, the outlaws discovered him. For having finished their work of
                  destruction, and fearing the light of the fire would bring some government
                  patrolling party upon them, they hunted up Catharine, and a few of the
                  best-looking female slaves, placed them in a baggage-wagon that was in waiting,
                  got in themselves, or mounted their horses, and were driving swiftly away. But
                  Blondel, the leader of the gang, who sat on the back seat beside Catharine,
                  happening to look back, discovered poor Sweep just in the act of descending.
               "Aha, Cooper, stop a minute! Just look there!" he exclaimed. "I'll bet you a
                  hundred dollars that it's that scoundrelly overseer. He couldn't quit with a whole
                  skin, but went back after the plunder. By Jove! I'll give him one parting salute;"
                  and, raising his rifle at a venture, just over Catharine's head, he fired.
               The mules jumped and ran, coming very near upsetting the wagon; while Blondel
                  dropped into his seat with a loud laugh, exclaiming, "There, if that don't finish
                  him, the cuss is hard to kill."
               Catharine, meantime, had made one attempt to escape since she fully recovered
                  consciousness, but was discovered, brought back, and a guard set over her by
                  Blondel, until he finished his fiendish work; and then, forced into the wagon at
                  the point of the knife, with the poor unresisting slave-girls, she felt as if it
                  were in vain to try to escape, even though her hands, in consideration of her
                  wounds, unlike the others, were tied in front instead of behind her. This was some
                  relief; but the thongs cut into her tender flesh, as it swelled rapidly; and her
                  wounds pained her very severely.
               The road that crossed the great Hunter plantation was not a public one; but it
                  intersected the great Northern pike a mile or more from the mansion. This it was
                  necessary for the outlaws to reach, and follow for a while, before dispersing into
                  the by-paths that led to their mountain rendezvous. Some had come on horseback,
                  and some on foot; but all were now well mounted upon the major's fine stud. Elated
                  by the generous liquors they had found in the cellar, and by the success of their
                  enterprise, they cantered off with buffaloes and blankets for saddles, and in the
                  highest possible spirits. It was after four o'clock in the morning as they
                  debouched upon the main thoroughfare. A beautiful summer day was dawning in the
                  east. The birds were singing in the tree-tops, and the flowers were blooming all
                  around them, filling the pure morning air with sweet perfumes; while every thing
                  in nature looked as lovely as if no deeds of horror were ever enacted; yet afar
                  upon the hill-top the flames still towered up grandly to the sky, tingeing the
                  passing clouds with ruddy and golden tints, and gloriously lighting up the
                  magnificent landscape.
               
               "Now, boys, ride for your lives!" exclaimed Blondel, as they emerged from the fine
                  arched gateway.
               "We are two hours later than we ought to be upon this piece of road: we shall be
                  safer from the patrols if we separate. You, Cooper and Baker, Hines and McCaffrey,
                  stay with me to guard the prisoners; and the rest on ye ride like the deuce."
               The order was instantly obeyed; and very soon a great cloud of dust was all that
                  could be seen of the party of horsemen. The guards fell back behind the heavy
                  mule-wagon, in which were seated the four captives, with the driver and Blondel,
                  both heavily armed and keenly watchful.
               As soon as it was light enough, Catharine knew that Blondel, who was an
                  ugly-looking, grizzly, low-browed villain, was closely scanning her looks and
                  appearance. She shrank instinctively from the peculiarly repulsive and snaky
                  glitter of his eyes, as she met them furtively, and shivered with dread, as he
                  turned and said to the driver, "That rascally overseer had devilish good taste;
                  hadn't he? It won't hurt my conscience a bit to stop inter his shews. What say ye,
                  gal?" and he turned to Catharine: "hadn't you ruther clean my cabin, cook my grub,
                  and dance to my music, than du the like for that lyin' rascal, Sweep?"
               A shudder and repressed sob were his only reply.
               "You see," he continued quite confidentially, "that my old woman scattered the
                  young ones, and went off with another feller, while I was up there to work for Old
                  Virginia; and somehow it's never come handy to get another. Now, by Jupiter! one's
                  come right inter my hands that I like the looks on;" and he gave her a sly wink of
                  his wicked gray eye. "You sha'n't be sorry for't, nuther. I'll dress you up as
                  fine as a peacock. Come, what du you say? Will it suit ye?" and he put his brawny
                  arm around her very lovingly.
               A shudder of horror and repulsion shook her; but she was saved the trouble of
                  angering him by a reply; for at that moment the sharp click of steel-clad hoofs,
                  and the sound of voices in the distance, struck upon the ears of the guard; and
                  "The patrols! The patrols! a host of them!" was echoed from every lip.
               "The devil they are!" exclaimed Blondel. "But where are all our men?"
               "Don't you see? They've got safe round the turn, with the woods in their
                  rear."
               "Thank fortin for that! But how in hell are we to get out of sight? It can't be
                  did; so we've got to face the music. Here, you wimin! you're my runaway slaves,
                  you remember. An' if you say one word agin it, I put this knife through your
                  hearts;" and he flourished the glittering weapon up before their terrified
                  eyes.
               "Now, boys, keep behind; and, if you, can't du any better, you're goin up to camp
                  to enlist. But mind, and all tell the same story. In any case, we don't belong to
                  the same gang."
               "By thunder! I'll not resk it," exclaimed Cooper. "You forget that we're all as
                  black as the ace of spades, and no chance to wash it off. We must take to the
                  woods; and let you who's not mounted du the best you can." And, suiting the action
                  to the word, he leaped the low fence that skirted the road, followed by his
                  companions; and they were soon lost to sight in the woods.
               After a moment's hesitation, Blondel took up the skirt of his dingy coat, and,
                  holding down his face, gave it a a thorough scrubbing; polishing off by a dirty
                     handkerchief chief wet from his
                  brandy-flask, until it resembled a huge pickled beet. His hasty toilet was
                  completed not a minute too soon.
               "Now, hurry up, Hoffman," he said, "and show 'em we ain't afraid to meet 'em. And
                  remember, you're my nigger-driver, and must swear to the truth of every word I
                  say."
               "Ay, ay, captin: I understand; and it's neck or nothing this time, I'll be bound
                  to say. But you know I'm up to all the dodges; and we'll get off if we possibly
                  can."
               The words were hardly out of his mouth before they met the advance-guard of the
                  on-coming train. They proved to be an officer's guard in front, followed by their
                  superiors, with a long train of baggage and foraging wagons in the rear.
               "Hallo, there! Halt! Who are you?" was the polite salutation.
               "Peaceable citizens, taking home a gang of runaway slaves," returned Blondel, in a
                  brusk, assured tone. "Turn out there Jake, and let the troops go by."
               "So, so! But what ails that one beside you with the white skin, and the bloody rag
                  round her head?"
               "Brought her down with a crack of the bull-dogs, jest as she was makin' off: she's
                  the sassiest of the whole lot, as white wenches always be."
               Catharine's heart beat as if it would burst her bodice. Must she sit there
                  passive, and see her last chance for escape go by? She raised her eyes and bloody,
                  manacled hands, and impulsively opened her lips to speak. But a warning gesture
                  and glance from the blazing eyes of Blondel, who was nervously playing with the
                  hilt of his bowie, froze the half-formed words upon her lips, and prevented their
                  utterance.
               "Drive on now, Jake," he said,—"a little furder to the right. The troop can go by
                  now, if they want tu."
               "No: halt! What's the meaning of that fire off there upon the hills yonder?"
               "Dunno. We've bin watchin' on't this long time, and spect it's some house burnin'.
                  We see a gang of fellers come from that way, and go off there into the woods, that
                  we reckoned might know somethin' 'bout it;" and he pointed in the direction his
                  troop had not taken to divert pursuit.
               "What do you think of the old chap's story?" said the sergeant, turning to the
                  officers. "Shall we let him pass on?"
               "It may all be true, but I have my doubts," said a voice that made Catharine
                  start. "That is certainly Hunter House burning off there upon the hills; and these
                  may be some of the Hunter slaves they're running off in the melee."
               The officers and guard now drew up beside the road, a little way in front of
                  Blondel; and the baggage and foraging wagons passed on.
               Blondel uttered a frightful oath below his breath. "Don't you see we're in a trap,
                  Hoffman?" he whispered. "How I long to put this knife through that rascal's
                  heart!"
               "Yes, yes: but play spooney as long as you can. It's our only chance."
               The officers now rode up beside the wagon, when Blondel cunningly leaned forward,
                  and spread himself all he could, to shield Catharine from their observation. But
                  this movement, as it proved, defeated itself, as, in doing so, he partially turned
                  his back to her.
               Quick as thought, she raised her manacled hands, removed moved her torn and bloody veil, and pushed the
                  bandage up from her eyes, resolving to dare death now, rather than lose this
                  opportunity for escape: for it was Col. Atherton's voice she had heard; and,
                  though he was not the one she would have chosen for a protector, she felt as if he
                  would not see her wronged.
               "So you have runaway slaves; have you, my man?" said the colonel in his quick,
                  decided way. "Where did you take them, sir?"
               "Oh! down here, thirty, miles or so. A friend of mine knew and nabbed 'em, and
                  sent me word."
               "And where do you belong, sir?"
               Oh! up here a piece,—a few miles above."
               "Up above and down below: that's definite, at any rate. But is it the truth,
                  girl?" he said to the one nearest him. She answered only by a sob, so strong was
                  the fear of the glittering knife at her back.
               "Why d'ye ask her, yer honor? You know they'll all lie sooner than speak the
                  truth. Pray let us drive on: it's gettin' hot, and we've a long road to
                  travel."
               "Well, your gang seems to have gone the wrong way for runaways: they generally go
                  due north."
               "The fools got their heads turned, that's all," said Blondel with a laugh; in
                  which he was joined by Hoffman.
               "Any way, we have no more time for parley," said Col. Atherton anxiously; "for I
                  am bound to know the meaning of that fire up yonder. I have friends at Hunter
                  House I would not see harmed for worlds. I designed calling on my return; but, as
                  it is, I think I will do so now. You may pass on, sir."
               Catharine's heart sunk like lead in her bosom: her face grew pale as marble, at
                  the thought of death or the far worse fate that wretch had in store for her; but
                  she made her choice. Rising noiselessly to her left, she looked up at Col.
                  Atherton, then down at Blondel; shook her head ominously, and then sank back into
                  her seat again without his knowing she had risen at all.
               The effect was electrical. Had an apparition appeared before the eyes of the
                  officers, they could not have been more startled or surprised. For Catharine's
                  manacled and bloody hands raised in mute supplication, her wild, imploring eyes,
                  her bandaged head, and pallid yet beautiful face, down which the blood was
                  trickling, touched every chord of human sympathy in their bosoms.
               In spite of her horrid appearance, and the blood and dirt, and disorder of her
                  apparel, Col. Atherton knew her at once. Whispering an order to an attendant, he
                  dashed round upon the opposite side of the wagon, and exclaimed, as he tenderly
                  took her wounded hands in his,—
               "My God, Catharine! what is the meaning of this?"
               "This!" echoed Blondel fierce]y as he pointed and attempted to fire his revolver
                  at Col. Atherton. But his arm was knocked up just in time by Major Mulford; the
                  piece was discharged in the air; the dancing mules were caught by the bits by firm
                  hands; and five minutes later Blondel and his accomplice lay swearing and writhing
                  upon the ground, bound with the very thongs taken from the hands of their
                  captives. The revulsion of feeling was so great that Catharine came very near
                  fainting. When sufficiently recovered, she explained the whole affair to the
                  officers, who were very ready to return with her to the plantation. The awful
                  scene that there presented itself too well attested her story. The body of the
                  poor old major had already been cut down by the faithful slaves, who had tried in vain to resuscitate it. They were
                  now gathered around it, weeping and wailing, and uttering long, mournful howls of
                  lamentation for the dear master who had always been kind to them, with threats of
                  vengeance against his murderers. As yet, they seemed wholly indifferent to either
                  a prospect of freedom or change of masters.
               The shell of the grand old mansion was still standing, for it was of solid stone
                  of great thickness; but the inside work, which was mostly of wood, was a mass of
                  glowing coals, and burning beams, and brands, with the lurid flames still towering
                  up fitfully towards the sky.
               Poor little Walter, for whom they first inquired, was found in the nearest
                  slave-cabin, still insensible and sorely wounded, yet tenderly cared for by the
                  kind slave-mothers of the plantation. Sweep, who was wounded through the cheek by
                  Blondel's shot, and had fallen upon the hard paving-stones below, still lay near
                  the burning dwelling, where he had succeeded in crawling with his last remaining
                  strength. He was out of danger, except from flying sparks, and possibly falling
                  walls, yet stifling with the heat, parched with thirst, and apparently in a dying
                  condition. He appeared to have no bones broken, which was a wonder, and had
                  evidently bound up his wound as well as he could with his handkerchief before.
                  relapsing into insensibility.
               Catharine's heart ached for both the dead and dying, the deserving and the
                  undeserving: and at her desire Sweep was removed to one of the out-houses that was
                  spared, where it was cooler; and there, with her own hands, she poured water into
                  his parched mouth until he partially revived, and looked gratefully up to her.
               "Why do you do that? The wretch is unfit to live," said Col. Atherton, after
                  watching her proceedings a few moments.
               "He is unfit to die, Col. Atherton," she replied: "let him live to repent, atone,
                  and prepare for death, if he can. If he dies, may God have mercy on his soul!"
               By this time Mr. Garland and some of the nearer neighbors had arrived upon the
                  scene; and it was judged best by all to place the remains of Major Hunter in the
                  family vault near by, where the Hunters had reposed for several generations, and
                  dispense with all unnecessary funeral ceremonies. While the preparations were in
                  progress, the officers dashed off upon the business they had in hand, but returned
                  in time for the burial which was conducted by the parish clergyman with unusual
                  solemnity. This unseemly haste was judged necessary, because otherwise Col.
                  Atherton could not be present; and it was very doubtful whether his wife would
                  come with her other children, if sent for. It was also very warm. Doctors could
                  not be obtained short of the camp or in Richmond, and hardly there, so many
                  wounded and dying needed attention. Walter's and Catharine's wounds required
                  immediate care, which it was thought they could get in the camp sooner than
                  anywhere else. But many poor wounded Union soldiers still lay in the barracks, and
                  even on the field of battle, untended, uncared for, and dying a thousand deaths in
                  one; while the birds of prey and more hideous robbers of the dead, pursued their
                  hellish worry, unmindful of their piteous prayers for help or their dying
                  agonies.
               Catharine would have preferred to go back to Richmond; but as it was thought best
                  to take little Walter to the camp, which was much nearer, she could not find it in
                  her heart to desert him under the circumstances.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               GOING TO CAMP.—THE BROTHER'S DANGER.
               
                  THE carriage-house and stables had miraculously escaped the
                  conflagration; though all the good horses were gone: so, in the old, discarded
                  family carriage, with a span of old spavined team-horses, Uncle Nick for driver,
                  and Aunt Dinah for attendant, Catharine and poor little Walter made the journey to
                  head-quarters. It was a ride of sixteen miles, and they were obliged to go very
                  slowly: so it was dark long before their arrival.
               Sending some of the officers forward, the colonel patiently attended them the
                  whole distance, striving by his presence and words of encouragement to beguile the
                  journey of its tediousness and anxieties, and assuring them of safety from the
                  outlaws by the armed guard by which he was attended.
               Worn out by excitement, fatigue, and the pain of her wounds, Catharine's head
                  ached so she could scarcely see before her arrival; so she was obliged to resign
                  the care of little Walter to other hands, and lie down at once. In spite of all
                  her pain and anxieties, as well as the new and strange camp noises, she slept that
                  night the dreamless sleep of utter exhaustion. Gen. Atherton—he bore that title
                  now—had a tent prepared for their accommodation dation, and did every thing that
                  was in his power to make them as comfortable as possible. He also sought out the
                  most distinguished surgeons; and, as soon as they could attend the next morning,
                  he was in waiting. Walter was still speechless and nearly insensible; which was a
                  mercy, as his skull was broken by the blow he had received, and the operation of
                  trepanning was considered necessary by the experienced surgeons. Catharine's
                  wounds were considered slight in comparison with his: but they were very painful;
                  and if the one on the temple had varied the twentieth part of an inch, the doctors
                  said, she would never have seen daylight again. They were now dressed
                  scientifically; and, feeling much better, she was thankful to escape with her
                  life. "With the best of care, Walter might live," they said; but it was very
                  uncertain; and it would be at the risk of his life to remove him to Richmond, as
                  she had hoped to do. As it was, she consoled herself with the idea, that Mrs.
                  Hunter and her daughters would return with the messenger Gen. Atherton had sent to
                  them with the news of the dreadful tragedy and Walter's extreme danger. But in
                  this hope Catharine was doomed to disappointment; for the messenger brought back
                  word, that, upon the receipt of the terrible tidings, which he communicated as
                  gently as possible, Mrs. Hunter had fainted, and gone from one paroxysm into
                  another, until her reason, if not her life, was despaired of. Under these
                  circumstances, her daughters could not leave her, and begged Catharine piteously,
                  in a letter so blotted with tears that she could hardly decipher it, to remain and
                  take what care she could of little Walter. They thanked her for all she had done
                  for their dear murdered father, and concluded by sending her some apparel, which
                  she greatly needed: so there was no
                  alternative; stay in the rebel camp she must for some weeks to come, surrounded by
                  a hundred thousand rebel soldiery. There were other women there, it is true,—some
                  of them ladies of rank, attending upon sick and wounded relatives, too ill to be
                  removed. But, confining herself mostly to her own quarters, she saw little of
                  these, and felt, so far as her own sex and color were concerned, as if she were
                  alone. But Dinah was a great comfort to her,—Dinah, whose love and good-will she
                  had won long ago, when they had the fever; who still considered her in the light
                  of a daughter of the house, and who was ready to take every possible burden from
                  her shoulders. But Dinah and Uncle Nick both had treacherous memories, and could
                  not read writing; so the real care came upon Catharine. She very soon found out a
                  way to make them eminently useful, however, in the care of the poor wounded Union
                  soldiers, who were sadly neglected by their exasperated enemies, and would have
                  suffered more but for the kind and pitiful negroes.
               She visited them herself as often as she could; and many were the prayers that
                  went up for her future happiness. This experience alone made her feel as if her
                  coming there was providential, and not altogether in vain. Gen. Atherton was
                  unremitting in his attentions, and, when off duty, spent all his leisure time with
                  them. And never for one moment did he suffer her to forget that he passionately
                  loved her, was a suppliant, though not an humble one, for her favor; and would be
                  repulsed by no common considerations. Not often in words indeed did he indicate
                  this: but every look and tone revealed it to her; and his manner, at once
                  respectful, devoted, and protecting, announced a feeling of determined ownership
                  that was very difficult to resist or gainsay. She tried to avoid him,—to plead
                  fatigue, and resign her charge to others when she knew he was coming; but it was
                  of no use: he always inquired for her, and was so close in his questionings when
                  they met, that she could not disguise the truth.
               "Why is it you avoid me as you do?" he said to her one day. "You have said that my
                  personal presence and society were not distasteful to you; that you were willing
                  to be convinced, if wrong in your opinions; and that you could respect any man who
                  was sincere in the avowal of opposite ones. Why, then, if that is the truth, will
                  you not allow me the privilege of free social intercourse, that I may, if such a
                  thing is possible, win the regard I so ardently covet?"
               "Because I consider it wrong to encourage in any human bosom hope that I mean to
                  disappoint," said Catharine, blushing.
               "So you mean to disappoint mine?" he eagerly questioned.
               "You know what I told you in the beginning, Gen. Atherton,—that every obligation
                  that binds me to my kindred, my country, and my home forbids any forming any
                  closer ties with one of that country's avowed enemies. I am under infinite
                  obligations to you for releasing me from a band of ruffians,—possibly a fate worse
                  than death,—and very many kind attentions since. I assure you that I am deeply
                  grateful; but, knowing I could not make the return you wished, I have felt as if
                  it would be better, for your sake, that we should see less of each other, and for
                  me to go home at the earliest possible opportunity: you would then forget me very
                  soon."
               "Never, Catharine! Whatever the event, I shall never forget you. But tell me, now: are there not
                  other reasons, besides those you have named, why you cannot make the return I
                  wish?"
               "Yes: a great many. Northern principle and prejudice, clothed in poverty, is no
                  suitable match for Virginia pride. That always arouses in my heart a spirit of
                  rebellion and antagonism."
               "Catharine, I don't believe you ever loved Lloyd Hunter; but you do love some one
                  else,—some accursed Yankee in the Union army perhaps,—whose life is more precious
                  to you than all I have to offer."
               "No, Gen. Atherton: I have no knowledge of any one in the Union army, though. I
                  may have many friends there; and, aside from my kindred, I love no one in the wide
                  world who cares for me."
               "Then you must be mine, dear Catharine, whether our people are friends or foes:
                  for I care for you, and would shield you with my life from every danger; and no
                  man can love as ardently as I love you, without, in some sort, compelling a return
                  of his fervent passion. Oh, think of it as a foregone conclusion that you are to
                  be my bride!" he passionately exclaimed.
               "If I were, your friends would not respect me. Lloyd Hunter doubted, and was made
                  to believe me unworthy his regard,—as you would be, were it known that you sought
                  me for a wife."
               "No, Catharine: I could not look into your innocent, truthful eyes, and believe
                  you guilty of wrong. I was told of Lloyd Hunter's suspicions by one who should
                  have scorned to repeat them; but they made no difference in my feelings. I can
                  read human nature better than he; and so far from doubting am I, that I would
                  stake my life upon your innocence, purity, and truth."
               "Gen. Atherton, I am deeply grateful for your just and generous appreciation,
                  which so few under the circumstances would have accorded me; and I solemnly assure
                  you that your judgment of me was right, and his wrong: but that cannot alter our
                  relations to each other. Your people, and you yourself at times, scorn and despise
                  ours; and I can be no true Southern wife while my blood leaps so with indignation,
                  as it did when I went out to-day, at the unmerited insults heaped upon us as a
                  people."
               "Ah, Catharine! what would I not give had you been born south of Mason and Dixon's
                  line! From somewhere you have got the old chivalrous blood in your veins, that is
                  just now flushing your cheek with crimson, and flashing in true courageous fire
                  from your eyes," he exclaimed admiringly.
               "I have the blood of honest and loyal New-England farmers and mechanics in my
                  veins," said she; "and of that I am as proud as if it came from a kingly
                  line."
               "Perhaps it did, far back of the days of the stern old Puritans, who, subjected
                  the rugged New-England rocks and hills to their dominion. But of one thing I am
                  sure, that, if you were a man, you would at least lead a brave Northern brigade
                  against us, that would never retreat as ingloriously as some of them did the other
                  day at Bull Run. As a woman, you will leave such a glorious name behind you as we
                  can ill spare from the records of old Virginia;" and, with a triumphant yet
                  admiring glance and smile, he rose and bade her "Good-evening. "
               Catharine felt vexed and indignant, both at him and herself. Yet what better could
                  she have done with such a bold, presuming lover as Gen. Atherton? She felt
                  thankful enough that Walter was improving, and would the doctor said, be able to be removed very soon;
                  for she could not help feeling annoyed by the general's persevering pursuit, and
                  that her reputation would be endangered, by remaining much longer in such a place,
                  and under such circumstances. That he took every precaution to prevent this, she
                  well knew, because he sought to make her his wife. But she did not know that he
                  had used his influence with Dr. De Homergeau to prolong the excitement of her
                  presence.
               The next morning, observing an unusual stir and bustle about the camp, Catharine
                  learned, upon inquiry, that a spy from the Union army had been caught the night
                  before within the Confederate lines. Some of the troops were clamorous for his
                  immediate execution; but the officers said he must have a fair trial, and gave
                  little heed to their complaints.
               Somehow, Catharine's heart beat a note of fear when she heard this news; and all
                  day she kept thinking of it, until the general came in for his evening call. She
                  greeted him with cool politeness.
               He, on his part, inquired tenderly about little Walter, who was asleep, but
                  otherwise, though he watched her narrowly, seemed unusually silent and depressed.
                  At last she remembered to ask,—
               "What is this I hear, general, about a Union spy? Is his fate decided?"
               "Yes: he dies at sunrise," was the reply.
               "Heaven help him!" she exclaimed with a sinking heart. "But do you think him
                  guilty, general?"
               "No: I believe him an innocent man."
               "But were you not one of the court-martial who condemned him to die?" she
                  questioned.
               "Yes: but I was in the minority, and could not save him."
               "What is his name? Poor fellow!"
               The general hesitated, looking at her pitifully "Catharine, have you a brother in
                  the service?" he said at last. "The young man gave his name as Hale; and, from his
                  resemblance to you, I feared"—
               "My God! It is my wild, adventurous brother Harry! I have felt and feared it all
                  the time," she exclaimed in agonized tones.
               "His name was indeed Harry Hale. But it is a common name enough; and it may not be
                  your brother, after all," said the general in sympathetic tones.
               "Oh, it is, it is! I feel it here;" and she laid her hand on her heart. "And for
                  him to die in such a way,—so young, so brave, so talented, so much beloved! O Gen.
                  Atherton! is there no reprieve, no appeal from this wicked decision?" and she got
                  up and walked the floor, wringing her hands in tearless agony.
               "I fear not: the whole army will demand his execution."
               "But you are all-powerful! You can save him, if you will only use your
                  influence."
               "No, Catharine: I failed to do so at the trial; and nothing that I can say or do
                  will avail aught with the powers above me."
               "But is there no way, no escape from a fate so ignominious, so terrible? O Harry!
                  generous, noble-hearted brother! What is there I would not do to save thee? Do you
                  think I can see him, general?"
               "Certainly; at least I will try and pave the way for you immediately. But pray sit
                  down! You are exhausting yourself by these emotions, when you will need all your
                  strength to bear you up in this sad interview;" and he led her gently to a seat,
                  called Dinah, and went out immediately.
                  He returned presently with the written order from the proper authorities for
                  Catharine's admittance to the prison.
               But for a shrewd after-thought, the general would have attended her himself. As it
                  was, she went with a proper escort, and Dinah for an attendant; while Uncle Nick
                  remained with Walter, and he went out among his brother-officers. She found poor
                  Harry confined, and doubly guarded, in an old, strong, yet somewhat dilapidated
                  building, that was used as a prison, but so changed in appearance, that, had she
                  not been expecting to find him there, she would not have known him. His form was
                  thin and attenuated, his cheers pale and hollow; dark circles were around his once
                  laughing, but now sad and mournful eyes; his mouth was compressed as if with acute
                  bodily and mental suffering; and his whole appearance, as he sat there upon a
                  dirty pile of straw, leaning his head upon his hand, betokened the deepest
                  dejection and despair.
               "A lady to see you, sir," announced the grim jailer, as he opened the door; "but
                  what she wants of a cussed Yankee spy is more than I can tell," he muttered in a
                  lower tone as he reluctantly closed the door.
               Catharine advanced a few paces, followed by Dinah, and then stopped, overcome by
                  emotion. Poor Harry, for it was indeed he, slowly raised his head, blinded for a
                  moment by the brilliant sunset rays that came pouring in through the open door.
                  The moment his eyes rested on Catharine, he sprang to his feet, and, with a cry of
                  joy, held out his manacled hands to her, and was soon sobbing like at child upon
                  her bosom.
               "O Harry, dear brother! It breaks my heart to find you thus,—so changed, so
                  wretched, and in such frightful peril!" sobbed Catharine.
               "And mine to be in this horrid condition," said he gloomily.
               "But how came you to be in it, dear Harry? Were you indeed a spy?"
               "No, Catharine: God knows I was far enough from that. I was wounded, and left for
                  dead, in that terrible battle of Bull Run. The night after the battle I revived,
                  and crawled away into the bushes. After suffering every thing but death from pain,
                  thirst, and starvation, I was found by a friendly negro, who took me to his hut,
                  and nursed me back to life and comparative health. And it was in trying to make my
                  way through the rebel lines to our own, that I was caught by the rebel pickets,
                  who of course would not believe my story. Tried by a court-martial, I am condemned
                  to die a felon's death; to which some of my friends long ago consigned me, you
                  remember," he said with a miserable attempt at a smile.
               "I know; but, O Harry! I feel as if I cannot have it so. Is there nothing I can
                  say or do to help or save you? They tell me there is no hope of a reprieve, but I
                  will not believe it."
               "You must. Like tigers they are thirsting for blood; and they will not let me
                  go."
               "Then you can only look up to God for help and mercy, and meet death as bravely as
                  you can," she said in a voice quivering with emotion.
               "O Catharine!" he passionately exclaimed, "better a thousands times that I had
                  died upon the battle-field than live to suffer untold agonies, and die at last by
                  the hangman's rope;" and there was a pitiable note of fear in his tones, that made
                  Catharine's heart ache. "You may think me a coward," he continued; "yet I fought
                  manfully to the last, and stood up, before the cannon's mouth without bleaching. And when I lay dying, as I
                  thought, upon the battle-field, though I longed to live, I felt as if I could
                  trust in God's mercy, and was resigned to die for my country. But now, with feeble
                  health, shattered nerves, and a heart sick with vain longings for home and
                  friends, the thought of a felon's death strikes me with a nameless terror. I try
                  to combat it: I strive to think of it calmly; but it is of no use. Oh, I shall die
                  a very coward in the face of our enemies!"
               "But, dear Harry, it is really no worse than any other mode," began Catharine.
               "Yet the flash of the sword or the whir of a bullet I believe I could bear
                  bravely; but the scaffold—the hangman's rope—O God! Catharine, I cannot—oh, I
                  cannot bear the thought!" and again he laid his face on her bosom, and wept like a
                  grieved child.
               She pressed him to her heart, and mingled her tears with his; but what could she
                  do or say to console him?—what to comfort herself?
               "O Harry!" she sobbed at last, "God knows I would save you if I could. I will go
                  to Beauregard or Jefferson Davis himself, and plead for your life, or do any thing
                  in the world else you think would be of any avail."
               "It would be all in vain, Catharine,—worse than useless; for they thirst for the
                  blood of every Northern man, and would not spare me."
               "But you do not know that, Harry; so just let me try. Gen. Atherton, I know,
                  believes you innocent, and will help me to gain an audience, and perhaps I can
                  persuade others to the same opinions."
               "No, Catharine: not for me shall you kneel at the feet of these arch-rebels, to be
                  spurned, and spit upon, if nothing worse. But how, in the name of wonder, did you
                  get here any way? I thought you had gone home long ago."
               In a few brief words she explained her position and past experiences.
               "What! Staying here in the rebel camp!" he exclaimed in astonishment. "Oh! I
                  tremble for your safety. Pray get out of it, and go home as soon as you can !"
               "That is my intention; though I have had nothing but honorable treatment thus far,
                  and may have saved precious lives by coming here. But how are they all at
                  home?"
               "Well when last heard from; and Theodore, who was with me in the battle, is a
                  captain in the Union army. Whether he lived or died, I cannot tell."
               "Time's up! Only five minutes more!" sung out the jailer.
               "Oh, must we part thus, and forever!" sobbed Catharine. "O Harry! is there nothing
                  I can say to reconcile you to this terrible destiny? "
               "Nothing, dear sister,—nothing but pray that I may have courage given me to die
                  like a man. But, oh!"—and again the tears burst forth,—"to think that there is but
                  a night, a span long, between me and eternity! To think of the gaping crowd,—the
                  choking breath, the dying agonies,—the dread hereafter."
               "O Harry! try and not think of the pain of death, for it will be short; or, if you
                  must, remember, that, in dying thus, you just as much sacrifice your life for your
                  country as if you laid it down on the battle-field, or in the hospital. It all
                  seems unnecessary, and horribly wicked to me; and God knows we pay a fearful price
                  for our national, crimes! But we cannot help this. You have done what you
                  considered your duty to your country:
                  you are to die a martyr to the cause of truth, justice, and liberty; and now all
                  that remains is for you to make your peace with God. Oh, come to the Saviour now,
                  dear brother, if never before; and he will bear you safely over the dark river of
                  death!" she exclaimed with a convulsive sob.
               "Oh, I cannot prepare, Catharine! I feel as if it were impossible under present
                  circumstances. Once the future life looked bright and glorious to, me; now all is
                  doubt and darkness, gloom and despair. I can see no help or hope for me, here or
                  hereafter. I ought not to tell you this to add to the bitterness of your grief;
                  and, for God's sake, do not tell my dear mother. Give my best love to them all at
                  home, and tell them I shall think of you all to the last moment. Bid Theodore
                  fight for us both, if he is still living,—not to revenge my death upon these poor,
                  deluded people, but to uphold the banner of freedom, set the oppressed and
                  enslaved millions free, and support the best government the sun ever shone
                  upon."
               "Time's up,—not a minit more!" exclaimed a gruff voice, as the guard opened the
                  door.
               There was of course no alternative; so, amid sobs and tears, the farewell words
                  were spoken. Catharine tore herself away, and, blinded by tears, was led by old
                  Aunt Dinah from the grim prison-house.
               The walk home somewhat calmed her; but still her heart was bursting with grief at
                  the thought of her brother's sad fate,—a thousand times more terrible for his
                  agonizing terror and grim despair: and she was sitting with her head bowed upon
                  her hands,—racking her brains for some expedient by which to save him, when Gen.
                  Atherton entered the room.
               Knowing, from Dinah, something of what had passed, he came up beside her; and,
                  laying his hand gently upon her bowed bead, he said in a tone of deep
                  commiseration,—
               "Catharine, may I sympathize with you in this deep affliction? God knows I would
                  lighten it if I could."
               "Oh, you can,—you can!" she exclaimed eagerly, as she raised her tearful eyes to
                  his: "you can procure me an interview with the commanding general, and help me
                  plead the cause of an innocent man."
               "It could do no good, Catharine: I know his opinion of this case too well to
                  believe we could influence him in the least; and, even if he were made to believe
                  in your brother's innocence, he dare not pardon if he would. As to our President,
                  he is in Richmond, and could not be reached, and a messenger return, until all is
                  over."
               "Oh! is there, then, no help, no hope, no ray of light to illumine his sad
                  fate,—no possible change to be hoped for in the mode of that death he dreads so
                  much? "
               "Is he then, a soldier, so much afraid of death?"
               "Not of death, for he has walked bravely up to the cannon's mouth, and would
                  again; but he shudders with horror at the thought of a felon's death. Can you
                  understand such feelings?"
               "Yes, yes: they are but natural to a noble soul."
               "And he has one,—too pure and noble for a fate like that, too precious to be so
                  ignobly sacrificed. Oh! I would almost lay down my own life to procure his
                  acquittal or escape."
               "Catharine, do you realize what you are saying?" said the general suddenly, after
                  a pause, during which his face flamed up with a rapidly-formed resolution; and his
                  eyes and hands eagerly sought her own.
               
               "I think I do;" and she raised her tearful eyes to his face.
               "And would you give less than life, yet what is quite as precious as mine, to him
                  who would secretly procure your brother's escape, and safe transmission through
                  our lines?" he continued in a low, thrilling tone.
               "Why do you ask? and what is it I could give?" she questioned; while her face
                  blanched to a deadly white, as a keen perception of his meaning flashed over
                  her.
               "I asked, because the devotion of a life, and the requital you could give, would
                  tempt one who loves you to run a great risk,—to set free an innocent man for your
                  sake."
               "And without that requital,—for the sake of right and justice and humanity," she
                  tremblingly urged.
               "Those are certainly good and sufficient reasons, but too far off and intangible
                  for a nature as earthly as mine. Catharine! nothing in this world but the gift of
                  yourself could tempt me to run a risk, that, in case of discovery, would involve
                  me in disgrace and ruin, if not death. But all this risk will I run for the sake
                  of the love you perseveringly withhold from me."
               "Gen. Atherton, I have already told you that I respect and esteem, but do not love
                  you; and, as regards that, we, cannot command our own feelings."
               "I would also take that risk," said he eagerly; "for I know that no one can love
                  as ardently as I love you, without winning a return at last. Become my wife, dear
                  Catharine, the sharer of my destiny; and I know you would learn to love me."
               "Oh! I cannot;, Gen. Atherton,—I dare not, with my present feelings: it would be a
                  wrong before high Heaven, both to you and myself; and you would wrong yourself
                  too,—however urgent my need,—to involve yourself, and run such a risk for my
                  sake."
               "That is my affair. I would do it gladly to win the reward that it is in your
                  power to bestow. Allow my chaplain to unite us this night; and I will do all that
                  is in the power of man to do to save your brother from death. To-morrow it will be
                  too late,—both for him and for me. I am ordered to join the army of the south-west
                  immediately, and cannot even take you with me in my hasty journey, if you become
                  my wife, much as I might wish it. Yet that need not prevent your becoming so now,
                  and giving me the right to become your future guardian and protector through life.
                  Oh, will you not do this, dear Catharine?" he pleaded in most persuasive tones, as
                  he sat down beside her, and put his arm lovingly around her.
               "Oh,—do not—do not urge me now," she sobbed: "it seems so like a mockery, with his
                  precious life trembling in the balance. And, oh! it is revolting to every feeling
                  of delicacy in a maiden's heart to sell one's self to save another's soul,—to
                  traffic a life for a wife. Oh, be noble, be generous,—be your own true self, dear
                  general! Save him if you can; and gratitude hereafter may win for you what a
                  persistence in immediate returns might lose you forever."
               "Ah, but to be my own true self, I must be selfish enough to insist upon my own
                  rights. I was neither born nor educated to self-abnegation; and for no trifling
                  scruples of delicacy can I resign the dearest and sweetest hope of my life. I
                  think I know and can understand your feelings under the circumstances. For poor
                  Harry's sake, you are willing to waive all the political scruples that have
                  divided us. But the suddenness of my proposal posal, and thoughts of its future consequences,
                  shock and frighten, and fill your heart with a dread of me that future experience
                  will not justify. But I am no ogre, that you need to fear me, Catharine. Give me
                  but a husband's claim to you hereafter, and I will prove to you that I can love
                  fondly, cherish tenderly, and wait patiently for the return of the fond affection
                  you have inspired in my bosom."
               He saw that she wavered; that his strong will and earnest determination were
                  overbearing the frail barriers she had raised to oppose them; and, lowering his
                  voice to a tenderer tone, he continued,—
               "Cannot you trust me, dear Catharine? Do you fear to place your happiness in my
                  keeping? If it suits you better, we will wait for the solemn ceremony that is to
                  make us one until you know that the scaffold has lost its victim. And then, when
                  you are mine for all time, all your scruples of delicacy shall be regarded. Much
                  as it will cost me, I will resign all present claim to your society if you will
                  promise to join me when I come or send for you hereafter. Oh! will you not do
                  this?"
               Catharine could only sob: her heart was too full for words. She saw nothing
                  clearly, but poor Harry's agonized face, and sad, pleading eyes, as he told her of
                  his terror at thought of a felon's death, his dread of the dark, unknown future.
                  And she, by a great sacrifice of feeling, could save him. Would she not, before
                  God, be guilty of his murder if she refused to do so? was a question she asked
                  herself,—that struck such terror to her heart that she dared refuse no longer.
               Gen. Atherton looked eagerly into her eyes, as these things were revolving in her
                  mind, and he seemed almost by intuition to read her very soul.
               "O Catharine! is not your brother's life worth a purchase like this?" he
                  questioned tenderly.
               "Yes, yes,—a thousand times yes! Oh! save him, Gen. Atherton, and I promise to be
                  your wife," she exclaimed with a shuddering sob.
               "Mine,—mine at last!" he said with deep feeling, as he pressed the hand he had
                  clasped to his lips. "O Catharine! if I live, you shall never, never repent of
                  this decision. And don't, pray, look forward to this consummation with fear and
                  dread. You shall have no reason to do so. You shall always be treated kindly and
                  respectfully, cared for tenderly, and have abundant means at your disposal to do
                  all the good you wish. And certainly, if this war goes on, you will not lack for
                  opportunities you never would have found at home. But time is flying. If I would
                  win this precious guerdon, I must be up and doing. I will see you again ere I
                  sleep."
               He was gone at last; and Catharine sat there with bowed head, just as he found
                  her. But what a change had come over the spirit of her dreams! Was it true that
                  that short interview had decided her destiny? It would seem so; and yet she could
                  only realize a dull, aching pain in her head and heart, a shivering dread of the
                  unknown future, a horrible fear lest she should sacrifice herself in vain, and
                  poor Harry be murdered. Could she ever love this man to whom she had sold herself?
                  Could she ever forgive him for taking such an ungenerous advantage of her in her
                  dire extremity, when he might, if he would, have proved himself so noble, and
                  worthy of her regard? Overcome as she was by the thought of Harry's danger, she
                  would hardly have consented, but for his promise to leave her as soon as the
                  ceremony was over, and the undefined hope that something, she knew not what, might make that
                  separation eternal.
               That night, when he called again, he told her that every thing was in train for
                  Harry's escape. And then it was arranged that the marriage was to be a private
                  one, with no one present but Aunt Dinah, the chaplain, and two of the general's
                  friends; all of whom had promised to keep the secret until his return from the
                  South-west. Immediately after the ceremony, they were to set out for Richmond,
                  where he was obliged to go for orders previous to setting out upon his Southern
                  journey. But for the fact of his projecting Harry's escape, and it being known to
                  some that she was of the same name, and had visited him in prison, Gen. Atherton
                  would gladly have claimed and proclaimed her publicly as his bride. As it was, it
                  was judged more prudent not to do so, through fear that some suspicion might fall
                  on them, when it became known that the prisoner had escaped. His friends, Major
                  Darwin and Col. Mulford, had suspected his attachment from the first, but admired
                  her too much themselves to wonder at his securing her, if he could, before his
                  departure for distant battle-fields.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE BROTHER'S ESCAPE.—OLD ACQUAINTANCES.
               
                  THAT night, when all was still in the rebel camp, save the voices Of
                  the sentinels as they paced their weary rounds, the groans of the wounded, or the
                  low, sad tones of tired watchers by the couches of the sick and dying, poor Harry
                  Hale lay writhing upon his bed of straw. He was sleepless, inexpressibly wretched,
                  and not a whit more resigned to his fate than he was when Catharine left him. He
                  had been visited by some of the rebel chaplains, who came to prepare him for the
                  sad change awaiting him: but, though he conversed with and listened to them
                  respectfully, their prayers were not blessed by his late repentance, conversion,
                  or even resignation to his sad destiny; for, though not what might be called a
                  burdened, impenitent sinner, poor Harry was, as yet, essentially earthly in all
                  his thoughts and feelings, and had no bright hopes of a better world to wean him
                  from the pleasures and joys of this. Still he had pride, enough to prevent him
                  from exposing his weakness to the rebels, as he had done to Catharine; and, if he
                  had really died by the hangman's rope, that pride would probably have supported
                  him to the end.
               The rough hut in which he was confined had been built by Irish laborers at the time of the
                  construction of the railroad. It had but one room, aside from the attic, and the
                  small one in which the prisoner was confined. The larger room was now occupied by
                  the guards, some of whom were stationed on the outside of the building. This hut
                  still belonged to an Irishman, named Mike Flannegan,—a jolly, good-natured,
                  warm-hearted, whiskey-loving genius, always full of his gibes and jokes, and ready
                  to do a good turn to whoever was the best paymaster. He now worked by the day upon
                  the fortifications; slept at night in his attic; and everywhere and always was a
                  great favorite with the soldiery. As there was supposed to be no mode of egress
                  from Harry's room but by the door, and one small and strongly-barred window, and
                  the room was found to be full of filth and vermin,—the companions of its late
                  occupant,—Mike Flannegan's pig,—they concluded it was unnecessary to remain in the
                  room with him. So, locking the door, and posting a guard outside, they thought him
                  perfectly safe. But a good many had been in, during the day and evening, to
                  gratify their curiosity by looking through a certain knot-hole in the prisoner's
                  door, some one of whom had forgotten a basket of cakes and cheese,
                  garnished by a bottle of uncommonly soporific whiskey. No guard could be expected
                  to withstand a temptation like that, when it was once discovered. The consequence
                  was, that they all got—not exactly drunk, but quiet, and slightly oblivious of
                  surrounding objects. But poor Harry knew nothing of all this: he only knew, as the
                  unmarked hours glided by in the darkness, that his life was fast fleeting away;
                  and he watched the faint ray from the knot-hole, expecting soon to see it
                  exchanged for the light of his last earthly morning. Though he knew nothing of the
                  time, it was past midnight; and the camp, as well as his guard, had long been
                  comparatively still; when, all at once, he thought he heard a faint knocking
                  beneath him. He lifted his head, and eagerly listened. It was repeated, this time
                  a little louder.
               "What can it be?" he murmured wonderingly.
               "Whist, for yer life, if ye want to escape!" whispered a voice directly beneath
                  him.
               "Who's there?" he whispered in return, his voice trembling with the nervous
                  eagerness of a renewed hope flashing out of the blackness of dark despair.
               "Don't ask, but get up, and softly pull away the straw from the corner,—far as ye
                  can," was the reply.
               Harry managed to do this with his feet and manacled hands, when, to his
                  astonishment, the floor began to rise, disclosing a trap-door—over which he had
                  lain securely—and the faintest possible ray of light beneath. Immediately
                  afterwards, an honest, sympathizing Irish face appeared at the opening; and its
                  owner crept stealthily up into the room.
               "Whist, for yer life!" he repeated in Harry's ear. He then produced keys, and
                  proceeded to unlock his shackles, and rub his benumbed limbs to get the blood in
                  circulation once more.
               "Now follow me!" whispered his good genius kindly.
               Harry could not believe the evidence of his senses, and kept thinking it was all a
                  dream, though ready enough to follow his conductor. Blinded, dizzy, and benumbed
                  as he was, he would have fallen through the trap but for the assistance of his
                  warm-hearted friend.
               "Now, me darlint," he said, when he had got him safely down the rude ladder, "you
                  must slip out of this toggery,"
                  pointing to his Federal uniform,—"and jest step into another sarpent's skin, if ye
                  want to give 'em the slip;" and, by the dim light of a dark lantern, he produced a
                  suit of common citizen's garments, that Harry readily exchanged for his own, which
                  the man hid in a sly corner.
               "Now, honey," he whispered, "pluck up yer courage, put on a stiff upper lip, and
                  don't make a noise louder'n a misketer; for we've got a narrer chance to run.
                  Here, take a drink of the swate crater, and then foller me."
               Harry obeyed in both particulars; for he sadly needed something to recruit his
                  exhausted energies, and give him the strength and courage he needed for an
                  adventure so highly dangerous. Without further questioning, he then stooped, and
                  followed his guide through a narrow passage, leading into a ruined cow-shed behind
                  the hut. This passage had been cut by former occupants for the convenience of
                  their pigs and poultry, which had been in the habit of wintering in the rude
                  cellar of the little mansion.
               "Now, me honey, on thy belly shalt thou crawl, and dust shalt thou eat for a
                  while,—like any other sarpent," whispered his guide with a low, merry laugh, as he
                  lay clown upon the ground, and began to crawl in the direction of the outposts. It
                  was dark and cloudy; but, as the guide knew every inch of the ground, this was a
                  favorable circumstance. So, by crawling around sentinels, walking in the deepest
                  shadows, and creeping around opposing obstacles where it was more exposed, taking
                  paths that were very circuitous, he succeeded in piloting Harry safely out of the
                  rebel encampment.
               "Now, me darlint, we'll stop and rest a bit," said the unknown guide, when he
                  thought they were at a safe distance tance from camp; "and p'ra'ps a bit and a sup
                  wouldn't come amiss wid ye now."
               "No, indeed!" said Harry, who, having eaten scarcely any thing since his capture,
                  now began to feel the keen demands of hunger after his tiresome exertions. He ate
                  a piece of dirty corn-bread and a slice of cold ham with the keenest relish; nor
                  did he disdain to wash it down with some of the contents of his guide's "pocket
                  pistol," though he was a strong temperance man at home.
               "Now, my friend," he said, "that you have fortified the inner man, and set the
                  outer one at liberty, will you be kind enough to tell me to whom I am indebted for
                  all these favors, and why you take interest enough in me to run such a frightful
                  risk for my sake?"
               "Spake lower, honey, if ye don't want a twist in yer gullet. As to the first, I'm
                  Mike Flannegan, at yer sarvice; and for the rest, I wish I could tell ye it was
                  for the love of yerself, and not the yaller boys, I did it. Truth it is, though,
                  that I'd risk me neck in this way for none but an innocent man like yerself,
                  now."
               "Thank you for that. But, if not to you, to whom, then, am I indebted, my
                  friend?"
               "There's the rub, darlint. I swore by the holy poker not to divulge the
                  jintleman's name. I'll whisper in yer left ear, however, that he wore stars on his
                  shoulder-straps; and this child suspicioned that he did it for the love of the
                  bright eyes that looked inter yer prison anon. Any way, ye are to write her a
                  little billet that yer safe and sound, for me to take back to her;" and he
                  produced a pencil and memorandum-book, on a stray leaf of which Harry
                  scribbled,—
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "DEAR C.—I am safe beyond the inner lines of the enemy. God grant that
                              I may get safely beyond the outer ones; and you, too, dear C.
                           
                              "H."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Strange," he mused, "that Catharine should know of my intended escape, and
                  probably helped to plan it.—But what am I to do now, Mr. Flannegan? As soon as the
                  alarm is given, they will scour the whole country in search of me; and lucky shall
                  I be to keep out of their cruel hands."
               "Ah! the jintleman has pervided for all that. There, I hear the click of
                  steel-clad hoofs."
               Harry started up in alarm, thinking the patrols were after him.
               "Whist! I spects it's the old nigger with the hosses. Jist step behind them
                  bushes, and I'll see."
               He returned presently, exclaiming, "Bless yer lucky stars! it's Old Nick, sure
                  enough; and he knows all the roads from Dan to Barsheba. He'll get ye safe
                  through, if anybody can. But hurry up: there's not a minit to lose."
               Harry needed no urging. They soon reached the road; and he mounted as fine a horse
                  as could be found in the country, while his new guide was mounted upon another.
                  Both were well supplied with all necessary military equipments, as well as food
                  for the journey.
               "Good-by, my friend!" said Harry, warmly grasping the Irishman's hand, as they
                  were about to part. "I owe you more than words can express. I hope no harm may
                  come to you from this night's adventure, and that I may live to repay you at some
                  future day."
               "Divil a bit of pay do I want, more than the jintleman man gave me; and, as to the
                  harrum, I guess I can fix it. So good-by, and good luck to ye both; and may the
                  divil break the necks of all who pursue ye!"
               "Thank you, and good-by," said Harry. The next minute he and his dark guide were,
                  as slowly and noiselessly as possible at first, but at a two-forty pace
                  afterwards, dashing down the road, soon leaving the Confederate camp far in the
                  rear.
               It is needless to say that the rebels were terribly exasperated, when they found,
                  at daylight next morning, that their prisoner had escaped. The guards were all
                  found at their posts guarding the empty cage; but the bird had flown. And yet
                  there was no mystery about it when the place was examined by the light of day.
                  There were the pigs' nest hustled to one side, the trap-door plainly visible, and
                  the underground path to the cow-shed easily traced. The mystery was, how the
                  prisoner could have got his irons of, or got away without discovery; and no one
                  believed he could have done it without assistance. But "Who was the traitor?" was
                  the question asked, and "Why was the prisoner put in such a place without a more
                  thorough examination?"
               The guards were arrested on suspicion; but, as nothing could be proved against
                  them, they were soon set at liberty. No one mistrusted Mike Flannegan, who, they
                  all said, was helped up the ladder in the guard-room, half-drunk, the previous
                  night; and there in his attic he was found snoring in the morning, with an empty
                  whiskey-bottle beside him. Of course he did not tell them of the knotted rope by
                  which he had descended and ascended: he disclaimed all knowledge of the trap.
               
               "Faith, and what should I know about traps?" he said, "when the pigs had always,
                  since the memory of man, had their nest in that corner. I have never bothered
                  myself to find out what there was under 'em besides fleas. Only an infernal Yankee
                  nose could have scented out so strange a thing, in my opinion."
               Every spot about the camp was searched, and the country scoured in every
                  direction; yet they could obtain no trace of the fugitives. When it was found that
                  Uncle Nick had also disappeared, it was supposed that he had helped the prisoner
                  to escape. But the general had been too cautious in his plans to be suspected
                  himself, or cast a shadow of blame on Catharine. Harry, meantime, with his unknown
                  guide, was scouring over the country with the speed of the wind,—not, however, in
                  the shortest and most direct road to Washington, but in an entirely different
                  direction. They followed this break-neck speed for some time, and not until the
                  horses began to show unmistakable signs of fatigue was their pace moderated in the
                  least. Day was now dawning in the east; and Harry found that they were entering a
                  wild, wooded, broken country, very different from any he had previously seen in
                  Virginia, and that the road was growing rougher and evidently more untravelled at
                  every mile. They came at last to a high hill that overlooked a large extent of
                  territory, on the top of which the guide suddenly halted.
               "I am glad you have found a stopping-place at last, my friend," said Harry; "for I
                  began to think I was following the wild huntsman."
               "Had ye rudder staid, an' tried de strength of de rope?" queried his good
                  genius.
               "No, no!" he exclaimed shudderingly, just as the thunderous roar of an alarm-gun
                  in the direction of the camp announced the escape of the prisoner. Soon afterwards
                  they saw the clouds breaking away in the east, and the sun rising in his
                  splendor,—a gorgeous sight to behold, yet ever after, to Harry Hale, fraught with
                  fearful memories of that eventful night, and the glorious morning that came so
                  near to being his last on earth.
               "No," he continued, after a long pause, and silent yet heartfelt thanksgiving.
                  "Thanks be to God, and you, my friend, that I am not at this moment swinging from
                  the end of a rope in the rebel camp."
               "You come mighty near to it, dat's sartin. You'll be luckier dan my poor dear
                  massa, if you get off wid a whole skin."
               "Who was your master, my good man? Seems to me your voice sounds mighty familiar;"
                  and he turned to look more closely at his sable companion.
               "Ole Major Hunter of Hunter Hills was my master,—the best and kindest
                  one dat eber breaved," said the man with a sigh.
               "Indeed! Why, he was Lloyd's father, of whose sad fate Catharine told me in the
                  prison. And you—why, as sure as the world, you are my old friend Nick!" and Harry
                  eagerly held out his hand, which the other grasped quite as warmly.
               "Yes: it's ole Nick, sure enuff, Massa Harry; an' he no forgit de little feller
                  dat help Grace, an' save black Jett an' de proud Suveners from drownin'. He no
                  forgit Massa Tedo, nuther, or leetle Jessie. An', more'n all de rest, he no forgit
                  Miss Kate, who nussed us in de fever, an' resk her life tryin' to save massa, an'
                     little Walter. An' it's for her
                  sweet sake, I'm quittin' ole Virginny dis day."
               "It's to her, then, I owe my escape; is it?"
               "Not zactly. Nick t'ink somebody help for her sake; but he promise not to tell.
                  Here is de puss he send to Massa Harry;" and he presented a plethoric one.
               "Strange, that my benefactor should so shroud himself in mystery!"
               "Not a bit. D'ye t'ink a big high ossifer want he neck stretched for lettin'
                  prisoner go? No, no: Nick know better'n dat."
               "But why he should do it at all is what puzzles me."
               "Ay! but it no puzzle Nick. He say, 'Poor feller! he no spy: he innocent as a
                  lamb! Nick want to help git him off,—cheat de gallows, an' git he own freedom
                  massa promised?' Dis he say wid he lips, but de eyes tell Nick he care noffin' for
                  poor prisoner, but t'ink all de worl' of Miss Kate; an' p'r'aps, if he let brudder
                  go, she 'sent to be his wife."
               "Well, I can't imagine who it is, but I suppose it is of no use to pump you; yet I
                  fear poor Kate is going to involve herself in some way for my sake. It would be
                  just like her: she is always so ready to do, and to sacrifice herself, for the
                  sake of others."
               "Dat's a fact. Nick allers know it. She tu good for dis world,—tu good for dat
                  man, or anybody on dis arth. De angels git her bimeby."
               All this time the eyes of the slave had been roving over the varied landscape in
                  search of pursuers; but, seeing none, they dismounted to rest themselves and their
                  horses, and take a lunch.
               "It seems to me, Uncle Nick, that we've been going the wrong way all the time,"
                  said Harry.
               "Dat's a fact," Nick returned. "Yet it's de right way, arter all. Dey look
                  eberywhere else for us, 'fore dey t'ink to look here; an' bimeby we'll come round
                  inter de right way to go home."
               After this they went on a little more leisurely, until the burning August sun made
                  it extremely uncomfortable for man and beast. Then they turned into a piece of
                  woods, in a green, grassy glade of which, beside a spring, they picketed the
                  horses, and, one at a time, lay down to rest beneath the shadows of the trees.
                  Here they remained nearly the whole day.
               Nick knew very well that he was not a great distance back of the Hunter Hills,
                  where he had often been with his master. He also knew something of the character
                  of the inhabitants, so contrived to avoid passing the dwellings of those who were
                  inimical by daylight. Towards night, with themselves and their horses refreshed,
                  they set out again, turning their course to the Northward; and, before morning,
                  they had passed over quite a long stretch of mountainous country.
               By this time Harry had got the history of the late military and other operations
                  at the South, as Nick understood them, as well as particulars of Catharine's late
                  experiences, that were new to him; for Nick was unusually intelligent for one of
                  his class in life. Having lived two years at the North, and boarded with Harry's
                  mother when the young people were at school in Gleneden, Nick was of course an old
                  acquaintance and warm friend of the family. This residence at the North, even
                  though it was as a servant and general waiter for Lloyd and Grace, Philip and
                  Nell, had served to enlighten Nick on a good many subjects, and fit him, more than
                  slaves are usually fitted, for the freedom that his master had promised. But Major Hunter's death had been so
                  sudden, that Nick was doubtful whether his will was completed, or would be allowed
                  to be legal by the rebel authorities. He had a shrewd suspicion, too, that he was
                  to be pressed into government service to work on the fortifications,—a most
                  unendurable bondage. So he embraced Gen. Atherton's proposition, as much on his
                  own account as on Harry's; though he felt many regrets at leaving poor little
                  Walter, and indeed the whole Hunter family. He loved them all, and his life, thus
                  far, had been an easy one; yet freedom was dearer than every thing else to
                  him.
               Upon the morning of the second day, they had a very narrow escape from a party of
                  rebel cavalry, whom they evaded only by leaping their horses over a high fence,
                  and hiding behind a great pile of rocks near the roadside. Soon afterwards they
                  entered a fine, fertile tract of country, that seemed more thickly populated than
                  any they had previously traversed, as Harry remarked.
               "Ah! Nick know him well enough," was the reply. "Before long we come to Massa
                  Tremont's plantation."
               "Tremont? Not some of Grace Tremont's relations?"
               "Sartin, Massa Harry. It's nobody but Miss Grace's own fader; an' Nick spects de
                  sweet little critter's herself up dere."
               "Indeed! How glad I should be to see her! But do you suppose she would know me,
                  Nick, after seven long years of separation?"
               "Nick spects Massa Harry's own mudder not know 'im jes' now. He forgit dat when he
                  took up de sword he lay down' de razor, an' dat he now look like one poor
                  long-faced he-goat. Miss Grace 'member only Massa Harry's smooth face, full of
                  fun, wid rosy cheeks, dimple chin, an' curly head."
               "Oh!" and Harry put his hand up to his face despairingly, "I forgot that I hadn't
                  seen a razor for weeks, and that I must look altogether Jewish, dirty, and
                  unpresentable. So I think we must give Miss Grace, who used to be an unmerciful
                  hector, a pretty wide berth as we go by."
               "Nick no t'ink so. Leetle Grace lub fun, but de heart's in de right place; an' no
                  doubt she drefful glad to see Massa Harry. Massa Tremont good friend tu,—good
                  Linkum man; hate rebellion. Nick t'ink it good place to stop till de fury's ober.
                  Dey no care if Massa Harry look like one big buffalo, if he good Linkum man."
               "Do you think so? But how is it? I thought Grace was an orphan cousin of Lloyd's
                  when they were at school."
               "So she war. Her mudder, Massa Hunter's sister, die when she leetle baby; an'
                  Lloyd an' Miss Lucy's mudder took her home to Hunter House, where we all brung her
                  up till she went off North to school. But, when she cum back, Massa Tremont's
                  nuther wife die; so he took her home to stay wid her little half-sister, Helen,
                  who must be a big gal by dis time. But what's dat?" he exclaimed, reining up his
                  horse suddenly, as a succession of shrill, sharp shrieks, and the sound of
                  rapidly-rolling wheels, rang out upon the clear morning breezes.
               They were just descending to a large stream, spanned by a high, uncovered, arched
                  bridge, with but a slight railing at the sides for the protection of passengers.
                  On the other side of this stream rose a steep, thickly-wooded hill, up which the
                  road wound circuitously, and from which the unusual sounds seemed to come.
                     Before there was time for a thought
                  of escape, if escape had been necessary or possible, a close carriage, drawn by a
                  span of fiery horses, but driverless, and with the reins dangling about the
                  horses' heels, came thundering down the hill towards the bridge. Our two horsemen,
                  who had just passed it when they saw the carriage, instinctively gave them the
                  road. But Harry, who saw at a glance that there were ladies within, and the danger
                  to which they were exposed, turned like a flash, and, dashing after them, was
                  lucky enough to seize the near horse by the bit, just as they were rushing
                  obliquely across the bridge to inevitable destruction below. As it was, it would
                  have been impossible for him to have stopped their wild career, but for the rise
                  in the centre of the bridge, or to have held them a moment but for Nick's
                  opportune arrival, commanding "Whoa!" and strong grasp upon the other frightened
                  animal, so mad were their struggles to get free. But they were saved, and led
                  panting and trembling across the shaky old bridge, and up the hill to a safe
                  distance, before Nick, who guided them, ventured to stop to relieve the anxiety of
                  the wretched inmates.
               "But who are the inmates? And how do we know but what they are our bitter foes?"
                  thought Harry, as he took the horses by the bits, with his cheek pale with
                  excitement, and his heart beating strangely, as Nick proceeded to open the
                  carriage-door.
               Nick knew very well what he was about, however; for he had seen a pale face at the
                  window, and knew the horses and the old Tremont family carriage very well: so he
                  was not surprised to find Grace and Helen within, pale as marble, and half
                  fainting with terror, while their black servant-girl lay in strong convulsions
                  upon the carriage-floor.
               At the sight of Uncle Nick's black, honest face at the door, joy and surprise
                  created a sudden revulsion in Grace's feelings; and, overcome by her emotions, she
                  leaned forward, as she had done a hundred times in childhood, laid her head on his
                  shoulder, and gave way to a passionate burst of tears. In that moment of joyous
                  recognition and deliverance, the prejudices of caste and color were forgotten. The
                  affection engendered in infancy displayed itself to Harry's astonished gaze, in
                  defiance of all the strict rules of propriety; that had for years been instilled
                  into the proud little maiden's heart. Nor did he think it surprising when he came
                  to know that she thought they had fallen into the hands of rebels or guerillas,
                  instead of those of tried and trusty friends. Uncle Nick, too, seemed quite as
                  much overcome with emotion as herself.
               "T'ank God! T'ank God!" he kept repeating; "dat leetle missy saved;" and the big
                  tears rolled down his dark cheeks like rain.
               "I do—I do thank him, and you, too, my dear old friend!" sobbed Grace; while
                  Helen, too, grasped his hand, and poured out her fervent thanksgiving. Both were
                  so bewildered, and overcome with emotion, that they did not see Harry, until Nick
                  turned to him and said, 
               "I guess Nick have to divide de t'anks with he young friend here; for, if he no
                  turn quicker'n litenin', de hosses got off de bridge for all Nick."
               "Then he has our thanks, our fervent gratitude," said Grace, crimsoning as she
                  looked up to find his eyes fixed searchingly upon her face, yet failing to
                  recognize in the pale, careworn, bearded young man her smooth-faced, merry, boyish
                  friend of other days. But Harry knew Grace at once, as she had changed far less
                  than he; and he was slightly amused by
                  her evident attempt at recognition.
               It did not take long to explain the position of the young ladies: they were in
                  great trouble at home. The judge, their father, had been arrested by the rebel
                  authorities, and put in prison, for denouncing their usurpations, and declaring
                  his loyalty to the Union. The slaves, their master gone, were escaping in gangs
                  every day from the plantation. And, to crown the whole, the guerillas were roaming
                  over the country, murdering and devastating the property of all Unionists, and
                  some who were not, their crimes too evidently winked at by the rebel authorities.
                  In this state of things, the young ladies, expecting nightly an attack from the
                  desperadoes, had decided to flee from the neighborhood, and seek shelter, as their
                  father had advised them to do, with their dear old uncle at Hunter Hills. And they
                  had set out that morning early, with the coachman and two armed outriders as an
                  escort, intending to sleep that night at the house of a friend, and reach Hunter
                  House the next evening.
               They had come but a few miles, however, before shots were fired, very near to
                  them; but whether at them or not, they could not tell. Any way, they had
                  frightened the horses, who started so suddenly as to throw the driver off the box.
                  Then they ran down the long hill, as if pursued by the evil one; while the
                  cowardly outriders, it was presumed, sought safety in flight.
               "And now," continued Grace, "you can't think how glad I am to meet you, Uncle
                  Nick. I know God sent you for our deliverance, and to pilot us to our dear uncle's
                  arms."
               Nick and Harry exchanged meaning glances.
               "Oh! how could they tell them that the home to which they were flying, and the
                  friend in whom they were trusting, had passed forever from the earth?
               "I tell you what I t'ink," said Nick, swallowing his emotion. "We come right off
                  from Hunter Hills, an' de hosses drefful tired an' hungry, an' you gals drefful
                  scairt, an' rumfled up; so 'twill be best to go back home a leetle spell an' git
                  rested, an' talks ober matters."
               "Well, just as you think best, my friend. But first, how are they all at Hunter
                  Hills?"
               "Not bery well, Miss Grace," said Nick, wincing at the question. "Nobody dere now
                  but niggers. Dey all gone to Richmond."
               "To Richmond! Is it possible! What, uncle and all?"
               "All gone, little missus," said he solemnly.
               "Why, I thought they always spent the summer in the country, or at the
                  watering-places."
               "Ah! dey used to did. But times drefful bad. Country drefful dangerous jes'
                  now."
               "It is here, I know,—so near the lines; but we hoped it was better there. And
                  uncle is such a kind, good, influential man, that we felt as if he could protect
                  us; and so did father. But what can we do now? Do you want to go to Richmond,
                  Helen, that nest of secession and treason?"
               "No, indeed! And I am sure father would much prefer that we should go to
                  Washington," she returned in clear, sweet, yet decided tones.
               "So am I. But I can't bear to go, leaving him in captivity. Perhaps we had better
                  risk it to remain at home."
               "Where is your father?" asked Harry pityingly.
               
               "He was taken first to the county jail, where we visited him. But he has since
                  been removed: they will not tell us where, but most likely to Staunton or
                  Richmond."
               "You see, there were people here, whom his sense of justice in his legal capacity
                  had offended, who were only too glad of an opportunity to be revenged upon him,
                  and get him out of the way," said Helen sadly. "I fear uncle, too, will be unsafe,
                  with his plain speech and known loyalty. He will surely be caught up by the rebel
                  authorities, if aunt's friends do not interfere to save him; and then where would
                  be our safety if we were with him?"
               "I do not think you would be unsafe in Richmond, ladies, at present. The greatest
                  danger would be in getting there. And you must have friends there aside from your
                  aunt's family,—even among the rebel authorities."
               "I don't know who, I am sure," said Grace.
               "Are not your old friends, the Athertons, in the rebel service? Why not claim
                  their protection?"
               "No," said Grace quickly, while her cheek crimsoned: "I could not do that. We have
                  mortally offended them. And that may be one reason of our father's arrest."
               "Indeed! Why, I thought Philip was an old friend of yours," said Harry with a
                  questioning glance.
               "He may have been: he is not now. I have none I value in the ranks of rebellion.
                  But what do you think, Uncle Nick? " she continued. "Is it safe for us, or for
                  uncle, in Richmond?"
               "Ah! Massa good man, good Christian: he safe whereber he go. Young pretty Linkum
                  gals no bery safe anywhere in Virginny, jest now."
               "Nick," Grace exclaimed, after looking at him searchingly ingly a moment, "you are
                  in trouble. Something is the matter at Hunter House: I see it in your eyes; I hear
                  it in the tremulous tones of your voice; I feel it here;" and she put her hand to
                  her heart. "Why did I not see it before?" Then, after a pause, "Tell me, is dear
                  uncle, too, arrested?" and the tones were low, husky, and tremulous.
               "Dere, Nick neber could keep noting from leetle Grace: she allers find him out. He
                  hab got bad news. Dear old Hunter House cotch fire, an' burn all to pieces."
               "Merciful heavens! But the family"—
               "Dey gone to Richmond."
               "Dear old uncle too? O Nick! there is something you are trying to keep from me,"
                  she said in a tone of alarm.
               Nick turned appealingly to Harry. Knowing how tenderly she loved her uncle, he
                  could not bear to tell her of his death. Harry, understanding the mute appeal,
                  came forward pityingly.
               "We have indeed a sad story to tell," he said. "This dreadful war fills almost
                  every home with sorrow and woe. Your dear uncle has been dead for weeks. He was
                  murdered by the guerillas, who burned the mansion, and carried away every thing of
                  value they could lay their hands on."
               Grace was white and dumb with grief and terror, so long that they were glad when
                  the sobs burst forth. Helen was pale, and awestruck; but, knowing less of her
                  uncle, she did not feel it so acutely. When Grace grew calmer, the rest of the sad
                  story was told, as well as that of their deliverer, whose identity with her old
                  friend, Harry Hale, she had more than suspected.
               Just as they were preparing to turn the carriage about, and return to the mansion, poor coachy came limping
                  over the bridge and up the road, swearing at the cowardice of his late armed
                  companions. He had seen the hunter who fired the shots; and thus put to flight all
                  present fear of the guerillas. His ankle was badly sprained by his fall; but
                  otherwise he seemed to be uninjured. Helping him up to his place, they were soon
                  on the way to Tremont Hall.
               It was a large, handsome wooden structure; and, with its towers; balconies,
                  out-buildings, and shadowy trees, presented quite an imposing appearance. As they
                  drove up the broad carriage-sweep, and entered the gate, a ludicrous scene
                  presented itself to their view.
               Perched upon the top of the front balcony sat the two cowardly runaways, gun in
                  hand, watching for the enemy; while, within the mansion, a scene presented itself
                  that beggars description. They had spread the greatest consternation among the
                  slaves upon their return, by the report that they were attacked by the outlaws,
                  and the young ladies carried off by them, and that they had barely escaped with
                  their lives. They had heard the shots; and, frightened half out of their senses,
                  fear and cowardice had filled up the picture. At sight of the carriage, returning
                  with its new attendants, they slipped down from the balcony, cowed and
                  crestfallen, and very considerately disappeared.
               As soon as they alighted, the young ladies ushered Harry and Uncle Nick into the
                  mansion, expecting to find every thing in order, as they had left it a few hours
                  before.
               What, then, was their surprise, to find every thing in confusion, and the
                  house-servants all packing up their treasures, in anticipation of an attack, and a
                  sudden flight from the premises. The halls and alleys were lined by an
                  indiscriminate collection of frightened servants, sacks of clothing, baskets of
                  provisions, boxes of trinkets, bundles of bedding, squalling children, weeping
                  mothers, barking curs, mewing cats, and frisking kittens; all contributing to make
                  it a very pandemonium. Here sat Phillis, upon the top of a big bundle, weeping
                  bitterly; while Tull, with his effects strapped upon his back, was trying to
                  afford her Christian consolation. Chloe, more resolute in spirit, was brandishing
                  a frying-pan over the head of an obstreperous youngster, and threatening death to
                  all the outlaws in Christendom who should harm him. Betty, the housekeeper, more
                  intent upon the interests of the family, was packing a big basket with her young
                  mistresses' best bonnets and dresses, interspersed with various cakes and
                  condiments, jars and bottles of her own, that altogether would have made a heavy
                  burden for any mule on the plantation. The fat old cook, too, had her budgets
                  surmounted by a good-sized nest of pots, tin kettles, and sauce-pans. But the
                  crowning glory of the whole troop was the big bundle of Nett, upon the top of
                  which was strapped the great tin oven; inside of which, nearly smothered with
                  pillows, was snuggled her cute little black baby, with a loaf of bread and a roast
                  of meat still warm from its late slight exposure to the kitchen fire. The little
                  youngster was kicking and crowing, and clutching at the bright new tin; and seemed
                  delighted with his fine quarters. A more laughable or mirth-provoking scene could
                  scarcely be imagined. And, in spite of their grief and trouble, the new-comers did
                  laugh uproariously.
               "What in the world is the meaning of all this?" Grace exclaimed, as soon as she
                  could find her voice.
               
               "O missis! Little missy! Good gracious!" they all exclaimed in a breath. "Lordy
                  massy! We tought de grillers got ye bofe sure; an' comin' arter us ebery minit!"
                  and they all crowded around the young ladies, testifying their joy at their return
                  in every look and tone.
               "So those cowardly rascals came back and frightened you all out of your senses;
                  did they? But calm your fears. There's not an outlaw within a hundred miles of us,
                  I'll venture to say. Some poor loafer fired two or three shots at a squirrel, so
                  near that it frightened our horses; and they threw poor coachy off the box, and
                  ran away with us. They came very near dashing us off the Old Murder Run Bridge,
                  and but for Uncle Nick and this young gentleman, who were coming from Hunter
                  Hills, we should have been killed. But poor Jack got his ankle sprained; and I
                  want you, Aunt Betty, to doctor it up, and take care of dear Uncle Nick; while the
                  rest of you clear away this wreck as soon as possible." Saying which, Grace led
                  the way into the parlor, to entertain her new and welcome guest.
               Grace was delighted to see Harry once more, and had a hundred questions to ask
                  concerning the friends and scenes of other days, as well as the weightier and more
                  embarrassing ones of the present time. Regarding these, Uncle Nick was at last
                  called in for a consultation.
               Ignorant of the fate of their father, knowing that their secession neighbors were
                  inimical, and spies upon all their actions, and considering the terrible state of
                  the country, the young ladies were afraid to remain in their present quarters. So
                  it was decided at last that they should set out that very night, on horseback,
                  with Uncle Nick and Harry, for the Union lines. As spies were said to be in almost
                  every household, they took no one into their confidence but the overseer and Aunt
                  Betty, whom they thought they could trust; and their preparations were made very
                  quietly. They knew it would be a dangerous adventure; but both ladies were at home
                  in the saddle, of good courage, and ready, as they said, to fight or run, as the
                  case might be.
               So that night, when the lights had gone out in the slave-cabins, and vanished from
                  the neighbors' dwellings they set out on their dangerous journey, taking with them
                  their money, jewels, and their father's most 
                     valuaable
                     valuable
                   papers, through fear that they would fall into the hands of the enemy.
                  They were obliged to leave the family portraits, however, and a hundred other
                  precious things that gold could not buy,—never more expecting to behold them. It
                  was, indeed, a sad farewell to the old home.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               MARRIAGE OF THE REBEL GENERAL.—THE NOBLE WORK.
               
                  WE will now return to poor Catharine, who had never in her life
                  passed a more wretched night than that which preceded her bridal morning. It was
                  the night of Harry's escape; and she had but just got into a doze, when the
                  morning dawned, and she was weakened by the alarm given for the escape of the
                  prisoner. She had believed that he would find it impossible to escape, that he
                  would be executed, in spite of Gen. Atherton's promises; and not until thus
                  assured that he had done so, and she received his farewell billet, did she fully
                  realize that now her part of the contract must be fulfilled.
               How little, alas! did Harry dream, as he dashed over the Virginia hills and
                  valleys that sweet summer morning, with a heart filled with thankfulness for his
                  unexpected deliverance from bonds and a fearful death, what an exorbitant price
                  his sister was to pay for his liberty and life! It was a price beyond all
                  computation in her estimation-a bondage to which that of slavery, in her eyes, was
                  far preferable.
               Did she, then, regret her promise, mean to evade the penalty, or refuse to fulfil
                  her bargain?
               No, not for a moment. Harry's life was more precious than aught else to her then.
                  She believed he would have done as much for her under similar circumstances; and
                  she had too much principle to falsify her word, even though it might save her from
                  a fate to which she looked forward with fear and loathing. Yet, as she arrayed
                  herself that morning in her plain gray travelling-dress,—her only bridal robe,—she
                  felt as if she were preparing for sacrifice; and the tears would fall, and the
                  idea keep returning, that poor Harry would be caught and executed, and thus render
                  her sacrifice a vain one.
               Gen. Atherton came at last, flushed, and eager for the ceremony that was to make
                  them one, yet evidently fearful lest some untoward event should rob him of his
                  coveted treasure, or reveal to the world his treason.
               "What! in tears, my dear Catharine!" he exclaimed, as he came forward and greeted
                  her with a kiss. "This should not be. I shall teach you to look back with joy to
                  this hour that gives you to my keeping. Your brother is undoubtedly safe by this
                  time; and what is there to fear in becoming the bride of one who loves you so
                  fondly and truly?"
               "Every thing," she sobbed. "Every thought and feeling of my heart unfits me to
                  become a rebel general's bride."
               "Banish your fears, my Catharine; for I have none. We differ at present in our
                  political views, it is true; but I think I know you well enough to believe, that,
                  once my wife, bound by the most solemn vows, you would never be one to betray yor
                  husband's secrets or his honor, even to your dearest friends. Have I not judged
                  you truly?" he eagerly questioned.
               "I hope so. I should despise myself were it otherwise wise. Yet that does not fit me for the prominent
                  yet false position I should have to occupy as your wife."
               "I have no fears for the result, Catharine. You have sense and intelligence far
                  beyond most of your sex. In dignity and queenliness, few can compare with you.
                  Your manners are faultless, so far as I have observed them. In beauty, there are
                  none to compare with you in my eyes. I shall be only too proud to present you to
                  the world as my wife. So pray repress your sobs, and try and look forward more
                  hopefully to a future I shall endeavor to make bright and happy for you. My
                  friends will soon be here; and I cannot bear to have them think I wed an unwilling
                  bride. It might excite suspicions, too, that neither you nor I would care to
                  arouse; so I beg, I entreat, of you, for your own sake, and that of the name you
                  are soon to bear, to dry your tears, and, by your own quiet dignity, justify to
                  them my choice of a wife."
               There was something in those words and tones of passionate entreaty,—a compelling
                  power in the stern, serious, yet admiring eyes to which she could not help raising
                  her own,—that hushed the rising tempest of sobs, and made Catharine say, "I will
                  try and do as you wish," even though she felt as if her heart were bursting with
                  its burden of grief and fear; and she had been upon the point of kneeling to
                  implore him to spare her the fulfilment of a promise made under a species of
                  compulsion, and bitterly repugnant to all the finer feelings of her heart.
               He read it all in the look of eager, passionate entreaty, and in the fitful color
                  that faded into sudden pallor, as she said with a great effort, "I will try." And
                  it cost him a keen heart-pang to know that she regarded him
                  
                     The ceremony was performed that made 
                           Catherine
                           Catharine
                         "The Rebel General's Loyal Bride." Page 167.
                   with such deep feelings of repulsion and loathing. The thought, too,
                  crossed his mind, that, by generously resigning her, he might inspire gratitude
                  that would ripen into love, and in the end more surely gain all his fond heart
                  coveted.
               "But no," reason whispered. "If he did that, she would go at once beyond the reach
                  of his influence." So his only hope was in securing her now while he had the
                  power, trusting that kind and generous treatment afterwards would win for him the
                  heart and fond affection he coveted. He drew her down beside him at last, and, by
                  soothing words, drew from her a reluctant promise that she would join him,
                  wherever he might be, just as soon as circumstances would warrant her comfort and
                  safety, and try to be to him a good and loving wife. And, more than this, that she
                  would not leave the Confederacy, unless compelled to do so, without consulting him
                  regarding its propriety. He knew Catharine well enough to believe she would
                  endeavor to keep her promises when once made; and, having won these, he did not
                  despair of the full measure of bliss he coveted.
               The chaplain and chosen witnesses soon made their appearance; Dinah was summoned;
                  and the ceremony was performed that made Catharine "The Rebel
                  General's Loyal Bride." She neither wept nor fainted as she took those solemn vows
                  upon her lips; but she was as pale as marble, and her heart felt numbed by the icy
                  chill of despair. But the color came back to her cheek as the general warmly
                  pressed her hand at the close of the ceremony, and made her look into his eyes as
                  he murmured, "Mine! mine at last,—now and forever!"
               The chaplain and Major Darwin speedily offered their congratulations, and were duly thanked; but Col.
                  Mulford said in a half-serious, half-laughing tone,
               "I suppose I ought to follow the example of our friends here, general; but I
                  assure you I cannot do it with so good a grace, for I must own that I do not like
                  it at all that you should so cunningly steal a march upon us before your
                  departure. You knew very well that some of us, in your absence, would be striving
                  for the prize you have won, and, such being the fact, that your chance would be
                  remarkably small, if you did not secure it at once."
               "That is true enough," laughed the general. "I knew its intrinsic value too well
                  to leave it to the chances of surprise and capture by another. But don't be
                  disheartened, Mulford. You know the old adage,—'That there are as good fish in the
                  sea;,' &c."
               "Ay: but you don't believe in it, or I either. Yet I must try and be resigned. I
                  really hope, Mrs. Atherton, that you will have as kind and obedient a husband as I
                  would have been, with every blessing earth or heaven can bestow."
               "Thank you, for your good wishes, and all your flattering intentions besides,"
                  said Catharine, laughing, in spite of herself, at his odd humor, yet knowing very
                  well that he was really more than half in earnest in all he said.
               The gentlemen bade them adieu soon afterwards; and Aunt Dinah, who had been a good
                  deal put out and mystified by the whole proceeding, went back to Walter, muttering
                  to herself,
               "Dinah know noffin 'bout it. Can't understan' it no-how. He big, gran' gemman;
                  look like king: but den he so old, he so stern. Dinah know Miss Kate 'fraid: she
                  scairt inter it somehow. If 'twere on'y Massa Lloyd now! He plaguy fool to go off
                  in dat way! He neber find anuder Miss Kate."
               As soon as they were alone, Catharine sat down, pale and trembling. The thought
                  that her destiny for life had been sealed by the solemn vows she had spoken took
                  away all the fictitious strength called up for the occasion. And oh, how she
                  wanted to be alone, and give way to her feelings unobserved! He went and sat down
                  beside her, put his arm around her, and pressed his lips to hers as he said,
               "Catharine, you performed your part nobly. You don't know how proud I am of the
                  wife I have won. And I know you would forgive my seeming selfishness, if you knew
                  how strong, how mighty, was my temptation; how fondly and passionately I love; how
                  impossible it seemed to live without you, and how fearful I was lest another in my
                  absence should win what I valued most in life. Oh, say, Catharine, that you will
                  forgive, and try to love me!"
               How could she, with all the secret chambers of her soul still occupied by the old
                  love, which she had tried so vainly to cast out? or while her rebellious heart
                  rose up so bitterly against the ungenerous course he had adopted to gain his own
                  selfish ends? He had saved Harry's life, it is true; but for this she could not be
                  so grateful as she would have been, had he done it from more noble and honorable
                  motives. But, whatever his motives, Catharine knew that she herself had made the
                  election, and really chosen her destiny. She knew that this man, however
                  unscrupulous, was now her husband and life-long companion, and that from
                  henceforth it would be sin to think fondly of another. She had controlled trolled her emotions by a strong effort
                  of will during the ceremony; but the sobs kept rising in her throat all the time.
                  Now, when she thought of the irrevocableness of what she had done, and he pressed
                  so earnestly for a reply, they burst forth in a passionate gush of tears.
               Naturally refined and sensitive, though his mind had been warped all his life by
                  untoward circumstances, he intuitively understood her feelings, and sighed deeply,
                  as he thought of the bitter repugnance she might feel towards the man who had won
                  her in so questionable a way. Tenderly he drew her up to him, and tried to soothe
                  her as he would a grieved child.
               "Pray don't, Catharine! It does to my heart to see you grieve thus," he said. "I
                  understand your feelings, and these tears are a bitter reproach to my selfishness.
                  It was wrong, I confess, to take advantage of your necessity as I have done; but
                  oh! I will try and make amends for it in the future. And, if the most unbounded
                  love and devotion can win a return, we will be happy in that untried future to
                  which you look forward with so much dread."
               From this tempest of grief he won her at last; and, when she became calmer, he
                  told her, as he had never done before, all his plans for the future, both for her
                  and himself. He wished her to remain at Mrs. Hunter's during his absence; and when
                  he returned, or sent for her, he thought would be the best time to announce their
                  marriage to the world.
               Every arrangement having been made for their comfort when the time of departure
                  drew near, poor little Walter was carefully removed to the cars in his uncle's
                  strong arms; and lying there, with his head most of the time in Catharine's lap,
                  he was carried back to Richmond. His pallid face and pitiable condition won a
                  great deal of sympathy from the passengers; but Gen. Atherton's protecting care
                  made all other attentions needless.
               They arrived in Richmond at last; and sadly and silently they bore him into his
                  mother's desolate home,—a wreck of the brave and beautiful boy who had left it so
                  bright and blooming with health but a few short weeks before.
               Nor was the home, or the mother to whom they had brought him, less changed than
                  the boy himself, as they saw at a glance when admitted to her presence. For the
                  most poignant regret for her treatment of her husband, horror of his awful death,
                  and thoughts of the danger of her boy, had nearly driven her distracted, and made
                  of her a pale, nervous wreck of her former self. She knew they were coming, and
                  thought she was prepared for it; but the sight of her orphaned boy, with his
                  bandaged head, sunken features, and great, dark, mournful eyes, affected her so
                  much, that she nearly fainted, and had to be removed to her room; while his
                  sisters were overcome with grief.
               Gen. Atherton left very soon to attend to the business that called him to
                  Richmond, but came back for a parting interview. Catharine, as she had promised,
                  awaited him in the parlor, when he came down from his sister's chamber; and glad
                  enough was she that there was little time for leave-taking. He looked grave and
                  solemn as he came up to where she was standing by the window, and seemed deeply
                  agitated as he took her hand.
               "Catharine, my dear wife," he said tenderly, "if circumstances will not permit
                  your wearing my name at present, it is fitting that you should be provided with
                  the means of locomotion and independence;" and he placed a well-filled purse in
                  her hand.
               
               "Indeed, Gen. Atherton, I do not need it. I have enough for all present
                  necessities," she said, as she tried to return it.
               "Nay, Catharine, you must keep, it,—if only as a recognition of the tie that binds
                  us in one, and your rightful claim to all I possess. Your wardrobe was nearly all
                  burned; and I want you to fit up another, suitable for the position you will
                  occupy as my wife, and the journey you may be called upon to take by and by. Do
                  not hesitate to spend the money, or ask for more if you need it, at any time.
                  Write to me by every mail, if you can, and I shall be deeply anxious to hear from
                  you, and my friends here, until we meet again. Ah, Catharine! what would I not
                  give to be able to take you with me, or to remain with you myself! If you knew all
                  the anxieties I have in leaving you thus, the bride of a day, you would pity me,
                  and wish to go too. But I must: it is time for me to go. Won't you give me one
                  kiss of love or forgiveness to repay me for all I resign?" and he drew her up to
                  him in a close embrace, and passionately pressed his lips to hers. "God bless and
                  keep you!" he said, "and turn your heart to me in my absence, even as mine is ever
                  turned to you, and filled with your image always. Farewell."
               With a face flushed and deeply agitated, he turned and left the room; while
                  Catharine, scarcely less so, sat down dizzily, to think over her singular
                  position. But she was not one to spend much time in sighs and tears and vain
                  regrets for what could not be helped. There was too much for her to do in the
                  world for that. A great many women in her position would have felt justified in
                  breaking vows extorted under such circumstances; but she did not. They were sacred
                  in her eyes, when once made; and, however repugnant to her feelings, she resolved
                  faithfully to fulfil them. She realized, too, that her marriage to one in his
                  position, when known, would put much greater power in her hands, for good or evil,
                  than she could ever have hoped to wield in an humbler calling. And if she gained
                  this power, and could exert it in the cause of liberty and humanity, she felt,
                  even in that bitter hour of retrospection, as if her sacrifice would not be all in
                  vain.
               Mrs. Hunter was overjoyed at Catharine's return; and so were her two young
                  daughters, for they all felt acutely the need of a strong, brave spirit to rely
                  upon. They begged her to resume not exactly her old place, but that of a dear
                  sister and friend, with whom they could at times intrust the care of the
                  household. The servants, too, were all delighted to get Catharine and young Massa
                  Walter home again; and he, poor fellow, could hardly contain his joy at being once
                  more among his friends, though he still clung to Dinah and Catharine more than all
                  the rest. Of his father's death he could never hear or speak without a shudder of
                  horror; and no one was allowed to mention it in his presence. He was gentle and
                  patient, and liked to have the family around him; yet his brain was still weak. He
                  disliked noise and confusion; and perfect rest and quiet, the surgeon said, was
                  the best medicine that could be given him.
               Catharine found that little Jennie and Fannie had grown very old, womanly, and
                  careworn during her absence; and that their mother, in the habit of relying upon
                  her, and full of her own private griefs, had neglected every thing, thus devolving
                  upon her young daughters the care of the household. The children had all loved their father dearly: they
                  could not speak of him without tears; and his death had cast the first dark shadow
                  over their young lives.
               After the first shock and excitement of their meeting was over, Mrs. Hunter
                  relapsed into her old nervous lethargy, leaving every thing to the care of others.
                  She would shut herself up in her chamber for hours, brooding over the troubles she
                  had brought upon herself, and growing more strange and taciturn every day. She
                  would come into little Walter's room every morning, look mournfully upon him a few
                  moments, ask how he was, press a kiss upon his pale brow, and then leave the room
                  until evening, when she generally went through the same ceremony; seeming to do it
                  as a sort of penance, and not from her old motives of fond affection. One morning,
                  as she was leaving the room, Walter turned to Catharine with his eyes full of
                  tears, and said,—
               "Why is it that my mother never stays with me now,—never talks to me,—does not
                  love me any more?"
               "Oh, she does, darling!" Catharine replied. "But she is not well herself: and she
                  can't bear to see you so ill, sad, and suffering; it makes her worse."
               "But it would be such a comfort to me, dear Miss Catharine, to have her here, and
                  sometimes lay my head on her bosom, as I do on yours. And then you could go out,
                  and take the air, or do what I know you are longing to do, and I want you to do,
                  so much."
               "What is that, dear?"
               "Why, to help take care of the sick and dying Union soldiers, whom I heard Dinah
                  telling you were treated so cruelly, one day, when you thought I was asleep. Oh! I
                  want you to go to them; and I want mother to go and help them; and I guess I can
                  pick lint to dress their wounds pretty soon myself. I can hardly sleep for
                  thinking of those prisons and hospitals, full of sick and wounded and dying men;
                  so near to me, yet so very much worse off,—with nobody to give them nice food or
                  drink, or care for them in any way; while I have every thing, and everybody is so
                  good to me,—but my mother;" and the repressed sobs burst forth with a violence
                  that was quite alarming.
               "Don't! pray don't take it so to heart, dear! Your mother does love you: we all
                  love you very dearly. And, as soon as you are well enough, we will all do what you
                  desire, and what you guessed truly I was longing to do. Yet I am sorry you heard
                  what Dinah said."
               "I am not sorry," he sobbed: "I wanted to know the truth, which nobody would tell
                  me. Now I shall not rest until something is done."
               "But you do not realize, my dear child, all the difficulties in the way of my
                  doing what I could wish. You are hardly old enough to understand the jealousy and
                  bitterness of feeling engendered by this unholy strife, which would at once cause
                  a Northern lady to be suspected, if she attempted to do any thing for the comfort
                  of her own people. Joined by some Southern lady of distinction, and known Southern
                  feelings, we might perhaps arouse holier and more enlarged sympathies in the
                  hearts of the people of Richmond, that would lead them to see a man and a brother,
                  for whom Christ died, even in the enemies he commanded them to love."
               She was interrupted at this moment by a bitter sob, and, turning, saw Mrs. Hunter,
                  pale and agitated, coming towards them. She had stopped for something near the
                  door, that happened to be ajar, and heard it all. She advanced tremblingly to the
                  bed, and exclaimed, as she put her arms round Walter's neck,—
               
               "Oh! forgive your wretched mother, my darling, in that she so sorely sinned
                  against you and your poor father. Oh! she does love you as her life, but has felt
                  as if you did and must hate her. If you don't—if you love her still"—
               "Hate my mother! Oh, never, never!" sobbed the poor boy, as he laid his weary,
                  aching head, for the first time since his return, upon her bosom. "I know you did
                  not mean to do it, mother; and I love you all the same. But you will help dear
                  Miss Catharine, won't you, mother, in all that I want her to do?"
               "Gladly, my dear, so far as I am able. But then there is very little two poor,
                  feeble women like us can do. Our dear Catharine is already worn out with doing and
                  suffering for us all, while I was neglecting the duties that ought to have
                  devolved upon me, and giving up to my own selfish sorrow. But it shall be so no
                  longer. Reproved, and brought to my senses, by what I have just heard, I will
                  henceforth take the place beside my child God and nature assigned me. And
                  Catharine shall rest, and get the roses back into her pale cheek once more."
               "But the poor soldiers, dear mother?" said he eagerly. "Our Catharine cannot rest
                  while they are sick and suffering all around her. She couldn't in the camp, it
                  made her heart ache so."
               "Is that so, Catharine?" said Mrs. Hunter, taking her hand. "Cannot you forget
                  others long enough to take a little care of yourself?"
               "Ah, Mrs. Hunter! if you had ever beheld such dreadful and never-to-be-forgotten
                  scenes as I have witnessed within the last two months, you would not ask; and I
                  know your kind heart too well to believe you would refuse fuse to do all in your
                  power to mitigate the suffering caused by this cruel war. We both seem doomed to
                  suffer by it in various ways. Our warmest sympathies are with different parties
                  and opposing squadrons. If we were men, no doubt, we should be in arms against
                  each other. But as we are not men, and belong to that sex on whom devolves a
                  heavenly ministry, may we not join our hands, and devote our best energies to that
                  mission that has made Florence Nightingale, and a host of other noble women,
                  immortal? You know that I am strongly loyal in my sentiments; yet, if I know
                  myself, I can so far sink the partisan in the philanthropist, as to see a common
                  humanity in both friends and foes, and perform the same kind offices for both.
                  And, O Mrs. Hunter! is there not Christianity enough among the ladies of Richmond
                  to lead some of them to this noble work?"
               "No doubt there is, Catharine, if they could be aroused to a sense of their duty.
                  But then, with all my cares and troubles, what can I do?" she said in the old
                  hopeless, nervous tone.
               "Mrs. Hunter," said Catharine earnestly, "you are just the one to arouse them to a
                  sense of their duty to God and man. Have you forgotten the power you wielded, and
                  the generals and statesmen who surrounded you, but a few short months ago? Surely
                  no lady in Richmond, not even the wife of the President, could exert such a wide
                  and ennobling influence as yourself, if you chose to do so. I should know my work,
                  and should not hesitate a moment regarding it, were I on the other side of the
                  Potomac. But here I can do nothing without your patronage, or that of some other
                  person equally influential, who is not afraid to set a noble and magnanimous mous example to Richmond and the world
                  of Christian love and forbearance and gentle kindness towards those even who are
                  regarded as enemies."
               Catharine had touched the responsive chord in Mrs. Hunter's bosom at last,—the
                  ambition for pre-eminence and distinction, the desire to be first in a good work
                  that would win the applause of the world, the wish to set a noble example for all
                  inferior people to imitate. And even the real danger of arousing a suspicion of
                  disloyalty, and consequent persecution, in the existing state of public feeling in
                  Richmond, had a subtle charm to such a troubled, repressed, but naturally
                  ambitious and active spirit as Mrs. Hunter's.
               We will do her the justice to say, however, that she was really a kind-hearted
                  woman, though not one who would be likely, unprompted, to adopt a course like
                  this. And, if Catharine had done no other good by coming back to Richmond than
                  arousing Mrs. Hunter to a sense of her duty, its value to the cause of humanity
                  could not be counted in gold. For, absorbed and half crazed by her own private
                  troubles since her husband's death, she had secluded herself from society, and,
                  shut up in her own rooms, had known very little of what was going on around her.
                  Now she took the opposite course. And, being of an enthusiastic temperament, she
                  went into every thing, as she had done into the secession movement, with her whole
                  heart. She had receptions almost every evening. Her nights were spent with her
                  darling boy, and her days associated with Catharine, and a few choice spirits whom
                  her influence and enthusiasm raised up around her, in visiting prisons and
                  hospitals,— to which her influence with men in official position gave her easy
                  access,—and in relieving the distresses of their inmates mates by every means that
                  lay in their power. Enough other ladies were extending such benefits to Southern
                  soldiers at that time in Richmond, leaving those of the Union who were prisoners
                  in their hands to die untended and uncared for. So it remained for Mrs. Hunter and
                  her associates to take broader and more philanthropic views of Christian duty, and
                  set a noble example of generous kindness to those they considered enemies, even at
                  the risk of sacrificing themselves to the fury of popular prejudice.
               Mrs. Hunter had from childhood been a fashionable church-member, and read the
                  responses in church with the most devotional unction; but out of it she was quite
                  as gay and worldly as the dictates of fashion demanded. The change in her seemed
                  all the more striking from these circumstances, though indeed a perfectly
                  legitimate and natural one. She merely sought distinction at first in a new field;
                  one that pointed her out to the world as a nobler and better woman than she really
                  was. And so conspicuous had she been in aiding the rebellion, that no one thought
                  of attributing to her, it seems, any but the most generous and philanthropic
                  motives.
               As she advanced in it, and familiarized herself with the details of her work,
                  however, all the tender and womanly sympathies of her nature were aroused. Her
                  mind and heart enlarged in view of its great magnitude. Her own selfish ambition
                  was lost, in a measure, in pity for the woes and sorrows and keen agonies she
                  daily witnessed. Her house was open every evening for the reception of
                  distinguished visitors. Her kitchen became a cook-shop, where Catharine, who
                  thoroughly understood all such mysteries, with Aunt Dinah, manufactured tured every day large quantities of
                  gruel, broths, jellies, and other dainties, for the sick and sorely wounded.
                  Things like these they could not get through the medium of the authorities, whose
                  policy dictated starvation or the poorest fare as the surest way of getting rid of
                  the Union prisoners. Mrs. Hunter's drawing-room, too, became a perfect workshop
                  for the manufacture of lint, bandages, and necessary clothing; in the preparation
                  of which, the precious stores of old linen were brought out. Every member of the
                  family, down to little Walter, was actively engaged in this work during every
                  leisure hour of the day, that was not employed in visiting the wretched but
                  deeply-grateful pensioners of their bounty.
               Mrs. Hunter had still great influence with the rebel leaders, and could frequently
                  bend them to her views regarding the amelioration of the condition of the sick and
                  wounded of both parties. And those views, though she was unconscious of it
                  herself, were suggested, moulded, or corrected by Catharine in their daily
                  confidential intercourse at home. For good and wise reasons, Catharine did not
                  deem it prudent to make herself too conspicuous in the work. Though she was Mrs.
                  Hunter's head, heart, and right hand, she appeared to others to be only her
                  executor and handmaiden. Her heart bled for the suffering of her people; and she
                  strove by every means in her power to alleviate them by calling Mrs. Hunter's
                  attention to them. But even Mrs. Hunter could not always secure the attention of
                  the leaders to frightful cruelties, and abuses of power, neglect of duty, or
                  official prejudice, so fierce and vengeful were the passions aroused by this
                  terrible civil war. Yet, though little was done in comparison with the great and
                  urgent need, those few noble women performed a good and glorious work. They were
                  the means of saving hundreds of precious lives; and their names are now a praise
                  and a blessing at many Northern as well as Southern firesides.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               PHILIP ATHERTON.—THE GENERAL'S RETURN.
               
                  GENERAL ATHERTON, meantime, had found himself placed in such
                  circumstances as precluded the idea of his joining Catharine in Richmond, or
                  sending for her to meet him in the South-west, for several months. Battles had
                  been lost and won; and the whole Southern country was in arms, and convulsed as by
                  an earthquake. Travelling had become so dangerous that he dared not risk a long
                  journey for her unattended; and, besides all this, his unacknowledged marriage
                  stood in the way of his sending for her through government channels, or giving her
                  an unsuspected position at the end of the journey. He wrote very often, however,
                  telling her what he was doing, and always deploring their separation.
               Catharine, as she had promised, always replied,—detailing their present mode of
                  life, and all their small plans for alleviating the terrible suffering he, as she
                  told him, was doing his best to inflict and perpetuate on a thousand times larger
                  scale. If she must be his wife, and in that way be joined to a ministry of evil
                  and wrong, she determined, from the first, to tell him the truth, and do all that
                  was in her power to neutralize the evil and alleviate the suffering. She secretly
                  rejoiced that he could not come to claim her, and kept hoping something would
                  intervene to save her from a destiny she dreaded more and more as the time of his
                  expected arrival drew near.
               To increase her anxieties, in the mean time Philip had returned to Richmond,
                  temporarily taken up his residence with his aunt, and was again perseveringly
                  suing for her favor. He had come back quite a hero, in his own estimation, and
                  that of some of his friends. He had been sent, just after Harry's escape, with a
                  company of soldiers, to search Tremont Hall for the treasure and treasonable
                  correspondence of the judge, its late occupant, in the hope of finding proof that
                  would condemn him for treason. On the way they had captured Harry and Uncle Nick,
                  with Grace and Helen, who were on the way to the Union lines, and taken them back
                  to the Hall. While there, searching the house, and his men carousing over the
                  judge's fine wines and liquors, they were discovered, and in their turn captured,
                  by Theodore, Catharine's elder brother, who, with his company of picked men, had
                  been making a reconnaissance within the enemy's lines.
               Philip and his men were taken as prisoners to the Union camp, with the glad and
                  rejoicing Harry, who was welcomed as one risen from the dead. Uncle Nick and the
                  young ladies were also rejoiced to escape the dangers that had surrounded them,
                  and be able to take up their residence with their aunt in Washington.
               Philip had managed to escape from the Union lines, and took great credit to
                  himself for what, if they had known the truth, he needed to be ashamed. But he had
                  seen and captured Harry, and been captured himself by Theodore; and, by magnifying and exaggerating all
                  the circumstances, made capital of this with Catharine, who was so anxious to hear
                  of their welfare at home that she gladly listened. But when Philip came back to
                  his old ground, and began to plead his love for her, she told him, that she could
                  not now listen to such words from him or any other man; and that something as
                  insuperable as death must forever divide them. He thought, of course, she meant
                  their political differences: but he would not for them give over his pursuit of
                  her; for he had come back to Richmond on purpose to win, and even wed, her, if he
                  could get her consent to do so. He hated Grace Tremont now with his whole heart,
                  and had indeed accepted the mission to Tremont House out of revenge; but Catharine
                  he loved with, all the fervency of an impassioned and selfish nature that was
                  ready to gratify itself at the expense of honor and truth. He pleaded his cause
                  most fervently the very first opportunity he could get, but of course all in vain.
                  From that time Catharine avoided him all she could; for to be the wife of the
                  father, without daring to tell the truth to the son, who persecuted her
                  continually with lover-like attentions, placed her in a very unpleasant
                  predicament. Angered at last by her determined avoidance, Philip began to revolve
                  dark schemes in his head. In the fervency of his passion, he had offered marriage
                  to one he thought far beneath him in the social scale; and his pride was
                  exceedingly galled by her refusal. When his mind was in just this state of turmoil
                  and irritation, Catharine received a letter from his father that filled her heart
                  with renewed fears and apprehensions for the future. The letter read as
                  follows:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           MY DEAREST CATHARINE,—I am coming at last to claim my beloved and
                              beauteous bride. You cannot imagine with what impatience I look
                              forward to the hour which is to make you really mine for all time and
                              for eternity. Oh, if you only felt as I do, what joy would be in the
                              thought of clasping a loving as well as beloved bride to my heart! Yet
                              no man can love as fervently as I love you, without inspiring, in some
                              degree, a kindred passion in the object of his affection, I still
                              believe and fondly hope. I shall be with you by the day after
                              to-morrow, at furthest, and there will be time enough then to announce
                              our relations and future plans without troubling yourself about it at
                              present. I think, however, that your dread of the announcement to
                              Philip and my sister is needless; for they both appreciate you too
                              highly to offer any serious objections. Jane herself says that she
                              knows no lady who can compare with you; nor can she ever repay the
                              deep debt of gratitude she owes you for all you have done, and are
                              still doing, for her family. In any case, I have a right to choose my
                              own wife and my own destiny; nor will she be indebted to them for
                              wealth or social position. So do not worry the roses off your cheeks
                              for any of them, but keep them all for me when I come.
                           
                              Yours ever,
                              EDWARD ATHERTON.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Catharine was waiting on the veranda for Mrs. Hunter and the carriage when this
                  letter was presented to her by a servant who had been to the office. Seeing no one
                  near, she opened and read it, with her cheek paling and flushing, and with every
                  evidence of strong emotion.
               Philip meantime, unknown to her, had been watching her from the parlor windows. He knew she had
                  received letters before; and he had been extremely jealous of her unknown
                  correspondent. He had questioned his aunt, but without eliciting the desired
                  information.
               "She has a good many acquaintances among the officers; and I think she corresponds
                  with some of them,—your father among the rest," was her reply.
               The carriage rolled up to the door, and Mrs. Hunter came down stairs almost as
                  soon as she had perused her letter. Covering it with her handkerchief, and
                  thrusting it into her pocket, was the natural impulse upon which she acted. Philip
                  saw it all; and, more than this, his eagle eye noted the fact, that, in slipping
                  the handkerchief in so hastily, the letter fell out of it and over the railing
                  down into a clump of twining roses, without her perceiving its loss. His first and
                  honest impulse was to go out, restore the letter to its owner, and help the ladies
                  into the carriage; his next, upon which of course he acted, was to stay where he
                  was until the carriage rolled away towards the hospital, then go out, get the
                  letter, take it up to his room, and at once greedily devour the contents. How
                  little did he dream of the terrible surprise awaiting him in that coveted epistle!
                  and, when read, he could hardly believe the evidence of his senses. For a time he
                  was fairly stunned by the blow.
               What! Catharine, whom he loved as his life, marry his father!—his own father!—a
                  man of more than twice her age,—of whose love for him even his father seemed to
                  doubt; when he, young, handsome, rich, and accomplished, wooed her in vain for his
                  bride! What could it mean? This, then, was the reason "as insuperable as death"
                  that was to deprive him of the only woman he had ever really loved.
               That his proud, aristocratic father should condescend to wed a poor Yankee
                  governess was not the least of his wonders. In a young, ardent man like himself,
                  such a mésalliance would be much more excusable;
                  though he was very sure his father would never have excused it in him. Men of
                  mature age, he felt sure from what he saw around him, were much more ready to
                  gratify their taste in the choice of poor but young and lovely wives than to
                  accord their sons and daughters the same privilege. But Philip could not endure
                  the thought of leaving Catharine for his mother,—the wife of his father; and he
                  walked the room for a long time in a state of excitement that defies
                  description.
               It must not be! He must do something to prevent it. His father was an old man, and
                  he could not love Catharine as he loved her; nor could she ever love him. In mercy
                  to her, in mercy to himself, he must do something to prevent the
                  sacrifice. But where had they met? How could he have obtained her promise to
                  become his bride? It came to him at last,—her stay under his protection in the
                  rebel camp at Manassas Junction; and he cursed the day that ever sent her back to
                  Hunter Hills. But all this time Philip was laboring under a misconstruction. His
                  father's letter was, unfortunately, so ambiguous that he did not dream of their
                  being already married, or he might not have done what he did.
               It so happened that Mrs. Hunter forgot to read her letter, that came with
                  Catharine's, until after her return from their round of calls; so, when they all
                  met at dinner, she turned to Philip, and said,—
               "Oh! I have such good news,—your father is coming home in a day or two,—safe and
                  well!"
               
               "Is he," said Philip musingly.
               "Yes: and he says, too, that he has a very pleasant surprise in store for us when
                  he does return. What do you suppose it is?"
               "I am sure I cannot tell. Perhaps Catharine can assist you,—Yankees are so
                  proverbially good at guessing," he said with a feigned laugh, and keen, searching
                  look into her expressive face.
               Catharine had looked pale and anxious ever since her return, and as if she could
                  hardly repress her tears. But that was nothing strange, coming from such sad
                  scenes as she had witnessed that day. Now, however, the rich color flashed over
                  cheek and brow, as she said in a cold, forced tone,—
               "I am fast forgetting my Yankee proclivities, Philip. I can fathom no mysteries,
                  except those where I am myself concerned. Among all the changes going on around
                  us, I fear I shall not know myself much longer."
               Mrs. Hunter rather wondered at her flash of color and singular reply; but Philip,
                  who had the key to it, read a deeper meaning in it than appeared on the surface.
                  And he also read in Catharine's averted eyes a deep-seated feeling of pain, and
                  dread of her approaching fate, that he wished the face of no bride of his to wear.
                  He watched her closely, yet without seeming to do so, and became very sure that
                  the heart had nothing to do with the sacrifice of youth and beauty and strong
                  loyal feeling she was about to make. Either she was doing it from ambitious
                  motives,—a desire for wealth and position,—or else there was some compelling;
                  power, urging her on to the sacrifice. He cared little for his father's feelings;
                  for he had no business, at his age, to have any thing but a fatherly regard for
                  any woman as young and fair as Catharine, he thought. And new claimants to the
                  Atherton estates, unless they were of his own raising, were inadmissible in his
                  calculations. Philip had a short journey to make that same afternoon, and did not
                  return until the next morning. At dinner that day, he seemed in better spirits
                  than usual, and chatted quite gayly upon passing events.
               He should be obliged to rejoin his regiment, he said, in two or three days; and he
                  was rejoiced to know that his father was coming home, so that he could see him
                  before his departure from Richmond. Contrary to his usual custom he spent the
                  afternoon at home, with Walter and his sisters; while Mrs. Hunter and Catharine,
                  with their usual supplies, went their usual round.
               Ever since her return to Richmond, Catharine had been deeply interested in the
                  fortunes of a young couple, whose wedding she had attended a short time before her
                  departure. The young husband had been sorely wounded at the battle of Bull Run,
                  and had lain in a very critical condition ever since. The young wife, who had been
                  one of Catharine's best friends in Richmond before marriage, frequently sent for
                  her now, when unusually alarmed about her husband.
               Just after dusk that same evening, as they were all sitting in the parlor, talking
                  over the events of the day, a servant came in with a note for Miss Hale.
               "O Mrs. Hunter!" she exclaimed, after looking it over, "Mr. Gordon is a great deal
                  worse; and Emma is very anxious for me to come and spends the night with her."
               "Well, I am very sorry for them both. But you are tired and half sick yourself;
                  and hadn't you better send your excuses to-night;, my dear;" and she took the
                  note, and glanced over it herself.
               
               "It would be cruel to refuse in a case like this," said Catharine. "You see, she
                  thinks he will not live till morning. One can see by the handwriting alone that
                  she was hardly like herself when she wrote it."
               "Perhaps it would be cruel to refuse under the circumstances; but pray take care
                  of yourself as well as you can."
               "Why cannot I take your place, Catharine?" said Philip anxiously. "I will do so
                  with pleasure to save you trouble."
               "Oh! that would never do. There are men enough there, no doubt. It is because she
                  craves a woman's presence and sympathy, that she sends for me."
               "Let me go with you then, and see you safe there."
               "Thank you, Philip; but it is altogether unnecessary. I shall be perfectly safe
                  with Mrs. Gordon's coachman."
               Philip did not urge the matter; but, when Catharine was ready, he attended her to
                  the carriage, helped her in, said "Good-night!" then bidding the coachman drive
                  carefully, it was so dark and cloudy, he returned to the parlor, and spent the
                  evening with the family.
               
               The next day, upon the earliest train from the South-west, true to his
                  announcement, came Gen. Atherton, strong in the hope of meeting and claiming his
                  fair young bride.
               The time spent in delivering his despatches, and reporting the progress of
                  military affairs in the South, to President Davis and his councillors, seemed
                  intolerably tedious to the expectant bridegroom. It was over at last; and then he
                  was driven with all speed to Mrs. Hunter's, where a joyful reception awaited
                  him.
               He was at heart quite as much surprised as pleased to find Philip there. He had
                  heard nothing before of his capture and escape, and supposed him still with the
                  Army of the Potomac. He was glad enough to see him,—glad to know that he was safe
                  and well; yet somehow it dampened his spirits to meet him in the place of his
                  lovely bride. It was not the fond meeting and greeting he had anticipated so long.
                  It made the announcement of his secret marriage much more difficult than to Mrs.
                  Hunter's family alone. To him he had intended to make it by letter, which he felt
                  would be far less embarrassing to both.
               He inquired after Catharine at last, after Walter and every other member of the
                  family had had their share of attention, and was told the circumstances of her
                  absence at Mr. Gordon's.
               "Pray send for her at once; won't you?" he said to Mrs. Hunter. "I want to see the
                  whole family together once more."
               "I have already sent John to make inquiries," she replied. "I think he must be
                  here soon. But what is it about that pleasant surprise, brother? I hope it is yet
                  in store for us."
               "We will see presently," he returned, smiling, and looking out eagerly, as the
                  carriage rolled past the windows, and on towards the stables.
               "What is this? Why, John has not brought Catharine! James Gordon must be dead or
                  dying. Tell John to report himself at once," said Mrs. Hunter to a servant in
                  waiting.
               John, an old servant of the family, who, like all the rest was very much attached
                  to Catharine, soon presented himself, but looking particularly dismal, and a good
                  deal frightened withal. 
               
               "Well, what is it, John?" said his mistress eagerly. "Is Mr. Gordon dead or
                  dying?"
               "He be no dead, but bery much better, mistress."
               "Then why did not Miss Catharine come home?"
               "She no bin dere at all, mistress. Dey no send for her last night at all."
               "Good heavens! What can have become of her, then?" exclaimed Gen. Atherton in
                  alarm.
               "I am sure I cannot tell," said Mrs. Hunter. "We all know some one came for her;
                  and I saw the note they sent in myself. Catharine remarked some singularity in
                  Mrs. Gordon's writing, but evidently thought it was owing to strong nervous
                  excitement. That note must have been a forgery."
               "But there was no collusion! She evidently believed in its genuineness; did she?"
                  said the general, half in doubt.
               "Certainly. None of us doubted it, I am sure."
               "Any more than we did that she was worn out with watching and caring for others,
                  and would have preferred remaining at home," put in Philip eagerly.
               "Then there must have been some plot to entice her away for some infamous purpose;
                  and I tremble for the consequences! exclaimed the general with a sudden revulsion
                  of feeling, that made him dizzy and strengthless as a child. He sat down by the
                  table, leaned his head upon his hand, and turned his face away to hide the strong
                  emotions that no one but Philip keenly observed. Could it be that Catharine had
                  planned and gone off in this way to avoid him, and the fulfilment of her
                  marriage-vows? He could hardly believe it. Such plots and intrigues seemed wholly
                  discordant with all he had seen of her open, truthful character. Yet it was just
                  possible that her dislike and dread of him had become so strong, that she could
                  not feel justified in pretending to fulfil vows against which every feeling of her
                  heart rebelled; and so she had gone off in this mysterious way. That thought gave
                  him bitter pain; but he did not harbor it long before another, much more
                  startling, presented itself. The city was full of troops,—many of them lawless
                  borderers, who would hesitate at no crime; and Catharine, so young and
                  unprotected, and mingling among them so much in going and coming from the prisons
                  and hospitals, might have attracted the attention of some ruffian or ruffians, who
                  had in this way secured her for a victim. In either case, it was best, he thought
                  for her connection with him to remain a secret, seeing it had been so thus far;
                  for its announcement, under present circumstances would attract more attention and
                  remark in both public and private circles than he cared to be the subject of in
                  his present state of cruel anxiety and disappointment.
               "Oh, dear! what shall we do?" exclaimed Mrs. Hunter hopelessly. "I'm sure I cannot
                  live in such suspense about the dear girl, or hardly live without her a day. You
                  cannot imagine, brother, what an angel of hope and blessing, what a help, support,
                  and reliance, she has been; not only to us, but to scores of the sick, wounded,
                  and dying in Richmond, since your departure. They hailed her coming with eager
                  joy, and looked upon her face with as much admiring reverence as if it had been
                  the face of an angel. Oh, how they and we all shall miss her, if she never comes
                  back to us!"
               "Well, we will sift the affair to the bottom and find her if we possibly can,"
                  said the general, starting to his feet energetically. "The city is under martial
                  law; and it cannot be that a lady can
                  be abducted in this manner without somebody's knowing something about it."
               "But it was very dark and misty last evening, father; and they might on that
                  account have escaped the vigilance of the sentinels," said Philip.
               "Or bribed them, more, likely. Such things are oftener done by men of high than
                  low degree. And we know that Catharine has been a shining mark for the admiration
                  of more than one in positions of honor and trust."
               "I know very well," said Mrs. Hunter, "that she has refused offers of marriage
                  from men you would never have dreamed would have condescended to wed a poor Yankee
                  governess. I have often wondered at her seeming indifference to the advantages of
                  fortune, her blindness to her own worldly interests, as well as her evident
                  feeling of equality with the proudest of her suitors. I do believe she loved
                  Lloyd, though; and I feel sorry now that her affair with him turned out as it
                  did."
               "She was certainly a very remarkable girl," said the general; "and in beauty,
                  grace, or intellect, few could compare with her."
               "We are ready to concede her every perfection," said Philip rather sarcastically;
                  "and I am ready, my dear father, to join you in any search for her you may think
                  proper to institute to-day. To-morrow I shall be obliged to return to my
                  regiment."
               "Then we will commence at once, my son. Too much time has already been lost, I
                  fear, for her honor or safety."
               They did commence the search at once; and every seeming avenue of information was
                  traced up to its fountain-head, without eliciting the least clew to her mysterious
                  disappearance. Both the civil and military arms of power were tried in vain; and
                  large rewards were at last offered to obtain some knowledge of a fate that seemed
                  shrouded in mystery and gloom.
               The general and others at; last settled down upon the conclusion that some of
                  Catharine's Yankee friends had been playing a cute trick upon them in thus
                  spiriting away a Northern lady, who rumor said was about to marry a distinguished
                  rebel officer,—nobody knew whom.
               The whole Hunter family soon came to regard Catharine as dead, or lost to them
                  forever; and never was a friend more sincerely mourned or missed. Poor little
                  Walter could hardly be comforted. Mrs. Hunter missed her every hour; and, if
                  brother or nephew could have brought her back as his wife, perhaps she would not
                  have objected to the terms.
               Never was a man more suddenly cut down or keenly disappointing than Gen. Atherton;
                  and it was as much as he could do to keep from displaying it to all around him.
                  After a thorough search and a mature deliberation, he came to the conclusion that
                  Catharine had, most likely, found some unexpected chance to return to the North,
                  and had gone off in this mysterious way to deceive Mrs. Hunter, and evade her
                  duties to him. Possibly she had gone with some favored lover, who might be equally
                  cheated with himself, regarding her secret marriage. He had believed in the
                  duplicity of all women before he met Catharine; and now he rapidly drifted back to
                  the same opinions, and inwardly cursed the hour that made her his wife. He sought
                  active service now, and became a much more zealous and active partisan than he
                  would have been with Catharine for a companion.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE ABDUCTION.—CATHARINE'S ILLNESS.
               
                  BUT where all this time was Catharine?
               When she entered what she supposed to be Mr. Gordon's close carriage, she was a
                  little surprised to find that it already contained what appeared to be a female
                  occupant.
               "Missus t'ink Miss Kate no want to come 'lone, so she send 'long Thetis," said the
                  unexpected attendant.
               "She was very kind. But how long is it since your master began to grow worse,
                  Thetis?"
               "Eber sense Miss Hale come away dis mornin'. Thetis t'ink he die dis time."
               It was so dark in the carriage that Catharine could only see the dim outline of a
                  black figure. She knew Mrs. Gordon's maids well; and that was the name of one of
                  them. But somehow the voice seemed unfamiliar. Yet it was true that she had been
                  there in the morning, as she had said. Still she felt no suspicions until she
                  began to wonder they did not arrive at Mr. Gordon's.
               "We seem to be a long time in getting there," she said at last. "The coachman must
                  have lost his way in the fog. But there was no need of it here, where there are
                  street-lamps all the — Why, there are none here, as sure as the world!"
               At this moment Catharine became conscious of an overpowering smell; and a minutes
                  afterwards a strong arm was thrown around her, and a handkerchief was pressed to
                  her nose, that must have been strongly-saturated with chloroform. She struggled
                  and resisted with all her might, and tried to scream; but a hand was laid upon her
                  mouth, her breath came thick and gasping, her limbs relaxed, and she knew nothing
                  more until gradually aroused from a long gap of unconsciousness. Then she found
                  herself riding along a country road, in a heavy military wagon, reclining on the
                  arm of a tall and powerful man, in the undress costume of an officer in the
                  Confederate service.
               Though clouded and hazy at first, her senses soon returned, enough for her to
                  remember her last stifling sensations; and then she became terribly alarmed to
                  think, not only of her present position, but also of what might have been done in
                  her state of insensibility. As soon as she began to move, the man spoke; and there
                  was something in the tones of his voice that re-assured her, and in some measure
                  allayed her fears.
               "Do not be alarmed," he said: "you are perfectly safe, and going to the house of a
                  friend."
               "What friend?" she eagerly asked. "I have none in this country out of
                  Richmond."
               "You will know in time, but not now."
               "But why this—this outrage? Why have I been drugged, and brought here against my
                  will?"
               "To save you from a worse fate,—one to which you were looking forward with dread
                  and loathing. Can you understand that?"
               "Perhaps I do. But why take these extraordinary measures?"
               
               "Pray be content with what you know. I am not permitted to say more. I am here
                  only to oblige a friend, to whom I am under infinite obligations." And more he
                  would not say; though she tried more than once to elicit something regarding her
                  destination. She soon became deadly sick, as people usually are who have taken
                  chloroform; and he was again obliged to surround her with his arm to keep her from
                  falling out of the wagon. He persuaded her at last to take something that tasted
                  very strongly of brandy, that he carried in his pocket, and the draught seemed to
                  do her good. They rode on until nearly daylight; and she thought they must have
                  gone at least twenty miles. Turning off, then, from the turnpike, they came to a
                  broad, shadowy lane that led them up to a handsome country residence. It was built
                  of stone, and surrounded by plenty of trees, from which the leaves were falling in
                  the chill November dawn. They drove up the broad avenue a part of the way, then
                  stopped, evidently with as little noise as possible. The driver, a negro, jumped
                  out, and held the mules; while the officer alighted, and helped out Catharine, who
                  at first could scarcely stand.
               "It is very early," said her attendant: "yet we are expected; and it is my
                  friend's wish that our entrée should be as
                  secret as possible. And it is best for you that it should be so. We will walk in
                  as quietly as we can, and allow the negroes and dogs the pleasure of their morning
                  nap."
               There was no use in trying to resist the wishes or commands of her gentlemanly
                  attendant; so she took his arm, and walked up to the mansion. At the door they
                  were met by a fat, good-natured old negro woman, who welcomed them with a shrewd
                  grin, and took them into a warm, handsomely-furnished, well-lighted parlor. Here
                  the gentleman, after hoping she would experience no harm from her night journey,
                  and be the happier for it in the future, bade her "Good-morning," and departed.
                  Feeling as if there were no use in resisting the fate that brought her there, and
                  completely worn out with fear, fatigue, excitement, and the effects of the deadly
                  narcotic, she longed for rest. Signifying as much, she was piloted up stairs, and
                  ushered into a handsome suite of rooms, where a cheerful fire was burning in the
                  grate, and every thing looked neat and comfortable. She sat down before the fire
                  in a luxurious easy-chair, completely tired out and chilled through. The old woman
                  took off her bonnet and wraps, and then stood gazing at her admiringly.
               "Looks drefful pale an' sick like," she muttered; "but 'deed she's a pretty
                  critter. No wonder she set all dese men-folks crazy. Don't blame de ole feller a
                  bit, or de young one eider. But Chloe t'ink it bad bizness, for all dat."
               "Of whom are you speaking, good mother?" said Catharine wearily.
               "Oh! no matter. Massa say Chloe keep still tongue in her head; an' she must."
               "Who is your master, my good woman?"
               "Missis know soon enuf, an' like him well nuff, I reckon. All de gals du dat,
                  Chloe t'ink. He hansum as a picter. But won't de lady hab some breakfus?"
               "No, no! But pray let me lie down: I feel sick as death." The woman led her to the
                  bed, and attempted to undress her; but, fearing some sudden surprise, she refused
                  her assistance, and lay down in the dark merino dress she happened to have on at
                  the time of her abduction.
               
               Her head ached intolerably. She was sick at the stomach, with every wretched
                  feeling engendered by fright, an overdose of chloroform, and the cold she had
                  evidently taken in her long night-journey. The old woman covered her up warmly,
                  shut the blinds, and at last she slept: but it was a fitful slumber, broken by
                  wild dreams of rapine and bloodshed. She awoke when the sun was high in the
                  heavens: but her head and bones still ached with a dull, dreary pain, her flesh
                  was hot and sore, her tongue was parched, her cheeks burned; and she knew that she
                  had taken a heavy cold, and was threatened with fever. She did not regret it much,
                  except for her unpleasant sensations; for she felt so wretched mentally, that she
                  hardly cared what became of her. She did not forget that this was the day he was
                  coming,—her lord and master; and there was a feeling of relief in the thought that
                  she was far away, and probably out of his reach.
               Yet he was her husband; and, if they were ever to meet, she did not like the idea
                  of his thinking that she had fled from Richmond to get out of his way, as she was
                  sure he must under the circumstances. That she had been forcibly abducted for that
                  reason, she could not doubt. But who could have known the facts, or cared to take
                  advantage of them in that way, she could not imagine. At last she thought of the
                  letter, the loss of which had given her a good deal of uneasiness; and that
                  partially solved the mystery. Some one who felt an interest in her must have found
                  it; and, guessing her feelings, had contrived this plan to get her out of her
                  husband's way. She felt so ill that she kept her bed the greater part of the day,
                  and did not attempt to leave the room. The old negro woman brought her every thing
                  she wanted, which was not much, but refused to enlighten her as to her employers,
                  or their motives, if she knew them. The prospect from her windows was very
                  beautiful, overlooking, as it did, a fine extent of country; though the sear
                  foliage of the deciduous trees, and added brilliancy of the evergreens, testified
                  to the near approach of winter. She thought of escape; but, too sick to entertain
                  that thought long, she tacitly resigned herself to her destiny. That night passed
                  in much the same manner as the morning. Still she was no better when it was over,
                  though able to walk about the room. She still thought of escape, but was too
                  miserable to care much about it, so long as she was undisturbed by noise, or the
                  arrival of troublesome visitors. There were plenty of books in the room, and she
                  tried to read; but it made her head and eyes ache worse, and she could fix her
                  mind on nothing long. The morning dragged slowly away. When her nice dinner was
                  brought in, it was hardly tasted.
               At last she heard the clock strike one, and soon after the roll of carriage-wheels
                  up the avenue. Her pulses now beat high with excitement as well as fever; but her
                  windows were so situated that she could see nothing of the arrival. She heard the
                  murmur of voices; the tread of feet in the halls and alleys, and up and down the
                  stairs; the clatter of dishes, and moving of tables; and at last grew so anxious,
                  that she thought she would step out into the hall to listen. For the first time
                  she attempted to open the door of her chamber, but found, to her surprise, that it
                  was bolted on the outside, and she was a prisoner. Chloe had been comings and
                  going so often, that she had not mistrusted it before. The shock to her feelings
                  was so great that she could scarcely
                  stand. Weak, nervous, and terrified at the thought, she sunk down upon the lounge,
                  laid her face upon her clasped hands, and burst into tears.
               And thus it was that Philip Atherton found her when preceded by Chloe, a few
                  minutes later, he entered the room.
               "What, in tears, Catharine!" he exclaimed, as he came and sat down beside her, and
                  attempted to take her hand. "I am surprised. I had hoped to see you rejoicing in
                  any fate that took you out of Richmond just at this time. Did I not guess your
                  feelings truly?"
               Catharine was astounded. She had not dreamed of Philip being her real abductor, or
                  that he, if he really knew the truth, would have dared to thwart and circumvent
                  his own father. Did he know that she was really his father's wife? If not, dared
                  she tell him, after promising so solemnly not to divulge it until her husband's
                  return?
               He looked upon her pityingly and in silence for a few moments, longing to hush her
                  sobs upon his bosom; but somehow he dared not try it.
               "Catharine," he said at length, "I had hoped for a different reception from this.
                  I had flattered myself that you would prefer the shelter of my fond, enduring love
                  to the fate I found awaited you in Richmond,—to which I thought, from your every
                  look and tone, you looked forward with fear and dread."
               "You took a fine way to coax me over to your views, Philip Atherton," said
                  Catharine, raising her head proudly,—"one worthy the ingenuity of a first-class
                  pirate or brigand. But pray to what fate worse than this do you allude, sir?"
               "That of a marriage with a man old enough to be your father, whom you may fear and
                  respect, but can never love. The means I took to save you from it were the only
                  ones I could think, of, that would at once preclude objections on your part, from
                  some mistaken sense of duty, and elude the vigilance of martial law," he said with
                  his face flushing hotly at her scornful allusions to his brigandism.
               Catharine sprang to her feet, and began to pace the room rapidly, and in the
                  greatest consternation, trying to think of what it was best for her to do. That
                  Philip loved her quite as passionately, and more unscrupulously, than his father,
                  she could no longer doubt. And this daring outrage, in sending her out of his
                  father's way, believing her evidently still free to choose, warned her that he had
                  come to bring the affair to a crisis in some desperate way. She saw plainly that
                  he was not to be turned from his purpose, or trifled with. Back and forth she
                  paced the room for some time, with a flushed and excited countenance; while he
                  watched her furtively, trying to read his fate in her expressive face, and
                  wondering how she could hesitate in a choice between the son, glowing with youth
                  and health and beauty, and the father stern and faded and old. He forgot the fact,
                  that, if she could have had a choice, she would have selected neither the one nor
                  the other as the companion of her future life.
               She decided at last that concealments and half-way measures were unadvisable in
                  the present crisis; so, with a face pale with excitement, all excepting a bright
                  red spot on either cheek, she came tremblingly up to Philip, took both his hands
                  in hers, and said in a deeply-agitated yet pitying tone,—
               "Philip, you have done yourself a great wrong, as well as me, in bringing me here as you have
                  done,—exposing, not only my health, but my character to the greatest
                  misconstructions. Yet I forgive you, though another may not, because you knew not
                  what you were doing. Like all the rest of the world, you seem ignorant of the
                  fact, that for more than three months I have been your father's wife."
               "My father's wife! Good heavens! is that the truth?" he exclaimed, starting to his
                  feet as suddenly as if a cannon-ball had rolled under them, and looking into
                  Catharine's eyes with a wild, strange, agonized expression, that fairly startled
                  her.
               "It is the solemn truth Philip," she said. "I am his wife, at least in name. We
                  were privately married at Manassas the morning previous to his departure for the
                  South-west. How, or why, I dare not tell you. I promised not to reveal the fact,
                  or leave the country before his return. But to save you, his son,
                  from further errors, if not crimes, I feel that I must confess the truth. Oh!
                  pity, and leave me now, Philip, to a fate that is irrevocable, and forget that you
                  have ever loved me."
               "I wish I could, God knows! But it is impossible. What, you my
                  father's wife!—my mother! and forever beyond my reach! Oh, the
                  thought will drive me mad!" and it was his turn now to walk the floor, and wring
                  his hands in bitter agony of spirit; while she sat down, leaned her aching head
                  upon her hands, and silently wept.
               At last he came up, and bending over her, and putting his arm around her, said in
                  a husky voice, "O Catharine! even now, if you only loved me, we might fly
                  from"—
               "Let me hear no such words as those from your lips!" she exclaimed, rising in
                  majesty. "You forget what is due to yourself and your father's wife. Bear your
                  disappointment like a man, even as I have borne mine, and lived on to suffer still
                  more. But I may not live long. I took a severe cold in coming here, and I am very
                  ill at this moment. Don't you see the fever in my bloodshot eyes and flushed
                  cheeks and feel it in my burning hands?" and she laid her hot hand upon his cold
                  and clammy ones.
               He pressed the hand to his lips, and looked drearily into the flushed face, but to
                  be convinced that she told him the truth.
               "O Catharine!" he exclaimed in alarm. "You are really ill. If my bringing you here
                  should cause your death, I should never forgive myself."
               "I should not murmur, Philip. The sleep of death would seem sweet to me now, the
                  life before me seems so dreary and joyless."
               "Without love, or congeniality of soul or suitability of age, or even the strong
                  bond of political affinities, O Catharine!"
               "Say, no more, Philip, but leave me now, I beg of you,—leave me to my fate."
               "But what will you do? He is in Richmond making inquiries for you
                  everywhere."
               "Does he acknowledge me as his wife?" 
               "No, indeed; or I should not have come here to woo or insult my father's wife!"
                  said he bitterly.
               "Do not mention it again, but go,—go. I forgive and pity you. But my head is
                  bursting with pain: I can hardly see. I cannot think what to say to you any
                  longer," she exclaimed in an agonized tone.
               
               "But you must have a doctor immediately," he said in at tone of alarm.
               "No, no: that would reveal the secret. It must not be known that I am here. How it
                  would disgrace me, and him too, if it were known that I had run away from him to
                  stay here alone with his son! Chloe can doctor me, I'll warrant; and she won't
                  tell him— I took poison, and went off to get rid of him. Ha, ha, ha! Funny wasn't
                  it, to hide from him in this way? To sell myself to save his life,
                  and then cheat him out of the price. Was that right, do you think? I don't. But
                  then I was so afraid I couldn't help it. He'll be jealous as an ogre, I'll
                  warrant;, if I look at Lloyd, or Philip, or anybody younger or handsomer. But who
                  cares? One can't always keep her thoughts from roving, if she is tied with cords
                  or matrimonial bands. I'm not one to break over them, though. Maybe I shall learn
                  to love him as he said. I hope so. Oh! is that you, Philip? You came to see your
                  father, did you? He is just returned, and you will find him in the library. He
                  will be delighted to see you safe home after that bloody battle. Was Theodore
                  there? or Harry? Wounded, did you say? Oh, I must go to him at once!" And she
                  started up in wild alarm; while Philip, who had thus far listened in astonishment
                  to her wild ravings, doubtful at first that they were so in reality, but convinced
                  at last that they were the incoherent utterances of delirium, caught her by the
                  arm to prevent her from dashing out of the room and down the stairs.
               Her eyes grew wilder and wilder every moment, and were fixed on vacancy, or roving
                  restlessly. Her face was hotly flushed, her pulse bounding; and there was every
                  symptom of a raging fever. He led her back to a seat, and then, completely at his
                  wits' end, rang for Chloe, who had retired. Besides Catharine, there was no white
                  woman on the plantation; and he knew, that, if a doctor was sent for, it would
                  excite a great deal of wonder and speculation in the neighborhood, get to the ears
                  of his father, and lead to unpleasant consequences. Chloe was quite a celebrated
                  doctress along the negroes. She thought she could manage the case skilfully and
                  Philip finally concluded that it was better to risk it in her hands, under a
                  charge of secrecy, than to hazard Catharine's reputation by calling in medical
                  aid. So she was persuaded by Chloe to go to bed, opiates were administered, and
                  then she proceeded to give her a famous sweat. But, in spite of all Chloe could
                  do, Catharine was stupid or raving by turns for several days. Philip had planned
                  to spend them with her in a very different manner. Now he sat by her at times,
                  when Chloe, worn out with watching, slept upon the lounge near by, listening to
                  her incoherent ravings, and gathering up, first and last, the whole story of her
                  devoted self-sacrifice to save her brother's life, as well as indubitable proofs
                  of her innocence, purity, and truth. He felt indignant at his father for taking
                  advantage of her as he had done; though conscience whispered that he would have
                  done the like in the same circumstances,—or worse if he could. Yet he bitterly
                  cursed himself now for the ungenerous part he had acted towards her first and
                  last, and all he had made her suffer. If he could have won the love of such a
                  woman, he felt that he would have become a better man; and his thoughts went back
                  regretfully to his conduct regarding Lloyd Hunter, and the pride and haughtiness
                  that repelled her in the bright morning of their lives.
               Catharine grew calmer at last; but she was then completely pletely exhausted, and still dangerously sick, when
                  Philip was compelled to tear himself away, and return to his regiment. But the
                  time spent in that sick-room was not wholly lost upon him. His mad passion was
                  cooled by the knowledge that her most secret earthly thoughts were all of another;
                  while her perfect sincerity, truth, purity of soul, high sense of honor, and
                  strong religious principle, and trust in God, awed, and inspired him for the time
                  with such a respect for her as he had never felt for any other woman,—such a
                  reverence for sacred things as he had never in his life experienced before. He
                  left the place a sadder, wiser, but exceedingly anxious man.
               Philip had a private conference with his overseer before leaving, and also left a
                  letter with Chloe for Catharine, in case she recovered, but to be burned if she
                  did not, with strict injunctions that she should have the best of care, and every
                  thing that was necessary for her restoration.
               It was late in November when Catharine was brought to the plantation: it was
                  mid-winter before she could sit up a moment, and a much longer time before she was
                  able to leave her sick-chamber. A physician at first might have broken up the
                  fever; though that is doubtful, so strongly was it fastened upon her system. As it
                  was, she had it the natural way; though Chloe took great credit to herself for her
                  wonderful cure of the sick lady, who ran away from the guerillas, and came to her
                  for protection one dark November morning. The life-giving spring breezes brought
                  health and strength, and a more refined and delicate beauty, back to the poor
                  invalid, but the greatest anxiety regarding her future destiny.
               As soon as she thought her well enough, Aunt Chloe put Philip's letter into
                  Catharine's hands, with money enough for all present exigencies. It began
                  thus:—
               "O Catharine! what can I say to you in this dreadful hour, that I see you lying
                  there upon the confines of eternity, through my means, and yet must, by a strong
                  necessity, leave you to your fate, and bid you perhaps an eternal farewell? Yet it
                  may be better for you and for me that it is so; for I cannot endure the thought of
                  your really becoming his bride, or ever forgive him for taking advantage of you as
                  he has done. And oh! would it not be better for you to be rejoicing among the
                  angels—as you would, if mortal ever did or can—than to live on, a life of fear,
                  disgust, and loathing? For I know all, Catharine. The whole truth has been
                  revealed to me in your wild ravings; though I should not have understood it but
                  for my previous knowledge of that captivity and escape. As it is, family pride
                  will forever seal my lips; and you must burn this epistle if you live to read it,
                  lest in some way a clew should be afforded to his enemies. Reading your heart
                  thus, as I have done, Catharine, I truly honor and exonerate you from all blame.
                  Knowing your most secret thoughts, I believe you to be a pure, self-sacrificing
                  angel, of whom neither of us was in the smallest degree worthy. Led on by a
                  passionate, self-indulgent nature, I have wronged you in the past, dear Catharine,
                  more than I dare to think of. And I had come to believe female purity and virtue a
                  myth, and that there was none unpurchasable, until this hour that I read your pure
                  and noble soul. Oh, if I could have a wife like you, it would be my salvation! But
                  that is now impossible. The past cannot be recalled called. In the present I am reaping its punishments
                  with a vengeance, in a blighted and unhappy life. For the future I have only a
                  mad, sleepless ambition, that may lead me on to death. Forgive all I have made you
                  suffer. Think of me as kindly as you can. If possible, I beg of you to conceal the
                  part I have taken in your abduction, and thus shield me from his anger. My own
                  private feelings would bid me counsel you to return to your friends at the North
                  as soon as possible; yet I know that a sense of duty may lead you back to Richmond
                  and to him. In either case, I shall not blame you. I enclose the means to do
                  either; and you must act as you think best. To-morrow I go back to my duty, with a
                  weight like a mountain on my heart. Oh, how deeply I realize in this dreadful hour
                  that 'the wages of sin is misery, if not death'! Farewell, dear Catharine,
                  farewell forever."
               Catharine could not read this epistle without tears, and the strongest emotions of
                  pity and regret for the evident suffering of what she believed to have been a
                  noble nature run to waste and wickedness, through early indulgence, and a mistaken
                  mother's training. She forgave, and felt sorry for him; yet she could not forget
                  that he probably was the cause of the bitterest disappointment of her life,—one,
                  too, that had led her on, step by step, to her present unenviable position. Philip
                  had left her free to act, and advised her to go home. But no passes were granted
                  at that time; and it was not so easy to do so as it had previously been. But, in
                  spite of her repugnance, there was her solemn promise; and did she not owe her
                  first duty to her husband? If he, through doubt or jealousy, refused to believe
                  the strange tale she had to tell, she could then decide upon some other course.
                  Therefore, as soon as she was able to sit up, she wrote, not only to him, but to
                  Mrs. Hunter, detailing her painful experiences, excepting what related to Philip's
                  visit, and asking what she had better do.
               The slave, sent on horseback to the nearest office with the letters, ran away, as
                  hundreds of others were doing at that time. The letters never reached their
                  destination; and Catharine waited in vain for a reply. After days of suspense and
                  anxious solicitude, she wrote again, but with no better success than before. She
                  did not know of course, that neither of her letters ever reached their
                  destination. Thinking at last that they doubted her story, and wanted to cast her
                  off, she made some inquiries about crossing the lines. Finding she could not do
                  this in safety, she concluded to return to Richmond at a venture, though a little
                  doubtful of her reception.
               But, in all those weeks and months that Catharine had lain there sick, homesick,
                  and suffering, the bloody work of war had gone on. Though the splendid army of the
                  Potomac, from one cause and another, chafed in their canvas tents, sickened with
                  inaction and hope deferred, and rapidly filled up the hospitals and graveyards,
                  bloody battles had been fought at many other places, with varied fortunes, all
                  along the extended lines. Thousands of precious lives had been sacrificed, and
                  millions of treasure had been expended.
               But Catharine knew very little of all this: she saw no papers or intelligent
                  people, and heard only the wild, garbled stories circulating among the slave
                  populations, who, unable to read themselves, were kept in as great ignorance as possible by their owners, especially
                  at this time, when they were in a general expectation of a jubilee of freedom.
               Philip Atherton's plantation was one he had inherited from his mother. Though
                  large and isolated, and its owner thoroughly loyal to the Confederate cause, it
                  had not been exempt from the desolating scourge of war, any more than others in
                  Northern Virginia at that time. The slaves ran away in scores; the crops were
                  overrun and wasted; the fences burned; and every thing seemed going to rack and
                  ruin. None could prevent the spoiling of their possessions by the roving bands of
                  soldiery and desperadoes, who swept like a tornado over the hills and valleys of
                  the Old Dominion, emboldened by their successes, and feared alike by friend and
                  foe. They had paid the plantation two or three visits previous to Catharine's
                  arrival; ransacking the house, corn-cribs, smoke-houses, pig-sties, and
                  hen-roosts, taking whatever they liked. But several months had passed away since
                  that time; and they had begun to feel quite secure again.
               Catharine had been very shy of exposing herself to the gaze of the people on or
                  around the plantation; yet, as she gained strength, she began to walk out at
                  certain hours to view the beautiful scenery, and breathe the refreshing spring
                  breezes: though generally careful to choose unfrequented paths.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               AN OLD ADMIRER.—RIDING IN STATE.
               
                  AFTER many earnest prayers for divine protection and guidance,
                  Catharine finally made arrangements for her return to Richmond. The overseer was
                  to take her to the nearest railroad station to go by the earliest morning
                  train.
               The afternoon previous to her expected departure, she thought she would walk down
                  the avenue to the turnpike to view the scenery, and fix the location in her
                  memory.
               It was past the middle of April: the sky was blue and cloudless, and the air soft
                  and balmy. The trees in this flavored clime were putting forth fresh young leaves
                  and opening buds. The early wild-flowers greeted her at every step, cheering her
                  by their bright young faces. The birds were warbling their evening songs of
                  thanksgiving to their great Creator, thus leading her own heart up in thankfulness
                  to the kind Father who had scattered such life and beauty everywhere, and
                  preserved her thus far in trouble and danger. She reached the little arched bridge
                  that spanned a beautiful stream that crossed the grounds at few rods above the
                  turnpike; and, tired with her unusual exertions,—for she was still far from
                  strong,—she sat down upon the low railing to rest, and think over her plans for
                  the future.
               
               A little hill, covered with a fine growth of young timber, screened her from
                  observation from the turnpike, and also deadened the sound of the approach of a
                  party of soldiery, who were advancing up the road. It was not until an
                  authoritative "Halt!" sounded upon her ear, that she dreamed of their approach, so
                  lost was she in her meditations. Starting up in alarm, she looked towards the
                  turnpike, and saw two men on horseback just rounding the curve of the hill, and
                  turning their steeds up the avenue.
               "Nice place to stop and recruit, by ginger! Plenty of bacon and nice fat fowls,
                  and feed for the nags, I'll bet a fourpence," she heard one of them say to the
                  other.
               "So I reckon," echoed the other. "I wonder who lives here? But look there. Hallo!
                  Stop, gal! Can't ye answer a civil question?"
               "I'll be hanged if I didn't know that critter; and I'll be plaguy glad to see her
                  tu," continued the first speaker.
               Catharine did not wait for rejoinder or parley, but ran swiftly up the avenue,
                  spreading consternation among the slaves by the news that the soldiery were
                  coming; though not in so great a degree as she felt it herself: for, in the sharp,
                  nasal twang, she had recognized the voice of Sweep, her old admirer and
                  persecutor, though his face seemed somehow a good deal changed in appearance from
                  what she remembered it. She feared from his words that he had recognized her; so,
                  as soon as she got to the house, she ran up to her room, locked the door, and sunk
                  down upon a seat breathless and terrified. She had supposed him dead, or at least
                  out of the country; and she trembled to think of what new trouble might come of
                  his machinations. There was no use in resisting the demands for entertainment of a
                  party of twenty armed soldiery; though the overseer tried to do it at first: but
                  the carabines of the troopers brought him to his senses. They were guarding
                  government property, they said, and had a right to the best the country afforded.
                  So the big sutler's wagon they were guarding was drawn under the shed, the beasts
                  were fed and housed, and the men were soon having a merry carouse over the nice
                  supper Aunt Chloe was obliged to have prepared for them.
               In spite of her hopes to the contrary, Sweep had recognized Catharine; and, by
                  questioning the negroes, he found out that the lady had run away from the
                  guerillas, and come there sick ever so long ago, and was going away again upon the
                  morrow. He knew very well that she would not want to see him; but for all that he
                  determined to have an interview with "missy," as the negroes called her.
               As soon as supper was over, and it was quite dark, he took Aunt Chloe aside, and
                  told her privately that he knew the young lady who was staying there well; that he
                  was, in fact, a particular friend of hers, and knew she would be terrible glad to
                  see him. He wanted her to go and ask her if she wouldn't like to have an interview
                  with Mr. Kendall. Chloe did not like the looks of him, but she was totally
                  unsuspicious of his object: so, taking a light, she waddled up the grand staircase
                  to Catharine's room. It was locked; but she opened it at once at the sound of Aunt
                  Chloe's welcome voice, letting in, not only the old negress, but Sweep, who had
                  followed on tiptoe, and bolted in just behind her, before either she or Catharine
                  was aware of his presence. To avoid suspicion, she had been sitting there in the
                  darkness; and, blinded by the sudden illumination, she did not perceive the rascal until he had made good his
                  entrance, locked the door after him, and put the key in his pocket.
               "Dere's a great, tall, yaller-skinned, long-legged man down stairs, dat say he
                  know ye, miss, an' want to see ye dreffully," said Chloe, who, being a little
                  deaf, had not dreamed of his being so near.
               "That's so, Miss Kate," echoed Sweep, coming forward at this moment, and grasping
                  her hand as if he were the dearest friend she had in the world.
               She drew back, too much surprised to speak for an instant, and then exclaimed in
                  an indignant tone, "I would thank you to walk out of my room, sir! No gentleman
                  would enter a lady's chamber in such an impudent way as this!"
               "Oh! you're there, are you? I'm very much bleeged for the compliment!" he returned
                  with a grin. "I'll let the old woman out, if you say so; but, as to myself, I'm
                  very comfortable;" and he sat down composedly upon the side of the bed.
               "Get 'long out yerself, you old villain! I'll not have my young mistis 'sulted in
                  dis way!" screamed Chloe, as soon as she could catch her breath from astonishment
                  at his audacity, and flourishing her black fist in his face. "If you don't go dis
                  minit, I'll yell, an' rouse every nigger on de plantation."
               "Do you see that, you old baboon?" he returned, drawing a glittering
                  bowie from its sheath, flourishing it menacingly before her eyes, and then coolly
                  returning it to its receptacle.
               Poor Chloe subsided at once. She stood for a moment gazing in dumb terror into his
                  glittering gray eyes, and then, turning with a faint shriek, she ran towards the
                  door, followed by the equally frightened Catharine. He laughed sardonically, when
                  he saw their consternation at finding the door locked upon them, and they
                  prisoners, apparently at his mercy.
               "Pray be seated, ladies, and make yourselves to home, jest as I du," he sneered.
                  "I come to make a friendly call, and there's no need of makin' all this fuss about
                  it."
               "You see, I've bin wantin' to see ye, Miss Kate, ever sence that little affair at
                  the major's, to tell ye how grateful I was for what you done for me."
               "If you are so in reality, as I think you had reason to be, pray unlock this door,
                  and walk out, sir!"
               "Oh! that's another matter, my dear. I've got a great deal to tell ye before we
                  part; though I'll let out the old woman if you say so;" and he grinned
                  maliciously.
               "No, no!" she eagerly exclaimed. "She shall stay if you do."
               "As you will. I always love to please the ladies; though I'd a leetle ruther see
                  you alone. You see, Miss Kate, I ain't done likin' on ye yet; and I wanted to tell
                  ye how infarnal lucky I'd bin sence we parted. You know, I had a darned hard time
                  on it then; but I weathered it somehow, and got off slick as grease at last, with
                  my money tied round me in a leather belt under my shirt. You see, I got so crisped
                  and singed, and looked so awful on the outside, and all the niggers and white
                  folks was so mad, that they never thought to search me, and never spected, that
                  I'd got five thousand dollars under the rags and charcoal. So they let me slide;
                  and slide I did. They wouldn't touch me arter you was gone, except to give me a
                  kick, even when I yelled like murder for water. I suffered horribly, I can tell
                  ye, and like to kicked the bucket. But I was detarmined I wouldn't please 'em so well as to du that. So I
                  crawled off at last to the cornfield by the spring, and lived there until I got
                  well enough to quit that cussed plantation. I found an old tin dipper near the
                  spring; so I could get water, and milk the cows, and eat green corn, and all the
                  nice melons and fruit I wanted; so I didn't starve then, I'll bet a fourpence.
               "Well, I skulked round a spell until I got better, and found some fellers going
                  North who lent me a hoss, and went with me up to the Union lines by a kind of
                  underground railroad management. You see, they was beginning to git kinder out of
                  things down here, owin' to that tarnal blockade; and they wanted 'em dreadfully.
                  So I went up home to see if I couldn't help 'em a little. When I got up to
                  Washinton, who should I find there but my own brother, Jotham Sweep; and, as sure
                  as you live, he had got to be one of the biggest government contractors in the
                  Union, and, one way and another, was makin' money like smoke. He'd already made
                  tew hundred thousand dollars, he told me; and all he wanted was jest sich a cute
                  feller as me to make it a million in a few months. You see, the rebs were gittin'
                  out of knives an' fish-hooks an' darnin'-needles an' guns an' swords an' pistols
                  an' cloth an' shews, an' medsun most of all, 'cause old 'Stars an' Stripes' had
                  blocked 'em in; and they was ready to pay 'most any price for 'em. Jotham was
                  buyin' up all sich things for the government, an' shinnin' round the President an'
                  secetaries an' generals, an' pickin' up all the news; for he was always a great
                  hand to pry inter things. Then he'd let me inter all their secrets that he'd smelt
                  out, an' fix me out slyly with a lot of the traps he'd bought for government, an'
                  I'd start off for Old Dixie by the underground. I've kept it up ever sence, an' no
                  harm done to anybody. The rebs understand it, you see, an' furnish guards to bring
                  me straight through. When I've got news, or somethin' they want bad, like that
                  doctor stuff out there in the wagon, I go clear to Richmond; but most of the time
                  they take the stuff right off my hands nearer home. I jest growed a big beard, ye
                  see, an' colored it black with dye-stuff, so that my own mother wouldn't know me,
                  Jotham says,—if I only hold my tongue. Don't you see how it improves my beauty? My
                  new name, tu, is a plaguy sight hansumer than the old one, agin which I always had
                  a spite. But the best of it is, I've made money hand over fist ever sence I went
                  inter the business. I've already got tew hundred thousand safe and sound up there
                  in the banks to home; an', if you'll have me, we'll go up to Washinton, build us a
                  grand house, git us a coach an' hosses, carry home a few niggers to du the dirty
                  work an' wait on us; an' then we'll cut as grand a flourish as the best on 'em.
                  Come now, what do you say? Will you du it?"
               "No, indeed!" said Catharine indignantly. "I have no desire to flourish on such
                  ill-gotten gains."
               "Ill-gotten, did you say? It's no sich thing. They need the things dreadfully; and
                  it's as fair a trade as can be," said he spunkily.
               "Don't you know that you are liable to dreadful penalties if you are caught on the
                  Federal side of the line?" said Catharine, who, with her anger and wonder at his
                  audacity, had partially recovered her equanimity.
               "Oh, that's all moonshine!" he replied. "Jotham takes care of all that. They orter
                  be thankful, tu; for I carry 'em a sight of news every time I go to Washinton; an'
                  Jotham knows how to make that pay."
               
               "Ah! you play spy for both parties, then?"
               "No spy about it. I jest tell 'em the news: that's all. An' they both want to hear
                  it bad enough."
               "Well, you had better go home and take up some more respectable calling than
                  bringing aid and comfort to the enemies of your country, if you do not want your
                  neck stretched."
               "What are you duin' down here, ma'am?"
               "I am staying because I cannot get home just now; and cannot very well help
                  myself."
               "Oh! if that's all, I can help ye jest as well as not. Go down to Richmond with me
                  an' git spliced; an' the rebs won't say a word agin your goin' home with me.
                  They'd help us along all the way. I know jest how to come round 'em; an' they
                  think a sight of me. Why, the very biggest an' fattest on 'em, even to Jeff. Davis
                  himself,—though he's poor enough, the Lord knows,—treat me jest as hansum as
                  hansum can be. They some on 'em ask me to dine or take wine with 'em every time I
                  come down here, and act as if they was darned glad to see me."
               "Ay! and scorn you behind your back as a traitor to your country."
               "Oh! not at all. They treat me like a prince, an' want me to come down as often as
                  I can. But, arter all, it's jest a leetle mite dangerous; and I'm about tired of
                  packing around from pillar to post. So, if you'll go home with me, Miss Kate, I'll
                  quit the business, and we'll settle down comfortable together. I could then go
                  inter the contractin' business with Jotham, if you think that's a little grander,
                  and still make money enough to keep ye in gewgaws and fixin's. For, you see, I
                  don't mean my wife shall be behind Jotham's one bit. If you could have seen her at
                  the President's levy, as I did, you'd ha' thought it worth while to be a
                  contractor's bride. She looked as grand as the best on 'em, I can tell ye, in her
                  yaller silk gownd, with long red streamers on her head, and covered all over with
                  flowers and diamonds and flounces and furbelows. I guess Mr. Lincoln and his wife
                  thought so, tu, by the notice they took on her. But you're a great deal hansumer
                  than Jotham's wife; and you'd show off the fixin's, I can tell ye, up there to
                  Washinton: and you shall have all you want, if it costs ever so much. So jest say
                  you'll go now, an' it's all right."
               "I shall say no such thing; so you may as well go about your business."
               "Wall, I guess it's about time," he said with an evil smile. "But folks change
                  their minds sometimes, and especially gals; so I guess I'll call agin. There was
                  Jotham's wife, now, used to cut his head, and give him the mitten every time she
                  got a chance, up there in old New England. But when he got to contractin', and
                  begun to make a spread, she come round as sweet as molasses, and near about asked
                  him to take her, I heard. And that's about the way with all the women. They want
                  to be baited with a shiny hook. Maybe you won't be so different from the rest,
                  after all. I'll jest call round in the mornin', an' see. So good-night, an'
                  pleasant dreams." He then unlocked the door, let himself out, and marched down
                  stairs.
               "What an unmitigated scoundrel!" Catharine exclaimed, as soon as anger would allow
                  her to speak.
               "Dat's sure nuff," returned Chloe, who sat all this time cowering in the corner,
                  so much frightened by his threats as scarcely to understand a word he said.
               
               "Yes, indeed! and I was never more sorry for any thing I have done than for saving
                  his life a few months ago."
               "He mean you no good, miss. He eye show dat. Chloe glad when de house clare o'
                  him."
               "And I, too, Chloe. He's plausible enough, in his vulgar way; but he has not the
                  least sense of honor or decency. Why, to think of his forcing himself in here as
                  he did, is enough to make one's flesh creep. You must stay with me to-night,
                  Chloe, or I shall not sleep a wink."
               "Well, Chloe lock de door on de inside, put her bed across, an' keep de ole divle
                  off."
               They soon found, however, that, though Sweep had left their door unlocked, he had
                  carried off the key. That decided Catharine to take another room that could be
                  locked. Taking her money, and the old merino dress she had worn from Richmond in
                  November, and intended wearing back again on the morrow, she went to the room
                  immediately. During her stay at the plantation, she had been obliged to wear such
                  garments as were brought to her, she knew not whose. These she intended to leave
                  behind her, with the good seed she had endeavored to sow in the hearts of kind
                  Aunt Chloe and some few other members of the family.
               Chloe was obliged to go down to make preparations for the early breakfast, not
                  only of Sweep and his guards, but also of Catharine and the overseer, who were
                  expecting to start very early.
               Too full of anxieties to think of sleeping, with the noise of a high carousal
                  ringing in her ears, Catharine went to work and sewed her money and watch into her
                  travelling-dress, put it on loosely, threw her shawl over her shoulders, and sat
                  down upon the side of the bed to wait for Chloe. She was a long time in coming;
                  and, tired at last and cold, she lay down in her clothes, neither expecting nor
                  wishing to go to sleep until Chloe's return. But Chloe did not come, and Catharine
                  did get to sleep; from which she was suddenly aroused towards morning by the light
                  from a dark lantern flashing in her eyes. Starting up wildly, she found Sweep
                  bending over her, and just in the act of tying a handkerchief over her mouth to
                  stifle her screams.
               "Not a word!" he hissed in her ear, as he dexterously tied the knot with his
                  teeth, and caught her hands, so that she could neither help herself nor utter the
                  cry for help that came to her lips. She tried to resist with all her might, and
                  get the band off, but in vain. Sweep's companion, who was the driver of his wagon,
                  put on her bonnet, that lay upon the dressing-table, and pinned up her shawl.
                  Then, in spite of her feeble resistance, Sweep himself took her up as if she were
                  a baby, and carried her down stairs, and out to the shed, the attendant carrying
                  the light, and shutting the doors.
               Almost wild with terror, she hardly knew what they were doing, until they lifted
                  her up into the great covered sutler's wagon she had seen drive up the avenue the
                  previous evening.
               They seated her upon a pile of cushions they had stolen from the carriage-house,
                  between piles of boxes, and bales of goods, put a blanket around her, and made
                  every arrangement for her comfort and safety.
               "There, Mistress Kate! You see you can't have it all your own way," said Sweep
                  determinedly, after he had got her fixed to his liking. "If you hadn't bin so
                  toppin', you might have rid with me on the outside, as grand as Cuffee, an' Jake could gone on horseback.
                  But here you'll be very comfortable,—as safe as a thief in a mill,—an' can finish
                  your nap at your leisure. I felt kinder sorry to disturb it you looked so plaguy
                  pretty sleepin'. I noticed, tu, that you didn't snore so awful as them black
                  wenches down stairs, arter they'd got the lodnum in their stew. I thought they'd
                  raise the ruff, they made sich an infarnal noise. You see, my dear, I wanted ye to
                  git all the rest you could, before starting on sich an excursion, an' not be
                  bothered with that old black monkey down stairs. I'm a sort of a feelin',
                  tender-hearted man, tu; an' it went agin my grain dreadfully to tie ye up in this
                  way. But you was so cantankerous, I see it couldn't be helped. If you conclude to
                  be quiet after ridin' a spell, I'll take off the fixin's. I'll tell you one thing,
                  though,—that, if they were off, an' you roused them rebel guards by yer howlin,
                  'twould be the worse for ye. They're terrible bloodthirsty, hankerin' wretches
                  arter the gals; an', if they knew I had one in the wagon, the divle would be to
                  pay. So you'd better lie down peaceable, my dear, an' finish your nap." And, with
                  a malicious grin, he shut the door, which resembled that of a peddler's wagon, and
                  locked it on the outside, leaving Catharine in total darkness.
               To describe or imagine her feelings would be impossible. She felt that she was
                  completely in the power of an artful villain, who would hesitate at no means,
                  however vile, to accomplish his purposes, and who might sacrifice her to his whole
                  band if he were well paid for it. She trembled at the bare possibility this
                  thought suggested. She presently heard the soldiers cursing and swearing, as they
                  were roused from their slumbers, ate their hasty meal, and caparisoned their
                  horses for the day's ride. The wagon was then drawn out of the shed, the four
                  mules attached to it, the driver clambered up to his seat, and the cavalcade moved
                  on.
               Day was just breaking in the east as they reached the turnpike, though all was yet
                  dark to poor Catharine in her gloomy prison. Wedged in between boxes and bags and
                  baskets, without the power of using her hands, and with the continued jar and jolt
                  of the heavy wagon, her cramped limbs soon began to ache intolerably. The morning
                  was clear but cool; and, confined and without the power of motion, she was soon
                  chilled through. Desperate at last with mental and physical torture, she succeeded
                  with her teeth in wrenching asunder the bonds that confined her hands; and with
                  them it was easy enough to slip off the odious muffler, and shout,—if she had a
                  mind to. She now succeeded in gaining a more comfortable position; and the relief
                  was so great, that she was glad for a time to enjoy it. But there was still
                  another trouble: the air within the wagon was very close and noxious, smelling
                  strongly of opium and assafœtida, camphor and quinine, ether and sulphur; nor was
                  it long before the powerfully-narcotic vapor began to have its influence upon her
                  system. In spite of her determination to the contrary, she soon dropped off into a
                  doze, which the regular, undulating motion of the wagon tended to perpetuate.
               How long she slept she had no means of judging; but she was awakened at last by
                  the rattling of the padlock upon the outside of the door of her prison-house. It
                  swung open, and Sweep's disagreeable picture again presented itself to view.
               "Well, raly, you seem to be enjoyin' yourself; but how in thunder did you get off
                  your muzzler, and out of the limboes?"
                  he exclaimed in astonishment, and then continued admiringly, "You always was a
                  cute critter, that's a fact; and that's the reason I like ye so well. We'll make a
                  pretty equal match, I reckon. Now, some gals would have yelled like murder arter
                  gettin' that bandage off; but you'd sense enough to know better. I guess you're
                  pretty tired and hungry though, and would like to come out, an' straiten, an' get
                  some grub; wouldn't ye?" and he held up his hand to assist her in alighting from
                  the wagon.
               She could hardly believe it, yet the sun was high in the heavens, and it was past
                  noon. The mules were taken off, and were eating at a rack near by; and the wagon
                  was standing in a long shed,—out of sight of the windows of the little wayside
                  inn, from which the sound of oaths and boisterous mirth was borne upon every
                  breeze. Catharine scorned to touch the mean wretch; but her bones ached from long
                  confinement, and she felt such extreme nausea from the villanous smells, that she
                  was fain to accept any thing in the shape of relief: so she suffered him to help
                  her out of the wagon. She could hardly stand at first, but soon regained the use
                  of her limbs, and began to look keenly about for some chance to escape. He saw it
                  at a glance.
               "Now, Miss Kate," he began, "you needn't look in that way: it's no sorter use. You
                  can walk round here a spell; but you can guess, as well as I, why you had better
                  keep out of the range of them winders, and get back inter the wagon pretty soon.
                  Jack's gone arter a basket of grub an' a flask of water, to put in 'long side on
                  ye; so you can eat yer dinner at yer leisure. We shall get to Richmond to-night;
                  and you needn't worry about it one bit. I'll take jest as good care on ye as if we
                  was spliced; and, when we get there, we can talk that matter over at our leisure,
                  and contrive what's best to be done."
               "Very well," said Catharine, who by this time had considered the matter over, and
                  become a little more reconciled to her position. Sure now that Sweep intended to
                  keep her for himself, in spite of his inordinate love of gold, she thought she had
                  no immediate cause for terror. Believing there would be ten chances for escape in
                  Richmond, where there would be one in this lonely spot, she concluded to make the
                  best of it, and use a little more policy in the treatment of her captor. He sat
                  down on a log, with his back towards her, but the inn full in view, as if
                  perfectly indifferent to her movements; while she walked back and forth to get the
                  stiffness out of her limbs, and a little exercise. At last she began to be uneasy
                  herself, for fear the men would be out; and, going up to him, she said,—
               "I see your mules have eaten up their grain, Mr. Sweep; and I am ready, if it's
                  all the same to you."
               "I'm tickled to death to hear you say so!" he returned with a grin that showed,
                  his long, broken yellow teeth to advantage. "I always knew you was a sensible gal.
                  I'm a great judge of wimin folks an' hosses. I like them that's got the snap in
                  'em', tu; and that's the reason I like you. But come, them fellers will be out;
                  and we must start, or they'll all be drunk as fury, and full of the devil as they
                  can be."
               Catharine offered no objections; so he helped her up into the wagon, folded the
                  blanket around her, and fixed the cushions as nice as possible, thinking all the
                  time, how pretty she looked, and how fast she was coming around to meet him
                  half-way.
               
               Jack at this moment came out with the provisions, which were placed beside her,
                  just as the boisterous troopers all came bolting out of the tavern.
               Sweep instantly shut and locked the door, just as one of them sung out,—
               "Hallo, there! Boss is at his toilet again. I'll bet a cool hundred that he's got
                  his hair new dyed, his teeth pegged in, and the yaller scoured out of his
                  complexion agin we git back among the pretty gals of Richmond."
               The troopers all shouted and laughed at this sally, which Sweep pretended to take
                  in good part, as he did not like to offend them.
               They were soon ready, and started off at a brisk trot; the pretty girls of
                  Richmond probably the subject of thought of more than one of them, who, had they
                  known there was one so near, would, as Sweep knew very well, have been sorely
                  tempted.
               Considerably rested and refreshed, the narcotics did not this time completely
                  overpower our heroine; though the stench from the noxious drugs, the warmth of the
                  afternoon, and the want of fresh air, sometimes nearly took away her breath. But
                  her mind was too keenly alive to a sense of the dangers that surrounded her to
                  allow her to rest very comfortably. Sweep would, she thought, probably take her to
                  some low haunt, where silence could be purchased, and there try to force her to
                  his terms; and all sorts of plans she devised for escaping him, in the variety of
                  circumstances in which she imagined she might be placed.
               If she could do so, she decided to claim Mrs. Hunter's protection, let the
                  consequences with regard to her husband, whom she almost equally dreaded with
                  Sweep, be what they might. Whether they believed her story or not, she knew that
                  she had been guilty of no wrong. The long afternoon was over at last; and long
                  before their arrival, she knew, by the varied sounds, that she was nearing the
                  city. She found, too, as Sweep had said, that he had no difficulty in passing the
                  guards, and gaining admittance. He had only to show his papers, and all was right.
                  He had none of the difficulties of slow coaches, red tape, or "mud up to the hub,"
                  the Union army had to contend with at that time, in their "On to Richmond;" so at
                  Richmond they arrived just after sunset.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE OVERTURN.—EARLY LOVE TOO LATE.
               
                  BUT what is the meaning of this unusual noise and confusion; this
                  murmur of excited voices, and hurrying feet; this roll of carriage-wheels, and
                  dashing of officers on fiery steeds through the streets; these shouts of eager
                  newsboys with the evening papers; those ominous, troubled faces that Catharine
                  could not see?
               Alas for the rebel hopes and prospects! New Orleans had been captured by the
                  Federal fleet, and Richmond was wild with excitement over the loss of their great
                  stronghold of power in the South-west. The streets were full of eager and excited
                  people, hurrying to and fro to gather the latest items of news, and to speculate
                  upon its terrible and disastrous effect upon their cause and the hopes of the
                  Southern people. Generals and colonels and cabinet officers on horseback were
                  hurrying to confer with each other and President Davis, as to what had best to be
                  done under the circumstances.
               Battalions of troops and heavy baggage-trains were moving to their several
                  destinations; and every thing and everybody seemed to be in commotion. In the
                  midst of it all, Sweep and his gang came toiling through Main Street, riding close
                  up to the curbstone here to avoid a party of government officers on horseback;
                  turning off there to clear two or three rapidly-driven carriages; stopping short
                  yonder to escape collision with a squadron of cavalry. The rough guards,
                  completely out of patience, were swearing like pirates at the multitude of
                  obstacles that presented themselves, none of which Catharine, in her hiding-place
                  clearly comprehended, although she thought they denoted some unusual occurrence.
                  But they drew near their destination at last; and Sweep was congratulating himself
                  upon his good luck in escaping so many dangers, when he gave the order for the
                  teamster to turn into a narrow alley. This led to the low tavern where he usually
                  lodged while he remained in the city, and where he knew that he could get such
                  quarters, entertainment, and concealments as he liked. The patient driver turned
                  the tired mules around the sharp corner, and the wheels made a revolution or two
                  to follow, when a pair of runaway horses, attached to a carriage, came dashing
                  down the street, followed by a breathless negro driver and a fast young gentleman,
                  from whom they had in some way escaped.
               Everybody who could cleared the track. But, unfortunately for Sweep, his big wagon
                  was just in their wake at the instant. The wheels came together with a crash like
                  thunder, smashing them into a hundred pieces, pitching the driver and the
                  carriage-horses heels over head, detaching the mules from their fastenings, and
                  upsetting both vehicles, in one mass of inextricable confusion. The carriage was
                  badly injured by the concussion.
               The frightened horses were caught and righted up by the bystanders without serious
                  injury. The patient mules, free of their burden, ran with all speed towards their
                  accustomed stable; while the wagon, with its precious cious freight, went over with a crash so sudden and
                  heavy as nearly to burst it asunder.
               The guards dismounted in a moment, cursing and swearing with a will; while men in
                  scores came running from every direction to see what was the matter. So many
                  delays had already occurred, that by this time it was dark; and the street-lamps,
                  being lighted up just then, cast a lurid glare over the scene. Completely
                  nonplussed at first, Sweep came to his senses at last, and was keenly alive to the
                  fear of some untoward exposure.
               "Pray stand off!" he exclaimed in a sharp, impatient tone to the crowd that grew
                  denser every moment. "We can take care of our own business. There, my good
                  fellows, take hold now, and give us at lift, while I slip under this old barrel
                  for a prop, until we can get a wheel from somewhere to take us home."
               A dozen or more of the guard took hold of the heavily-laden vehicle to lift it up,
                  while the rest stood in the background behind the crowd holding the horses. Up,—up
                  they raised it, until they had almost got it in the right position, when, from
                  some unexplained cause, it slipped from their hands, and went down with a crash so
                  sudden and violent as this time to burst it completely asunder. Out rolled poor
                  Catharine into the mud, amid an almost interminable mass of boxes and bags,
                  bottles and baskets, packages and demijohns, with a variety of odors that for a
                  moment were quite as strong, if not as sweet, as those from the vales of Cashmere
                  or Araby. Though terribly jarred and bruised by both concussions, Catharine was so
                  keenly alive to the danger and the fear of exposure, that she suppressed the
                  shrieks that rose to her lips; and it was only when Sweep rushed forward and
                  attempted to raise her, that she uttered a groan. Her face was very pale; her eyes
                  were staring with fright; her bonnet was hanging by the strings; her short hair
                  was dishevelled; her dress was torn, covered with mud, and in complete disorder;
                  her shawl was torn from its fastenings, and trailing in the mud; and her whole
                  appearance extremely woe-begone and pitiable. Exclamations of surprise and wonder
                  greeted her on every hand, as was quite natural under the circumstances.
               "So, old hoss, you kept your gal handy; did ye?" exclaimed one of his troopers
                  ironically.
               "I swear, if I'd known it, she'd had two strings to her bow," said another.
               "Cussed mean to cheat us in this way!" growled a third.
               At this moment a gentleman in the crowd pressed forward, stood for an instant
                  regarding her earnestly, then exclaimed,—
               "Good heavens, Catharine! Is this you?"
               She looked up suddenly at the sound of that voice, then around upon the fierce,
                  bold, passionate, and commiserating faces that surrounded her, until her gaze met
                  one that was eager, startled, and terribly anxious; then, forgetting all else but
                  her wild fear, her great peril, and their old friendship, she impulsively extended
                  both hands to him for protection, and burst into tears.
               "O Catharine! what is the meaning of this? How came you here?" he exclaimed, as he
                  sprang forward, and eagerly grasped the offered hands.
               But Sweep drew her back at once. Though nearly frantic at this exposure of his
                  villany, he could not bear to lose the prize for which he had risked so much, at
                  the last moment.
               "It's none of your business how she come here," he said doggedly. "She's my wife—or goin' to be; and
                  she belongs to me, and nobody else. Here, Jake,—she's hurt somehow,—take hold
                  here, and help me carry her to the doctor's."
               "No, you don't!" echoed one of the troopers. "You've cheated us like fury all the
                  way; and you don't get that gal out of sight agin till we know who she is, where
                  she comes from, and who she belongs tu. Here, my pretty one," said he kindly,
                  laying his hand upon her arm, "does that old chap tell the truth?"
               "No, no!" said Catharine, suppressing her sobs. "He stole me from my room last
                  night; forced me into his big wagon, and to-day brought me on to Richmond. O
                  Lloyd! if there is any pity for me in your heart, protect and save me from this
                  man!" she exclaimed in an imploring tone.
               "Indeed I will!" he returned tremulously. "But are you seriously hurt,
                  Catharine?"
               "I don't know. My ankle pains me dreadfully; and I can scarcely stand."
               "Will some of you please get a carriage?" he exclaimed.
               "Ah, Dr. Huntley! Is that you? I was never more glad to see you in my life," he
                  continued to a gentleman in a carriage, who halted near them at that moment to
                  ascertain the cause of the uproar. "Will you be kind enough to take this lady to
                  my mother's? She is a particular friend of hers, who has been seriously hurt by an
                  accident."
               "Oh, certainly, certainly!" said the complaisant doctor, instantly alighting, and,
                  in spite of Sweep's threats and eager efforts to detain her, assisting Lloyd to
                  lift her into the carriage, amid the joyful shouts of the guards. They felt as if
                  they had been disgraced and imposed upon by the whole proceeding, and now utterly
                  refused to aid Sweep in guarding and gathering up his load, upon which precious
                  lives, as well as his own gains, depended. Some government officers happening
                  along just then, however, took the matter in hand, and helped him out of his
                  difficulty. But a good many of his bottles were broken; and he lost, not only his
                  intended bride, but a good deal of money, by the operation.
               The surprise and joy of Mrs. Hunter and her family can be better imagined than
                  described, when Lloyd came in, and in an agitated voice announced Catharine's
                  unexpected arrival. They were truly astonished, as well as rejoiced; for, after an
                  absence of five whole months, they had never hoped to see her more. They all ran
                  out to meet and welcome her; and Catharine was so overcome with emotion, that she
                  came near fainting in Mrs. Hunter's arms.
               The circumstances of the accident were soon explained. She was still in great
                  pain, and her ankle was found to be dislocated. After it was set by Dr. Huntley,
                  she was comparatively comfortable, and able to render some account of herself.
               She feared they would not believe the strange story she had to tell, when she
                  found they had not received her letters, and was glad to see that not one of the
                  family appeared to doubt it in the least. From the first moment of her return,
                  they all testified their joy, and did every thing in their power to make her happy
                  and at home once more.
               But Lloyd's presence there was a great embarrassment to her. To remember the past;
                  to believe, as she did, that he was her daughter's husband, and she his father-in-law's wife, aroused bitter
                  memories of all the loves and hopes and fear and despair connected with their past
                  intercourse. In the terror of their present meeting, she forgot every thing but
                  the fact of their old friendship; but not long did the old memories sleep. When
                  the pain, terror, and surprise were over, they awoke to a new life of bitterness
                  and lasting regrets.
               Did he still believe her the vile thing he had wooed and so nearly won, and then
                  cast off in disgust and scorn? He must of course; for who would undeceive him?
                  Perhaps he thought her whole story a deception, and an imposition upon the
                  credulity of the family.
               Catharine was so completely worn out by all she had undergone, that she was very
                  glad for a few days to avail herself of an invalid's privileges. But for Lloyd's
                  skilful medical suggestions, and Aunt Dinah's careful nursing, she would have had
                  a dangerous relapse of fever.
               As it was, though very lame, she soon began to recover in health, if not in
                  spirits. She heard, casually, that Gen. Atherton had been transferred to the Army
                  of the Potomac. As no allusions were made to their connection, she concluded that
                  her mysterious departure, at the time of his return, had prevented his
                  acknowledging her as his wife. She felt this to be a present relief; though it
                  added greatly to her anxieties for the future. Owing to the severe sprain, as well
                  as dislocation, it was some days before Catharine could bear her weight upon her
                  lame ankle: so she reclined upon the lounge in the sitting-room; while the whole
                  family vied with each other in paying her every attention.
               "You are all too kind to me," she said to Mrs. Hunter one day. "I cannot bear to
                  put you all to so much trouble."
               "Not a word of that, Catharine," she returned. "Do you think we have forgotten the
                  toilsome days, the sleepless nights, the long hours of pain and terror and acute
                  bodily and mental suffering you have endured for us all, that nothing we can do
                  for you can ever repay? And, more than all the rest, we know that we owe the life
                  of our dear Walter to your watchful care. Oh! do not believe we are so ungrateful
                  as to grudge the little we can do to make you comfortable, my dear Catharine. We
                  have missed and mourned you so long, that we look upon you as one risen from the
                  dead,—a recovered and precious treasure; so you must submit to be petted a little
                  while, instead of petting others."
               "Well, you cannot be more rejoiced than I to be among kind friends once more. The
                  past five months seem now like some dreadful and terrifying dream to me."
               "They seemed real enough to us, Catharine. And oh! you cannot imagine how we felt
                  when you did not return, and we could get no tidings, and feared some dreadful
                  fate had befallen you! Brother Edward was here at the time; and I am sure I never
                  saw a man more excited and anxious than he was on your account. He could not have
                  been more so had you been his own daughter. He kept up the search for you until he
                  became convinced, I believe, that you had gone off on purpose, with some of your
                  own Northern people. This had been Philip's opinion from the first; but I could
                  hardly believe that one who had been so honest and truthful always could deceive
                  us so at last. I told Edward so; but he would not believe it: yet I am sure he
                  will be delighted to know that you have returned, and justified my good opinion.
                  You see, after Philip had gone, and he
                  had looked everywhere in vain, he grew angry at what he thought was the imposition
                  you had practised, and could not bear to hear your name mentioned. How I shall
                  delight in telling him in my letter to-day of your return, and that I was the
                  nearest right, after all!"
               "Oh! you need not hurry to spread the news," said Catharine eagerly, and with her
                  cheek flushing, not only at the thought of Gen. Atherton's anger, but also because
                  the eyes of Lloyd Hunter were eagerly reading her countenance, and she knew he was
                  wondering at her too evident emotion.
               "I am sorry he misjudged me, for I like to stand well with all my friends," she
                  continued earnestly; "yet I have faith to believe that time—first or last, in life
                  or death—will clear my fame from all misconstructions." She thought of Lloyd, but
                  dared not look at him as she said it.
               "Ah, it may do justice to all," he said, as if in answer to her thought, if not
                  her words; "but sometimes that comes too late for our earthly happiness."
               "If too late for earth, it is not for heaven," she returned reverently, "where
                  richer rewards will crown all martyrs to the cause of truth and virtue."
               "We earnestly hope so," he said, "yet cannot help longing for them sometimes this
                  side of the dark river; and the look he gave her was so earnest, pleading,
                  deprecating, yet withal full of the old love-light, that it dwelt long in
                  Catharine's memory.
               Did he speak from experience? Did he indeed love her still? Had the truth in some
                  way come to him after he was the husband of another, and she another man's wife?
                  were the questions she asked herself, that made her heart throb with a bitter
                  pain, and her eyes droop beneath his searching yet mournful gaze. Knowing better
                  the position of one, and guessing very nearly the feelings of both, Mrs. Hunter
                  turned away with rare delicacy. In her heart she was deeply regretting the part
                  she had taken in separating a pair who were so well fitted to make each other's
                  happiness, and planning how she might bring them together once more.
               Catharine was very much surprised to hear of all the battles, sieges, and other
                  remarkable events that had transpired during her seclusion. She had heard strange
                  accounts of some of them, it is true, from the slaves, but so different from the
                  reality, that it took her some days to get a correct understanding of past events,
                  or the future prospects of the country.
               The rebels had rejoiced over their victory at Ball's Bluff, and mourned over the
                  loss of several of their strongholds along the eastern coast, previous to her
                  departure from Richmond. Since that time, they had met with a fearful train of
                  disasters—at Port Royal, and Mill Spring, Roanoke Island and Fort Donelson, Pea
                  Ridge and Newbern, Winchester and Pittsburg Landing, besides the fight of the
                  Merrimac with the little Monitor. These and other reverses made the South reel
                  almost to fainting, and distrust the skill of her leaders, and brought her almost
                  to the brink of ruin and despair. The loss of Roanoke Island especially, brought
                  down maledictions upon the government, as it was considered the granary, larder,
                  and back door to Norfolk, and the canals and railroads back of Richmond. This
                  growing dissatisfaction with the secession leaders was now so intensified by the
                  loss of New Orleans, that, but for the
                  rigid conscription, recruits for the army could not have been obtained; and the
                  fires of war would have ceased for the want of fuel.
               During her seclusion, too, the Confederate Congress had been removed to Richmond,
                  which was now the centre and head of both the civil and military power of the
                  Southern people, and the place, of course, where all office-seekers and
                  office-holders congregated.
               She found Mrs. Hunter still engaged in the good work she had left in her hands;
                  though not quite so earnestly perhaps as when she was there to assist, inspire,
                  and encourage her in the performance of her arduous labors. Nor was this to be
                  expected, with the care of her family, and reception of visitors, devolving so
                  much more upon herself than formerly. Walter, too, was still in feeble health; and
                  he had suffered so much and so acutely that his mind was in a very critical and
                  morbid condition. It was quite evident that the doctor's fears of insanity or
                  imbecility were not wholly groundless. By his orders he was taken out to ride
                  every day, with his mother and sisters, and amused in every possible way.
                  Catharine's return cheered and delighted him; and, when she ascertained the truth,
                  she would not allow them to remit this daily exercise, as they had done for
                  several days, on her account.
               Lloyd generally went with them; but one day, after she supposed they were all
                  gone, and she was alone, he came in from the street, and sat down near to her. "I
                  thought you were out for a ride with the family," she said with a slight flush of
                  surprise.
               "No," he said: "Cæsar was their driver to-day. But wouldn't you like a ride, too,
                  Miss Hale? I have a buggy at the door; and I believe it would do you good."
               "No, thank you: I think I am better off here until I can do somebody some good by
                  going out, and at least walk, and wait on myself."
               "How that idea clings to you, Catharine,—that of waiting on yourself, and doing
                  good to somebody!"
               "You know, I was brought up where I was obliged to do the first: as to the last, I
                  don't know that I do more good than other people."
               "Yes, you do. And, here and now, let me thank you for all you have done for me and
                  mine, and beg your forgiveness for all we have made you suffer. Will you grant
                  it?" he said in a tremulous tone.
               "What do you care for the forgiveness or good opinion of one you think so
                  unworthy?" she could not help saying; though the look of pain and deprecation upon
                  his pale, agitated face made her hesitate.
               There was a pause. Suddenly he started up, caught her hand, and knelt down beside
                  her, as he said, "O Catharine! more than aught else, I want your forgiveness for
                  my cruel doubts and accusations, and the scorn and desertion, that must have wrung
                  your heart, for which I have repented in dust and ashes."
               "But you doubt—you wrong me still! and don't—pray don't kneel to me."
               "No, Catharine. I was undeceived at last: I knew that I had thrown away a
                  priceless gem for a worthless pebble, exchanged truth for falsehood, made your
                  life wretched as well as my own, and perhaps brought down my father's gray hairs
                  with sorrow to the grave."
               "That is too true; and you did wrong me deeply and cruelly. But I believed you
                  were deceived yourself, and not wholly to blame, or you would never have done it.
                  So I forgave you when my heart was sorest, and pitied your fate even more than my own. The consciousness
                  of my own innocence and integrity upheld me in that dark and trying hour, as well
                  as your father's earnest sympathy, nerving me for the greater trials and
                  sacrifices that were to come."
               "And now, Catharine"— He hesitated, and rose with a flushed and eager look and
                  tremulous tone.
               "Now," she continued, "the feeling that we are but blind instruments in the hands
                  of a higher power, who moulds us to his will, and shapes our destinies, has grown
                  upon me more and more, since passing through so many troubles, and escaping so
                  many frightful dangers. Is it a wonder that I am weak, nervous, and hysterical,
                  after all I have been called to endure?"
               "No, Catharine; yet the history of your sufferings seems like a bitter reproach to
                  me. I, too, have suffered deeply and bitterly, yet I confess justly,—you
                  unjustly."
               "I knew by your pale cheek and mournful expression that you had suffered," she
                  said pityingly. "But where have you been, and what have you been doing,
                  since—since we parted."
               "I have been in Charleston prison most of the time, reviled, persecuted, accused,
                  and for weeks lying at death's door, without one friendly face near me, or hand
                  outstretched to bestow needed comforts; and all for this accursed rebellion, that
                  is severing every friendly tie that binds kindred or people together; that is
                  desolating our beautiful land with fire and sword, and watering it with the best
                  blood of the nation."
               "Why, Lloyd, I am astonished! I thought you believed in the rebellion; upheld it
                  by voice and vote and influence; were fighting all this time to support and make
                  it successful!"
               "I did believe in it at first,—God forgive me!—ere I knew all the madly-ambitious
                  plans of our leaders. I believed in State rights, and that, when Virginia went
                  into the Union, she reserved the right to secede 'whenever that Union should be
                  perverted to the injury or oppression of her people.' Slavery had come down to us
                  with our estates from past generations. I felt it to be an evil, and a wrong to
                  the human race; but to us it seemed to be a necessary wrong. We could not fling it
                  off like an old garment. It was our capital, our support, the foundation of our
                  prosperity, and yet our curse.
               "To get rid of it without bloodshed would have involved one of the most difficult
                  problems for human solution. To do it at the North, where there were but a few
                  slaves, was easy enough; but, where they composed more than a third of the whole
                  population, it was another matter. We could not agree to abolish it among
                  ourselves; that was impossible: yet we felt as if the North had no business to
                  interfere with our peculiar institutions. We thought we had been defeated,
                  wronged, and had terms dictated to us too much by your Northern people in
                  Congress. Lincoln's election, so significant of our loss of power, and the triumph
                  of principles utterly at variance with our prosperity as slaveholders, alarmed us
                  for the safety of our rights. It awakened us as a people to the necessity of
                  standing up stoutly in their defence, and, if possible, obtaining some better
                  security for them than then existed in the future. I, with a good many others,
                  believed, that, by a united and determined effort on the part of the whole South,
                  we could gain this without bloodshed, and still remain in the Union; but, if we
                  could not get it, that it was better for both to separate, and form two republics,
                  as, like oil and water, they could
                  never peaceably mingle into one. I will own, that the bitter and disappointed
                  state of feeling in which I came to Richmond at that time, the heated and eloquent
                  oratory to which I listened, and the private influences to which I was exposed,
                  had a good deal to do with the formation of these conclusions.
               "After I was sent to Charleston, I began to be undeceived regarding the ambitious
                  projects of our leaders, and bitterly regretted joining the secession party, in
                  opposition to my dear father's wishes. I found it was not a free republic that
                  they meditated, but an empire, founded on slavery, of which they were to be the
                  rulers. I disliked monarchical governments, and hated the Old-World tyrannies. I
                  expressed my opinions too freely to those around me. When I refused to have any
                  thing to do with the attack upon Sumter, I was arrested for contempt of my
                  superiors, and imprisoned. Ill in body, unhappy in mind, and tortured by
                  conscience for what I had done, I suffered unspeakably during the early days of my
                  confinement. When the news came of my father's death, your consequent sufferings,
                  and Walter's danger, it nearly killed me.
               "Afterwards, as I grew better, and knew that the country was really convulsed by
                  the horrors of civil war, I became more resigned; because I felt, that, if I was
                  released, I could not conscientiously fight on either side. I would not fight to
                  establish another monarchy, with slavery for its corner-stone. I could not fight
                  against my beloved South,—my own people, my kindred, and all I held most dear on
                  the earth. I could do nothing, then, to prevent the carnage, and scenes of horror,
                  that were being enacted, if I were set at liberty. But as I grew better, I began
                  to ask myself whether I might not do something thing to mitigate the pain, and
                  assuage the anguish, I daily witnessed within the prison, and knew was rending the
                  heart of the nation outside. I had previously attended a course of medical and
                  surgical lectures in Europe, but not with the view of practising, except for the
                  benefit of the people upon my own plantation. I had taken a deep interest in the
                  subject at the time; but, in the multiplicity of new scenes and events that
                  presented themselves afterwards, I had forgotten, or at least hidden away, my
                  treasure of medical science in a napkin. Stimulated by the thought of mitigating
                  some of the evils I had taken some small part in bringing upon the country, with
                  returning health I dug up and unrolled my buried treasure. With plenty of leisure,
                  and nothing else to do, I set myself resolutely to the work of mastering the
                  science of healing. I made a friend of the prison surgeon, who, I think,
                  entertained similar views with myself, approved my plans, lent me books, gave me
                  all the assistance in his power, and was pleased at last to pronounce me a most
                  ingenious adept in the profession. He afterwards interceded for me with the rebel
                  authorities, rehearsing, I suppose, my merits and my plans. Finding I was willing
                  to forget past injustice, and act for them in the capacity of a surgeon,—of whom
                  there was a great scarcity in the army,—they set me at liberty. I came home a few
                  days ago for a visit, but expect to return to the South, and commence my labors
                  very soon. Have I acted wisely, Catharine, under all the circumstances?"
               "I think so. And oh! if you are really a Union man at heart, Lloyd, let me entreat
                  of you to use all the influence you acquire in discountenancing the frightful
                  cruelties that are said to be practised upon Union soldiers diers by some of your barbarous officials. I have
                  heard men in power deny the facts; yet I fear there is too much truth in the
                  reports that come to our ears, and make one's blood run cold with horror. I love
                  my own people, as you love yours: but, so far as I have had experience, I have
                  tried to be impartial in my treatment of rebel and Union soldiers; for I know that
                  many of the former are but the helpless tools of ambitious but unprincipled
                  leaders, and scarcely responsible for their acts."
               "That is too true; yet, if I know myself, I need no urging to do a Christian's
                  duty to the vilest, as well as the noblest, of God's creatures. If I needed any
                  incitement to the work, your noble and unselfish example of continually returning
                  good for evil would furnish all I require," he said with a fond, admiring glance
                  into the pale, spiritual face, and mournful, downcast eyes that now seldom sought
                  his own.
               How pale and changed she was, he thought, from the bright-eyed, rosy, active, gay
                  young girl he had known and loved in happier days; and yet how beautiful, how
                  bewitching still! She had loved him once, he did not doubt. Could she do so still,
                  after all the suffering he had caused her?
               Alas! he did not dream that the keenest pang of all in her heart at that moment
                  was the sure knowledge that she did love him still, while bound irrevocably to
                  another, and the greatest wonder, why, bound in the same way himself, he, in the
                  history of his trials, should never once mention his wife's name.
               Where was she? Why did no one ever allude to her when they could help it? Simply
                  out of delicacy to her feelings; and, for similar reasons, she had never inquired
                  after him or his supposed bride. The arrival of the family at this moment put an
                  end to the conversation.
               The next day, however, the same thing happened; and Catharine to her regret, for
                  she knew it was a dear-bought pleasure, was again left tête-à-tête, with her former lover.
               The truth, was, that Mrs. Hunter, now sincerely regretting the past, deeply
                  impressed by Catharine's worth and nobleness, and believing they still loved each
                  other, had resolved, if possible, to bring about the match. So, meeting him in the
                  street this time, she sent him home to entertain and cheer her guest. Knowing
                  nothing of her real positions regarding her brother, she did not dream of the harm
                  she was doing in leaving them together thus. Catharine did realize it, but dared
                  say nothing to prevent it. As soon as they were alone, however, discarding
                  politeness, she apparently became deeply interested in a book she was reading,
                  half hoping he would be disgusted, and leave the room. He walked around it once or
                  twice, looked out of the windows, trifled with his sister's fancy-work, and at
                  last, out of patience with her persistent, and as he believed intentional,
                  inattention, he came up to where she was sitting. Gently taking the book from her
                  hands, he said in a slightly-tremulous tone,—
               "Catharine, let us for once in our lives fully understand each other. Am I wrong
                  in believing that we once loved each other,—tenderly and truly?"
               "I think not," she murmured, blushing deeply. "But, Lloyd, it is not for either of
                  us now to turn back the leaves of the book of destiny."
               "Why not! O Catharine! may we not tear out one page blotted with tears, and begin a new and fairer
                  record?"
               "It is impossible. The bitter consequences of the acts there recorded must make
                  our happiness or misery while life endures."
               "Oh, say not that you have ceased to love me; that my scorn and desertion have
                  turned your love to loathing!"
               "Better a thousand times if it had!" she exclaimed with deep emotion.
               "No: love, with all its hopes and fears and penalties, is a precious treasure;
                  though you may think mine for you, increased as it is a hundred-fold by absence
                  and the consciousness of ill-desert, unworthy of your acceptance."
               "O Lloyd, Lloyd! This to me! And you the husband of another!" she exclaimed
                  excitedly; while burning blushes crimsoned her pale cheers, and the light of
                  injured delicacy flashed from her eyes.
               "I the husband of another! O Catharine! what a mistake! You did not think I
                  married Nell Atherton; did you?"
               "I supposed you did. You wrote that you were about to do so: I never knew but what
                  you had."
               "Strange,—how very strange, that, in all this time, they never told you!" he said
                  with an evident feeling of relief. This, then, was the bar—the only one, he
                  hoped—to their future union. This of course was the reason why she had been so
                  distant and reserved. "Ah, Catharine!" he resumed in a gayer tone, "it seems next
                  to impossible that you could remain in our family more than a year without
                  learning the fact, that Nell Atherton, thanks to my good genius, deserted me at
                  the last moment. She eloped, and was married privately to Count Laroi, a Parisian
                  adventurer, whom she first met in Europe. As a last legacy, and indeed a precious
                  one, she left me a letter, in which she boasted of the meanness and lies and
                  duplicity by which she had won me from you, but to cast me off in the end,—out of
                  revenge for some fancied slights—during our past intercourse."
               "This, then, was the way in which you found out the truth; was it?"
               "Yes; and oh! you cannot imagine what a comfort and consolation the thought of
                  your purity and truth was to me in my gloomy prison-house, like a ray of light
                  shining into the deepest gloom. But that light was suddenly quenched, when I came
                  home upon the wings of love and impatience to find that you had so strangely
                  disappeared, and that no one knew what had become of you. When I found you so
                  unexpectedly in the street that night, and rescued you from such frightful danger,
                  it again shone out, like a star of hope, cheering me by its benign radiance. And
                  now, dear Catharine, that all these sad mistakes are cleared up, you must not say
                  that it is in vain for me to treasure such fond remembrances of you in my
                  heart."
               "Oh, it is! it is! I must not listen to such words from your lips!" she exclaimed
                  in a distressed tone.
               "What! You do not forbid my loving you, Catharine?"
               "Oh, I must! It is a sin,—God forgive me! I am already bound by the most solemn
                  vows to another;" and, bowing her head upon her hands, she gave way to a
                  passionate burst of tears.
               He did not comprehend it yet: he had no idea of the magnitude of the trouble, as
                  he laid his hand caressingly ingly upon
                  her bowed head, and asked in a deeply-earnest tone,—
               "What vows, Catharine? Surely, you have not promised to wed that scoundrel Sweep
                  or some daring outlaw?"
               "No, no! But oh, it is even worse than that!" she sobbed; "for I am already the
                  wife of a general in the rebel army."
               "My God! Is this true, Catharine?" he exclaimed fiercely, and starting up suddenly
                  with a wild, questioning, yet unbelieving look.
               "It is the truth, Lloyd; and you must know it now, whatever comes of it," she
                  said, raising her bowed head, and trying to suppress her bitter sobs. "I have been
                  a wife for months. When or why I became so, I dare not tell you. That is a
                  profound secret, and for the present must remain so. I have never lived with my
                  husband a day or an hour as his wife; though I have solemnly promised to do so
                  when he claims me, and never to leave the South without his consent. My abduction
                  last November was all that prevented me from becoming his acknowledged wife. When
                  he hears of my return, he may doubt, disown, and cast me off, or come and claim me
                  at any moment. And this it is, that casts a shadow dark as midnight over my whole
                  future life."
               Lloyd stood for some time still as a statue, dumb with amazement, and looking at
                  her drearily, as if he did not comprehend the truth: then, reeling as if struck by
                  a heavy blow, he sunk upon a seat, and, with a bitter groan, buried his face in
                  his clasped hands.
               The sight of his wild, tearless agony wrung Catharine's heart more keenly than the
                  sobs that burst from her own.
               "O Lloyd, don't!" she exclaimed when she could bear no longer. "You must bear it,
                  even as I have done."
               Her voice roused him. He raised his head, and looked at her gloomily, with a
                  flushed face, and, dry, bloodshot eyes, as he said,—
               "You do not love this man, Catharine?"
               "I only hope I shall, if he comes to claim me," she returned.
               "Does my mother know this?"
               "No, Lloyd; nor must she, or any one else, until he sees fit to announce the
                  fact?"
               "But who is this man, Catharine?—that I may know who has defrauded me of what I
                  hold most dear in life!" said he fiercely.
               "I must not tell you: you will know soon enough, if he comes to claim me. If he
                  doubts and hesitates, jealous of my seeming escape from him, and long
                  seclusion,—it is best for you, and all others here, to be ignorant of his
                  name."
               "You were forced into this marriage, Catharine?"
               "No: I did it to save— What did I say? Out of two great evils, I chose this as the
                  less, when all brighter hopes were dead in my tortured heart."
               "Does this man love you, Catharine?"
               "Most ardently and passionately, I do believe; and with a magnetic fervor that
                  might win a return from most disengaged female hearts."
               "I have done," said he drearily. "Life is now robbed of every charm, and is no
                  longer sweet to me. I am now ready to go to the front; and, should some stray
                  bullet pierce my heart, it shall be welcome."
               "You must not talk or think in this wild way. Is my fate preferable to yours, do
                  you think?"
               
               "No, no: it is a thousand times worse."
               "Yet I shall try and make the best of it. It may put far greater power in my hands
                  for good or evil than any I might have chosen. And if so, for the use I make of
                  that power, I shall have to render a strict account in the judgment. But, Lloyd,
                  what is all the good or evil one feeble woman can accomplish, in comparison with
                  what it is in your power to do for poor, suffering humanity, if your life, and
                  health are spared to you? Oh, think of the hundreds and thousands of noble men
                  from North and South, East and West, the stay and prop and most precious treasure
                  of many a happy household,—bleeding groaning, and dying on battle-fields, and in
                  prison and hospitals; rending the skies with agonized prayer for the help that
                  never comes to them! Think of this and then say whether, in the power and the
                  skill to heal and to save, Heaven has not bestowed upon you an inestimable gift,
                  not to be lightly cast away. In the path of duty, if anywhere on earth, peace will
                  come to us both, if not the perfect happiness we sigh for. This life will soon be
                  over; and, if we perform those duties faithfully, our reward is sure."
               "Oh! I know: you are right in every thing. Yet, Catharine, I cannot now bear this
                  great trial as I ought. I know you ought not to be blamed, however it may be with
                  him; yet I must go away from you, or go mad. In other scenes, on bloody
                  battle-fields and in prisons and hospitals, I may sometimes forget that another
                  man's wife is dearer than my life to me. Oh! I must not forget my hope of heaven,
                  or a Christian's life-work, in a sinful earthly love. If we never again meet on
                  earth, I hope and pray that we may meet in heaven, that perfect world, where
                  merely earthly ties and relationships are sundered and obliterated, and those who
                  love truly love eternally."
               He took her hand as he said this, pressed it to his lips, laid it gently in her
                  lap, and then, with a pale, agonized face, and a look that spoke volumes of regret
                  and tortured love, turned, and left the apartment.
               When Catharine rose the next morning, Lloyd was gone. He had received a sudden,
                  and, as she judged from his looks, unwelcome summons to the front, Mrs. Hunter
                  said, and he had commissioned her to bid Catharine
                  farewell.
               Catharine knew that it was best for both to part under the circumstances; and she
                  honored him for the resolution, and strength of moral principle, that sent him
                  away from her at this time. Yet oh! the dreary, aching void, his presence alone
                  could fill, that was left to torture and swell with vain regrets her tried yet
                  faithful heart. The knowledge that he loved her still, that he had never been the
                  husband of another, and that he had never, at heart, been unfaithful to her, made
                  her own fate still harder to bear.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               CATHARINE IN LIBBY PRISON.—RELEASED.
               
                  MRS. HUNTER, as she had proposed to do, wrote immediately to her
                  brother of Catharine's return to Richmond. The next mail brought a reply, not only
                  to her, but to Catharine, overflowing with expressions of joy and gratitude for
                  her deliverance from so many dangers. He wanted her to write him all the
                  particulars of her captivities and escapes at once, he said: and she might be very
                  sure of a close questioning when they did meet; which he hoped and trusted would
                  be very soon.
               Hardly had Catharine got over the excitement incident to Lloyd's departure, and
                  the new train of fears and dread aroused by the reception of this letter, ere a
                  new source of trouble presented itself. This was caused by the wild alarm created
                  in Richmond by the near approach of the Union army. They were said to number at
                  least two hundred thousand men. After many delays, they were known to be advancing
                  up the peninsula, under the leadership of Gen. McClellan, knocking at the gates of
                  Yorktown, and seriously threatening the rebel capital. In the midst of this new
                  trouble, one afternoon when Catharine was alone, the family having, gone out to
                  ride, she was startled by the sudden entrance of a party of soldiery, whom Dinah's
                  vehement protestations could not prevent from forcing themselves into her
                  presence. The leader of the band, a brutal fellow, with about as much delicacy or
                  sense of propriety as a bull-dog, advanced, without waiting for compliments, and,
                  laying his hand on her arm, demanded to know if her name was Catharine Hale.
               "Yes," she faltered, so terrified at the thought of some new danger, that she
                  forgot that she had any other.
               "Then you are my prisoner," he returned doggedly.
               "Prisoner, indeed!" screamed Aunt Dinah, who had followed them into the room, and
                  advanced to Catharine's side to protect her from insult. "Prisoner in mistis's own
                  house!" she continued. "Why, the poor dear lamb's jest got out o' de hands o' de
                  Philistines, an' de jaws o' Daniel in de lion's den, an' now ye want to get her in
                  agin, du ye? I'll send for mistis, an' have ye put in purgatory yerself, if ye
                  don't clare out," said she vengefully.
               "Hold yer jaw! or 'twill be the worse for you," he returned with his hand on his
                  pistol, and with a fierce, steely gleam in his eyes, that quelled poor Aunt
                  Dinah's belligerence at once.
               "Get your things on at once, ma'am; for you must go with us," he continued to
                  Catharine.
               "Where, and for what?" she tremblingly demanded.
               "To the Libby Prison, ma'am. Such are my orders; but for what, you know better
                  than I."
               "But I have done no wrong," she faltered. "I am innocent of all thought of
                  crime."
               "That's your lookout," he returned. "But hurry up. We've no time for trifling: our
                  orders are imperative."
               
               "Pray wait until the return of Mrs. Hunter?"
               "Not another moment, ma'am. We've spent too much time already."
               "But I am very lame: I can hardly walk or stand."
               "We can carry you out to the hack, ma'am."
               Catharine rose dizzily to her feet, stepped forward, and would have fallen, but
                  for Dinah's watchful eye and protecting arm.
               "Get my things, Dinah," she murmured huskily.
               "'Tis my fate, and God's will be done. Tell Mrs. Hunter, that, of whatever they
                  accuse, or falsely prove against me, I am innocent."
               "It's some o' dat ole sneak's diveltry, Dinah no doubt. He want revenge, cause
                  Miss Kate no want him. Missus git it all right when she come home."
               "I hope so, Dinah, but fear the worst. Bid them all good-by for me, and especially
                  poor little Walter. There, I am ready;" and, taking Dinah's arm, she hobbled out
                  to the carriage, and was whirled away.
               Dinah followed in hot haste to see if it was really a fact that Catharine was
                  carried to the prison, or only a pretence to take her off somewhere else. But
                  there was no deception about it this time. She saw the gloomy prison-doors close
                  over her favorite, and returned to report the fact to Mrs. Hunter upon her arrival
                  home. Mrs. Hunter could not rest until she had been to the authorities, and found
                  out the truth. She was accused, upon the strongest proofs it was said, of being a
                  spy in the Union service for months past, and of holding a secret correspondence
                  with the enemy. Mrs. Hunter was deeply shocked. She could not believe in
                  Catharine's guilt; and yet the story of her late mysterious adventures and long
                  seclusion was strange enough to raise torturing doubts in the minds of her best
                  friends. She went the next day, and had an affecting interview with her in the
                  prison, and carried her a few things to make her more comfortable: but that was
                  all she was allowed to do; for the authorities just then were regarding with more
                  than usually jealous eyes all who had the least intercourse or correspondence with
                  their enemy, and, as prisoners, treated them with unusual rigor.
               Put into a narrow filthy cell, overflowing with vermin, Catharine had a chance to
                  taste the sweets of prison-life, not at all qualified by the fact, that her jailer
                  had, from some cause, been at variance with the families with whom he knew she had
                  been associated. For this and other reasons, Mrs. Hunter and her family were
                  refused further communication with her. Perhaps, too, that lady's increasing
                  doubts of her innocence prevented her making any very strenuous exertions in her
                  behalf.
               But the decisions of childhood and ignorance, those keen judges of human character
                  and motive, were wholly in Catharine's favor. Neither the children nor the slaves
                  of the household could be made to believe a word against their favorite. If she
                  had been well and strong, Catharine would not have felt the privation of coarse
                  prison-fare, want of rest, and discomfort of every kind, as much as she did; but
                  she was weak and nervous, and could scarcely eat the repulsive yet scanty food set
                  before her. She could not sleep on her hard straw bunk, because of the loathsome
                  insects crawling over her. She knew not who were her accusers, or the extent of
                  her implication; and the future certainly looked very dark and cheerless. Yet she
                  was saved the knowledge of the terror
                  and excitement that swept over Richmond, as the miserable days and nights dragged
                  their slow length along.
               They brought battles and sieges, the capture of Norfolk, and destruction of
                  millions of dollars' worth of rebel property to prevent its falling into Union
                  hands. It also brought distraction into the councils, and vacillation and terror
                  into the hearts of the rebel authorities, and the adjournment of the rebel
                  Congress to assure its members of their own safety.
               At last, after months of inexplicable delays the Union army began to advance from
                  Yorktown towards Richmond. The panic became fearful. The whole city was wild with
                  terror and excitement; and the people were flying in every direction. Every
                  rail-car, and vehicle of every description, was pressed into the service, and
                  overloaded with passengers. The streets were full of people,—going, they hardly
                  knew where themselves,—anywhere to get out of the way of the cruel, hated Yankees.
                  Piles of furniture, boxes of goods, and baggage of every description, obstructed
                  the streets, wharves, and dépôts; while children were crying, dogs barking,
                  soldiers swearing, negroes running, and every thing and everybody seemed in the
                  greatest commotion.
               But there was still an element of firmness left in the minds of a few, says one
                  historian who strove, by every argument in their power, to quiet the people, turn
                  their terror into ridicule, and induce them to stay at home, and prepare for the
                  worst.
               Among those who led this general stampede of the citizens, was Mrs. Davis, the
                  wife of the President, with Mrs. Hunter, and other ladies of distinction,
                  accompanied by their families, who fled to Raleigh, N. C.
               It is now a matter of history, that, while the Union army had been for three whole
                  months journeying by apparently easy yet really painful stages from Washington to
                  Richmond, the Confederates had spent every hour of that time in preparing for them
                  a bloody reception. They enlarged their resources in every possible way; prepared
                  elaborate defences, mercilessly enforced the conscription, gathered
                  re-enforcements from Norfolk, Charleston, North Carolina, the Shenandoah Valley
                  and every other available source, until they had concentrated the largest army
                  they were ever able to put in the field, as they said themselves long afterwards.
                  They also said, what was undoubtedly the truth, that "our army waited and
                  waited,—uncertain which course to pursue, our authorities divided in opinion,—when
                  a rapid advance on either route would have insured them a victory."
               But they waited too long. The summer heats and miasma of the interminable swamps
                  of the Chickahominy, were quite as sure death as the enemy's guns. That enemy was
                  now fully prepared to meet them. Arrogant and boasting, exasperated by their late
                  losses, and fully aroused to a sense of their danger, they were now ready to fight
                  with the most courageous daring, and reckless disregard of human life, in defence
                  of their sacredly-cherished capital. Around this, for more than a year, immense
                  labor had been expended in constructing redoubts, rifle-pits, hornworks, and
                  enfilading and casemated batteries; while every other imaginable sort of defence
                  crowned every hillock, and swept every road and defile, for miles around the city.
                  So, with very good reasons for hoping that their skilfully-constructed works were
                  impregnable, they awaited the onset of the Union army.
               
               Ten weary days Catharine had been in the loathsome prison, without seeing one
                  friendly human face. Ten years of agony and discomfort they seemed to her, when
                  she was startled one evening, at an unusual hour, by the sound of approaching
                  footsteps and voices, and the rattling of a key in the lock of her door. One of
                  those voices thrilled her like an electric shock, and brought her to her feet in
                  an instant. The door opened; and a light that almost blinded her flashed in upon
                  the midnight darkness, followed by the under-keeper, and beside him—she knew she
                  could not mistake those deep, low tones—was Gen. Atherton.
               She shrank back to the wall, gazing at them with wild, blinded eyes, as the keeper
                  set down the light, and left the room; and the general advanced to meet her.
               "Catharine! is it thus we meet after months of painful separation and vain
                  longing?" he said, as he took her in his arms, and folded her to his bosom.
               So utterly wretched and miserable was she feeling at the time, that there was
                  really a sense of friendliness and protection in the clasp of those strong, loving
                  arms for a moment; a powerful magnetism in his looks and tones, that enchained her
                  senses; a feeling of relief and companionship in the light that once more
                  illumined her dark prison-cell.
               For several minutes he held her silently, overpowered himself by strong emotion:
                  then he gently raised her head, and looked lovingly yet searchingly into her
                  agitated countenance.
               "How you have changed!" he said with a deep sigh. "It breaks my heart to see you
                  in this gloomy prison-cell, with these sunken cheeks, hollow, tear-stained,
                  glittering eyes, and troubled brow. How pale, shadowy, and unreal you look! Your
                  hair, too, those beauteous auburn curls, all sacrificed! O Catharine! what am I to
                  think of such a shocking change,—of all these strange adventures and frightful
                  accusations?"
               "What you please," said she proudly, withdrawing herself from his clasp, and
                  raising her downcast eyes to his face. "You said once, that no one who was a judge
                  of the human countenance could look into mine, and doubt my innocence, purity, and
                  truth. Has their loss effected all these changes, do you think?"
               "No, no. To me you are innocent and truthful still," he said, after a prolonged
                  and searching glance, "whatever others may think. But, dear Catharine, you must be
                  aware that circumstances have been and are terribly against you."
               "Yes, I know. I ought to blame no one for doubting me. I wondered even that Mrs.
                  Hunter and her family did not when I returned to Richmond in such at suspicious
                  manner a few weeks ago."
               "Catharine, did you write me all the particulars about that
                  mysterious disappearance last autumn?"
               "I believe so, at least, all I thought of consequence to you, or necessary to
                  explain my position. But why?"
               "Because those explanations seemed imperfect, and left the painful impression upon
                  my mind that there was something you wished to keep back and conceal from me."
               A flush of surprise and shame, but not guilt, instantly suffused Catharine's face,
                  revealing, as if by magic, the truth of his suspicions.
               "I see I was right," he said with a keen glance and darkening frown. "You cannot
                  hide your thoughts from me, Catharine, if you would."
               
               "I did not and do not wish to, except for your own peace and happiness. I told you
                  the facts just as they occurred, so far as the knowledge of them could do either
                  of us any good. Yet I confess that there were some things connected with the
                  affair, that reflect no blame on me, which, out of regard to your feelings, and
                  pity for another, I did not think it best to reveal."
               "Out of regard to me!" he exclaimed passionately. "Catharine, you can know nothing
                  of a husband's feelings or rights, if you think one who loves as I do will bear
                  such concealments."
               "I think I do know what they ought to be; and won't you trust me to keep from you
                  a knowledge that can only wound and pain, but do you no good?"
               "No: I must know the truth, at whatever cost of feeling to myself."
               "When it is only for your good, and the honor of your family alone, that I would
                  be silent?"
               "Yes: you know who were your abductors, and would shield them from my anger."
               "No, I do not."
               "Who employed them then?"
               "Yes," said Catharine, after a pause. "But pray trust me in this, Gen. Atherton.
                  If our marriage had been known, it would never have occurred. He who did this
                  thing, knowing nothing of our secret marriage, had professed to love, and been
                  rejected by me. Your last letter to me fell by accident into his hands,
                  unfortunately. Mistaking its ambiguous language, thinking you were coming to
                  marry, and not claim one already married, and maddened by disappointment, he
                  procured my abduction to get me out of your way. I was carried to his plantation,
                  miles away, where he followed day or two, afterwards, and presented himself before
                  me. We had a deeply-exciting interview, during which I was obliged by the
                  circumstances to reveal to him the fact of our marriage, and beg of him to leave
                  me. He was terribly shocked, disappointed, and I believe penitent, when he found
                  out the truth. I had taken a severe cold in my night journey. I was already very
                  ill; my head was bursting with pain; and this, joined to the excitement, made me
                  alarmingly wild, and out of my head before the interview was over. I was, I
                  suppose, very near death for weeks after his departure. He left me a letter,
                  begging me to conceal his name, and thus shield him from your anger; and that is
                  the reason I have tried to do so thus far,—not from any love of him,—for I never
                  loved him,—but out of pity for both him and you. If you demand this name as your
                  right, I yield it at your bidding; yet I solemnly assure you that it will be a
                  thousand times better for you and him if the words should never be spoken;" and
                  she looked up appealingly into the dark, passionate eves, that were sternly
                  searching her agitated countenance.
               A silence of several minutes fell between them: then he said in a low, determined
                  tone,—
               "Catharine, I shall never rest easy without it: I would know my despoiler's
                  name."
               Catharine paused in pity: she could not bear to inflict upon the proud father a
                  blow so terrible,—the death-blow of a father's faith in, and love of, an only and
                  beloved son. He misconstrued her silence, and his brow darkened, as he said,—
               "Catharine, must I demand this knowledge as my rights? Tell me this man's
                  name."
               "It is Philip Atherton,—your own son," she faltered in a low, tremulous, pitying
                  tone.
               
               The proud father's face grew pale as ashes; and he reeled, as if she had struck
                  him a blow. He had suspected many others, but never once, strangely enough,
                  thought of Philip in connection with this affair, as having dreamed of daring to
                  rival him; though he might long before, had his own eyes and ears been
                  disengaged.
               Catharine pitied him from the bottom of her heart, much as both of them had made
                  her suffer; and, with quick sympathy, she turned to him, and said,—
               "God knows I would have saved you this pain if I could. You do not doubt me still,
                  Gen. Atherton?"
               "No, no: but oh, my son, my son! I cannot say as David did; but I can feel as
                  David felt," he exclaimed in a tone of deep emotion.
               "Absalom was blinded by one mad passion, Philip by another; but you must pity and
                  forgive him, even as I have done, who am the greatest sufferer."
               "To do it knowingly, in defiance of me and utter disregard of my feelings,—such a
                  mean, dishonorable act too! Oh, I never, never can forgive him!" he groaned.
               "You will think differently some day. Philip was blinded by passion: he could not
                  endure the thought of my becoming his father's wife. The knowledge that I was so
                  already made him almost wild. You know his ardent, impassioned nature: you know
                  how he has been petted and indulged from childhood. Perhaps you have yourself
                  helped to make him disregardful of the feelings of others. No doubt he deeply
                  regrets the act now, and suffers all the horrors of disappointment and remorse.
                  But let us talk of something else. If I am to die in this horrible prison, or on
                  the gallows, I want"—
               "O Catharine!" he exclaimed, "my only hope and comfort now, you shall not do
                  either, if I have to tear down the prison-walls with my own hands."
               "But you know why I am here, and by whose agency?"
               "Yes: my sister wrote me the particulars. She did not know then, however, that
                  Kendall, the sutler and spy, who operates between the lines, was your
                  accuser."
               "Then it is just as I suspected. I remember, now, that that was the name he told
                  me he had assumed."
               "You know him then?"
               "I think I have reason to."
               "Well, I came home the first moment I could call my own; have had an interview
                  with the authorities, and been trying my best to sift out the truth."
               "But you failed?"
               "Thus far, yes. Your accuser is gone, but is expected now every day. I fear I can
                  do nothing towards getting you liberated until he comes, as the proofs, they say,
                  are very strong, and almost incontrovertible."
               "Then I shall die here," moaned Catharine; "for the wretch will never return. He
                  told me as much when he tried to get me to go home with him."
               "To go home with him! Whom do you mean?"
               "Why, don't you know that Kendall and that scoundrel Sweep are one? He told me so
                  himself."
               "That explains it all."
               "Yes, indeed. It all comes from spite on his part, without doubt, to be revenged
                  on me for disappointing him. Yet he is so capable of mischief, that the
                  consequences may be very serious. But, whatever my fate may be, your Confederate
                  authorities may assure themselves of one thing,—that he has been playing a
                     double game with them, and dares not
                  return again to Richmond."
               "I feared it, and told them so; but they would not believe it. And he could do us
                  a great deal of harm just now, with the enemy so near us."
               "How near?"
               "Why, did you not know that the Federal army, more than two hundred thousand
                  strong, are within twelve miles of Richmond? or that there has been a great fright
                  and panic in the city, and that everybody that could get away has left it?"
               "I only know that I have heard unusual noise and confusion in the streets, and
                  longed most earnestly to get out, and fly away. And I warn you now, Gen. Atherton,
                  that, if in this great march of events, I should have a chance to do so, you must
                  consider yourself consulted if I prefer escape to an ignominious death."
               "You pain me deeply by such allusions. After such bitter disappointment in both my
                  children, I shall live only in the hope of one day claiming and proclaiming you as
                  my wife."
               "Then you have not done so yet?"
               "No, I judged it to be inexpedient. As your husband, my hands and tongue would be
                  tied, so far as assisting you would be concerned. As a friend, I could work for
                  you, without embarrassment, and defend you before any court of inquiry in the
                  realm; yet I must tell you honestly, my dear Catharine, that, if this man comes
                  back to substantiate his charges against you, and brings all the proof to which he
                  claimed to have access, the case will look very dark, and will not be an easy one
                  to defend. But for Philip's implication, the facts of your abduction and illness
                  could be brought forward as rebutting ting evidence. But as slaves cannot testify,
                  and no one else but Philip and his tools knew any thing about it, they alone could
                  save you by disgracing themselves, and you, too, perhaps, by implication, if not
                  in fact,—a thing that must not be risked, except in the last extremity, and hardly
                  then. So you see, my dear, the difficulties of your position; though you cannot
                  feel, as I do, a deep grief and regret for being, even remotely, the cause of it.
                  If it is in the power of man to save you, it shall be done, you may rest assured;
                  yet nothing can be done while the city is in such fearful peril, beleaguered by a
                  hostile foe. I myself, with thousands of others, have just been recalled from a
                  distant stations and must go to the front to-morrow, with a heart heavy, not only
                  with my own private griefs, but the woes of my country. I cannot bear to leave you
                  in this loathsome cell; but I suppose it cannot be helped. The crime of which you
                  are accused precludes the idea of relief or amelioration as well as the fact that
                  I do not stand well enough with the authorities at the present time to gain many
                  favors, especially personal ones."
               "Why so?"
               "Catharine," and he spoke in a low, concentrated tone, as if the walls had ears,
                  "'our President has disappointed the expectations of all his best friends. He is a
                  vain, wilful, obstinate, conceited fool, who will listen to no sensible man's
                  advice. He is notoriously ruled by his wife, who sees in every prominent and
                  ambitious man a rival of her husband. So she endeavors to wield all the influence
                  at her command in keeping such men in subordinate positions, where there will be
                  no chance for the display of brilliant talents, if they possess them, or danger of
                  their attracting the attention of the
                  people to the prejudice of her husband.' I have seen and felt this for months; and
                  so have Beauregard, Johnston, and Lee, in turn: and we fear, not without reason,
                  that it will be the cause of the downfall of the Confederacy. But none of us can
                  help ourselves so long as Jefferson Davis stands at the helm, with all the mighty
                  power and patronage of the government in his hands. As my wife, I tell you this,
                  in confidence, knowing that you are too honorable to betray the trust, and that
                  you may know with how many kinds of trouble I have to contend."
               "I have felt from the first that you were trying a dangerous, a fearful
                  experiment, that you will rue to the last day of your lives."
               "It may be so. I confess, that thus far it has not answered our expectations. But
                  we cannot, after accepting the gage of battle, retreat from it without
                  dishonor."
               "I believe you are mistaken. I know both parties are sick of this fratricidal
                  warfare. Blood enough has been shed, and treasure wasted. All that is wanted are a
                  few concessions to secure an honorable peace."
               "Catharine, once for all, we will never, never consent to the only concession that
                  would content your Northern people now,—the utter abolition and extinction of
                  slavery. It may come to that at last: they may set our own slaves to cut our
                  throats, and desolate our homes. But never, while we have blood to shed, or
                  strength to fight, will we consent to be thus ground into the dust by the ironshod
                  heel of Federal power."
               At this moment footsteps were heard approaching along the gallery outside, a knock
                  was heard at the door, and "Time's up," in a gruff voice, rang through the stilly
                  air.
               "Catharine, that summons is imperative," he said with a deep sigh. "I go to-morrow
                  to defend my country against her invaders, subject to all the chances of defeat,
                  death or victory. But before I go I shall make such provision for you, as my wife,
                  as shall not only insure you against want, but also reveal to the world your true
                  position with regard to me. If I fall," he continued gloomily, "you will perhaps
                  rejoice in the chance"—
               "No, Gen. Atherton. Whatever comes to me of joy or woe, I would that not another
                  life should be sacrificed in this unholy contest."
               The rap came again, still more imperative; and, with a passionate caress and
                  mournful "Farewell!" he turned and left the apartment.
               By his influence a few needed comforts were added to her desolate cell; and then
                  Catharine returned to her old round of darkness and silence by night, and
                  sepulchral light by day; interrupted only by the gruff visits of the jailer, the
                  voices and tramp of the sentinels, and the indistinct noises of the busy streets,
                  yet with feelings a little more cheerful for Gen. Atherton's visit. She felt that
                  she had one friend left to think of and care for her, if he was a selfish one: she
                  was not forgotten by the whole world. If he lived, she would have an able
                  defender. Yet the price she must pay for it made her sometimes doubt whether it
                  would not be better to die than live to endure a loveless marriage. Several days
                  passed away; and the feeling of nervousness and discontent was again getting the
                  mastery, when the jailer one afternoon presented himself, bowing with a politeness
                  altogether at variance with his previous brutal conduct.
               "Madam," he said in a very plausible tone, "I am very happy to inform you that the charges against
                  you have been withdrawn; and I have orders from the authorities for your release
                  from prison. A carriage will be at the door in half an hour, that will take you to
                  any part of the city you desire."
               He left the room before Catharine had sufficiently recovered from her astonishment
                  to reply or question. Then she impulsively knelt down, and offered heartfelt
                  thanksgiving to a kind heavenly Father for this unexpected deliverance.
               Poor girl! She thought her troubles were over, when, in fact, they had but just
                  begun. She gathered up her few articles of apparel, put them into her satchel;
                  and, when Major Turner appeared, she descended with him to the street. He helped
                  her into the carriage; and, at her request, ordered the coachman to take her to
                  Mrs. Hunter's. They arrived at last; and, driving up to the gate, the man helped
                  Catharine out, satchel in hand; jumped up to his seat again, and was whirled away.
                  Imagining her reception, and the joy of the family at her return, she walked up to
                  the front entrance, and 
                     rung
                     rang
                   the bell. But she waited in vain for Cæsar to answer the summons. She
                  rang again repeatedly, but with like results. Filled with gloomy forebodings, she
                  next went around the house, and tried the side and rear entrances, but found them
                  all locked against her. She remembered now, for the first time what Gen. Atherton
                  had told her in the prison,—that everybody had left Richmond who had anywhere to
                  go to; and that she had forgotten in her surprise and excitement to inquire after
                  Mrs. Hunter and her family. Here was a dilemma she had not dreamed of; and another
                  still worse soon presented itself. She had not a cent of money in her possession
                  session to procure a hack, or hire a lodging. She had taken none with her to the
                  prison, thinking it needless; and Gen. Atherton, never dreaming of her enlargement
                  before his return, had not once thought of making such provision for her. Overcome
                  now by the thought of her misery and friendlessness, she sat down on the steps,
                  and burst into tears. "Where in the world should she go, or what could she do?"
                  were the questions she asked herself.
               There were near neighbors, it was true; but, they were rich, proud, and
                  aristocratic, and had some of them treated her so superciliously, that she could
                  not bring herself to ask of them a favor.
               At last she thought of Mrs. Gordon, who, she believed, was a true friend to her;
                  and to her she resolved to go for a refuge. She raised her bowed head as she came
                  to this conclusion, and there, standing but a few feet from her, was an old negro
                  man she remember to have seen in the neighborhood regarding her with eyes full of
                  pity and compassion.
               "Massa ober dere to de big house see miss get out o' de carriage, an' t'ink she
                  dunno Missy Hunter an' all de folks here gone off to Nort' Carliny wid Missy
                  Davis, an' lots o' ladies an' chillens from Shockoe Hill."
               "I did not indeed. But is your mistress gone too?"
               "Yes: de wimin folks all gone. King an' Pinky stay to keep house for ole massa.
                  All de ladies in dese housen gone somewhere. All de young massas gone to
                  fight."
               "Indeed! Then there is no chance to get in here. But do you know Mrs. James Gordon
                  of —— Street?"
               "I guess King dunno him. But dat a long way off."
               "I know it. But don't know where else to go."
               
               "Terrible times, miss. Eberybody gone crazy coz de Jubilee's comin'."
               "Do you think so?"
               "King no doubt on't. De spirit o' de Lord tell him. But he no sich fool as to run
                  off inter de swamp, when he got good enuf massa to home. He stay till it come
                  right along."
               "You are right there, unless you want to go and help fight for your liberty and
                  that of your race."
               "Time 'nuff for dat when de big Linkum army come long. King t'ink dey come right
                  away. De streets full o' sogers from eberywhere; an, dere's goin' to be terrible
                  times rite off."
               "Well," sighed Catharine, "I suppose it is so; and I must go and try to find a
                  place to stay until Mrs. Hunter comes home."
               The negro hesitated a moment, then said,—
               "Does miss know, dat de streets pretty dangerous for wimin folks jes' now? Pretty
                  miss got no veil on, an' de men stare; an' some on 'em t'ink de Yankee spy got
                  loose."
               Catharine started. He knew her, then,—her accusation, and where she came from,—and
                  so would others. So the tears came again to her eyes as she said,—
               "I have indeed been accused, but wrongfully. I have been in prison, but have been
                  honorably liberated by the authorities. My veil must have been left in the
                  prison."
               "King spects so, an' wish he dare help miss a good deal. But old massa up dere to
                  de winder watchin'. He hate de Yankees, an' no let him. But if miss no find a
                  place, any come back here to-night, he t'ink he an' Pinky hide her somewhere for
                  all massa.
               "Thank you, my friend. I will do so, but hope I may find friends elsewhere."
               "King hope so tu, an' wish miss good luck an' good-by," he returned, and then
                  hobbled off to report to his master, who was keenly observing every movement from
                  his chamber-window.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               NO HOME.—AGAIN IN BONDS.
               
                  WITH a prayer for help in her heart, Catharine took up her satchel,
                  and marched out into the crowded streets in the direction of Mrs. Gordon's. They
                  were indeed crowded with soldiery and citizens; and long trains of ambulances and
                  army-wagons, full of stragglers and camp-followers of every description, were
                  rolling on towards the battle-fields outside of Richmond. But there was scarcely a
                  white female to be seen in the streets; and, terrified at the thought of her
                  unprotected situation, she glided along with hasty but silent footfalls, trying to
                  attract as little attention as possible.
               But with such a face and figure as hers, in its nice-fitting brown suit and jaunty
                  hat, it was impossible to escape observation; and many were the admiring glances
                  that followed her retreating footsteps. When, after a long and tiresome walk, she
                  arrived at Gordon house, it was but to ring repeatedly, but in vain, for
                  admittance. The house was closed; and the family, she was told, had left the city.
                  She turned away in tears, uncertain where to go next. At last she thought of two
                  families on the same street, who had always been very intimate at Hunter House,
                  and always treated her politely, upon whom she resolved to call and ask for a
                  shelter.
               Upon application to the first, she was ushered into the parlor, but received with
                  freezing coldness by the mistress; and, when she told her story in tremulous
                  tones, and asked for refuge and protection, the lady told her she would harbor no
                  one who was under suspicion as a Yankee spy. When she attempted to expostulate and
                  plead her cause, she was, without ceremony, turned into the street. Anger dried
                  the tears upon her cheek; for this lady, who was a widow, in a dangerous illness a
                  few months previous had been under great obligation to her for watching and kindly
                  care, as well as to Mrs. Hunter; and she had also been a candidate for the favor
                  of Gen. Atherton.
               At the next place, though she saw the lady plainly through the window, she was
                  peremptorily denied admittance by the well-instructed servant in waiting. Probably
                  the fear of being themselves suspected in some measure influenced the decisions of
                  these ladies regarding her. Overwhelmed now by despair, she wandered on, applying
                  in vain at every house were she knew the owners for shelter and protection.
               The sun had set; and, as it grew dusk, she was jostled by the rude throng that
                  filled the street, some of whom impudently peered in her face, and spoke to her in
                  a way that increased her fears, and made her tremble for her safety.
               She thought at last of an old colored woman, who, being free, owned a little house
                  in the suburbs, and took in washing, who, she felt sure, would receive her if she
                  could only find the place. She was one of Aunt Dinah's particular friends, who
                  often came to visit her; and she knew her to be a respectable woman. She had been
                  there with Dinah and the children once or twice, but always in the carriage with a driver. So, not being
                  quite sure of the way, she soon got bewildered in the growing darkness, and, in
                  the labyrinth of streets that were new and strange to her, was completely lost.
                  She made several inquiries, but no one she asked knew such a woman as Mrs. Milly
                  Conly.
               At last she was overtaken by a tall, gaunt, unhappy-looking woman in tawdry
                  apparel, who professed to know Mrs. Conly well. She said that if she would go home
                  with her and spend the night, she would be perfectly welcome. If she preferred
                  going to Mrs. Conly's, she would show her the way, after getting her supper, and
                  making a few home arrangements, as they lived in the same neighborhood. The
                  manners and appearance of the woman were such as to excite poor Catharine's
                  suspicions; but what could she do in her desperate circumstances but accept the
                  offered hospitality and kindness? They soon turned off from the travelled street
                  into a long lane, that led to an old, dilapidated mansion, where the woman said
                  she resided. It was quite dark when they entered the house; but the woman struck a
                  light, kindled a fire, and soon had a comfortable meal to set before her
                  suspicious and watchful guest.
               Just as they were rising from the table, the rolling of wheels was heard without;
                  and the woman exclaimed in evident alarm, —
               "There, he is coming! I thought he would be away to-night. I cannot go with you;
                  but go somewhere,—if you would be safe; for he is a"—
               "Where, oh! where can I go?" said Catharine in tremulous tones, as she seized her
                  hat, and ran towards the door.
               "Not there! you are too late: I hear his step on the gravel," the woman exclaimed
                  in a frightened tone. "Here, take this light, and run up stairs to the little room
                  at the end of the hall;" and she lit and gave her an extra candle. "Blow out the
                  light as soon as you find the room, and keep still as death."
               Not knowing what else to do, Catharine obeyed; for she felt sure, that, whatever
                  the character of the woman might be, she was trying to shield her from some great
                  danger.
               She cast her eyes hastily around the desolate room, saw that it was impossible to
                  fasten it from within, extinguished the light, and sat down upon the humble bed,
                  trembling in every limb. Immediately afterwards she heard the heavy tramp of feet
                  entering the house, the slamming of doors, and then the sound of angry,
                  high-pitched voices in eager and excited conversation.
               There was something in the gruff tones of one of them that made her shiver with
                  renewed terror; for, as she listened intently, she grew surer every moment that it
                  was the voice of the murderous Blondel. The voices lowered at last to a calmer
                  tone, and then there was the rattle and clink of dishes and domestic utensils, as
                  if supper was prepared, and devoured by the new comer, or comers.
               And, while it was being partaken of evidently, Catharine's heart stood still, as
                  she heard stealthy footsteps ascending the stairs, and approaching the door of her
                  room—in the darkness.
               There was a fumbling for the latch,—the entrance, turning, and click of a key in
                  the lock,—the retreating of the stealthy footsteps down the stairs; and she knew
                  that she was a prisoner,—probably in a den of infamy.
               To describe her feelings would be impossible. She was sure it was the woman's step she had heard. It
                  might be that she had locked her in to save her from great danger. This thought
                  was her only consolation. After a while, there was again loud talking, and
                  tramping in and around the house, the sound of a wagon going down the lane towards
                  the city; and then all was still.
               That night a terrific thunder-storm swept over the city and country, fitly
                  symbolizing the era of horror the morrow was to usher in. The rain fell in
                  torrents; the wind whistled around the tall chimneys; the lightning darted and
                  blazed, until the Heavens seemed lit up by a grand and terrible illumination; the
                  thunder rolled overhead, as if all the artillery of heaven were beginning the
                  murderous roar that was to be echoed and repeated during the succeeding memorable
                  days. To Catharine, locked in that desolate room, it was a night of unmingled
                  horrors.
               But we must pause here to explain how, under the weight of such fearful
                  accusations, Catharine came to be released by the authorities from the Libby
                  Prison. For several days they had been looking anxiously for the return of
                  Kendall, with some special news he had promised to bring them from Washington,
                  regarding the peace views of the Federal Government, and the movements of the
                  Union armies. They felt as if a great deal depended upon this news, which they
                  could obtain in no other way.
               It must be remembered, that, for several months, they had had nothing but a
                  continued succession of reverses, losses, and defeats; and the imminence of the
                  impending danger made them all the more anxious to obtain this news before
                  fighting seriously commenced with McClellan's dreaded army.
               They were talking of this one day in a cabinet council, when a letter was brought
                  in, addressed to "President Davis and the Authorities of the
                  Confederate States." It was known to have come from a perfectly reliable source;
                  and, having been ordered to be read by one of the secretaries, was found to be as
                  follows:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              WASHINGTON, May 27, 1862.
                           
                           MY DERE FRENDS,—Having conclooded that it wouldn't be for my helth to
                              cum back to Richmond jest now, I thort I'd rite, and let you no how
                              matters stand. I got back to Washintun safe an' sound, an' found 'em
                              all tickled to deth to see me; especially Jotham an' his wife, who is
                              fat an' flourishin', an' dresses as fine as a peacock. He's makin' a
                              sight of money contractin'; which, up here, means, in perlite circles,
                              patriotically and gratooitusly, furnishin' things for the grand army
                              of the Union, but, in common langwidge, cheatin' Uncle Sam. I think of
                              goin' into it myself, it's so mity fashinable; and then I can have a
                              grand house, a gilt carridge, a hansum wife, an' fat hosses, like the
                              rest on 'em.
                           To-day I called on the Secretary of War an' President Lincon; an' they
                              was both mity glad to see me. Miss Lincon smiled on me as sweet as
                              molasses, and little Tad cum an' set on my nee to got the candy an'
                              jacknife I carried him. But that was on'y a little by-play, you
                              onderstand: tho' I du think little Tad a dreadful interestin' child;
                              an' I told his father so. He laffed, an' axed me if Miss Jeff. Davis
                              had any ekal tu him. I said yes, her young ones was jest as keen and
                              cute as if they was Yankees. But we talked most of the time about war
                              an' pollyticks. He's expectin', I see, to hear every day, that
                              Maclellan has whipped the South within an' inch of her life, laid Richmond in
                              ashes, and hung you leaders all up to the lamp-posts. At that, I told
                              him I gessed held got a leetle tu fast in his kalculations; for you'd
                              got surcumvolutions an' parryhellograms an' ridouts, and all sorts of
                              fortyfycations, piled sky-high around Richmond, full ekal to the walls
                              of Babylon.
                           I told him, tu, that you'd got an army there, that I should judge, by
                              the looks on't, would count nigh upon a million, with several generals
                              quite ekal to the great Napoleon; and that you'd (in my private
                              opinion) be quite as likely tu send Jackson to whip 'round Banks and
                              Shields, and take Washintun, as Maclellan was tu take the Confederate
                              capitul.
                           He kinder looked scairt at that, you may depend, an' immegiately sent
                              out orders for the guards to keep a sharp lookout, and be ready for
                              ye.
                           By the best I can find out, I reckon Maclellan ain't got more'n five
                              hundred thousand men before Richmond; so I gess you'll got along well
                              enuf if I don't cum back.
                           But I like ter forgot the main thing I wanted to tell ye; an' that's
                              about the gal I got ye to put in the Libby for me, jest afore I cum
                              away from Richmond. The fact is, the critter was as innercent as a lam
                              on all them charges I brought agin her; and I don't mind tellin' ye
                              on't, now I've got away, safe an' sound. You see, she'd riled me up
                              like fury, an' I got so tarnal mad and spiteful, that I thort I'd cum
                              up with her somehow. To tell ye the exact truth about it, we both used
                              to live out to old Major Hunter's at Hunter Hills,—she as governess
                              an' I as overseer; an' I got plagily streaked with her. Wall, she was
                              mity toppin' an' top-lofty at first, an' would hardly speak tu a
                              feller, till arter Master Loyd courted an' left her; an' I couldn't
                              get acquainted nohow. But when she cum back from Richmond to take care
                              of the old major ('cause his wife wouldn't) you see, she was kinder
                              alone, an' we all eat together, and she was kinder plausible. But jest
                              as quick as I offered tu have her, she turned up her nose an' cut my
                              head over an' over. Now, you know that don't feel good; but I didn't
                              pretend to mind it. I wa'n't goin' tu kick over my stew in that way;
                              so I held on, as perlite as could be. At last I happened to think that
                              I'd forgot to tell her about the twenty thousand dollars I'd got
                              banked up at the North; and then I thort I'd got her sure. But—would
                              you bleve it?—jest as quick as I told her that, an' said we could go
                              up North an' cut a big swell with our money, the sassy critter up an'
                              told me that "no amount of gold would indooce her to wed a Yankee
                              slave-driver." That, I tell ye, raised my dander. "You were ready
                              enough to wed a slave-owner," says I, "and where's the difference?"
                              "All the difference in the world," says Miss Imperdence. "For a man
                              who inherits slaves from past generations, to many of whom he is
                              strongly attatched, I can have some sympathy; but for one, with a
                              Northern edication an' decent abilities, to cum down here to be a
                              slave-driver, I have none at all." Now wa'n't that aggravatin'? and
                              there was considerable more of the same sort of thing tu.
                           Wall, that onfortynite affair at the major's pervented my persuin' the
                              business; and I lost her that time; tho' I may as well confess, while
                              I'm about it, that she had me dragged away from the fire, and saved my
                              life when everybody else turned agin me, an' was reddy to give me a
                              kick. Wall, I jest got out of that affair by the skin of my teeth; an'
                              that was about all the skin I had left, I was so singed. But, like a
                              singed cat, I cum out pretty slick artery all. I saved all my money. I'd allers hated my name,
                              an' my red an' yaller head-fixins; so, now that my hair was all singed
                              off, I had a chance to change to a much more desirable color for both.
                              I was mity tickled at that; an' it gin me a much better chance in this
                              agency bisness, in which I've had the honor to sarve your lordships of
                              the Confederate States, as I think, with immense satisfaction to both
                              parties. Wall, you see, on this last little excursion to Richmond, I
                              cum across this gal agin, as cute, imperdent, and sassy as ever; an',
                              finding her as top-lofty, I thort I'd cum up with her nicely: so I got
                              a feller to help me for a dollar, and we gin the nigs lodnum, an'
                              nabbed her in her sleep, an' brought her on to Richmond in my big
                              wagon, without the guards noin' any thing about it. But the devil was
                              in it, tu purvent my gittin' her, arter all. My wagon got smashed up,
                              an' the gal spilt out, an' Loyd Hunter, her old spark, cum along, as
                              Satan would have it, and carted her off, in spite of me, to his
                              mother's. I never was so mad an' disappinted in my life. An' when I
                              read a letter I found in her room when we nabbed her, I fairly biled
                              over with righteous indignation. I found out then, that I'd got
                              awfully cheated and took in; for, as sure as you live, the critter had
                              been an' got slyly married to one of your darned old rebel generals,
                              and was really another man's wife. Another feller, it seemed, had
                              carted her off, she s'posed, to get her out of his way; and this was a
                              letter she'd rit to her husban', and never sent. I put it in my
                              pocket, but forgot to read it till arter it was all over. Wall, I felt
                              terribly imposed upon; an', thinkin' I'd cum up with her, I went tu
                              work pretty soon to try an' copy her ritin', an' finally manyfacturd
                              them dockyments I had the honor tu present tu you. You'll find copys
                              of 'em, in the N. E. corner of the cupboard of my room, at the tavern
                              where I staid, that I forgot to burn when I cum away, if nobody hasn't
                              moved 'em.
                           I felt dreadful tickled when I got her shet up in that nasty prison,
                              an' cum away mity triumphant. But it didn't last long; for I'm
                              naterally dreadful soft-shelled and tender-hearted towards the
                              femenine sect: an' I begun tu think pretty soon, that it was tu bad to
                              treat the gal so arter she'd saved my life, even if she was sassy; an'
                              that she'd jest as good a rite tu git rich by matrimony as I had in
                              this agency business. Then I was alwus a dreadful consiencious man,
                              an' Orthodox as fury when I'm to home; an' I thort if I should want tu
                              set up for deacon or squire, or tu go tu Congress, when the war's
                              over, an' this story should git round, it might hurt my popularity.
                              Wall, my conshence kept prickin' like nettles an' pins all the way tu
                              Washintun, until I gin in, and conclooded tu du the hansum thing by
                              lettin' you no the truth, and havin' the gal let out of jail. An',
                              thinkin' you mite be jest a leetle stuffy, I thort I wouldn't cum back
                              to Richmond jest now, tho' I mean to cum and see you all when the
                              war's over.
                           Good-by.
                           
                              Yours truly an' affectionately,
                              KENDALL.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               It would be impossible to describe the feelings of the august Cabinet at the
                  reading of this precious epistle, which was received with mingled expressions of
                  rage, contempt, and laughter. Thus far they had all had a good deal of
                  confidence,—not of course in Kendall's principles, but in his serving them in good
                  faith for the sake of his idol, gold,—a faith that Gen. Atherton had tried in vain to shake. But they saw
                  clear enough now that they had been, not only bought, but sold. In extreme disgust
                  with the whole affair, the President ordered the man's lodgings searched, and, if
                  the proofs he named were found, the enlargement of the prisoner.
               "We probably see now why Atherton was so deeply interested in this lady's case,"
                  said one of the secretaries.
               "Yes," said another: "but I think if it had been my case, I would have been manly
                  enough to have owned the truth regarding so fair and talented a lady as Miss Hale,
                  if she was a Yankee governess. Her reply to this accursed scoundrel, regarding the
                  slave-owner, sets her up wonderfully in my estimation."
               The proofs were found where Sweep had indicated; and the intimation that she was
                  allied to some one in authority procured her respectful treatment at the time of
                  her release. Most likely, if she had applied in the proper quarter, a refuge would
                  have been provided for her until she could have communicated with her friends; but
                  this was not so to be.
               Morning dawned upon her at last, bright and beautiful; though the deep mud
                  everywhere testified to the force of the storm, and made locomotion difficult. For
                  the fact that she had been undisturbed by any thing through the night but the
                  rats, the storm, and her own fears, she thanked God, and took courage.
               After a while, the woman came in with some bread and coffee on a tray, but kept
                  the door in her hand as she set them down, and would scarcely answer Catharine's
                  questions or salutations.
               She looked darker, fiercer, and even more repulsive by the light of day than she
                  had done the evening previous; and Catharine saw at once that she either would not
                  or dared not set her at liberty. She went out soon, locking the door behind her.
                  Sure, from her gruff replies, that Blondel might be expected at any moment,
                  Catharine soon began to look around keenly, seeking vainly for some mode of
                  escape. Her room was comfortless and dilapidated, as indeed appeared to be the
                  whole establishment. The plastering had fallen from the walls in unsightly
                  patches; the floor was covered with dirt, piles of rags, old clothes, and worn-out
                  boots and shoes, as if it had been the general reservoir of coarse, cast-off
                  wearing apparel. Some of it had lain there until it was nearly devoured by moths
                  and rats, with which the building seemed over-stocked. The only window looked out
                  upon a cheerless back yard, overgrown with weeds, beyond which lay the open
                  country outside of Richmond. The floor was uncarpeted of course; the bed, a sack
                  of straw upon an ancient cot bedstead, which, with a broken chair, composed the
                  furniture. She examined the door, the window,—nailed down with a rusty spike,—the
                  cupboard, the closet, and in fact every thing that could be supposed to afford an
                  avenue of escape, like some wild animal pursued by the hunter and the hounds.
               But to whom and to what should she escape, when she knew no one in Richmond who
                  would receive her? Must she go on foot and alone, through mud and mire, and throw
                  herself upon the protection of Gen. Atherton, who had never yet announced their
                  marriage to the world, and, for aught she knew, might have insuperable objections
                  against doing so at all? Every instinct of pride, propriety, and female delicacy
                  forbade such a thought; though even that were preferable to falling into the hands
                  of the odious Blondel. She felt as if every hour in that place was fraught with
                  terrible danger, and that there could
                  scarce be more anywhere else. She must and would get out of that house, she
                  thought, before the day was over; for the night would bring the odious wretch, she
                  was very sure. The hours passed slowly away. She began to grow sleepy, for she had
                  not slept a wink the previous night. She would not give way to the feeling; but
                  walked the room, looked out of the window, and tried its fastenings with all her
                  wit and strength, but in vain, for the want of some instrument to unloosen the
                  spike. Almost desperate, she began to turn over the piles of dust-covered rubbish
                  to see what she could find. At last, hung up behind the closet-door, she found an
                  old blouse, and a pair of pants to match, that had evidently belonged to some
                  slender youth, which put new ideas into her head, and suggested a plan for escape.
                  An old palm-leaf hat with a torn brim, and a pair of old boots, the best and
                  smallest she could find, completed the disguise; without which she felt sure no
                  woman could traverse town or country at that time without subjecting herself to
                  insult.
               Placing the things in the closet all together, she thought she would lie down for
                  a moment to rest and arrange her plan for escape. She did not mean to go to sleep;
                  but her heavy eyes unconsciously closed, and she was in the land of dreams.
               From this state of blissful unconsciousness she was aroused at last by a deep,
                  prolonged, and thunderous roar, that rattled the glass in the old window, shook
                  the earth, and brought her to her feet, strongly excited by terror and
                  apprehension. She knew, however, as soon as she had time to think, that it was the
                  awful roar of battle,—the thunder of the great conflict Gen. Atherton had assured
                  her was so near at hand. There had been good deal of firing for several days, but
                  nothing to be compared with this. So near and distinct seemed the fearful
                  utterances, that for some minutes she really thought the city was besieged by the
                  Union army.
               But Catharine was not the only one who had been suddenly awakened and alarmed by
                  the terrible sounds; for hardly had she come to her senses before the old stairs
                  began to creak from rapidly-ascending footsteps, the door was unlocked, and her
                  female jailer rushed in. She was half dressed, her eyes were wild with terror, and
                  her gray hair was streaming behind her like the snaky locks of Medusa. Without
                  stopping to close the door, she ran up to Catharine, exclaiming, —
               "We're lost!—we're lost! The Yankees are coming! We'll all be murdered in a
                  trice!" and wrung her hands in agony of spirit; while the tears streamed down her
                  sallow cheeks like rain. 
               This restored Catharine to her senses, and she realized at once the ludicrousness
                  of the fears of both. The door stood open, and the idea of instant flight
                  presented itself; but, being unprepared, it was discarded.
               "You are mistaken, my good woman," she returned in answer to her wild appeal. "The
                  Yankees are miles away from Richmond; but the two armies are no doubt cannonading
                  each other. They may come here in a few days: but, if they do, I am not afraid;
                  for I have friends in the Union army, who will protect me, and you, too, if you
                  will let me stay with you. I've no friends in Richmond now; and I am sure I do not
                  know where else to go."
               Assured by Catharine's manner and tones, the poor woman became calmer, but still
                  looked at her suspiciously, as she said,—
               
               "Well, I dunno what the boss will say. He ordered me to keep ye locked up: and
                  there's the door wide open;" and she sprang towards it in evident fear of
                  Catharine's escape. "But I wonder he don't come," she added: "he said, if he
                  didn't come back last night, he would to-day, sure. If there's a big fight,
                  though, he'll want to stay to clear up the ground."
               "What do you mean by that?"
               "Oh! no matter. I guess he knows where he gets the biggest harvest with the fewest
                  hard knocks."
               "Where is that?"
               "Don't you know that a battle-field's ekal to a bank or a jeweller's shop for
                  money, watches, an' sich fixins'?"
               "Ah, I understand," said Catharine in disgust; "and there is a big fight, I should
                  think by the noise: so I guess he'll stay, and we will try and make ourselves
                  comfortable; won't we?"
               "Well, I dunno: I'm 'fraid he'll come and swear at me or beat me, as he allus
                  does."
               "Why do you care for him? Are you his wife?"
               "His wife!" and a bitter sneer crossed her dark visage. "I ought to be; but he
                  wants no wife. I have been his victim, and he is as merciless as the grave. Not
                  even you, with all your youth and beauty, will escape him, or be more to him in a
                  week than I am to-day;" and she glanced at Catharine with a look of ill-concealed
                  jealousy and hatred.
               "I will not be your rival if I can help it," she returned; "and you certainly can
                  prevent it by letting me go."
               "I dare not do it: if he knew I did, he would kill me."
               "Well, if I must stay, do go and get a cup of tea, and we will eat together, and
                  be friends."
               "I want some myself, for I've had no dinner; and he's like enough to come hungry
                  as a bear. But there's sich a horrible din, I'm 'most 'fraid to go down alone. But
                  I must: for I dare not take ye with me, for fear he'd come and find us."
               So, with fear and trembling, she did leave the room to prepare a meal for him, as
                  well as herself and Catharine, locking the door behind her.
               Now was Catharine's time; and there was not a moment to lose, if he was expected
                  every moment.
               With nervous eagerness, she pulled out the strange garments from the closet, and
                  hastily exchanged them for most of her own, which she put in their places.
               They felt stiff and awkward at first, but were a tolerably decent fit of gray
                  Kentucky jean. The old boots went on very well over her cloth gaiters,—otherwise
                  they would have been too large. She could not help smiling at the figure she cut,
                  but missed the big hoops more than any thing else.
               Luckily for her now, though she thought it unlucky enough at the time, Catharine
                  had lost her long, shining hair by the fever, and her head how covered by a short
                  crop of fine, silky, auburn curls. This made her look very much like a pretty,
                  fair-skinned, delicate boy of sixteen; and, when she put on the old hat, the
                  metamorphosis was complete.
               She next looked out of the window to see if any thing could be seen of
                  Blondel,—the act strongly reminding her of Fatima in the old nursery tale of
                  Bluebeard. And behold, an equal to Bluebeard was there!
               As to what she was to do with herself, if she did get away, she could not tell.
                  Any way, it would be better to starve in the streets than fall into the hands
                     of the grizzly jayhawker. In boy's
                  clothes, she could surely find something to do, and be comparatively safe from
                  insult.
               The continued and tremendous concussions of the cannon that were still
                  reverberating in her ears strongly suggested the thought of flight to the Union
                  army.
               Having completed her arrangements, she knelt down, and fervently commended herself
                  to God for protection and guidance.
               The door of her room and that of the closet opened outwards side by side. So, as
                  soon as she heard the woman's footstep on the stairs, she slipped into the closet,
                  leaving the door ajar. When she came up, unlocked the door, and came in with a
                  waiter in her hands, and moved along to set it down on the bed, Catharine slipped
                  out just behind her, and was out of the room, and had the door locked upon her
                  former jailer, before that lady was hardly aware of what was going on.
               She had indeed been struck with astonishment at the glimpse of a strange boy
                  coming out of the closet; and in her surprise nearly let her waiter fall before
                  she missed her charge, or at all comprehended the truth.
               Leaving her screaming "Murder! Fire! Thieves!" and all other sorts of
                  imprecations, Catharine ran like lightning down the stairs to the front entrance.
                  Finding that bolted, she started to go through a front room to the rear, thinking
                  she might there find an easier mode of egress. Hearing the sound of wheels, she
                  looked out of the window, and there, to her horror, beheld the odious Blondel
                  driving around the house to the rear in his old rickety mule-wagon.
               For an instant she was paralyzed: but he was looking up to the chamber-windows,
                  listening to the woman's horrid imprecations; so she recovered her wits, and ran
                  back to the front door. By her utmost exertions she at last succeeded in removing
                  the heavy bolt, and opening it. The street, or rather lane, that led to the city,
                  was in sight all the way from the front of the house, and of course out of sight
                  from the rear; so it was just possible for her to secure her retreat before he
                  discovered her escape. Her heart stood still for a moment, as she realized her
                  position, then gave a quick bound as she sprang from the threshold, and ran
                  swiftly down the lane.
               We may be sure that she did not let the grass grow under her feet as she ran back
                  to Richmond, and very sure that the old roof was nearly raised with curses, when
                  Blondel came in, found the woman locked up, and Catharine gone: he had come back
                  almost wholly on her account; for he had seen her through the window the evening
                  previous, and compelled the woman to confess the truth. Before she got to the
                  city, her lameness had partially returned, and her fictitious strength was fast
                  deserting her. When she reached the main street, she looked back, and, seeing no
                  one in pursuit, stopped a moment to take breath. She then timidly mingled with the
                  great crowd of people on foot, on horseback, and in carriages, wagons, and
                  ambulances, all seemingly moving in one unbroken stream, in the direction of the
                  ominous sounds that still continued to stun the ear, and rend the smoky,
                  sulphurous atmosphere. She thought, at first, that everybody must notice her
                  awkwardness in her strange garments; but, as no one seemed to think or care, she
                  became more assured, and paused a moment before a handsome house to consider what
                  she had better do.
               
               At this moment a gentleman in the uniform of a Confederate colonel, whose face
                  seemed somehow familiar, rode up to the curbstone, and, seeing no one else more
                  available, said,—
               "Boy, will you hold my horse a few moments? I have business here."
               "Certainly," said Catharine, promptly taking the reins, yet sorry for it the next
                  moment, when she thought of Blondel.
               The gentleman went into the mansion, was gone some time, and came out looking very
                  sorrowful. He mounted his fine horse, tossed her a few small coins for her
                  trouble, and then said, as he looked her over keenly,—
               "What is your name, my son? It seems as if I ought to know you."
               "My name is—is Ellery Hale, sir," she returned, as the hot color flashed over her
                  face. She had not once thought of assuming a name; so, upon the impulse of the
                  moment, she gave a part of her own maiden name, which was Catharine Ellery
                  Hale.
               "Do you belong here in Richmond?" he questioned.
               "No, sir," she replied, "I am from the country."
               "What are you doing here?"
               "Nothing; but I want something to do. My friends were all gone when I arrived:
                  their house is shut, and I am homeless."
               "Would you like to enlist? My regiment will be along very soon. We want men, boys,
                  any thing, to fill up the ranks, that can handle a musket."
               "No," she instantly replied, "I could never consent to kill men,—made in God's own
                  image."
               "Well, you do look rather young for the business. But what can you do? That fair,
                  blushing face, and those white, slender hands never saw many hardships, I
                  fancy."
               "The hand is a feeble one, it is true; for I have been ill: yet it can take care
                  of the sick and wounded, and has done it, not only here, but at Manassas."
               "Indeed! Well, if that is the case, you can have plenty of business by going with
                  us, if that tremendous roar signifies any thing. But will you go?"
               Catharine hesitated a moment: then, with a sudden impulse, she said, "I will go,
                  sir."
               It was her first chance; and she was ready to do almost any thing, to get out of
                  the way of the odious Blondel, who, she felt sure, would be seeking for her
                  everywhere.
               She had remembered, at that moment, seeing Col. Elliot at Mrs. Hunter's. She knew
                  him to be an honorable man, too; and that decided her to accept his proposal in
                  her desperate circumstances. She never once thought of making herself known to
                  him, and claiming his protection, as she might have done: and, if she had, the
                  thought of her repulses the day before from those of her own sex, upon whom she
                  felt that she had some claim, would have made her hesitate. She knew enough other,
                  distinguished people in Richmond; but if those ladies, knowing her and her
                  desperate circumstances so much better, would suspect and scorn her, she felt as
                  if all the rest would do the same.
               But she had little time for reflection. The troops soon came along: a place was
                  found for her in one of the ambulances; and, before she hardly realized what she
                  was about, she was on her way to the battle-field. Was it destiny?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               ESCAPING.—THE FIELD OF BATTLE.
               
                  ON her way to the Chickahominy, Catharine had plenty of time for
                  reflection; and her heart became oppressed with new alarms, as she thought of the
                  chances of battle, the constant exposure to detection, the fear of insult, and all
                  the horrors connected with army life.
               Her travelling companions proved to be a surgeon and his assistant, with a
                  half-invalid officer, who, she found from the conversation, had just come from a
                  distant post to the support of the army before Richmond. They seemed to have
                  greatly exaggerated ideas of the strength and immensity of McClellan's army, and
                  rather doubtful of the success of their cause generally.
               She drew her old hat down over her eyes, so as to escape observation; and for a
                  while they scarcely noticed her. At last the surgeon turned to her, and said,—
               "So you, too, are going out to the camp, my boy; are you?"
               "That is my intention, sir," she replied.
               "You have no arms I see. What are you going there for?"
               "To help take care of the wounded, sir."
               "Your hands don't look like bloody work, or indeed work of any kind: they are as
                  white as a lady's."
               "They can work for all that; though I have been sick, and for a long time idle,"
                  she said with a heightened color.
               "You are unfit for the camp then, as well as myself," said the young officer. "Why
                  do you go there?"
               "Because I have neither friends nor money now, and have nowhere else to go."
               "Well, it's a pity you were not a lady, with that fair face, those beautiful
                  hands, and clear, silvery tones. If you were, I expect I should fall in love with
                  you," said the surgeon's assistant with a merry laugh.
               "And then what would become of the charming widow?" said his companion
                  laughingly.
               "Her reign no doubt would be over, and, like all past dynasties, make but a line
                  on the pages of the history of one human heart."
               "You are so philosophical about it, that I guess the impression was not very deep.
                  For myself, I would rather have this young chap remain a boy: for I need another
                  assistant; and a green hand is better than none. If I am not mistaken," he
                  continued aside to his companion, "there is a world of grit and resolution in
                  those mournful eyes,—a look, too, that one trusts and puts confidence in."
               The torrent of rain the night before, and the constant stream of travel, made the
                  roads horribly muddy; yet, as it was within seven miles of Richmond that the
                  armies were contending, the journey was soon over; and the sublime horrors of the
                  battle-field burst upon their view.
               The corps-commander to whom Col. Elliot had orders to report did not happen to be
                  engaged that day; so they soon found
                  their place in the line, and made their arrangements for whatever exigencies might
                  befall them.
               Long before they reached their position, Catharine had begun to realize—in the
                  murderous and deafening roar, the whistling of shot, the shrieking of shell, the
                  sulphurous smoke, and difficulty of breathing the stifling air—some of the horrors
                  of the battle-field; but it was not until the battle for the day was over, and
                  she, with others, was ordered to assist in bringing in the wounded,—following the
                  track of carnage red with human gore, and thickly strewn with dead horses, torn
                  limbs, and dead and dying wrecks of mortality,—that she felt, in all its horrors,
                  the woe and anguish the mad passions of men had brought upon her suffering
                  country.
               The attack that day had been a surprise to the Union army; some divisions of which
                  had been driven from their positions with terrible slaughter, leaving in their
                  retreat a track red with carnage, and piled with heaps of the slain. The brave
                  Union generals did every thing in their power to check the retreat, and turn the
                  fortunes of the clay, but all in vain.
               By some strange oversight or mismanagement, Gens. Casey and Keyes had been
                  stationed so far in advanced of the main army, with the former five, and the
                  latter but eight thousand men, that, though they fought with the most heroic
                  valor, they could not be expected to conquer the sixty-four thousand valiant
                  soldiers that the keen-sighted rebels, who well understood their weakness, brought
                  against them.
               Nothing but disaster could have been expected; so the Confederates claimed a great
                  victory at Fair Oaks, and Seven Pines.
               But, if victory it was, it was terribly dear-bought, as the thousands of their own
                  dead and dying too surely testified. The next day, which was Sunday, the rebels
                  again attacked the Union army with determined bravery, but were driven back with
                  great slaughter, leaving their dead and wounded behind them.
               For some days Catharine shared the fortunes of Col. Elliot's regiment,—sleeping at
                  night, when sleep was possible, among the piles of baggage, and employed by day,
                  as a waiter and assistant, in the work of the field-hospitals.
               The Union army at this time was stretched for twenty miles along the banks of the
                  Chickahominy; and the line of battle was ten miles long.
               Though she saw nothing of Gen. Atherton, Catharine heard that he was posted some
                  three or four miles away from her. In her present state of mind, she preferred
                  that that space should divide them. She preferred the toil, hardship, and danger
                  of her position to the idea of going to him humbly and unsolicited, and throwing
                  herself upon his protection. Yet there was an uncomfortable feeling in the thought
                  of his displeasure, if they ever did meet, and he found out the truth. This, with
                  the constant temptation to escape to the Union lines, was torturing, to say the
                  least of it.
               But the lines were so closely watched and guarded, and deserters were so severely
                  punished, that she dared not make the experiment.
               For days, there was constant skirmishing and several serious engagements, but as
                  yet none as tremendous and bloody as that of Seven Pines, where the rebels
                  confessed to a loss of four thousand, which Catharine had every reason for
                  supposing was three or four times that number.
               
               She had taken the place Dr. Garnett assigned her; and he found, as the days went
                  by, that he had no reason to doubt his first impressions regarding the courage and
                  resolution of the pale, slight youth who had from the first taken his fancy, and
                  won his protection and friendship.
               Silent, shy, and reserved, she yet won the respect, esteem, and confidence of
                  those around her by her constant and devoted attention to the wants of the
                  wounded, and by her eagerness to seek out and to save all, both friends and foes,
                  who were lying on the field of battle. Buoyed up by the most heroic courage, and
                  repelled by no scene of horror, no hand was firmer or as tender as hers in binding
                  up broken limbs, or washing ghastly wounds, or cleansing the mud and gore from the
                  most brutal and repulsive of the swearing, godless wretches who came sometimes
                  under her care. No skill was found greater than hers in restoring the fluttering
                  pulses of the sorely-wounded, or in re-animating and cheering their fainting
                  spirits. And, when all earthly hope was over, she could point them to that better
                  land, where a Saviour was waiting to receive all true penitents. It was noticed,
                  too, by some that she was especially kind to the wounded Union prisoners who had
                  fallen into rebel hands; whose claims others around her were inclined to ignore,
                  and who, but for her intercession, would sometimes be treated with positive
                  unkindness and inhumanity.
               If she afforded "aid and comfort to the enemy" by caring for them, it was
                  certainly offset by the lives she saved, the agony she mitigated, and the loving
                  care she bestowed upon her loyal friends.
               The wounded were transferred to Richmond as fast as the means of transportation
                  would admit, until every hospital, warehouse, public building, and almost every
                  private residence, was full; and still the continued fighting kept the
                  field-hospitals crowded, and the surgeons and their assistants fully occupied.
               Nearly a month had elapsed since Catharine had come to the camp; during which time
                  she had made several trips on the cars to Richmond, in care of wounded soldiers.
                  In spite of her life of toil, exposure, and excitement, she had been growing
                  physically better every day. By using Dr. Garnett's prescriptions, her lameness
                  had vanished. The bright color of health, as well as the brownness of exposure,
                  tinged both cheek and brow; though at heart she was sorely troubled and
                  discontented: for, in spite of her position and connections, we must remember that
                  she was still loyal to the Union cause, still exultant at their successes, still
                  overwhelmed with grief at their defeats.
               It is true, that, if it had depended upon her, the war would never have been. But,
                  in spite of her opinions, it was a fixed fact; and, being so, it was the most
                  natural thing in the world that she should side with her Northern people.
               And now that Richmond was threatened by them as by a moving pillar of fire, and
                  she knew their success would at once crush the rebellion or their defeat fearfully
                  prolong the struggle, she could not but hope and pray for the success of their
                  arms, and the overthrow of the immense hosts gathered to oppose them. Yet she
                  could not blame the Confederates, under the circumstances, for defending their
                  capital,—the ark, as they considered it, of their public safety.
               But as the days went by, and Catharine learned, from Union prisoners, the real
                  fact, she trembled for the safety of
                  the Union army. She knew that they had lingered so long on the way, and been
                  exposed to such deleterious influences, that, notwithstanding their large numbers,
                  they were now no fit match for the formidable, exultant, and acclimated hosts,
                  secure in their own defence, fighting on their own ground, and in defence of their
                  own homes, brought to oppose them. This being so, it was in vain for the brave
                  Union leaders to go up, as they did, in Prof. Lowe's balloon, a thousand feet or
                  more in the air, to survey the battle-fields or Richmond,—that Mecca of their
                  hopes they were never destined to reach. They had indeed a splendid view unfolded
                  to their gaze, but not one calculated to inflame them with enthusiasm, or inspire
                  them with undoubting assurances of success.
               "There indeed lay Richmond, across the western horizon,—a confused medley of red
                  and brown and black,—with its white spires glittering in the sunshine; but before
                  and around it, in all directions, were great, heavy brown fortifications, with
                  thick, solid walls, plentifully sprinkled with frowning cannon, that looked any
                  thing but inviting to an assaulting foe."
               Away to the South, the James River rolled its glittering waves through a deep,
                  crooked valley; bearing many white sails upon its bosom, that looked, in the
                  distance, like swans breasting the angry current.
               Beneath their feet, from beyond the line of vision, ran the now famous but dreaded
                  Chickahominy,—like a thread of silver, bordered by its dark-green, miasmatic
                  swamps,—beautiful to the upper, if not the lower view, but full of disease and
                  lingering death. "Between this and the fortifications before Richmond, as far as
                  the eye could reach, lay the rebel camps, and all the paraphernalia of war that
                  surrounded them. Opposite to them, and partly on the other side of the river, lay
                  their own magnificent but depleted army, waiting eagerly for the signal of onset
                  their leaders, now that they realized the truth, dared not give." "Between the two
                  armies lay a broad, dark-green and yellow curved belt; upon which neither men nor
                  teams nor wagons, nor any other military signs were visible; but over which
                  cannon-balls were thrown, and scouts and pickets hid from each other. Broad,
                  quiet, apparently deserted, solemn and sombre, Jupiter's rings or Saturn's belts
                  never presented a grander sight to mortal eye."
               It was easy enough in those days to blame generals and statesmen for the failure
                  of that peninsular campaign; but we know now that the hand of God was in it,
                  leading us in deep humiliation, by a way we knew not, to do tardy justice to the
                  down-trodden and afflicted millions who had groaned so long beneath the yoke of
                  bondage.
               Until that dark hour of humiliation and disappointment, our rulers, and the nation
                  generally, had not looked the thing steadily in the face. They had hoped to gain
                  peace by a shorter and far less objectionable route. The South must be coaxed
                  back; so they sent the poor fugitives off from our lines, thus consigning them to
                  the lash and the torture and a still more unendurable bondage. Our generals
                  refused, at their hands, that knowledge of the country and its armies that would
                  have insured them victories where they suffered defeats. Now, however, both rulers
                  and people were made to see that they must choose between the dissolution of the
                  Union and the dethronement of slavery; and that the latter alone was the price of
                  victory. An earlier recognition of this
                  fact would have saved rivers of blood and millions of treasure; but the nation was
                  not then prepared for this, and had to pay a bitter penalty for its blindness.
               The beautiful June days nearly all passed away; and still the Union army were no
                  nearer Richmond than they were a month before. And while the whole North were
                  wondering at the delay, and looking eagerly forward to the hour that was to give
                  the coveted prize into their hands, the whole South was boiling over with rage,
                  hatred, and plans of vengeance against the invaders, who dared to dream of
                  conquering them, and capturing the stronghold of Confederate power.
               Gen. Lee had taken the place of Johnston, the leader of the army of the Potomac,
                  who was seriously wounded at Seven Pines; and they waited only for the arrival of
                  the brave Jackson to commence the demolition of the Union army.
               He had just met with brilliant successes in the Shenandoah Valley. He had captured
                  an immense amount of army and medical stores from another division of the Union
                  army, and immediately transferred them to the relief of the Confederates before
                  Richmond; to whom they were a godsend just at that time. As he retreated
                  immediately after his exploit, the Union generals felt as if they had driven him
                  out of the valley, when in fact he was only hastening, by special orders, to the
                  relief of the beleaguered capital.
               Catharine knew all this; and when, upon the afternoon of the 26th of June,
                  Jackson's advance began to arrive upon the field, and the joyful news was echoed
                  from lip to lip, she began to tremble for the fate of the Union army.
               All that long, weary afternoon a fierce battle raged along the lines, but without
                  any definite results, except the destruction of human life, and the rapid filling
                  up of the field-hospitals. The next morning at daybreak the bloody work commenced
                  anew.
               Having passed a sleepless night caring for the poor sufferers, she felt wretched,
                  weary, and nervous, and realized more acutely than ever before the momentous
                  issues that might be decided by the conflict of an hour or a day. She knew that
                  Jackson was hourly expected upon the field, and that the prestige of his already
                  famous name would go nearly as far towards inspiring the brave Southern heart as
                  that of Napoleon did with his indomitable French legions.
               An inward prescience she had felt once before, and did not presume to question,
                  assured her that some one she loved, and with whom she held invisible chords of
                  communion, would be in that day's fight, and in great danger. She thought of her
                  brothers, of Lloyd Hunter, and even Gen. Atherton, in the wordless prayer sent up
                  for the safety of all who were dear to her.
               That day was fought the battle of Gaines Mills, conceded by all to be one of the
                  bloodiest and most hotly contested of the campaign.
               From the first, the Confederates had determined that this should be a decisive day
                  to them. For a month, the people and the soldiery had borne the infliction of a
                  Union army before their gates with ill-concealed impatience; but their leaders
                  knew that they lost nothing by delay. The miasma of the swamps of the Chickahominy
                  was reaping for them a far richer but quieter death-harvest than any common series
                  of battles could bestow.
               But every thing was now prepared for the final issue. The South demanded it, and it must come. With
                  Richmond at their backs,—their national existence, as well as all their slave
                  property, at stake,—with skilful generals, and superabounding in regiments fierce
                  and resolute as tigers, they had every advantage that position, skill, and numbers
                  could give.
               So it was in vain for McClellan to plan; or for Porter to thunder with his
                  terrific cannon; or for Smith and Sumner, Hooker and Kearney, to reap them with a
                  frightful death-harvest; for still they rolled upon the Union lines in successive
                  and thunderous waves, until, after long hours of bloody and useless resistance,
                  the Union forces were obliged to give way or be annihilated.
               Catharine saw the advancing columns as they went to their bloody work. Through
                  blinding dust, and stifling smoke, she eagerly watched the evolutions of large
                  bodies of cavalry, infantry, and artillery without pretending to understand them.
                  But she did understand the meaning of the shouts that rent the air when Jackson
                  came upon the field with his war-worn legions; and she felt as if there was a
                  glorious inspiration in the presence of that stern warrior, that would go far
                  towards insuring to the South a victory. Nor was she mistaken. He had arrived at
                  the most critical moment,—when the shattered Southern columns, pressed back with
                  terrible slaughter, wavered, and were about to fly; and by the prestige of his
                  renown, and the valor of his veteran troops, turned the fortunes of the day.
               He took his appointed place in the line, and "with fierce grandeur the charge
                  swept on, unchecked by the terrible fire of the triple lines of infantry on the
                  hills, or the cannon on both sides of the river, that reverberated, and mingled in
                  one grand roar, like the noise of a great cataract," or the sweep of a tornado
                  over a forest of giant trees, bearing them down like a bed of reeds beneath its
                  terrible stroke, and with a terrific power that seemed to shake the earth. Through
                  the thick, blinding, sulphurous smoke, the sun looked down, like a red fiery eye,
                  upon a scene over which Humanity shuddered, Pity veiled her terrified gaze, and
                  Mercy wept tears of blood. The red sun sank at last beneath the western horizon;
                  and night put an end to a conflict in which the Union army was forced to retreat,
                  and the Confederates claimed a great victory.
               Long after that conflict ceased, the air was filled with dust and smoke and
                  sulphurous vapor. The earth shook no more with the deafening roar of cannon and
                  musketry, with the tramp of mighty armies or the continued roll of heavy wagons;
                  yet Death continued to reap a rich harvest of human souls, and the widespread
                  fields and woods for miles were dabbled with human gore.
               Friends and foes, by thousands, lay side by side, or in piles, where the battle
                  raged fiercest,—peaceful now, in the last long sleep of death.
               Men of noble intellect and lofty ambition, who fought for glory and renown, were
                  there,—men of pure lives and generous impulses, who fought, as they believed, for
                  the cause of truth, justice, and human liberty. Men of shining talents, cultivated
                  intellect, and holy aspirations, who believed they were God's instruments in the
                  establishment of the Redeemer's kingdom on earth, were mingled in frightful
                  confusion with some of the greatest villains who ever cursed it by their presence.
                  Some of these were still sending up shrieks and groans and oaths and curse's
                  mingled with prayers, to pitying Heaven for forgiveness, help, and mercy. The
                  banners under which they had fought lay
                  torn and bloody, and trampled in the dust; while arms and trappings, caissons and
                  broken wagons, and dead and dying horses, cumbered the ground, and completed the
                  horror and desolation of the scene.
               As the night came on, patrolling and fatigue parties of soldiers, with lanterns,
                  ambulances, and stretchers, traversed field and meadow, swamp and
                  woodland,—wherever the battle raged fiercest,—gathering up the wounded, and
                  administering temporary relief to those who were evidently bound upon that last
                  sad journey to the land where wars and fightings are over, and all is peace.
               Among the fatigue-parties ranging over the battle-field, was one from the regiment
                  to which Catharine was attached, accompanied by herself and Dr. Garnett. They were
                  making a special search for the body of Col. Elliot, who was known to have fallen
                  in the fight, but who, thus far, had not been distinguished from the slain
                  thousands around him. They had found plenty of others, however, to whose appeals
                  for help they could not turn a deaf ear, until their ambulance was full, and it
                  was necessary to return to the camp.
               "It is strange we do not find him," said the sergeant. "I know that it was
                  somewhere near this big tree that he fell from his horse in the heat of the
                  battle; but the exact spot I do not remember."
               "Well," said Dr. Garnett, "we will return to the hospital with these poor men, and
                  then come back and renew the search for our noble colonel."
               "I am afraid we could not again find the spot in the darkness and gloom of night,
                  sir."
               "We might leave some one with a lantern to signalize us by and by," said the
                  doctor.
               "But who'll want to stay,—alone with the dead? I don't."
               "Nor I!" said his companion.
               "I'll bet you an X that this little fellow has got more puck than either of you,"
                  said the doctor, laughing in spite of their sad surroundings. "How is it, my son?
                  Are you afraid to stay?"
               A feeling of awe crept over Catharine, as she looked around upon the ghastly
                  faces, and glazed and glazing eyes; yet she said, almost in spite of herself,—
               "I am not afraid of the dead: I can still care for the living. I will stay."
               "Well, then, my brave boy, we will leave you a lantern, a flask of brandy, and a
                  canteen of water; and I want you to continue the search all around here for Col.
                  Elliot. If he is still living, you may, by staying here, save his life; and you
                  know how dear that is to us all." She needed no urging to do this; for he had been
                  very kind to her from the first, and she was deeply grateful. So, as soon as they
                  were gone, she commenced the search among the dead and dying who had fallen
                  thickly around that particular tree. She had begun, and made the circuit of the
                  tree, and was bending over a poor ragged and wounded rebel soldier, and pouring
                  water between his parched lips, when she heard a deep groan just behind her. She
                  turned, and, flashing the light in that direction, saw that it did indeed come
                  from her friend, Col. Elliot. He had raised himself upon one elbow, and, with a
                  dull, dreary look and pallid face, was looking around him. He was but just aroused
                  from a deathlike stupor, caused by the loss of life-blood. She was joyfully
                  surprised to find him alive, but shocked by his ghastly appearance. She ran to him at once, pronouncing his name.
                  He feebly held out his hand to her, and smiled gratefully as he said, in a faint,
                  spasmodic tone,—
               "How glad I am to see you, my son! You see, I am sorely wounded. I am very weak. I
                  guess I must—have fainted. Did we gain the victory?"
               "Yes, sir: the Union army has retreated," she said with a keen pang of
                  disappointment.
               "Thank God! Our cause is just, and must prosper in the end. Please give me some
                  water. Oh, how horribly that limb pains me!—and my side! I fear, Ellery,—that I am
                  mortally wounded. If I die here, carry my best love—to my friends. God, in whom I
                  trust, knows—I would gladly die—to save my country—from defeat and shame."
               "Oh, I think you will live!" said she earnestly. "Your voice grows stronger every
                  moment. Let me bind up your wounds as well as I can, and stop the flow of
                  life-blood; and I think you will survive."
               "I hope so,—if only—to help—drive these invaders—from our soil."
               She did not reply, but busied herself in tearing strips from a torn and
                  blood-stained banner, with which she bound up his wounds to the best of her
                  ability. Soothed and comforted by her kind ministrations, he soon began to look
                  around the gory field, which was mostly shrouded in darkness.
               "What is that?" he suddenly exclaimed, "those lights moving yonder?"
               "I think it must be some of the patrols, or perhaps Dr. Garnett and some of your
                  men, who were coming back to look for you. I must wave the signal;" and she swung
                  the lantern back and forth to attract their attention. "There! They see it now,
                  and are coming this way. How glad I am that I have found you alive!"
               "And I, too, thank God! I always felt—as if you were somehow—akin to me, and would
                  do me good. Perhaps it was because—you so strongly resemble—a lady I saw last
                  year—in Richmond. She was from the North,—and I would give a great deal—to know
                  what became of her. She was said to have been carried off—by bandits last autumn.
                  I have watched you—a great deal,—tracing the semblance; and sometimes—I have
                  thought—But look! Those are not—the patrols. They have none of their equipments!
                  Good heavens! They are the robbers—of the dead,—the accursed jayhawkers."
               They were indeed the jayhawkers; and Catharine, with her heart beating with a wild
                  and terrible fear, instinctively lowered the slides of her dark lantern, as, with
                  strained gaze, she watched them at their hellish work.
               On, on they came, nearer and nearer, apparently some fifteen or twenty in the
                  gang. They rifled the pockets of the dead of money, rings, watches, miniatures,
                  knives, and small arms,—every thing in fact that was valuable, or pleased their
                  fancy. They robbed the wounded too; and if they resisted, or attempted to
                  expostulate, plunged their knives into their bosoms, while shrieks of fear, and
                  wails of agony, followed in their train. The battle had been the most fiercely
                  contested, and Death's richest harvest had been reaped, in that portion of the
                  field where Col. Elliot had fallen. Many officers, in both Union and rebel
                  uniform, lay there, cold and still. It was from such as these they hoped for the
                  most abundant spoil; and they pursued their nefarious work with the greatest
                  celerity and despatch.
               
               "See! They are coming!" exclaimed the wounded officer in a hoarse whisper. "Fly to
                  the woods, my dear boy, and save yourself if you can."
               "Oh, I cannot go, and leave you, here to die in that horrible way! " she murmured
                  tremblingly. "Here, take some of this brandy; and then let me see if I cannot help
                  you to fly too."
               He took the brandy; and then Catharine got hold of his hands and, tried to raise
                  him, or at least drag him towards the woods, that were near at hand.
               "It is in vain!" said he mournfully, as, after repeated but unsuccessful efforts
                  to rise, he fell back upon the sod. "My strength has all vanished with my
                  life-blood, and yours is unequal to the task of dragging me to a place of safety.
                  I must stay, and meet my fate as best I may! Here, take my pistols: they are
                  loaded! Go, and may God bless, protect, and guide you!"
               "I too, have arms, and know how to use them. Hark! what's that?" and she sunk down
                  upon her knees beside him.
               "It is the patrols," he whispered with deep feeling.
               "Thank God! we shall be saved."
               Instantly, upon the sound of their approach, the lights of the blood-and-gold
                  seekers vanished; and, cowering behind rocks, bushes, and heaps of slain, no one,
                  upon a casual inspection, would have dreamed of the living power of evil lurking
                  upon that terrible field of death.
               But Catharine and the poor colonel were doomed to disappointment. The robbers,
                  though still at a little distance, were much nearer than the patrols, who soon
                  turned off in another direction, and were lost to their view behind the woods.
               The fiendish wretches then rose to their feet, and resumed their satanic work.
               "God's will be done!" moaned the wretched colonel. "It is my destiny! Stoop down
                  here, Ellery, and take my watch and purse, and one kiss in memory of her you so
                  strongly resemble, and then go,—go, and God bless you."
               She took the precious keepsakes, even to the brotherly kiss, yet with blinding
                  tears of grief and regret, and was still hesitating whether to go, or stay and
                  defend her friend with her life, when her eye fell upon the foremost villain of
                  the gang.
               After finishing the struggles of a wounded Union officer, who attempted evidently
                  to resist his brutality, and fruitlessly searching his pockets, he raised himself
                  to look around, and scent some richer prey. As he did so, the light he carried
                  gleamed over his swarthy visage; and, with chilling blood and paralyzed limbs,
                  Catharine beheld the malignant face of Blondel.
               "God help us! it is he!" she murmured,—"the wretch who murdered Major Hunter, and
                  captured"—
               "Go,—go then, in God's name! He will be here in a few minutes. But the strength is
                  coming back to this right arm. I shall not die unavenged. Farewell, dear boy.
                  Don't wait another instant," he whispered.
               She needed no more urging; but, pressing the friendly hand that held hers, then
                  relinquishing it with a wordless prayer for their mutual safety, she glided
                  noiselessly towards the woods. The colonel, who was leaning on his elbow, sank
                  down upon the sod to escape, if possible, the notice of this lynx-eyed old buzzard
                  of the battle-field. As he did so, the glitter of his military trappings caught a
                  gleam of the robber's lantern, that betrayed to the wretch the vicinity of life
                  and promising plunder. He stopped a few moments to arrange the sack that
                     contained tained his booty, looked
                  back towards his comrades, who were a few rods in the rear, and then advanced to
                  examine and make sure of his prey.
               Catharine, meantime, having gained the covert of the woods, was withheld as by a
                  spell from going farther. She sunk down upon her knees, and, with hushed breath
                  and glittering eyes, looked out fearfully upon the appalling scene. Instinctively,
                  and almost without conscious thought, she set down her dark lantern, and grasped
                  the pistol she had found upon the battle-field of Seven Pines. Assuring herself
                  that the caps were all right, she waited in breathless eagerness for what was to
                  come. She had not long to wait, and was near enough to hear every footfall, and
                  witness every diabolical act.
               Blondel advanced cautiously, flashing his light around to select the most
                  promising victim, and at last stood beside Col. Elliot.
               "Aha!" he exclaimed in evident surprise, as the light gleamed over his pallid
                  features; while a flash of recognition, and malignant satisfaction passed over his
                  own bloated visage. "So you are here at last, my fine popinjay! You won't swear an
                  honest feller's life away agin in a hurry, I take it;" and with vengeful spite, he
                  kicked and turned the colonel over with his foot. It was too much for a brave
                  man's endurance. The colonel, who had lain still in the faint hope of escaping the
                  eye of this human vulture, instantly raised himself up on his left elbow, and,
                  with the pistol grasped in his right hand, attempted to fire.
               But the old robber was too quick for him. Before he could pull the trigger with
                  his weak and trembling fingers, the piece was knocked from his nerveless grasp and
                  exploded in the air.
               "Villain!" exclaimed the colonel fiercely, "I would give millions to be able to
                  put a bullet through your murderous heart, and rid the world of such a
                  monster!"
               "Aha! Don't you wish the Devil would give you the power?" he returned with a
                  sardonic laugh. "Neither heaven nor hell shall prevent the execution of Blondel's
                  vengeance upon one who attempted to thwart, and expose him to the government. No
                  amount of prayers or ransom could purchase your life of me, Col. Elliot, at this
                  moment," said he fiercely, as he raised his glittering bowie in the air to plunge
                  to the heart of his helpless victim.
               At this instant a sharp report rang out upon the stilly night: an unseen messenger
                  wats sent upon its way. Blondel's arm fell paralyzed at his side; and, with a
                  horrid oath, he rolled over at Col. Elliot's feet, not dead, but sorely
                  wounded.
               Catharine, who had sped the deadly missile, cowered tremblingly to the earth, with
                  a heart filled by a strange terror at the thought that she had sent a human soul
                  unprepared into eternity.
               But this fear vanished when she heard the robber's oaths and curses, and saw his
                  ineffectual attempts to reach Col. Elliot with the knife he still held in his left
                  hand, but which his inability to move a little nearer would not enable him to
                  do.
               The noise of the two reports of pistols aroused Blondel's comrades, who at once
                  came running towards the spot. Some of them were gesticulating violently, and
                  pointing to the woods, towards while two of them cautiously ventured; while the
                  others went towards the place where Blondel and the colonel lay.
               
               As the two brave villains came near the woods, they discharged their pieces at a
                  venture, the ball from one of them just grazing Catharine's ear.
               Terrified now almost out of her senses, she mechanically caught up her lantern and
                  pistol, and ran with all speed into the thick woods.
               She did not know until afterwards, that, at that very moment, Dr. Garnett and his
                  party made their appearance,—just in time to capture Blondel, and save Col.
                  Elliot's life. The rest of the robbers made their escape.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THEODORE.—THE MEMORABLE SEVEN DAYS.
               
                  CATHARINE dared not open her lantern; so by the light of the stars
                  she pressed on through the tangled underbrush, until she began to see the faint
                  light of a clearing on the other side. There she ventured to halt, look back, and
                  listen. But all was darkness, and, so far as human sounds were concerned, profound
                  silence. Her pursuers had vanished. Probably they had not followed her far. Here,
                  then, she was probably as safe as anywhere, until the morning. If she emerged upon
                  the open plain, she thought she might meet other parties of a similar character;
                  yet she resolved to venture to the edge of the wood to see if there were any
                  living or moving objects in view.
               The forest here was almost destitute of undergrowth; so she went swiftly forward,
                  cheered by the faint light that every moment grew stronger. All at once she
                  stumbled, and fell over some obstacle that lay across her pathway. She thought
                  that it was a rock or fallen tree, until a faint moan saluted her ears. Then she
                  knew that it was a human form. A strange, shuddering thrill shot through her, as
                  she rose to her feet; and she listened eagerly for farther signs of life in the
                     dark form before her. There was
                  none. Not a sigh or motion, or a single sound of pursuers.
               Summoning courage at last, she opened her lantern, and flashed the light upon the
                  prostrate body. She saw at once that it bore the uniform of a Federal officer. The
                  regimental hat was drawn down over a handsome, manly face, darkened by southern
                  suns; and for several minutes she gazed curiously upon it, wondering who it could
                  be.
               All at once she started eagerly forward, sunk down upon her knees beside him, and,
                  with trembling hand, raised the hat from the rigid brow, and looked for a moment
                  upon the pallid face.
               "O my God! it is—it must be—my brother! My dear Theodore!" she exclaimed with
                  quivering lips and sinking heart. A sudden faintness came over her; but she
                  conquered it by a strong effort of the will. He seemed perfectly in sensible,
                  though still warm in the region of the heart; and she felt that there was not a
                  moment to lose: so, pressing a kiss upon the pale brow, she began, with eager
                  hands, and blinding tears, the work of trying to restore the feeble pulses, that
                  she imagined still beat faintly in the stiffening form. She found that he was
                  grievously, yet she hoped not mortally, wounded through the right side; and loss
                  of blood, she judged, was the cause of his inanimate condition. She had still the
                  flask of brandy and the canteen of water strung to her belt; and, by the judicious
                  application of these remedies, the life-currents were soon restored to their
                  natural channels, and he began slowly to revive.
               He opened his eyes at last, and fixed them wonderingly, and for some time
                  dreamily, upon her face. Her old hat had fallen off; and, with the short auburn
                  ringlets lets curling around her sunburned face, it so strongly resembled a sunny
                  one he remembered in the long ago, that he murmured feebly, "Strange! I ought to
                  know—that face! Who are you?"
               Catharine hesitated: she had not thought he would recognize her. Should she tell
                  him, that in those dark Virginia woods, at dead of night, in such a garb, and
                  surrounded by such fearful scenes, he had found his dear lost sister? She longed
                  to do so, and weep out her joy and fear and despair upon his friendly bosom. But
                  reason whispered, "Forbear, rash girl! The shock would kill him. His life is but a
                  feeble, glimmering taper: a breath would blow it out." So she did forbear; and
                  when, as he grew stronger, and repeated the question, she said, "I am a poor,
                  forlorn waif from the Confederate camp, lost in the darkness, seeking
                  friends."
               "Then you will betray me," he murmured mournfully.
               "No, I will not. I would be glad to get to the Union lines myself; for I have
                  dearer friends there than here."
               "Indeed! I wish you could then. But how strangely—familiar your voice sounds. It
                  carries me back—to the home of my youth—and the mother—and sisters—I may never
                  live to see more," said he feebly.
               "Oh! you will live, I am sure," she returned, controlling her emotion by a strong
                  effort. "I have seen many wounds; and yours, I hope, is not mortal."
               "It grows painful enough, any way. But what is that?"
               Catharine turned quickly in the direction of the sound. The twigs and branches
                  were parted carefully from the fringe of shrubbery that skirted the woods, a dark
                  face appeared at the opening; and she could hardly suppress a cry of joy that rose to her lips, as
                  Uncle Nick's honest visage was presented to her view. He gazed at her for a moment
                  in astonishment; while she, remembering her disguise, put on her old hat, and drew
                  it down over her eyes, to prevent the half-formed recognition. Her looks assured
                  him of her friendliness; so he came at once to Theodore's side.
               "Ay, young massa captin!" he exclaimed. "Nick drefful glad he find ye. He bin
                  lookin' dis long time. But for dis lantern he tink he neber du it. De rebs all
                  round de plain; an' he dodged about till he forgit de spot. Drefful ticklish
                  bisiness to get away, massa."
               "Then you must go without me, Nick. I am a great deal weaker than I was when you
                  dragged me into the bushes. I doubt if I could walk a rod to save my life. I think
                  I have been in a swoon; from which I should never have awakened but for this
                  generous little rebel. You'll have to leave me to my fate, my kind friend."
               "Ah! but Nick tink ob all dat; an' he done cotch a big, grand hoss dat was runnin'
                  round so frisky; an' he got him all fixed, an' de ole banner an' tings to put
                  round him, an' tie up de shot-hole; an' he tink he put young massa on his back,
                  an' lead him troo de danger like an ole weazel."
               "It is impossible! I find I cannot sit up a moment. O Uncle Nick, there is no help
                  for it! I must die here," said he mournfully.
               "Not a bit on't, Massa Tedo. Nick no leave massa behind, if he die for't. He put
                  him on de hoss, git up behind him, hold on, an' ride like de debble. He die here:
                  he no more'n die on de hoss's back, or in Massa Linkum's army."
               "That is true enough. But, Nick, without me, you could escape; burdened with me,
                  you would be sure—to lose your life or liberty. This youth wants to escape too. He
                  is light as a feather compared—to me. Take him behind you, and fly."
               "No, no!" said Catharine eagerly. "I will not take your place. Your wounds want
                  immediate attention, which they would never get here, if you were found, till it
                  would be too late to save you: for the thousands of their own wounded will be
                  cared for first; and then you would be doomed to suffer untold agonies in some
                  cruel, bungling experimenter's hands, if cared for at all. We will dress your
                  wound first as well as we can to stop the flow of blood; and then I, who know all
                  about it, say that you had better go, if you die on the way, to the Union lines,
                  than to remain where I shall be safe enough to stay."
               "Then I will try," he said in an exhausted tone. "Get your horse, Uncle Nick; and
                  we will see what can be done."
               "But the wound first," said Catharine.
               She gave him first some of the brandy and water: then Uncle Nick held Theodore up,
                  while Catharine put a thick compress of rags and dead leaves upon the wound, and
                  bound it there with strips torn from the old banner: the remainder she wound
                  around him to protect him from the chilliness and damp that already, though it was
                  a summer night, made him shiver, lying as he did upon the cold, bare ground.
               Nick then went for the horse; and, while he was gone, Theodore, whose strength was
                  restored a little by the stimulant, again turned his attention to Catharine. 
               "How much you do look like—and your voice— Where do you live, my boy,—when at
                  home?"
               
               "In Richmond."
               "Indeed! Well, did you ever see a lady there by the name of Catharine Hale?"
               "Yes, sir: I knew her well."
               "Is it possible!" and he started up eagerly, but fell back from extreme weakness,
                  as he murmured, "Is she there still?"
               "No, sir. She lived with Major Hunter, who was killed, and his house burned by the
                  guerillas. The family have now all gone off to North Carolina."
               "That accounts for it, then. She is my sister, and very dear to me. We have been
                  greatly concerned because she did not come home, and we have not heard from her
                  lately."
               "Well, sir, I know she wanted to go home, but was prevented after the battle of
                  Bull Run by some unforeseen circumstances; and now travelling is so dangerous, and
                  passes so hard to obtain, she may have to stay until the war is over. But, if I
                  see her again, shall I tell her that"—
               "Her friends are all well but—Theodore; and that she is still dear to every one,
                  and remembered in their prayers."
               By this time Nick had arrived with the horse,—a fine, spirited but well-trained
                  animal, whose master, most likely, was among the slain. Tying him to a sapling,
                  he, by Catharine's help, succeeded in placing Theodore upon his back, with a
                  couple of blankets he had found under and over him, and he then mounted behind
                  him. But still he lingered; and at last, stooping down, said,—
               "If I little massa on'y strong nuff to hold up de captin, Nick go afoot."
               "I could not do it; and it would only add to the danger."
               "Nick tink he know dat voice," he whispered, "an' he want dreffully to take him
                  along."
               "You are right," she returned in a low tone; "but be silent. He is so weak he
                  cannot bear the shock. I may come hereafter. There, the patrols are coming, this
                  way. Go, and may God help us—all"—
               "Good-by, den, till next time," said Nick; and "Fare well, with a thousand thanks
                  for your kindness," murmured the young officer faintly, as they, slowly at first,
                  and as noiselessly as possible, moved out of the woods, and away towards the Union
                  army.
               As they did so, a sudden impulse seized her to follow them on foot, and, if
                  possible, reach the Union lines, that she might extend to Theodore that loving
                  care which she felt could alone save his life.
               She acted upon it instantly, by starting in as close pursuit of them as possible,
                  keeping stealthily for a time in the shadow of the woods to avoid the notice of
                  the patrolling parties, who were scouring the plain in various directions, looking
                  after their own wounded.
               As soon as Nick thought he had avoided the danger from the patrols, he struck out
                  boldly for the Union lines; which, though he knew it not, were fast melting away.
                  Knowing, of course, nothing of her pursuit, and warned of the value of time by the
                  fainting condition of his charge, he now gave his horse the rein, and dashed on as
                  fast as possible. Unavoidably falling in the rear, Catharine soon lost sight of
                  them in the darkness, and lost herself in the interminable intricacies of a
                  seemingly pathless swamp.
               For a while she wandered on, hoping she was in the right track, but getting deeper and deeper into the
                  mire; and, completely worn out at last by toil, excitement, and anxiety, she sunk
                  down upon a little hillock at the roots of a giant tree, and, in despair gave up
                  her hopeless pursuit. Having eaten nothing since the early morning, she was
                  completely famished and exhausted for the want of food, as well as rest. So, in
                  spite of all the dangers that surrounded her, and the croaking of multitudes of
                  frogs and tree-toads, and the bite of myriads of mosquitoes, she laid her aching
                  head up against the body of the tree, and with a wordless prayer upon, her lips,
                  dropped off into a doze. Just as day was breaking in the east, she awoke in a
                  fright, and started to her feet, having been aroused by a dream of attacking
                  rebels and Indians.
               The hiss of a serpent that was startled by her sudden motion warned her, as he
                  moved noiselessly away, that the dangers to which she had been exposed had not all
                  been imaginary. Nor was her feelings of security increased a moment later by the
                  challenge of a rebel sentinel, who was himself alarmed by her exclamation of
                  terror, and within a few yards of whom she had spent a part of that terrible
                  night.
               Stiff and sore, and sick from cold, exhaustion, and exposure; disappointed in her
                  hope of getting away with Theodore, and with a heart racked with anxiety regarding
                  him and the fear of meeting her husband, she now gave way to a feeling of despair,
                  and resigned herself passively to the direction of the soldier, who presently took
                  her to the encampment.
               When questioned, she told them of her escape from the robbers, but not of her
                  meeting with her brother, or attempted escape to the Union lines.
               The facts of Col. Elliot's rescue were known in camp; so her story was credited,
                  her courage praised, and his keepsakes sent back to him just as they were removing
                  him to Richmond.
               As a reward, perhaps, she was ordered to join another division that was to follow
                  in the pursuit of the Union army, which was now in full retreat.
               Through all that terrible, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, she followed with the
                  pursuing rebel hosts; hoping that in some way she might fall into Union hands.
                  Worn out in body, yet so excited in mind as hardly to realize her true condition,
                  she strove through it all to do what she could towards assuaging the pain,
                  mitigating the horror, and healing the wounds of the hundreds and thousands who
                  were sick, suffering, and dying all around her.
               All through those memorable seven days there was continued fighting with the
                  sorely-pressed and retreating Union army, culminating at last in the awful battle
                  of Malvern Hill.
               This was the last and bloodiest in the list of those tragic scenes that wound up
                  the second great attempt to take the rebel capital.
               The rebel army was here repulsed with terrible slaughter; and that of the Union
                  gained a secure position, where they were protected by their gunboats, but at the
                  cost of thousands of precious lives, and millions of dollars' worth of ordnance
                  and army stores, that were burnt, or fell into the hands of the enemy.
               They had indeed, though exhibiting the most heroic courage and endurance, met with
                  a sad succession of disasters. But none among them all seems sadder or more
                  humiliating than this,—that, by the stern necessities sities of their forced and hasty retreat, they were
                  obliged to leave thousands of their sick and wounded men in the hands of those
                  whose tenderest mercies to them proved to be only refined cruelty.
               Following in the track of this wide-spread wreck, ruin, and anguish for miles and
                  miles, Catharine's heart bled so much for the woes of her country and her kindred,
                  that her own troubles seemed as nothing in the comparison: yet it was with a heavy
                  heart that she turned back, footsore and weary, sick and disheartened, with the
                  rebel hosts who were returning to Richmond. Her hope of in some way falling into
                  Union hands had vanished; and there had been no opportunity for escape. So again
                  she seemed obliged to yield to her destiny.
               But she was now completely worn out by the mental anguish, as well as the physical
                  hardships, she had endured. No hope of meeting and caring for her brother cheered
                  her on. Her strength was all gone. Her spirit was paralyzed by the chill hand of
                  despair. She was continually reprimanded for lagging behind the troops, but was
                  refused a ride in the wagons; and at last, completely exhausted, she sunk down
                  fainting by the roadside.
               It was no uncommon thing for men and boys to drop out of the ranks in this way;
                  yet they were generally looked after, and cared for: but the regiment to which she
                  was now attached had taken no such deep interest in her as had that of Col.
                  Elliot; and now, in their eagerness to get back to Richmond, they passed on
                  without noticing or caring for her, as did all the others belonging to the same
                  division.
               Dead men, dying men, and wounded men and boys, were too common a sight on that
                  march to attract much
                  
                     Dismounting in haste, he threw his bridle to his black servant, and went
                        up to where she was lying. Page 325.
                   attention; yet the slender, graceful form, perfect, marble-like
                  features, and bright auburn curls of poor Catharine did attract the attention of
                  the next party who came along,—a general officer on horseback, who had left his
                  staff behind him. He halted suddenly, looked at her a moment, evidently in great
                  surprise; then, dismounting in haste, threw his bridle to his black servant, and
                  went up to where she was lying. He bent over the inanimate form with his dark face
                  growing paler every moment; smoothed back the bright curly hair from which the old
                  hat had fallen, and then took off his glove, and felt the pulse that was still
                  faintly throbbing.
               His color came back when he found that life was not extinct; and, kneeling down,
                  he put some strong stimulus to her nose, that was the means of her revival.
                  Opening her eyes at last, she fixed them, dreamily at first, then, consciously,
                  upon the deeply-anxious face of Gen. Atherton. He raised her up partially. For a
                  minute they looked in each other's eyes: and then, when she saw that she was
                  recognized, and remembered their respective positions, the faint color stole back
                  to her cheek; and, turning her face away, she burst into tears.
               "O Catharine!" he exclaimed, "is it thus we meet, among these bloody,
                  heart-rending scenes,—in this miserable garb, dying by the roadside? Pray tell me
                  what it all means."
               "Oh! not here,—not now; for I am so weary—so wretched—so miserable! Pray go—go
                  away, and let me die in peace. It is better so—oh! so much better—for us both,"
                  she murmured; and, again she went off into a dead faint.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE REBEL GENERAL.—HOME AT LAST.
               
                  WHEN Catharine again opened her eyes consciously, it was to find
                  herself in a darkened yet elegantly-furnished apartment, in a bed hung with
                  gorgeous crimson draperies, and with every refinement of wealth, taste, and luxury
                  around her.
               It was some time before she could persuade herself that this change from the
                  horrors of the camp, the hospital, and the battle-fields, which began to come back
                  to her, were not all the wild phantasmagoria of a dream. For some time she gazed
                  around with a listless, dreamy, languor, hardly conscious that site was awake, yet
                  wondering where she was. It was only when she attempted to rise that she became
                  conscious of her extreme weakness, and inability to help herself. The motion at
                  once brought a sable attendant to her side; in whom, to her extreme surprise, she
                  recognized dear old Aunt Dinah.
               "O aunty!" she exclaimed in a feeble tone, "how glad I am to see you!" and, with
                  tears of joy filling her eyes, she drew the kind black face down to her, and
                  kissed it, as she received a compassionate motherly kiss in return.
               "If missis glad, Dinah be bery much gladder," she returned; "for she bin terrible
                  'fraid de poor leetle dear neber come out on't."
               "Out of what, Dinah?"
               "Don't missis know she bin in a kinder faint like, dis tu tree days?"
               "No; I don't know any thing about it. I was so tired and worn out, and my head
                  swam, and every thing grew dark; and I dreamed—I saw"—and here the thought of Gen.
                  Atherton came like a dark cloud over her memory; and she covered her face with her
                  hands and wept silently. It must be so, she thought. It was not all a dream: she
                  had seen Gen. Atherton somewhere.
               "Dinah, where am I?" she suddenly exclaimed, uncovering her face, and looking
                  around the room. "This is not Mrs. Hunter's; but you are here. Where are she and
                  the children?"
               "Dey no come home yet. Dinah keep house well nuff. She no 'fraid ob de
                  Yankees."
               "But this is none of Mrs. Hunter's rooms, Dinah!"
               "Laws, chile! don't worry 'bout dat. Dinah tink missis got grand house o' her own
                  dis time. Take a leetle o' dis doctor stuff, darlin', an' go to sleep now."
               "If you knew how miserable I was, Dinah, you would not plague me so," she sobbed
                  with fretful weakness, as the truth began to dawn upon her clouded mind.
               "Dere, dere, don't cry! He feel terrible, tu, an' walk de room, an'
                  cry, Dinah tink, when nobody see 'im; an' Dinah no onderstand it one bit."
               "He is here, then?" said Catharine eagerly. 
               "Laws yes, chile! He back an' forth, here an' to Richmond, 'most ebery day. But
                  missis needn't see him 'thout she wants tu."
               
               "But I do want to see him now. Raise me up, Dinah, and put that shawl around me,"
                  she exclaimed with a desperate sort of courage. "There, that is right; thanks you.
                  Now, please go and tell him I would like to see him."
               We may be sure that the general waited for no second summons; for Catharine had
                  lain, like a pale, storm-beaten lily, in a kind of stupor ever since she had been
                  brought to Atherton; and for a time there had been faint hope of her recovery.
                  There was a complete prostration of the vital energies, the doctor said; from
                  which it would take her some time to recover, if she did at all.
               So it was with eager, trembling joy that she had come out of that critical state,
                  as well as fear of a relapse, that Gen. Atherton presented himself at her bidding.
                  He looked pale and careworn; and his face presented traces of strong emotion as he
                  came up to the side of the bed, took the offered hand, and pressed a kiss upon the
                  fair, pale brow.
               "Did you really want to see me, dear Catharine?" he said.
               "Yes," she replied in a faint yet excited tone; "but first tell me where I
                  am."
               "You are at home, darling,—on Atherton Plantation."
               "And Dinah"—
               "I brought her from Richmond, that you might have some one you knew, and who also
                  knew our relations, around you when you revived, to make you feel more at home
                  here. But you are very pale and weak. I fear you are exhausting yourself. And,
                  much as I long for your confidence, I can wait until you are better able to give
                  it."
               "No, no: I want you to know all now. And, first, do you believe what I told you in
                  the Libby Prison?"
               "Yes, Catharine. In anticipation of your trial, I sent a trusty messenger to
                  Philip's plantation, and ascertained all the facts. And besides, you may not know
                  that it was because of that villain Sweep's confessions that you were set at
                  liberty."
               "Indeed! Then you will believe me when I tell you why I am here?"
               "Of course I shall. In all our acquaintance I have never found cause to doubt your
                  word: yet I must tell you that the knowledge that you had left the prison, and
                  again disappeared, has given me the deepest anxiety; and that this exhibition of
                  your want of trust and confidence, in neglecting to come or send to me for
                  assistance, has deeply pained me."
               "I could not help it, general,—indeed I could not, at first; and afterwards a
                  feeling of—of—I can't explain it to you,—prevented my doing so;" and the faint,
                  fitful color flashed over her face, as she said it.
               "I can understand it Catharine, without an explanation," he returned with a sigh;
                  "and some day, when you are stronger and less afraid of me, you shall tell me all
                  about it."
               She would have gone on; but he would not allow it: so, kissing her tenderly, he
                  went out, and sent in Dinah.
               His forbearance, seeming trust, and regard for her feelings, were not lost upon
                  the poor, weary invalid: so, with a little less dread of him and her future, she
                  soon forgot self, and dropped off into a refreshing slumber, that seemed to do her
                  a world of good.
               He came back the next morning, delighted to find her so much better, and then listened with eager
                  interest to her story of her coming out of prison; her vain search for a refuge;
                  her meeting the woman, and escape from the odious Blondel; her joining Col.
                  Elliot's party, and adventures in the camp and upon the various fields of
                  battle.
               "You seem doomed to suffer, and meet with many strange adventures," he said. "But,
                  my dear, you should have applied to the authorities for help; and, at the worst,
                  gone back to the prison for shelter."
               "I had no money to pay for a ride: the streets were full of rude soldiery; and I
                  knew not what to do."
               "I tremble even now to think of what might have been your fate. But, when you met
                  Col. Elliot, he would have protected you, had you told him all, until you could
                  have come or sent to me."
               "I did not even think of it then; and I don't know as I should if I had, I was so
                  frightened and disheartened by my repeated repulses from those upon whom I thought
                  I had a better claim. He was hurrying, too, to the field of battle; and want of
                  time and my questionable garb and strange story would most likely have made even
                  him doubt, and cast me off at once. I believe now, however, that there was a hand
                  of Providence in my going as I did upon the battle-fields. It was the means, under
                  God, of saving Col. Elliot's life, and perhaps that of my brother Theodore and
                  others."
               "It may be so; but, Catharine, after you had come to the army, why were you
                  willing to expose your life to a thousand dangers, your character to the greatest
                  misconstructions, and even face death itself, rather than come to the heart that
                  beats for you alone, the arms that would so gladly and lovingly infold you as my
                  bride?" said he reproachfully.
               "If I was your bride, it was an unacknowledged one. And how should I know that you
                  would acknowledge my right to your protection before that army and the world?"
                  said she blushingly.
               "You could not doubt it, Catharine."
               "But I did doubt it,—coming, too. as I did in so humble and questionable a guise.
                  Delicacy forbade my coming to you, and urging such a claim; and that, with many
                  other feelings you cannot understand, impelled me to the current that took me to
                  the hospital and the field of battle. If, when there, and agonized by thoughts of
                  my brother's danger, an inexpressible longing for home and friends made me forget
                  for a time my promise to you, in a vain effort to escape to the Union lines, I
                  trust I shall be forgiven."
               "Are, then, the home and friends you have left at the North still so much dearer
                  than every thing the South has to offer, my dear Catharine?"
               "Oh! I cannot tell you how very dear they have seemed ever since that awful night,
                  when I found and parted from my brother; how I think of them, and dream of them,
                  and long for them, day and night, as I never in all my life have done before. And
                  sometimes I feel as if I should die of this longing and homesickness if I cannot
                  see them. O Gen. Atherton! let me ask,—let me beg of you to release me from that
                  fearful promise, and allow me to go home. I have been nothing but a trouble and a
                  burden to you, from the first: you would be a thousand times better off without
                  me. If I stay, I cannot fulfil that solemn promise to love you as a wife should.
                  If I could go, I should respect and honor you, if nothing more. Oh, I implore you
                  to release, and let me go! even though I come back again," she said in a
                  deeply-agitated voice.
               
               He, too, was strongly moved. He gazed upon her flushed, imploring countenance for
                  a moment with a pitiful, yearning tenderness, then turned away, and began to walk
                  the room. At last he came back to her, and said in a tremulous tone, as he
                  smoothed her short, silky hair,—
               "Catharine, did you realize, even imperfectly, how very dear you are to me,—how
                  far above all my earthly possessions I prize you, or the extent of the sacrifice
                  you require at my hands, you would never have made this request; yet, as you have
                  done; so, I will give it due consideration. At present, you are in no condition to
                  go home, or anywhere else; and I want you to consider this as your
                  home,—at least, until you can leave it in safety. In consideration of your present
                  feelings, and also because my conscience hardly acquits me for the way in which it
                  was obtained, I shall never, you may feel assured, enforce, against your wishes, a
                  husband's claim upon you. For the present, I ask only the privileges of a friend
                  or elder brother, which, I trust, you will accord to me. As yet we are almost
                  strangers to each other. I hope your feelings towards me will change upon a better
                  acquaintance. After the toils and dangers of the past few months, I am having a
                  short furlough; and I think I cannot employ it to better advantage than in looking
                  after the affairs of my plantation, and at the same time cultivating more friendly
                  relations with one who has the power to make or mar the happiness of my whole
                  future life. Allow me the privileges of friendship, dear Catharine, to converse
                  and associate with you freely, to nurse you back to health, to familiarize you
                  with my people and my surroundings. And if, after all, you prefer your own people
                  to mine; if you feel that you still love another too well truthfully to perform
                  your vows to me, I solemnly promise to let you go home, and hereafter take
                  measures to break the tie that binds us together, if it also break my heart. Shall
                  it be so, dear Catharine?" he continued in a tone of deep emotion.
               "Yes," she replied, affected to tears by the unexpected generosity that promised a
                  present reprieve, if not a future emancipation, from what she had previously
                  regarded as an intolerable bondage.
               She knew very well that he was a man whose word was as good as his bond, even
                  though he was sometimes ruled almost wholly by ambition and its political
                  necessities. She could not help seeing in every word, look, and tone how very dear
                  she was to him, and, of course, how great to him would be the sacrifice if
                  compelled hereafter to resign her forever. So, woman like, she began to pity him.
                  If ever a man set himself resolutely to the task of winning a woman's heart, it
                  was Gen. Atherton now. The promise had been drawn from him by her tears, and too
                  evident dread of him; but, once given, he felt that he must abide by it. He felt,
                  too, that this promised had brought him down to the level of an humble suppliant
                  for her favor. But, while regretting this, he did not know that he made himself
                  much more lovable in Catharine's eyes, than when his display of a domineering and
                  determined feeling of ownership, suggesting thoughts of slavery, had aroused a
                  spirit of resistance in her proud, rebellious heart. Having no special disease,
                  she improved rapidly under Dinah's careful nursing and the general's special
                  attentions. The color came back to her pale cheek, and the light to her eyes;
                  though the longing for home and mother, and especially cially to know Theodore's fate, devoured her
                  continually. Dinah, who, it may be remembered, was a witness of their marriage,
                  having been charged to be silent regarding it then, had sense enough not to bother
                  Catharine with questions now; though she no doubt wondered over many things. To
                  her it was a labor of love to wait on Catharine, who had completely won her
                  affection; and, when not thus engaged, it was her greatest delight to talk over
                  her miraculous adventures, virtues, and perfections, and sound her praises to a
                  select audience in the kitchen, who were her old acquaintances, and to whom she
                  could enlarge upon the facts in the most glowing terms, without the fear of
                  contradiction. Dinah had, it seemed, been left in charge of Mrs. Hunter's
                  establishment in Richmond; and it was by accident alone that she and Cæsar
                  happened to be away at the time Catharine knocked in vain for admittance.
               When not obliged to go to Richmond, the general spent his mornings in writing, and
                  overlooking his estate,—taking Catharine out to ride with him as soon as she was
                  well enough, that he might show her the most beautiful views, and the improvements
                  he had planned, and make her acquainted with his surroundings. His afternoons and
                  evenings, too, when not otherwise engaged, were always spent in her society; and
                  it was very evident that he meant to make the most of his time.
               His plantation was situated upon the James River, upon the magnificent scenery of
                  which she was never tired of gazing. The mansion vied with Hunter House in its
                  bygone splendor, as well as its antiquity; but there had been additions,
                  improvements, and furnishings of a later date, that made it much more acceptable
                  to modern tastes, and left no reasonable wish or necessity unprovided for. It had
                  a large and choice library, a splendid collection of rare pictures, with many
                  other choice specimens of art and taste to please the eye and entertain and
                  improve the mind and heart. Yes, Atherton Place was beautiful; in fact, just the
                  spot where one could contentedly dream away a lifetime, if—and there Catharine
                  generally wound up her reflections, leaving the sentence unfinished, and sighing
                  over a lost hope.
               We have said before that Gen. Atherton, for a man of his age, was strongly
                  attractive; that his voice was deep-toned and melodious; that his eye had a
                  peculiarly magnetic power over Catharine, from which she felt impelled to fly. And
                  now she was wholly surrendered to this influence, without the power to fly.
               Hard and stern as he sometimes appeared, there was really a great deal of poetry
                  and romance in his composition, and genuine feeling, earnestness, and eloquence in
                  his conversation. And now, as he explained to her the beautiful paintings, and
                  specimens of art, he had gathered in his own, as well as foreign lands; or read to
                  her from his favorite authors; or talked with her of his own hopes and plans, of
                  the beautiful scenery, or the great issues at stake in the past, present, and
                  future of the country; or joined his deep-toned voice with hers in the rendering
                  of some grand harmony,—she could not help yielding to him the tribute of
                  admiration, and appreciation of his fine talents, if not that of the love he so
                  earnestly hoped to inspire. As a father, brother, or friend, with no special claim
                  upon her, she felt as if she could have given, him the tribute of an affectionate
                  regard; and, even as a lover or husband, he would not have been as
                     objectionable able as some who had
                  sought her favor, but for his devotion to the cause of the rebellion.
               Upon this subject they seldom argued now, as she felt as if it were of no earthly
                  use. She believed that he now at heart as bitterly regretted the steps the South
                  had taken as she could do. That he, and in fact the whole South, were deeply
                  disappointed,—not only in the failure of the Democracy of the North to support
                  their cause, but also in the powerful resistance they had met from the Federal
                  Government. She knew that he was sick of bloodshed and such fearful sacrifice of
                  human life, and, in spite of present dear-bought successes, doubtful of the final
                  issue of the contest. She knew, too, that his great misleading passion—a towering
                  ambition—had thus far been deeply disappointed; for he had found other men, plenty
                  of them, equally ambitious with himself. With more tact and subtlety, or ability
                  to please the multitude, and propitiate favor in influential quarters, they had
                  supplanted, cast him into the shade, and more than rivalled him in the regard of
                  the administration, and thus attained to greater preferment and power.
               The supreme ruler of the Southern people saw in him a talented and dangerous
                  rival, eager to distinguish himself, and, if possible, get the reins of government
                  into his own guiding hands; so that chief ruler felt it to be a matter of vital
                  interest to himself to prevent Gen. Atherton, in one way and another, from
                  attaining to any prominent distinction.
               Catharine knew that he felt this keenly, but, from the power of surrounding
                  circumstances, was unable to help it. And from this cause, if there were no others
                  he inwardly hated the administration, and the way in which they had conducted the
                  affairs of the Confederacy. She might have taunted him about the splendid eminence
                  to which he had promised to raise her: but she cared nothing for the eminence; and
                  she was really too kind-hearted, and too much of a Christian in spirit, to wish to
                  add bitterness to the discontent that she knew was gnawing at his heart. Perhaps,
                  too, in their present relations, she thought it would be unadvisable to
                  recriminate and anger him.
               He had, besides these, other serious causes of discontent. His slaves, thrilled by
                  the tocsin of war, and the hope of freedom, were escaping in scores; and this, to
                  a born slaveholder, was a constant source of trouble and irritation, in which he
                  knew she could not sympathize. From all appearances, she judged that he was kinder
                  and more just and generous than most slave-owners were with their slaves; that he
                  furnished them with better fare, and neater cabins, demanded fewer hours of labor,
                  and allowed them many more privileges; reasoning truly that he was better served
                  in return than those who treated them more unkindly. But however indulgent he or
                  others might be, these people felt as if it were slavery still. Their dreams of
                  liberty included an easy, happy life, free from toil and care and bondage. They
                  were wild and unreal, and they were sure to find it so in the end; but still they
                  preferred to dare the risk of pain, privation, recapture, and death itself, to
                  remaining longer in the galling shackles of bondage.
               As Catharine mingled among those who were left, held mostly by weakness,
                  cowardice, or the strong and endearing bonds of love,—she could not help feeling
                  how much better it would be for both master and slave, if they were all free men
                  and women; allowed to live on the estate, serving him more faithfully and
                     gratefully, from the knowledge that
                  their posterity would not wear the yoke of slavery. She told their owner so one
                  morning, when they were out for a ride around the plantation, and used her best
                  arguments to support her position.
               "I don't know but you are right," he said after a long pause, and with a keen,
                  searching glance; "and that you might make a practical abolitionist of me if you
                  tried. There are some things we cannot understand until we feel them; and this is
                  one. I never knew what it was to be in bonds, fettered even by a rash promise,
                  until the past few weeks. And I assure you, that, although they are invisible to
                  the outward eye, I find them inexpressibly galling. I cannot blame the slaves
                  much, if they feel as I do, for snapping their bonds, as Samson did his, and
                  setting law, gospel, and conscience at defiance. Seriously, Catharine, I cannot
                  much longer endure this thraldom. Every strong impulse of my soul cries out
                  against it every hour; and every hour is a torture until I know what the future
                  has in store for me. I could not bear the thought of separation; and yet every
                  hour spent in your society has only made you dearer to my heart, and the thought
                  of a future parting harder to bear. Oh! tell me now honestly, my darling, whether
                  I have made myself sufficiently tolerable in your eyes for you to endure the
                  thought of being presented to the world as my wife!" he said in a pleading
                  tone.
               Catharine had been expecting this ordeal; but it came upon her unexpectedly now.
                  The warm blood flashed over her face in an instant, and then rushed back to her
                  heart, leaving it pale as ashes; and the hand he had clasped trembled like a leaf
                  in his own.
               "Does the thought distress you still?" he asked tenderly, yet in a disappointed
                  tone, when he found she did not reply. "I had hoped that by this time you had
                  become accustomed to it—and me. I am going down the river to-day," he continued,
                  "to reconnoitre, and meet Gen. Lee; and to-morrow or next day I shall return, on
                  my way to Richmond. I entreat you then, dear Catharine, to be ready to decide
                  whether you will go there with me to be presented to the world as my bride, or
                  break my heart by asking to be transmitted through the lines. In either case you
                  shall have a safe conduct and a free choice; by which I feel bound to abide. Will
                  you be ready then?"
               "I will try to be," she faltered, as he helped her from the carriage, and bade her
                  an affectionate "Good-by!"
               He left the mansion on horseback soon afterwards, attended by his black servant;
                  and Catharine was left to her own reflections. We can very well imagine that they
                  were not pleasant ones, and that the questions she had to ask herself were hard to
                  decide. They were questions of duty, not inclination, as that would have led her
                  at once through the lines. She did not for an instant doubt his regard for her;
                  for his every word, look, and tone declared it. But he was an enemy to her
                  country. He had gone now to hatch treason against the government. To be his wife,
                  was affording aid and comfort to the enemy,—was it not?—the greatest he could
                  receive, he had given her to understand; and would she not be justified in
                  refusing it? Ay: but was not the solemn marriage-vow she had pronounced a higher
                  law than that,—one of God's own institution, and more binding than any she owed
                  her country? In his pity and forbearance, as well as the strong hope of winning
                  her love, he had promised to give her leave to break or evade it. But did that
                  abrogate her own solemn promise to love, honor, and obey this man till death? Yet
                  she felt that she had promised what she
                  could not perform. She liked him well enough, but knew that she did not love him;
                  and she felt then as if she never could. And would it not be a greater sin to live
                  with him, acting a lie, than any she would commit in leaving him?
               These were some of the questions conscience propounded, which she pondered
                  sleeplessly, but was far from deciding. Dinah had gone back to Richmond to prepare
                  for Mrs. Hunter's expected return: the other servants were comparative strangers;
                  so she had none but God and her own conscience to consult in this trying
                  emergency. She laid her case before that dread tribunal, but could get no clear
                  indications from the inward monitor regarding the true path of duty. Her mind
                  veered from one side of the question to the other, like a vane in a gale of wind;
                  and the eager longing for home and friends, and rest and freedom, each hour grew
                  stronger in her heart.
               The first day passed slowly away, and the second still more wearily and anxiously;
                  but still he did not come. The third at last dawned upon the weary watcher, and
                  dragged its slow length along. She tried to beguile the time by books and music
                  and art; but their illusions were but momentary. They could not distract her
                  attention from the decision she was hourly expecting to be called upon to
                  make.
               It was about the last of July; and the weather was very warm and sultry. Feeling
                  weary, languid, and oppressed, not only by the heat, but her own foreboding
                  fancies, she wondered away from the mansion some time in the afternoon with her
                  sketch-book to beguile the hours of their tediousness. The place she sought was a
                  rocky ledge near the main road, overhung by giant trees the growth of centuries.
                  This ledge overlooked a high, arched stone bridge, that spanned a beautiful and
                  rapid stream, and commanded many other bright glimpses of bold and beautiful
                  scenery. This stream often overflowed its banks, and had a deep and dangerous
                  current that made its way over the rocks to the dam and mills and mightier stream
                  below. She had been there twice before with Gen. Atherton, never ceasing to admire
                  the bold scenery, which she had resolved to sketch that day. So, after reaching
                  the place, and cooling off in the shade of the splendid trees, she gained the most
                  desirable position, and began her work. She drew the outlines of her sketch with a
                  masterly hand. Then she began to fill in with the bold rocks, the giant trees, the
                  high, arched bridge, half in sunlight, half in shadow, the steep bluff, covered
                  with clumps of laurel, wild roses, and other shrubbery. Then she endeavored to
                  portray the deeply-shadowed stream, with a few bright glimpses of sunshine playing
                  upon the bright ripples of foam, in sparkling diamond points of light, and the
                  soft summer haze that lay like a thin, fleecy cloud over the distant landscape,
                  that no pencil of artist, however skilful, could ever truthfully portray.
               As she paused at last to compare, not admire, what she felt to be but a faint and
                  feeble imitation of the grandeur of the original, though another might have
                  pronounced it faultless, the sound of merry voices and shouts of musical laughter
                  rang out upon the sultry air.
               A few minutes afterwards a small party of negro children came out from the shadow
                  of the pines upon the opposite bank, that she had just been sketching. Completely
                  tired out with their berry-picking, and ramble over the hills, they set down their
                  baskets, and threw themselves upon the
                  mossy carpet to rest. The roar of the stream between her and them prevented her
                  hearing much of their conversation; yet they were near enough for her to recognize
                  them as children she had often seen playing around the slave-cabins,—one of whom,
                  a thin-faced girl of ten, was hopelessly deformed. 
               It immediately occurred to her that these were the very objects needed to give
                  animation to her picture, besides representing a striking phase of Southern life
                  and character; so, while the children lay there at rest, or were tumbling over the
                  green carpet of moss, she rubbed out a portion of her foreground, and rapidly and
                  skilfully sketched the little group; startled a little at the last through fear
                  that the little hunchback was in too dangerous proximity to the edge of the cliff
                  of rock that bordered the river. Over this she seemed to be peering in search of
                  wild-flowers that grew in great profusion among the crevices of the rocks, and a
                  large bunch of which she held in her hand. Eager in the pursuit, she grew so
                  venturesome, that Catharine, who was watching her, trembled at her danger, and
                  opened her lips to shout a warning.
               But it was too late. There was a wild shriek,—little dark hands were flung out,
                  clutching at nothing,—a dull splash, and the little waif was struggling in the
                  deep water. For an instant Catharine was paralyzed: then she threw down her
                  sketch, and ran down the steep bank, forgetting, in her eagerness, that it was
                  necessary to cross the bridge some rods below to get anywhere near the little
                  sufferer. She saw her error in a moment, and hastened to retrieve it by running
                  towards the bridge. She realized, almost intuitively, that it was only below it,
                  where the swift current would be sure to carry the child through the arches, that
                  she could hope to render her the least assistance. As she neared the bridge with
                  an old fishing-rod she had caught up on the way in her hand, a new actor suddenly
                  appeared upon the scene.
               A man on horseback, who came down the road that crossed the bridge at the most
                  critical moment, heard the shriek, and saw the child fall over the cliff. With
                  ready sympathy, and disregard of danger, he sprang from his horse, threw off his
                  coat and hat, and, without noticing Catharine in the deep shadow of the opposite
                  bank, slid down the steep rocks into the water. By the time she had reached the
                  bridge, he had caught the little drowning girl by the arm, just as she was sinking
                  for the last time.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE CHILD'S RESCUE.—THE GENERAL'S DANGER.
               
                  BUT the danger was not over yet; for the banks were so very steep,
                  that it was necessary for the man to breast the strong current to find a secure
                  landing, or else glide down beneath the arches of the bridge, at the risk of being
                  carried over the dam to the mill-wheel below, which would be certain death.
                  Unburdened, he could easily reach the place he sought: as it was, he found it
                  impossible, and was soon, almost in spite of himself, gliding down towards the
                  bridge. He raised his head, and cast a despairing glance around.
               Was it wise to risk his own life for this puny creature, who, if she lived, must
                  ever be a burden to herself and him?
               This was his thought; and Catharine read it as she looked down into the dark,
                  despairing eyes of Gen. Atherton. She had not seen clearly before who it was; nor
                  had he as yet seen her at all. Yet her agitation and surprise did not prevent her
                  from comprehending all the circumstances. She saw that her rod would not begin to
                  reach the water; and then another expedient occurred to her: so, as soon as they
                  neared the arch, she bent over the railing of the bridge, and shouted in a voice
                  heard above the roar of the stream,—
               "Hold on as long as you can! There is a tree below the arches. I believe I can
                  bend down one of the branches within your reach."
               The tree grew out gnarled and knotted between the rocks, with long lateral
                  branches extending over the stream. With little thought of the danger, Catharine
                  sprung from the bridge upon the craggy wall of steep rocks that formed the bank of
                  the stream, and slid down these until she alighted upon the crooked body of the
                  tree. Then she walked out cautiously upon the longest limb, steadying herself by
                  the one above her, until it bent beneath her weight so as to dip in the rapid
                  current. By this time the general had floated through the arch with the child,
                  and, by a little exertion, he reached and caught the branch with one hand, while
                  he held on to her with the other.
               "Thank you!" he said, looking up to her gratefully. "But now I shall be more
                  obliged, if you will tell me what to do next. I used to breast this current
                  easily; but I am very weary, and it seems cannot do it now. You know what is below
                  us; and the banks are very steep all the way. The water is very deep here; and I
                  cannot hold on long. Alone I should be safe enough; but"—and he looked down
                  significantly upon his helpless burden.
               "I have it!" she exclaimed joyfully, after a moment's thoughts, "There is your
                  horse just where you left him. If I can get off his bridle, and you could slip it
                  under her arms with your teeth, or somehow, I believe I could draw her to the
                  shore, and lift her upon the rocks."
               No sooner said than done. She walked back to the body of the tree, clambered up
                  the steep wall of rock as quickly as possible, by a little petting and coaxing got
                     off Selim's bridle; and, while he
                  ran home with all speed, she descended again to the tree. This time her head swam
                  as she walked out over the water; but she held on a moment, and the weakness
                  passed away. The general saw her sudden pallor; and his heart almost ceased to
                  beat as he realized her danger: but it was over very soon. She held on bravely;
                  and by dint of courage, perseverance, and the blessing she has silently implored,
                  she succeeded in saving little Effie, and helping the exhausted general, too, to
                  reach the land. The child was nearly senseless, but soon revived, and was able to
                  walk home with her hand in that of her preserver.
               Their arrival gave unbounded joy, not only to the mother, but others in the little
                  community, whom the story of the children, of the loss of the pet of the flock,
                  had withdrawn from their labors, and whom they met rushing, too late, to the
                  rescue.
               They received the child with tears and kisses, as one risen from the dead; and
                  their gratitude to her rescuers was unbounded.
               The general seemed so silent and depressed on his way home, that Catharine
                  suspected some ill-news from the army weighed upon his spirits, as well as the
                  natural seriousness caused by so recent an escape from death, to say nothing of
                  his anxiety regarding his relations with her.
               This unexpected rencounter, however, subtracted something from the embarrassment
                  she would otherwise have felt at meeting him. His self-sacrificing conduct
                  regarding the child really raised him higher in her esteem than he had ever been
                  before. If he had known she was a witness of the act, she might have believed he
                  did it to win her admiration; but she knew he could not have seen her, with so
                  many intervening obstacles. And, if the child had been a perfect and healthy one,
                  she might have suspected the self-interest of the master. As it was, nothing but
                  an impulse of humanity could have tempted him to risk his life for one who might
                  always be an expense and a burden.
               At tea she met him again as usual, and he talked a little of the fine condition of
                  Gen. Lee's army, and of the disappearance of the favorite slave who accompanied
                  him, who, upon his favorite charger, had undoubtedly escaped to the Union lines.
                  He had supposed him perfectly contented, trusty, and more strongly attached to him
                  than any other slave upon the plantation.
               The general said he was very tired, and far from well. He ate scarcely any thing;
                  did not once allude to the subject that probably occupied the minds of both, and
                  retired early.
               Towards morning Catharine was aroused by an unusual noise and bustle in the house,
                  and, upon, inquiry in the morning, was told that the general was ill. They had
                  sent to Richmond for a doctor, and Aunt Phillis was afraid he was going to have a
                  fever. She could not help reproaching herself for the feeling of
                  relief—reprieve—this reply gave to her. She breakfasted alone; and, as soon as it
                  was over, she was informed that the general was very anxious to see her. Her heart
                  beat like a trip-hammer, as she followed Aunt Phillis, who was the old family
                  nurse, into his chamber. But her fear turned to pity when she saw what a change
                  one night had made in his appearance. He was propped up in bed, evidently in great
                  pain; breathing with difficulty, and, showing every symptom of pleurisy or
                  lung-fever. She went up to him; and he took her hand in his hot, burning ones, as he said in a labored tone, "You
                  see, dear Catharine, that I am very ill; do you, not? I have always been a healthy
                  man, and never in all my life suffered so much from pain as during the past night.
                  I have been longing to see you for hours."
               "I am very sorry," she replied. "I fear your impromptu bath had something to do
                  with it."
               "It was not wholly that. I had been excited by the loss of my favorite man and
                  horse, as well as by other causes which I cannot explain to you now; and I was
                  quite unwell before I left the camp. The weather was very warm; and I was hot,
                  dusty, and perspiring freely when I came upon that scene we have such cause to
                  remember.—This is the result of all these causes combined."
               "You performed a noble, self-sacrificing deed; for which I hope you will not
                  suffer seriously, general."
               "You risked your life as well as I mine; and I had more interest at stake than
                  you, Catharine; but we will not talk of that now. This throbbing brain, oppression
                  of the breast, and difficulty of breathing, makes it very hard for me to converse
                  at all."
               "Pray do not do it then. I will retire."
               "No, no! It is growing worse every hour. I must talk while I can. I have sent for
                  Dr. Huntley, and for Mrs. Hunter, if she has arrived in town; but at the best they
                  cannot get here for hours. In the mean time, I want to make my peace with you,
                  dear Catharine. I feel now as if I had wronged you deeply, and indirectly been the
                  cause of much suffering to you. Oh! can you, in your unbounded compassion, forgive
                  me?"
               "Yes," she faltered, affected to tears by his evident distress and penitence.
               "Catharine, I do not ask this with a view of enforcing my claims upon you
                  hereafter: they were unblessed, because unjustly obtained; and I yield them all
                  up, here and now, upon the altar of truth and right. Hereafter, if I live I will
                  tell you why; but oh, I cannot do it now! If I die, you will find, that in the
                  thought of death you were not forgotten. You are now free to go where you
                  please,—to the Union lines if you desire it; yet, for all that, I still love you
                  as my life. In parting from you, I resign every hope of earthly happiness, if not
                  life itself. And just now I need you so much,—oh! so very much; though I know I
                  ought not to ask you to stay. Yet I feel as if my punishment would be greater than
                  I can bear if you leave me;" and the look of intense agony that passed over his
                  face gave the most convincing testimony to the depth of his feelings, and strongly
                  appealed to her kind and generous heart.
               "What is it you wish?" she faltered in answer to that mute appeal.
               "Dear Catharine, I feel that I am alone in the world, and in great danger. My
                  ungrateful children are far away from me in spirit and in fact. It is very
                  doubtful whether Mrs. Hunter has returned, or can leave Walter to come to me if
                  she has. Slavery, upon which I leaned, and of which, in my supreme ignorance, I
                  boasted, like a reed has broken, and pierced my hand. Almost every slave upon this
                  plantation, both male and female, whom I considered intelligent and worthy of
                  trust, has left me since the occupation of the country by the Union army. My staff
                  have all gone to their homes on a furlough. My overseer is a jack-at-a-pinch, a
                  blundering blockhead. Old Phillis is kind in her way, but could not read a
                  prescription, or hardly count the
                  hours. So you see there is not one among them all fit to nurse a sick donkey, to
                  say nothing of a man."
               There was a long silence. Catharine saw what he wanted: but she could not speak
                  with such a fierce struggle between duty and inclination going on in her heart.
                  She wanted to go and find, or at least hear from, Theodore. She longed
                  inexpressibly to go home; yet she had promised before God to love, honor, and obey
                  this man; to care for him in sickness and in health, through life, till death.
                  And, though from pity or some other reason he had given her leave to forsake him
                  in his greatest need, was not her duty before God as plain as the open day?
               "Ay," whispered conscience: "your path is plain enough now. Why do you
                  hesitate?"
               And when at last Gen. Atherton, eagerly scanning her changing countenance, said in
                  a tremulous tone, "Catharine, you were ever kind and pitiful; you nursed poor
                  Major Hunter and little Walter; you took care of the sick and dying soldiers: is
                  it too much for me to ask of you to stay?" she said, without a moment's
                  hesitation, "I will stay, Gen. Atherton, and by God's help do all I
                  can for you."
               How little we know, in these great and solemn crises of our lives, what weighty
                  events hang upon the decisions of a moment! Those words decided Catharine's
                  destiny.
               "Oh, how can I ever be grateful enough for that decision!" he said in a tone of
                  deep emotion. "If I live or die, you shall not repent of it. Yet, dear Catharine,
                  separate yourself, if you can, from the thought of being bound to me by solemn
                  ties; for you are so no longer. I have not the strength or courage now to tell you
                  why. Every thing and everybody left upon this plantation is at your service; and I
                  trust myself unreservedly to your care. The thought that you will stay with me
                  takes a great burden from my mind, and will go far towards my recovery. But here
                  you have been standing all this time. Please ring for Tull, and then go and rest
                  yourself. I must spare you all I can, and myself too; for I am very weary: it is
                  such an effort to talk so much."
               Before leaving, Catharine recommended such treatment as she had seen practised in
                  similar cases in the hospitals. The doctors, she said, were all fully occupied in
                  caring for the thousands of sick and wounded in Richmond, and might not come for
                  many hours; and in a case like this delay might be fatal.
               So he gratefully submitted to any thing promising relief that she and Aunt Phillis
                  thought best to administer or apply. And well was it for him that he did so, as no
                  doctor could be procured until the afternoon of the following day, and Mrs. Hunter
                  had not returned to Richmond.
               When one did arrive at last, Catharine was rejoiced to find that it was Dr.
                  Huntley, with whom she was well acquainted. He approved of everything they had
                  been doing, and said, that, but for their timely antiphlogistic treatment, the
                  patient would have been a great deal worse; as it was, he said, he would probably
                  have a pretty severe course of pleurisy and fever.
               The doctor was obliged to go back that night to Richmond; but he staid to tea: so
                  Catharine had a chance to hear a great deal about how matters and things were
                  progressing in the Confederate capital.
               He said Mrs. Hunter had been delayed on her way from Raleigh to Richmond by the
                  illness of some of her family, and could not be expected at Atherton at present. The doctor had known something
                  of Catharine's previous history; and she had to tell him more to account for her
                  presence there, which he might or might not regard with suspicion.
               "You can't think how sorry I am that Mrs. Hunter cannot be here," said Catharine,
                  as the doctor was about to leave. "It is so unpleasant, so trying for me to be
                  here in such circumstances,—the only white woman on this plantation, or indeed in
                  this neighborhood. You know, my nursing old Major Hunter would be regarded by the
                  world as a very different thing;" and the color flushed her cheek as she said
                  it.
               "Yes, I know," he returned. "But Gen. Atherton is dangerously ill. You owe him
                  something for picking you up, bringing you home with him, and probably saving your
                  life. There is no one else, he tells me, anywhere about here, who can be at all
                  depended upon; so I see no way for you but to stay here, make the best of it, and
                  save his life if you can. I know you are a skilful nurse, if your strength will
                  only hold out; and Mrs. Hunter may be able to come soon."
               "Oh, I hope so! But which of them is it who is sick?"
               "I do not know; probably little, Walter, who, I fear, may not live long. He was a
                  very sensitive child; and to say nothing of his wound, he has never got over the
                  shock of his father's death. It was a sad affair every way: the whole family seem
                  to be very unfortunate. Sad news awaits them now, too, as soon as they reach
                  home."
               "What is that?" she questioned with paling cheek, faltering tongue, and foreboding
                  heart.
               "Well, perhaps you had better not tell the general; but a despatch was received by
                  the government a day or two ago from the south-western army, announcing, among
                  others, the death of Lloyd, Major Hunter's eldest son. He was killed in one of the
                  late engagements with the Union army. He was a fine, noble-spirited young man; and
                  I was sorry to hear— But how white you are, Miss Hale! You are fainting;" and he
                  sprung forward, and supported her with his arm.
               "No, no!" she gasped with white lips; "but I am deeply shocked! He was once
                  my—friend, and—and—it will be terrible news to them—all."
               "I am very, very sorry," continued the kind-hearted doctor, "pressing a glass of
                  water to her lips, and beginning, as he thought, to understand the case;
                  remembering that she had been some time in the family. "This dreadful war makes
                  shocking work in these proud old families—shocking indeed! Are you better now,
                  Miss Hale?"
               "Yes," she faltered: "I shall be over it in a moment. I have been ill: I am still
                  far from strong,—and it was the surprise—the suddenness— Pray don't let me detain
                  you, doctor."
               "But are you sure of yourself? Hadn't I better give you something? Your life and
                  health are precious here just now."
               "Oh no! I am better. But, if Mrs. Hunter comes, tell her we need her here very,
                  very much."
               "Well, then, if I can do nothing for you, I must go. But pray take care of
                  yourself if you can. I will be sure to tell Mrs. Hunter if she comes.
                  Good-night."
               He looked back lingeringly upon the pale but lovely face, and saw the hopeless,
                  agonized expression that swept over it, which no effort at self-control could wholly conceal from him. Only a love
                  thrown back upon itself, only a heart almost breaking with its burden of repressed
                  and stifled agony, could send such a look as that upon a human countenance, he
                  thought; and all the way to Richmond he could not get it out of his mind.
               And it was a terrible blow to Catharine; for in spite of legal bonds, or earnest
                  endeavors to forget, she loved Lloyd Hunter still. His sudden death snapped some
                  of the sweetest and tenderest chords of life, and made the light of hope, dim
                  enough before, go out in darkness. "Yet what was the life or death of Lloyd Hunter
                  to her?" whispered conscience in that hour of bitter sorrow. "Was she not another
                  man's wife? Was she not bound by irrevocable ties to one who was suffering at that
                  very moment for the kind ministrations she had promised before God to perform for
                  him?"
               In an agony of contending emotions she ran up to her room, knelt down, and
                  implored her heavenly Father for help to conquer all wrong or unholy emotions, for
                  grace to support her through the stern trials that beset her path on every side,
                  for spiritual and temporal strength to support and assist her in the performance
                  of the solemn and responsible duties that were about to devolve upon her; and that
                  he would shape all the events of her life in such a way as would be for his honor
                  and glory, her own best good, and that of all others around her.
               Perhaps it was well for Catharine in that trying-hour that she had unavoidable
                  duties to perform, that tasked her thought and strength to the uttermost, to keep
                  her from dwelling too much upon a bereavement which no inner sense of right and
                  wrong could make her feel was any thing else than the sundering of the deepest and
                  tenderest ties of earthly affection. But she was no stranger to the spirit of
                  self-sacrifice, that vicarious "enthusiasm of humanity," that a late author says
                  "our Saviour came into the world to inaugurate." It was, in fact, one of the
                  strongest impulses of her true and noble heart. One, too, that would forever
                  prevent her from giving up wholly to a sorrow that would have crushed a gentler
                  and more yielding soul to the earth. So, with a pallid face, quivering lip, and
                  sinking heart, yet with tearless eyes, and a firm resolve to do the duty God
                  seemed to have assigned to her, she entered upon her work. With her there was no
                  looking back regretfully from that time. Whether friend or enemy, husband or not,
                  the man's life, under God, depended almost wholly upon her; and night and day she
                  did her duty nobly, watching over him with the most patient and tender care,
                  taking the whole charge of the medicines, and administering them herself; resting
                  only when it was absolutely necessary in the adjoining room, and ready at any
                  moment to attend to a summons from the ignorant attendants, who, for a short time,
                  took her place. She found Tull and Aunt Phillis able coadjutors; but they could
                  not read: so the real care came almost wholly upon herself. Little Effie, who had
                  recovered from the effects of her immersion, was now her chosen attendant, and
                  made herself extremely useful by her peculiar tact in adapting herself to
                  surrounding circumstances. She would sit by the patient's bedside for hours of her
                  own free choice, to fan him, and keep off the flies, while Catharine, completely
                  worn out, was trying to rest; and she would watch the hands of the clock with
                  eager interest to see when they had got to the time when she must call Catharine
                  to give the medicine. The poor thing
                  was little and lame, ignorant and humpbacked; but she was deeply grateful for the
                  life they had saved: and Catharine found in her a mine of affection and trust that
                  was well worth the working, though she was black as midnight.
               The general had a very severe illness; and for two or three days his life was
                  despaired of. But she made the best of all the attending circumstances, and
                  acquitted herself in such a way that Dr. Huntley said she had undoubtedly been the
                  means of saving the patient's life.
               The case had been all the more critical, from the fact that no doctor could be
                  obtained oftener than once in two or three days; so she had to abide by written
                  instructions, and the medical books she found in the general's library.
               There were women enough in the country at that time who would have felt it to be
                  no crime to let an enemy of the cause they espoused die for the want of the care
                  they might have extended; and some, too, who would have helped his onward journey
                  to the realms of glory or of woe.
               But Catharine had not so learned the Saviour's precept, "If thine enemy hunger,
                  feed him; if he thirst, give him drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of
                  fire on his head." Some may think her very foolish; but she herself felt that her
                  mission was not one of vengeance, but rather that of philanthropy and love to the
                  human race.
               Her patient was better at last,—able to sit up, then to walk about the room, and
                  at last ride out on pleasant; days. He had been much more patient and forbearing
                  throughout his illness than she would have believed possible; for brought up, as
                  all slaveholders think they are, to command, it was but natural to expect; some
                  displays of irritability and imperiousness. He was very much changed, she thought,
                  from the haughty, domineering man she had thought him at first, to one of a which
                  no effort of hers could dissipate. At his desire, she read and sung and played to
                  him, or tried to beguile the tediousness of convalescence by cheerful
                  conversation; but ever and always with the result of deepening the gloom upon his
                  countenance.
               One day he was more restless and irritable than usual, and spoke rather sharply to
                  little Effie before Catharine. Ashamed of it afterwards, he turned to her and
                  said,—
               "Catharine, you must be shocked by my ill-temper and ugliness. Let what will
                  happen, I observe that you never display any yourself. Where do you get such
                  admirable forbearance? and what is it that supports you through all the stern
                  trials that have beset your path for months?"
               Catharine looked up reverently, but did not reply.
               "Ah! I see,—among the angels, to whom I have often thought you must be akin, if
                  there are any angels."
               "From One higher than the angels, I hope,—One who would guide and support you,
                  too, if you would only ask it."
               "No, Catharine: I have not faith enough in that far-off sphere, or any such
                  omnipotent Being who inhabits it, as to wing any prayer I could make so that it
                  would soar above the earth and what is earthly; while yours would reach the
                  highest heaven, if there be any."
               "If there be any? Can you doubt it, or that there is a God who rules in the
                  affairs of the universe?" said she
                  eagerly, shocked by this admission of doubts she had often suspected, but never
                  really knew he entertained before.
               "I have doubted it for long years," said he gloomily; "believed in no other God
                  than that of Nature, and that man was but another name for universal selfishness.
                  And believing thus, and seeing it acted out daily during my whole past life, you
                  don't know how your noble, self-sacrificing example has affected me since I have
                  lain there trembling on the brink of the grave. It has almost convinced me that
                  there is a spirit in man—or at least one woman—nobler, purer, and holier than any
                  I had ever dreamed of; and that such a spirit must be connected with some power
                  that is invisible to mortal eyes, intangible to human senses, and altogether
                  incomprehensible to my human understanding."
               "My example is nothing, general, only in that I strive to make it a Christian one.
                  I am but an humble imitator of Him who came into the world to give the noblest
                  example of self-sacrifice and love and forbearance to enemies; and who, to prove
                  that love, at last laid down his life for their redemption. Of myself I am of
                  small account in God's economy of the universe; yet even my poor example, in his
                  hands, may serve as an illustration to you of the eternal principles of his love
                  and good-will to man. But rest assured that it is his Spirit, and not what I have
                  done, that has been striving powerfully with you during this distressing illness.
                  I have seen it before to-day, and earnestly beg of you to attend to its warnings,
                  and make your peace with him, before you are brought to some other crisis in your
                  destiny that may have a fatal termination."
               "Catharine, if I could have you for a guide and helper always, there might be some
                  hope of my attaining to a better faith than infidelity teaches. Without you,
                  Nature will and must be to me the supreme power in the universe."
               "Oh! there is, there must be, a great first cause for every thing. Your idea of
                  nature is but another name for God, the Author, Ruler, and Supreme Disposer of
                  every thing in the universe. In your heart, I believe you feel this to be true,
                  though you may not like to confess it with your lips."
               "I will confess that you are an earnest and eloquent preacher, and deserve a
                  better and larger audience," he returned with a ghastly smile.
               "It is of consequence to us sometimes to turn one from the error of his ways, that
                  he may do the same by others. And I am earnest because I have felt it all, and
                  believe it to be a solemn truth."
               "But, Catharine, I have never felt; so I cannot believe these things."
               "I am sure you will, and, in fact, are beginning to do so now; for I believe in
                  the intimate presence of God in the soul of every man, though sin and worldliness
                  may blind him to that sacred presence. His handwriting is on our innermost shrines
                  of thought; his voice thrills through the deepest recesses of our being. None can
                  shut out the thought that he sends; but unsought, unsuggested by the ordinary laws
                  of association,—nay, often unwelcomed,—they remain, return, haunt the soul, knock
                  at the heart's door, as they are doing at yours to-day, and often forsake it not
                  until they are cherished and obeyed. Not we ourselves can hold so close communion
                  with our own souls as God can and does."
               "And you have felt all this?"
               
               "If I know myself, I have."
               "Then perhaps you could teach me the way to the truth and the light. I am sure no
                  one else ever could. Preaching and Bible-reading, I am sure, never sounded so
                  sweet to me from any other lips."
               "That is because you never before felt the need of a better and more satisfying
                  faith. Having been a healthy man, you never before stood upon the confines of two
                  worlds, shrinking from that dark and dreadful plunge into the vast unknown beyond
                  the grave, that only a Christian hope can gild and brighten to the true believer,
                  or make otherwise tolerable to human thought. The hope of meeting in a future life
                  those from whom death has severed us in this is dear to almost every human heart;"
                  and she dropped a tear to the memory of one, who, in spite of her multiplied cares
                  and efforts to forget, was very often present to her thoughts.
               "There is truth in what you say. We who have the courage to face the cannon's
                  mouth tremble sometimes at the thought of death and its unsolved mysteries;
                  though, in the heat of the bloodiest battle, it never seemed so near to me as it
                  has within the past few weeks. The thought, too, of annihilation, of death without
                  a future resurrection, sometimes brings to me a horror that no words can express;"
                  and he bowed his head upon his hand, and seemed lost in troubled thought.
                  Catharine pitied him from the bottom of her heart.
               That he had many causes for disquiet of a temporal and earthly nature, she knew
                  very well. But, above and beyond all this, she felt sure that conscience, startled
                  by its late outlook into the eternal world, was torturing him with a conviction of
                  those great truths of revelation, that he had hitherto denied or ignored. But for
                  once she felt that she had said enough. It was better now to leave him with God
                  and his own conscience. And, rising quietly, she was leaving the room, when he
                  raised his head, with dry, bloodshot eyes, flushed cheek, and a look of earnest
                  entreaty, as he said,—
               "Catharine, don't go yet. There is something I must say to you; and the sooner it
                  is said now the better;" and he took her hand, and drew her down beside him, a
                  good deal agitated by the thought of what it was to be.
               "Do you know," he continued, "that I am wickedly ungrateful for the life you have
                  been the means of saving? That your staying here, and wearing your life out in
                  nursing me back to health, was all a mistake, unless"—
               "Why? Why, then, did you entreat me to stay?" she exclaimed almost
                  indignantly.
               "I scarcely know myself, unless it was to make myself in the end a thousand times
                  more miserable. Promising what I had, and knowing what I did, I should have sent
                  you off at once with blessings; and then, if I had died, it would have been the
                  end of it. If I loved you then, what is it now—that you have saved my life,
                  endeared yourself in a hundred ways, intwined yourself around every chord of my
                  heart, and become all the world to me—but a wild worship? And now, when life and
                  energy are coming back to me, every day, every hour, makes the thought of a
                  separation still harder to bear."
               "Why, then—then—the sooner I go, the better," she said, rising in a good deal of
                  agitation.
               "Pray sit down. We have been talking of heavenly things, now let us speak of the
                  earthly. I want to ask you a few serious questions."
               
               "Well, then"—
               "Catharine, if I had never entangled you by those fatal bonds, if you really
                  believed yourself free to choose, and not my wife, and I should ask you now to
                  marry me, what would be your reply?"
               "I—I really do not know," she said, as the bright color flashed over her face, and
                  the tears gathered in her eyes.
               He turned and looked at her eagerly.
               "O Catharine! tell me truly," he exclaimed, "whether you really like me better
                  than you did a year ago."
               "Yes," she faltered: "I think I do."
               "But, dear Catharine, do you—can you—love me well enough to be willing to spend
                  your life with me?" and his face grew pale, and his voice trembled, with the
                  intensity of his emotions.
               Had those words the power to rend the veil, and reveal the inner soul to the outer
                  vision, or was she powerfully magnetized by the pleading tones and beseeching
                  glances of this eloquent and talented man? She could not tell. Yet she became
                  conscious at that moment, for the first time, of the fact that she did care more
                  for him now than any other living man, and that the thought of leaving him forever
                  was a painful one. She realized, too, that there had been a great change in her
                  feeling towards him, and that the thought of her friends, her duty to her country,
                  and even Lloyd Hunter's cherished image, had faded into indistinctness in her
                  heart.
               Did ever a woman nurse a sick child through a dangerous illness, without in the
                  end getting strongly attached to it?—much more, watch over a man of strong powers
                  of attraction, brought down to the feebleness of an infant, looking up to her with
                  patient trust day after day, grateful for every trifling service, strong only in
                  the power of an undying affection, that the eyes, those "windows of the soul,"
                  following her everywhere, reveal, even when no word is spoken? Can she fervently
                  hope he will not die while under her care; pray that he may be spared to repent of
                  his misdeeds; watch for hours the feeble, fluttering pulse, the glazing eye, and
                  fleeting breath, and thank God for the miraculous restoration,—even when death for
                  her own sake seemed most desirable,—without some change in her sentiments
                  regarding him?
               Could any disengaged female heart, in fact, of tender sensibilities, go through
                  with all this, as Catharine had done, without acquiring a far deeper interest in
                  her patient than she had ever felt before, and without forgetting, in part at
                  least, all. previous prepossessions, in her absorbing interest in her charge?
               We think not, most decidedly. And such at least had been her experience, though
                  she did not realize it till now. She had known indeed that her extreme longing for
                  home and friends had given place to the pressure of care and anxiety that weighed
                  upon her so heavily; that Atherton grew more like home to her every day; that the
                  thought of returning to the North did not give her the joy it had done a few weeks
                  before; and even the memory of Theodore's danger, and her country's peril, and
                  Lloyd's sudden death, were often forgotten in the danger and suffering of one,
                  who, in one way and another, contrived to occupy most of her thoughts. She
                  believed he was her husband, it is true, and perhaps that it was her duty to
                  forget all other attachments, devote her life to him, and no longer try to evade her destiny. So now, when he
                  repeated the question in faltering tones, "Do you indeed love me well enough to
                  spend your life with me?" she murmured with tremulous lips, "Perhaps I do."
               "Thanks, thanks for that precious admission, my Catharine! But oh, you do not know
                  what a terrible temptation you are placing in my path at this moment?"
               "What is that?"
               "I hardly dare tell you, through fear that you will retract those welcome words;
                  yet I must be honest and truthful with you now, dear Catharine, if by it I lose
                  you forever. You are not my wife, as both you and I have believed so
                  long. The chaplain who united us at Manassas Junction was a scoundrel, silenced by
                  his order, and therefore unqualified to perform the rite of marriage. I heard it
                  all from Major Mulford while in camp; and that, more than aught else, was the
                  cause of my illness. If it was the hand of Him you acknowledge as a Father that
                  has kept us separated until now, I also may be brought to acknowledge it with
                  gratitude, if, with you, it also bestow upon me at last what I have not
                  deserved,—the priceless gift of your affection. You are not my wife, dear
                  Catharine, by any human tie; but it remains with you to decide whether you will
                  become so. My presence is imperatively demanded in Richmond. I think I shall be
                  well enough to go there in a day or two; and then and there, if you will forgive
                  the past, and reward my patience and constancy by the gift of your hand, I shall
                  be everlastingly grateful."
               
               The next morning, feeling better than usual, the general decided to make the
                  journey to Richmond. He had made every arrangement for their departure, the
                  carriage was ordered, and Catharine, with a trembling hand and faltering heart,
                  dressed for the journey, was just descending the stairs, when a party of soldiery
                  halted in front of the mansion.
               One of them, an officer, singled off from the troops, and, dashing up to the door,
                  inquired for Gen. Atherton. The general stepped to the door at once.
               "Why, Atherton! how do you do? I heard you were sick; and I am sure your looks do
                  not belie the story."
               "Yes," said the general: "it has been the most serious illness I ever had in my
                  life. I am better, however, and am going to Richmond to-day. But how goes it with
                  the army, Mulford?"
               "Well, my friend. But I have no time for particulars: I'm in an awful hurry, but
                  thought I must stop a moment to correct a little mistake I made while you were in
                  camp, that I thought might affect you seriously and personally. It is regarding
                  the story about that chaplain you remember who married you to Miss Hale at Bull
                  Run. It seems, after all, that I was misinformed. I have it now upon the most
                  indisputable evidence of those high in position in the army, who had a personal
                  knowledge of the affair. They say the man was unjustly accused, came off
                  victorious from the slander of his enemies, and was never silenced by his order.
                  So you see, your marriage is valid after all; and please give my best regards to
                  your wife when you see her. Good-morning, general." With a polite bow and smile at
                  the general's surprised and joyous countenance, Major, or rather Col. Mulford
                  turned, and rode on after his troops.
               Catharine meantime, through the open door, had heard every word of this colloquy, and, overcome
                  with emotion, sunk down upon the stairs, dizzy and as strengthless as a child.
               For that very morning, after a fervent petition for help and guidance, she had
                  come to the conclusion that it would be wrong for her now, whatever her present
                  feelings towards him, to marry Gen. Atherton, and help him, as she indirectly
                  must, to foster the rebellion. He had fully absolved her from her promise on
                  Harry's account; and to marry him now would be treason to her country and her God.
                  If she had really been married as she supposed, why, then, it would have been her
                  duty to abide by those solemn vows, that she considered the most sacred of all
                  human obligations.
               The conclusion was inevitable. She was already the wife of Edward Atherton; she
                  realized now that her solemn promise to become so was witnessed by men and angels,
                  and recorded on high: so she must abide by her own decisions.
               The carriage rolled up to the door at that moment; and, turning to look after
                  Catharine, the general saw her sitting there pale and agitated. He understood it
                  at once; and going up to her, and taking her hand tenderly in his, he said,—
               "You heard it all?"
               "Yes;" and the color flashed over her cheek as she rose to her feet.
               "Dear Catharine, it is our destiny. Henceforth we will be one in heart and life
                  and fortune," he said in tones of deep emotion.
               He led her down the stairs, bade "Good-by" to the faithful servants, and helped
                  her into the carriage that was to convey them to Richmond.
               As we are not writing a history of the rebellion otherwise than as it affects the
                  lives and fortunes of the principal characters in our story, we leave it for abler
                  pens than ours to describe the mortification and disappointment of the North at
                  the sad results of that peninsular campaign, and the triumphant joy of the South
                  in view of the same unfortunate occurrences.
               The South had, it is true, lost tens of thousands of men; and the people were
                  disappointed because they had not captured the whole Union army: but the leaders
                  made the best and the most of their successes, and offered a solemn thanksgiving
                  to God for their great victories.
               But, in spite of all human calculations, these reverses of the Northern army were
                  being overruled by an almighty arm at that very time to the overthrow of the slave
                  power and downfall of the rebellion; for this great disaster was the first thing
                  that opened the eyes of the nation to the folly of trying to coax back the
                  rebellious States by returning the poor fugitive slaves, and refusing at their
                  hands that knowledge of the country and the enemy's plans that could alone insure
                  success.
               Fremont, Phelps, and others had already tried in vain to inaugurate opposite
                  measures: they had been defeated in their humane plans by those higher in power,
                  who had different views; and the nation had to pay the penalty.
               The demand of that nation for a change of policy was now so plainly indicated that
                  the government could not mistake its duty. The emancipation proclamation was the
                  response to that momentous call. This, more than aught else, gave the death-blow
                  to slavery; though in its dying agonies it made still more frantic struggles to
                  prolong its life and extend its power. This, and the large amount of ordnance and army stores the South had
                  captured, gave a new impetus to the car of war, that, like a mighty Juggernaut,
                  was rolling over the land; crushing out the lives of hundreds of thousands of
                  noble men beneath its ponderous wheels; leaving a broad track, red with the blood
                  of the best and the bravest, and drenching it at the North and South, East and
                  West, with the tears of the widow and the orphan.
               On hundreds of blood-stained fields, men fought and bled and died in opposing
                  ranks for what each considered the cause of God, humanity and the best good of
                  their country; while the nations of the Old World and the New looked on in
                  astonishment and wonder. The republic seemed trembling in the balance; and
                  monarchies and free governments feared or rejoiced, as the scales seemed inclining
                  one way or the other.
               Monarchies hastily and rejoicingly proclaimed the republic a failure, as they had
                  prophesied ever since it was established; and all who loved freedom throughout the
                  world feared for our national life.
               The North at that time seemed exhausted by her mighty, but thus far
                  seemingly-fruitless efforts; and never did her night look darker than just after
                  that unsuccessful peninsular campaign. But humiliation and defeat brought wiser
                  councils, and perhaps a firmer reliance upon the God of battles: it also led to a
                  more energetic prosecution of the war, and to future victories.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               BATTLE OF THE RIVALS.—DEATH OF PHILIP.
               
                  WE must now pass on to some of the closing scenes in the
                  rebellion.
               Scores of bloody battles had been fought on land and sea, in which Victory
                  sometimes perched upon one banner, and then the other: but, for all that, the
                  anaconda policy of the government was all the time slowly tightening such giant
                  folds around the twin monsters, Slavery and Secession, as must ere long result in
                  their destruction; for the united voice of the nation now demanded, not only the
                  death of Slavery, but also the release of her imprisoned thousands, who were
                  suffering untold horrors in Southern prisons.
               They were dying by thousands of hunger and thirst, cold and nakedness; shelterless
                  beneath burning suns of summer and the frosts of winter, and exposed to every
                  indignity and outrage that could kill them off without the sin of actual
                  murder.
               Yet it was just as much actual murder as if they had cut the throats of sixty
                  thousand unarmed men,—a crime for which the Southern leaders will have to answer
                  in the judgment.
               Our government may have been blameworthy regarding ing the difficulty about the exchange of prisoners;
                  but, if so, that did not justify the Confederacy in planning and executing this
                  wholesale slaughter.
               The nation had now learned that a continual changing of military leaders was not
                  the wisest policy, even in a republican government; and, with a new-found faith in
                  him who was now at the head of the armies of the Union, they concluded that it was
                  best to march on, through reverses, to victory.
               While events of the greatest military importance were transpiring all over the
                  country, the armies of the James and the Potomac sat down before Petersburg and
                  Richmond, bombarding the former, and harassing the rebels in every way, by cutting
                  their railroads, and stopping their supplies in every direction. Being in an
                  enemy's country, and subject to the greatest disadvantages, the Northern armies
                  lost large numbers of men; while the rebels, suffering little for a while behind
                  their fortifications, laughed to scorn the assaults of the invaders: yet, though
                  their progress was slow, it was sure, and certain in the end to lead to
                  victory.
               It was in one of the assaults upon the rebel works at this time, that Theodore
                  Hale, who had recovered from his wound, and was now a lieutenant-colonel in the
                  Union army, exhibited the greatest heroism, and won, by his courage, bravery, and
                  the skilful handling of his troops, the commendatory notice of the commanding
                  general. It was, too, in this terrible battle, when the Union troops were being
                  pressed back by overpowering numbers, that Theodore, all at once, found himself
                  face to face, and hand to hand with Col. Philip Atherton.
               They knew each other at once, and, for a few moments, fought, sword in hand, with
                  equal skill and bravery. Theodore, however, devoutly wished his foe was some one
                  else than his old schoolmate and rival; while Philip, with the old rivalries in
                  love and scholarship and his humiliating capture at Tremont House all rushing back
                  to his memory, was rejoicing in the prospect of a bloody revenge.
               All at once Theodore saw that his men were retreating, and the rebels surrounding
                  him. He turned, quick as thought, and tried to cut his way back to his troops, but
                  found it impossible: he was hemmed in on every side. He saw at once that there
                  were but two alternatives,—surrender or death. He chose the former, for life was
                  still dear to him; and, turning back towards Philip, who was evidently in command,
                  he, with a heavy heart, lowered the point of his sword in token of surrender.
               But Philip's blood was all aflame: his eyes were blazing. Nothing at that moment
                  could appease his vengeance for all the disappointments of his own life and the
                  humiliation of his country but the blood of him whom he had once considered his
                  rival. Deliberately drawing his pistol, he aimed at Theodore's heart, and
                  fired.
               But God's care was over Theodore. The ball cut his clothing, and grazed the skin,
                  but passed between his arm and his heart.
               The hot, angry blood swept over Theodore's face at the thought of such murderous
                  treatment. His keen eye swept the field with eagle gaze. It saw a slight gap in
                  the rebel lines. Raising his sword once more, he gave the dastardly Philip a
                  sweeping blow: then, dashing his spurs into his horse's sides, he swept through
                  the gap like a whirlwind. Before the rebels had recovered from their astonishment
                  at his audacity, he had joined his troop, halted, and turned them back to their duty, and was the means of changing the
                  fortunes of the day.
               But many brave men had fallen, and especially officers whose places were to be
                  filled; and for this, as well as many another brave deed, Theodore was afterwards
                  created a brigadier-general.
               Philip, however, was not slain by Theodore's sweeping blow, though it gave him a
                  severe cut across the cheek; but, just as he was turning to follow his flying
                  troop, he received a still more serious wound from a Minie-ball, in the knee.
                  Agonized with pain and mad with passion he still tried vainly to rally his
                  panic-stricken troops. When he found he could not do so, he turned, and was glad
                  to seek safety in flight. His wounds were considered very serious; and as soon as
                  possible he was sent back to Richmond.
               The surgeons tried to save his limb, but, after a few days, found that it was
                  impossible. His horror may be imagined when told that amputation alone could save
                  his life. He could not die. Life was every thing to Philip Atherton; so he
                  submitted to the dreadful operation. Yet it was a terrible thing for one who had
                  been so proud of his strength, and his manly beauty of face and form, to be thus
                  mutilated by those he hated; and no expletives were too horrible for him to launch
                  against Theodore and the universal Yankee nation. But what availed all his
                  rebellion against the inevitable? Philip Atherton was doomed.
               
               From the memorable night of Gen. Atherton's visit to Catharine in the Libby
                  Prison, and knowledge of his son's abduction to get her out of his way, he and
                  Philip had mutually avoided each other.
               He wrote to him at that time, charging him with his villany, and threatening him
                  with disinheritance, if, in the future, he in any way molested her who was now his
                  honored wife.
               Over that letter Philip gnashed his teeth in impotent rage; yet he dared not
                  accuse his father of the crime, the treason, by which he had won her; and that was
                  the last of their correspondence. He hated his father then as much as he had ever
                  loved him; and he could not respect him either, because he had unfairly won the
                  only woman he had ever really loved. They seldom met, and never spoke to each
                  other through those terrible years of war and blood. The alienation was indeed
                  complete.
               Generous, public-spirited, and devoted to the cause of the rebellion, Gen.
                  Atherton had offered his elegantly-furnished mansion in Richmond for the use of
                  the government; and at that time it was occupied as a hospital for officers of
                  distinction, who were sick or wounded.
               And it was here that Philip was brought after the battle,—to the home of his
                  youth, the house where he was born, and where the sister, who still loved him, had
                  preceded him, and taken up her abode.
               A few days after his arrival, strangely enough, Gen. Atherton, too, came from the
                  army near Petersburg on a hurried visit to Richmond. He came to consult with the
                  authorities, and find for them a paper of great value, that was stored in a
                  cabinet in a locked apartment of this mansion, of which he alone had the key.
               He knew nothing of the fate that had befallen Philip, supposing him to be still
                  with his division, when he entered the mansion, and went up to his room. And it
                  was only by accident, as he stood upon the platform, about to descend the stairs, that he heard the agonized
                  tones of his voice. Thoroughly aroused and startled by those well, and even now,
                  lovingly remembered tones, he stepped quickly to the door of the room from whence
                  they proceeded, opened it, and looked in. But oh, what a sight met the wretched
                  father's gaze! Upon the bed in the middle of the room, propped up by pillows, and
                  surrounded by surgeons, chaplain, and attendants, lay all that was left of his
                  once proud, handsome, and talented son,—the pride and hope of long years of his
                  early life.
               He was as pale as marble; while the black patch on his left cheek made his sunken
                  features look all the more ghastly and horrible. His great black eyes wore a
                  terribly brilliant yet frightened expression, and were roving restlessly about the
                  room, eagerly scanning every face, as if seeking for some help or hope, where none
                  was to be found; while great drops of agony, the damp of death, bedewed his pallid
                  brow. And these were the words that poured in a wild torrent from his lips, as the
                  general stood appalled upon the threshold.
               "Chaplain, you are deceiving me! I am not dying! I will not die yet! I shall live
                  to whip Theodore Hale, and those infernal Yankees who shot me. Samson slew his
                  enemies with the jaw-bone of an ass; and I swear I will mine with a wooden leg. I
                  will not be cheated of my revenge: it is all I have to live for. If they take the
                  city, we'll murder every slave we can lay our hands on!—yes, every devil of 'em,
                  and then burn it over their heads. You needn't stare at me so, all of you! I'm not
                  going to die yet, chaplain!"
               "But you must die, my dear young friend," said the chaplain tearfully. "You are,
                  in fact, dying now. Oh! let me beseech of you to cast away earthly thoughts, and
                  endeavor to make your peace with Him who is plenteous in mercy, and ready to
                  forgive all, who come to him in sincerity and truth. Oh! come to that atoning
                  Saviour"—
               "Away with such fictions!" exclaimed Philip impatiently. "If I am dying, as you
                  say, and there is such a God, it is too late for me to cringe and fawn for his
                  favor. If there is a hell, I shall go to it. But I had rather 'reign in hell than
                  serve in heaven,' if it's full of Yankees. Don't sob so, Nell,—dear Nell!" and he
                  turned to a female form that was bending over him, with the face buried in the
                  pillows, and whom the general had not before observed. "Alas!" he continued, "both
                  of us ruined, scarred, mutilated, deceived, betrayed! What have we to live for but
                  each other? Yes, dear Nell, you shall live with me. We have no one else to love:
                  we will love each other. And he who has cast us off for a fair young bride"—
               At this moment his roving eyes fell upon his father, who was standing in the
                  doorway; and, starting up with the wild, nervous energy of the dying, he reached
                  out his hand, and, pointing at him with his long, bony finger, he continued,—
               "Yes: you who have cast us off, and threatened disinheritance, may gloat over your
                  boarded treasures, and cherish the bride you have wrested from the arms of your
                  only son,—the bride who must hate and despise you for the treason by which you won
                  her. If you want to see your work, the result of your false training, here it is
                  in these poor mutilated bodies and ruined souls," and he pointed to Nell and
                  himself. "You instilled the pride that made us scorn to wed what we were doomed to
                  love, and then falsified all your teachings by wedding the poor governess yourself. You planted the
                  ambition for titles and honors, that led poor Nell to sacrifice herself to a false
                  shadow of titled greatness, that has led her on to ruin and shame. You helped to
                  plan and foster the spirit of rebellion in my heart, and those of all others
                  around you, that has plunged the country into a bloody war, and will lead us only
                  to ruin, shame, and death! You—you"— He tried to proceed, but fell back fainting,
                  and completely exhausted by the intensity of his emotions; while a spasm of
                  terrible agony swept over his pallid face.
               Stimulants were applied, and he again revived; but the spell that bound the
                  wretched father was broken. He stepped forward to the bedside, motioned the
                  attendants away, and, bending over his dying son, exclaimed in a broken, agonized
                  tone,—
               "O Philip, Philip! If I have done all this, it was ignorantly, blindly,—at least
                  that part that relates to you. I knew not that you loved her until it was too late
                  to change her destiny. I never dreamed of training you falsely, or of leading you
                  or my country to crime and ruin! Oh! can you not forgive the father who has loved
                  you always, and whose heart has been wrung by this unhappy alienation?"
               Philip looked up eagerly in his father's convulsed countenance, and his expression
                  softened. They had loved each other truly once: and, as he looked upon him now,
                  the old tide of affection rushed back to his heart; and the hardness and
                  bitterness he had treasured so long vanished.
               "Yes, father: I do forgive!" he murmured, as he feebly put up his arms, and drew
                  his father's face down to his, and kissed it; "and oh! you must forgive me now, as
                  Catharine did, for all I made her suffer. I loved her always, but was too proud to
                  marry her, if I could: so it is just to me; but oh! not to her,—not to Lloyd, who
                  was worthy of her, and whom Nell and I both deceived and wronged. We are both
                  sorry, but cannot help it now, or the retributions it has brought upon us both.
                  And, O father! you must forgive poor heart-broken Nell, who, through terrible
                  scenes of suffering, has come back to us, bereft of beauty, health, wealth,—every
                  thing but life, which must be a burden."
               Gen. Atherton raised his head, and turned with streaming eyes towards her, in
                  whose tear-stained, fire-marked, haggard face, he could hardly recognize the
                  lineaments of his once beautiful and idolized daughter. For a minute he gazed upon
                  her in astonishment: then, becoming convinced that it was indeed his child, he
                  opened his arms, and she threw herself sobbing upon his bosom, beseeching in tones
                  of anguish for his forgiveness. He could not refuse it then and there; but his
                  proud heart was wrung with the deepest grief at the sight and thought of the ruin
                  that had blighted these once brilliant and promising blossoms of his household
                  tree. And he could not help looking back with the keenest regret to the sceptical
                  and thoroughly-worldly training and example that had helped to make them what they
                  were, and led them on to ruin and death. But Gen. Atherton's views had changed
                  from what they once were. He believed now in an eternity of joy and woe. He saw
                  that Philip was dying; and, bending over him with tear-dimmed eyes, he told him
                  so, and besought him to prepare for that last great change, that was evidently
                  very near. The terrified look came back at once to Philip's eyes. He asked for the
                  chaplain, who was recalled, and at once
                  offered prayers for the dying, and tried to lead his erring soul, through
                  penitence and faith in a Redeemer, up to the Father in heaven.
               But poor Philip had lived a sceptical, godless life; and, trembling upon the brink
                  of eternity, oh, how vainly he longed for that bridge of faith, that spans two
                  worlds to the Christian believer! With his dying breath he besought Nell and his
                  father, and all around him, to seek for that better way, it was too late for him
                  to find, before they came to the dark river of death. These were his last distinct
                  words. From that time he sank into a stupor; but, before the light of another
                  morning, his soul had passed over the dark river to fathom the mysteries of
                  eternity. We will not dwell upon the deep grief of the bereaved father and sister,
                  or the pageantry of the grand military funeral; but only say that, after it was
                  over, Nell had a confidential interview with her father, and, by his advice and
                  consent, retired to Atherton Plantation; for she could not bear to see Catharine
                  or Mrs. Hunter, or face the people of Richmond, who had seen her only in the bloom
                  of her beauty. For just that reason, too, none of Philip's friends had been
                  notified of his dangerous condition; and she did not appear at the funeral.
               Poor Nell had indeed met with a dreadful retribution for all her pride and folly
                  and sin. For a time she had queened it right royally in New-Orleans society. She
                  dressed splendidly: they lived luxuriously, spent money lavishly; and both she and
                  Laroi rode upon the topmost wave of popular favor. She had given him her money;
                  and after the city was captured by the Union army, and it was nearly spent, he
                  pretended that he had been robbed by the Union troops. Being among those who
                  insulted the Union soldiers, they were obliged to leave the city to avoid arrest
                  and imprisonment. They went to Vicksburg, and from thence to Atlanta, where, for
                  two years, they lived a wretched, quarrelsome life, supported mostly by his
                  success as a gambler. On the eve of arrest for past crime, and when poor Nell was
                  near confinement, he deserted her, as he had long intended to do, taking with him
                  Jett, her pretty quadroon waiting-maid, with the best of her wardrobe and
                  jewelry.
               The shock of his desertion, and knowledge of his villany, nearly killed her. Just
                  as soon as she could walk, however, after the birth of her child, she was turned
                  into the street by a cruel landlord, to whom they were deeply indebted for board
                  and lodgings. And it was there, sitting on the curbstone, weeping over her
                  beautiful babe, that Lloyd Hunter found, succored, and sent her on her way to
                  Richmond.
               She stopped in Columbia, where she had relations, but found a cold welcome from
                  those who had met with great reverses, as well as herself, and who had also been
                  shamed by her past conduct.
               When the city was captured by the Union army, and the rebels set it on fire, by
                  burning the cotton in the streets, to prevent its falling into Union hands, she,
                  like hundreds of others, rushed out of a burning house, with her babe in her arms,
                  and fled before the advancing conflagration. Her clothes caught fire from the
                  flaming brands and tufts of burning cotton that were whirling through the air. Her
                  babe was smothered; and her own life would have been sacrificed, but for the
                  timely help of James Hooker and Harry Hale, friends and admirers of her youthful
                  days, and then officers in the Union army.
               
               As it was, she escaped only with such terrible scars, that few would now recognize
                  in her the belle and beauty of other days, whose machinations had been so fatal to
                  the peace of Catharine Hale and Lloyd Hunter.
               It came out afterwards that Laroi was a bigamist, a murderer, and a villain of the
                  deepest dye, who had no rightful claim to either title or estate.
               He was at West Indian by birth, of a French father and slave mother, and, having
                  murdered his uncle for the sake of his gold, had been obliged to fly from his
                  country. But, after he left poor Nell, he was captured, carried home, condemned,
                  and executed. And for a villain like that the proud and beautiful Nell had
                  sacrificed friends, home, beauty, wealth, and every thing that was dear to her in
                  life.
               So, humbled in spirit, and with a heart full of bitter regrets, she went back to
                  the home of her childhood to mourn and dream over Philip's early death and her own
                  blighted earthly prospects, and prepare, if she would, for those that were more
                  enduring and heavenly.
               
               We must; now return once more to Catharine, who, since her return to Richmond, had
                  been presented to the world as the Bride of the Rebel General. He would have
                  installed her at once in his elegant town mansion, with a troop of servants, but
                  for the entreaties of Mrs. Hunter, who was delighted to welcome her as a sister
                  now, and very unwilling to part with her.
               Her brother would be gone most of the time, she said; and they would all be so
                  lonely in these troublous times, that it would be far better to form one
                  household. As Catharine also favored this plan, it was so arranged, to the great
                  joy of Mrs. Hunter and her whole family.
               Catharine knew that the report of Lloyd's death had proved premature almost as
                  soon as she arrived in Richmond. But regrets were idle. She was now another man's
                  wife, and felt it to be a crime to cherish the old affection.
               All her doubts and fears, and scruples of conscience, were now laid aside. She saw
                  her duty clearly, and firmly resolved that she would be true to her marriage-vows,
                  so far as they were consistent with her duty to God and her country. Nor was she
                  wholly unhappy in their performance.
               The general had said that no one could love as really and ardently as he did her,
                  without in some sort compelling a return; and she soon began to realize this as a
                  truth. She already regarded him with respect, affection, and a high appreciation
                  of his fine though misdirected talents; and she learned at last to regard him with
                  a fonder love. With her warm, generous, and affectionate heart, her isolation from
                  all other near friends, and his constant endeavor to please and win, it could not
                  long be otherwise. She thought of Lloyd Hunter, sometimes, it is true, with pity
                  and regret; yet, for all that, she had a higher regard for Gen. Atherton than many
                  women have for the husbands of their choice; and she influenced him too, though
                  not to the extent of giving up the cause of the rebellion, which, as one of its
                  leaders, he felt himself bound by honor to support. It was a cause that her strong
                  influence at an earlier day might have prevented him from espousing, and, of the
                  success of which he was now more than doubtful. He had, it is true, overcome some
                     of the obstacles that barred his own
                  promotion, and won some distinction in the army; yet he was still regarded with
                  jealous eyes by those highest in power.
               His efforts to obtain some amelioration for the unhappy condition of the poor,
                  suffering prisoners, and the slaves at work upon the fortifications, were sneered
                  at by some, who attributed them to the influence of his disloyal Northern bride. A
                  few were still inclined to look upon her with suspicion, and, but for Mrs. Hunter,
                  might have treated her with scorn; yet, for all that, Catharine did exert an
                  influence that was the means of saving many human lives. Even those who felt
                  inclined to look down upon the plebeian Yankee governess were obliged in the end
                  to own, honor, and admire her self-denying philanthropy, and that true nobility of
                  soul she exhibited upon every occasion.
               Earlier in the war, some of these same ladies had exhibited the spirit of fiends
                  in their treatment of dead and dying Union soldiers. Now, sobered by repeated
                  bereavements, loss of wealth, and troubles of every kind, some of them were
                  wonderfully subdued in spirit, and were ready to join Catharine and Mrs. Hunter in
                  their noble work of charity and mercy.
               Soon after her return to Richmond, she succeeded in establishing a correspondence
                  with her friends, which, though under government supervision, was a great comfort
                  to her. It assured her of Theodore's escape and recovery, and of their general
                  welfare. She frequently accompanied the general in his campaigns; and furnished
                  always with abundant means, as he had promised, and every possible help, she found
                  unnumbered opportunities for performing good service, not only to the cause of
                  humanity, but also that of liberty and loyalty.
               On the battle-fields of Kentucky and Tennessee, where she was known only as the
                  wife of a rebel general, she met no such jealousy and suspicion as she had
                  sometimes encountered in Richmond, where she was better known, and was of course
                  enabled to do a far greater amount of good. Her tact, courage, and great
                  organizing and executive ability, had only to be seen to be appreciated by
                  officers and surgeons, who gave her the highest award of praise. With the ability
                  to fill the highest social positions as well as any Southern lady of them all,
                  joined to that which few of them possessed,—the power and the will to make herself
                  useful,—she was enabled to exert a controlling influence wherever she found
                  herself in the Master's vineyard.
               Able to bring order out of confusion; to oversee the cooking of large quantities
                  of palatable food and delicacies for the sick and starving; to dress grievous
                  wounds; and to comfort the sick, wounded, and dying in numberless ways,—she never
                  found time hang heavy on her hands, or lack of useful employment. The very
                  impartiality of her kindness to friends and foes had the effect of shaming those
                  who were inclined to cruelty and intolerance, and won for her a respect and
                  consideration she would not otherwise have acquired. It was the very thing that
                  gave her the power to help and benefit the poor sick and wounded Union soldiers;
                  and many a time she thanked God for the precious opportunities afforded her, that
                  she never would have had but for her marriage with the "Rebel General." She came
                  at last to feel as if it was for this that her hopes had been crossed, her plans
                  disarranged, her will subdued, and her escape from the Confederacy cut off; and
                  that her late trials and adventures had been ordained to fit her for just this work, that no one else could do as
                  well. Perhaps in this she was right. But, whether she was or not, good influences
                  surrounded her like a halo; and no one could be near her long without feeling
                  their spirit and their power, or believing there was a divine principle that
                  governed all her motives, influenced her actions, and formed the basis of her
                  character.
               And especially was this the case with her husband, who had previously despised
                  women, from the fact of seeing the exhibitions of vanity, frivolity, and the
                  spirit of coquetry and intrigue, that had characterized all with whom he had
                  previously come into close communion. For this very reason he was all the more
                  impressed by the strict moral and religious principle, the honesty, truthfulness,
                  and generosity Catharine exhibited in all the relations of life. And, however lax
                  and faulty himself, he could not help appreciating such purity of purpose and
                  sterling integrity of character as it deserved. Yet her moral greatness made him
                  feel his own selfish littleness and short-comings in the comparison, until the
                  strongest desire of his heart was, that he might become worthy of so noble a wife.
                  His scepticism, too, was constantly rebuked by her undoubting faith and perfect
                  trust in God. And God's love to man, and the way of salvation through his Son, was
                  made so plain to him at last by her eloquent lips, that he could not help
                  believing what had all his life before been a scorned as well as a sealed book to
                  him. He had been a nominal Christian before, had been baptized in infancy, and
                  always read prayers in church: now he became truly penitent and believing, and
                  seemed to be a Christian in reality.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               CATHARINE'S MISSION.—THE REBEL GENERAL'S DEATH.
               
                  AND thus it was that Catharine had fulfilled her mission to the
                  "Rebel General."
               She had made two years of his life as happy as they could be, alienated from his
                  children, and in the midst of such scenes of excitement and suffering. She had
                  convinced him at heart of the sin and folly and madness of his disloyalty to the
                  government, and the utter hopelessness of the cause of the rebellion, though too
                  late for his own interest, or that of his suffering country. She had, by her noble
                  example, led him to believe in the possibility of virtue, purity, and truth in the
                  heart of woman. And above all, and what was of more consequence to him now than
                  all the rest, she had led him from a state of doubt, darkness, and infidelity, up
                  to light and faith and trust in God in this life, and a faint and trembling hope
                  in his forgiveness and mercy in the world to come. She was the good angel, it may
                  be, sent by the Father of mercies to reclaim and prepare a man of great
                  capabilities but misdirected talents for the last great change that was awaiting
                  him on earth, and a happier home beyond the grave. We may say that he was unworthy
                  of so noble a wife, and that he deserved severe punishment as one of the contrivers of the rebellion; but who
                  but He who reads all hearts shall say who is worthy, and who is not, or set bounds
                  to his goodness, mercy, and love?
               Gen. Atherton, who at that time had been summoned to Virginia, and was stationed
                  near Petersburg, had returned from the camp very much disheartened by the dubious
                  prospects of the Confederacy, and with his mind overshadowed by the cloud of
                  coming defeat,—which he saw in the distant horizon a great deal larger than a
                  man's hand.
               He had for some time been subject to serious bilious diseases; and, ill in body
                  and troubled in mind, Philip's sudden and shocking death was all that was needed
                  to prostrate him completely.
               Dr. Huntley was sent for immediately after the funeral; but he could do him no
                  good. He called in counsel; but they could do nothing to arrest the progress of
                  the painful disease that soon sapped the foundations of life. He knew very soon
                  that he was doomed, and held interviews with government officers, and did all he
                  could to bring peace to the country, and prepare for that better land, where it is
                  to be hoped all wars and fightings and rebellions are over.
               Catharine, though ill herself, and wholly unfitted for such a scene, with Mrs.
                  Hunter, watched over him with the tenderest solicitude, and, when they knew that
                  he must die, were overwhelmed with the keenest anguish. Once she would have been
                  perfectly resigned to such a dispensation. Now she could not bear the thought of a
                  bereavement that was to leave her desolate at a time, when, more than ever before,
                  she needed a consoler and comforter.
               He realized her trouble and his own danger full well; and between the paroxysms of
                  pain, toward the last, tried to fortify and prepare her mind for what was to come.
                  At intervals, when the pain was beyond human endurance, his mind wandered; and he
                  would talk incoherently: then again it would come back to a keener perception of
                  the realities that surrounded him.
               "Catharine," he exclaimed in one of these lucid intervals, "do you indeed regret
                  this bitter, bitter parting? Alas! how little reason have I given you to do so
                  first and last! And oh, how much to rejoice in the freedom it will give you to
                  contract other and happier ties!"
               "God knows I want no such freedom," said Catharine with a bitter sob; "though it
                  is true that I did before I learned to love you. Now I want you to live,—to be
                  with me through this great trial,—to be my guide and protector through all my
                  future life."
               "O my darling! it breaks my heart to know that this cannot be; yet your love is
                  the only strong tie that binds me to earth. I have proved the vanity of all other
                  earthly things. Ambition, fame, wealth, parental love and pride, have each in turn
                  lured, blinded, and then eluded my grasp, and pierced my heart with the keenest
                  anguish, until I lived only in my love for you, and the unborn hope you were
                  bringing to my longing heart. But I shall not live to see its fruition: I have
                  sinned too deeply in the past to be permitted to do that. Alas for poor Philip and
                  Nell, ruined by my towering pride, my fond parental indulgence, and godless
                  example! Will they rise up to testify against me in the judgment? God grant their
                  souls may not be lost through my means! And yet how I loved, how I worshipped
                  them! How proud I was of their beauty and talents! I made them my idols; so they
                  were cast down into the dust. I have
                  made you another; so I must leave you. It is only through God's mercy and a
                  Saviour's love that I can hope to escape future retribution for all that I have
                  done. And for this trembling hope, dear Catharine, which I should not have had in
                  this dread hour but for you, I owe you more than words can express. Oh! forgive
                  and be kind to poor penitent, suffering Nell, and try and teach her, too, the way
                  to heaven, to immortal life, and true glory. Nothing else will support us in the
                  trying hour of death."
               Nell, who had been sent for as soon as it was known that her father was in danger,
                  arrived, and came into the room just in time to bear those words referring to
                  herself. With her dormant fraternal and filial love preternaturally excited by
                  Philip's death, and her father's danger, she rushed forward, threw her, arms
                  around her dying father, and burst into a passion of tears.
               He did not weep but kissed and tenderly caressed her, murmuring, "Poor, poor Nell!
                  scarred, bereaved, ruined, and deserted by a villain! And oh! it was partly my
                  work,—my own false training; for which I hope God will forgive me, even as we have
                  forgiven each other. And will not you forgive her, too, my Catharine,—you whom we
                  have all so deeply wronged?" and he looked up at her beseechingly.
               Nell, too, looked up with streaming eyes into Catharine's agonized face; and she
                  held out her arms, and received the trembling penitent in a loving embrace,—her
                  who for long years had been her bitterest enemy.
               And thus, by the dying-bed of the husband and father, that enmity was laid forever
                  at rest.
               From this time the general sunk into a perturbed slumber that lasted several
                  hours, during which Catharine arine was persuaded to try to get a little rest.
                  Towards mid-night he awoke, and called for her. She was recalled; and he knew her
                  at once, though he seemed to recognize no one else. He put up his feeble arms,
                  drew her down to him, and kissed her tenderly, as he said in a low, broken tone,
                  "I know: it is hard to meet it—alone—surrounded by the burning—city—by the roar of
                  artillery, and the shrieks and groans of the dying,—beset with pain and
                  grief,—sorrow and danger! Yes: it is very hard and bitter! But courage, darling:
                  your mission is a noble one. God is with you: the Saviour bears you in his arms;
                  and there is light and glory at the end. They despised you once. You were found
                  worthier than them all! And through you, daughter of our foes, a noble name—two
                  noble names—will alone be transmitted to future generations—a long and glorious
                  line,—sons of God, benefactors of the race, rulers of nations! A desolated land
                  lies before you, overwhelmed with ignorance, darkness, and woe! You leave a
                  shining track behind you, full of light and knowledge and happiness, with glory
                  immortal at the end of life's journey! Isn't that something worth living for, my
                  darling,—immortal life, glory everlasting?"
               Then, turning away from her, with his wild eyes fixed on vacancy, he continued in
                  a louder and stronger tone, "We shall scarcely find it, general! If we do, it is
                  by God's mercy only; for we fought only for ambition and earthly glory. Jackson
                  gets both! He thought our cause just: we did not; so he gets both,—earthly fame,
                  immortal glory! Don't you remember how we used to laugh at his awkwardness? Now
                  how he towers above us all! We get curses here, if we don't there; and no wonder. For just look at them,—hundreds,
                  thousands, tens of thousands, writhing in agony, bleeding, groaning, dying, in
                  horrible tortures! A whole land desolated! Cities in flames! The air filled with
                  shrieks and groans of anguish. Heavens! what a fearful spectacle!" and he looked
                  off with wild, distended eyes into that space his disordered fancy peopled with
                  the wretched victims of that fatal ambition and lust of power that had led to all
                  the horrors of civil war.
               For a while he lay still, gazing breathlessly upon the awful vision. Then he
                  started up suddenly; and it was as much as they could do to hold him, through the
                  excitement of a bloody battle.
               The advance of large bodies, of the enemy, the charging of squadrons, the roar of
                  artillery, the order of battle, the words of command to his officers, the shouts
                  of onset, the wild excitement of a terrible conflict,—repulse, retreat, and
                  rout,—were all enacted over again, and described in such vivid coloring as to
                  excite the wonder and astonishment of all around him.
               When this was over, he again lay still for a while: then roused up, and began an
                  eager conference with some of the most distinguished rebel generals; and
                  questioned and replied to Johnson and Lee, Hill and Pickett, Longstreet and Early,
                  in such a way as to reveal the late tenor of his own thoughts, as well as that of
                  their 
                     prvate
                     private
                   conferences.
               "I tell you," he exclaimed at last, "that our cause is hopeless, our rebellion is
                  played out! Our chief magistrate has proved himself wholly insufficient for so
                  lofty a station. By his miserable favoritism, ignorance of details, general
                  mismanagement, and jealousy of nobler men than himself, he is causing the downfall
                  of what might have been one of the grandest empires on the globe. If you or I had
                  been at the head of affairs, it would have been different: then victory would have
                  perched upon our banners. Now we shall have the shame of defeat. You cannot see
                  it! Where are your eyes, general? Have you forgotten that Sherman is sweeping
                  through the South like a tornado; that Grant surrounds us with his brave veteran
                  troops on every side; that our network of railroads and sources of supply are cut
                  off in every direction; that our army and the whole people are in rags, and many
                  of them starving; and, worse than all, that slavery, for the right to secure and
                  spread which we have so madly contended, has proved the broken reed which has
                  pierced our hearts, and sapped the life of the Confederacy? Can it be that it is,
                  God's hand that has done it, as a retribution for the wrongs we have inflicted
                  upon that accursed race?" he continued in a low, fearful voice.
               He had previously spoken in a loud, vehement tone, and with great rapidity of
                  utterance; and now seemed wholly exhausted by the terrible mental conflict.
               He never rallied again, except to utter disconnected words: yet his thoughts
                  seemed to have gone back to happier scenes; and Catharine's name, in low,
                  thrilling tones, was the last word that fell from his stiffening lips. His end was
                  so peaceful at last, that they scarcely knew when the darkened spirit left its
                  clay tenement, and the long agony was over.
               We will not dwell upon the grief of the survivors or the pageantry of the funeral,
                  which was too frequent a thing in those days to make more than a ripple upon the
                  current of the common affairs of life.
               
               For Richmond was at that time environed by contending armies; and events of
                  greater importance were of daily occurrence. Communications were being cut off in
                  every direction; and the danger was growing more imminent every day.
               Though seeming to make little progress to Northern eyes at that time, the loyal
                  leaders were striking fearful blows at the heart and life of the Confederacy; and
                  the rebel leaders knew well enough by this time, that some providential
                  interference alone could save them from utter defeat and ruin.
               But Divine Providence did not see fit to interpose in the cause of the oppressor,
                  but rather in that of the oppressed; so in the early April days fell the hardest
                  blow of all,—the capture of the South-side Railroad. This, their last hope, line
                  of communication, and source of supply, made retreat, capture, or starvation
                  inevitable. This sealed the doom of Petersburg and Richmond, and made their
                  capture inevitable.
               Seeing that all was lost, for which they had so long contended, the rebel leaders
                  ordered both cities evacuated, and attempted to escape, hoping to make a more
                  successful stand in the South-west.
               All this, with the fact that they were pursued, overtaken, and, after a brave,
                  most heroic, but useless resistance, captured, and that the lives their leaders
                  had forfeited by their treason were magnanimously spared by our government, is now
                  a matter of history.
               But it is not a matter of history, so we will here record it for the benefit of
                  future generations, that, in the midst of all the panic and turmoil consequent
                  upon the evacuation of Richmond, Catharine, our poor sorrowing heroine, gave birth
                  to the son of whom his father in his delirium predicted so noble a line. The shock
                  of her husband's death but a few weeks before had been a severe blow to her at
                  such a time; and this, superadded to other causes, had nearly cost her her
                  life.
               Scarcely was the first danger over, however, before it was known that the city was
                  in flames. With a madness similar to that which possessed the rebel leaders in
                  Columbia, the authorities here set fire to the city to prevent the tobacco and
                  other stores from falling into the hands of the Union army.
               When that loyal army did enter the city, they were received by the dark race whom
                  their blood and toil had redeemed from chains and stripes and all the horrors of
                  slavery, with the most enthusiastic demonstrations of joy. But their kind and
                  considerate treatment of the whites who remained was regarded with wonder and
                  astonishment. Their leaders had led them to expect the most shocking barbarities;
                  and they looked for nothing better from the hated Yankees than murder, rapine, and
                  plunder. The real thieves and murderers who did pursue their fiendish work,
                  committing outrages upon those unable to escape their rapacity, were the
                  stragglers from their own disorganized rebel army. As in Columbia, so now in
                  Richmond, the victors were obliged to go to work at once to extinguish the flames
                  the maddened rebel leaders had set in the homes of their own people; but for their
                  almost superhuman exertions the whole city would have been reduced to ashes.
               And while the billowy flames were roaring, and the walls crumbling, and the
                  chimneys tottering, and the people shouting, screaming, and rushing wildly though
                  the streets, poor Catharine lay faint, weak, and trembling with excitement, in her
                  darkened chamber, half suffocated by the
                  smoky air; though the house was at some distance from the real scene of the
                  wide-spread conflagration.
               Listening nervously, as she had been for hours, to the explosions of gunboats and
                  magazines, set on fire by rebel authority; to the measured tramp of many feet, the
                  shrill tones of numerous high-pitched voices, and the distant roar of the
                  flames,—it was no wonder if she was nearly distracted, and at last begged Mrs.
                  Hunter to go out and see what it all meant. To her astonishment, when she
                  descended the stairs, Mrs. Hunter found that children, servants, even to Aunt
                  Dinah,—everybody in the house in fact but little Effie,—had gone out to join in
                  the general jubilee of terror as well as rejoicing. Alarmed at once for the safety
                  of her children, she took the child up to stay with poor Catharine and the wee
                  baby, and hurried down stairs, and out upon the street, to look in considerable
                  alarm for her scattered family.
               After wondering over and kissing the baby, which she now delightedly saw for the
                  first time, Effie placed herself, at Catharine's request, at a front window to
                  report the progress of affairs in the street.
               She did this for some time without thinking much of the fire in the distance. All
                  at once she was startled by a torrent of smoke that came drifting around the
                  corner from the sheds and stables in the rear, which, unfortunately, were all
                  connected with the mansion.
               Child as she was, she suspected the truth, and, with a rare instinct, felt that a
                  knowledge of it would alarm and harm her sick mistress, whom she almost
                  worshipped.
               So, rising, and saying she must go down a minute, she ran out, and through the
                  upper hall to a back window.
                  
                     The child ran shouting at the top of her voice, "Oh, come! come quick: de
                        shed all burn to blazes and de house go next," &c. Page 395.
                   Sure enough, there were the flames just rising from the roof of the
                  shed, where they had caught from some of the sparks or flaming brands that were
                  beginning to fill the air in every direction. She knew that Mrs. Hunter had locked
                  or bolted all the doors; but, frightened half out of her senses, she ran down the
                  stairs, unfastened one of the low front windows, opened it, jumped out, and ran
                  into the street. A party of Union soldiery, it so happened, had just halted from
                  some cause in front of the mansion; and to these the child ran, shouting at the
                  top of her voice,—
               "Oh, come! come quick! de shed all burn to blazes; an' de house go next, wid de
                  dear sick missis an' de leetle mite of a baby. Oh, come, quick, quick!"
               And Catharine, wondering at the child's conduct, and listening intently, heard
                  that startling cry. The Union officers meantime, ever ready to attend to the calls
                  of humanity, instantly dismounted, threw their bridles to their attendants, and
                  entered the yard, where they found there was really serious cause for alarm; and
                  also that it was a matter of great importance to arrest the progress of the
                  conflagration in this new locality, which was one of the finest portions of the
                  city.
               So the most suitable men were summoned, and went to work with a will; and though
                  for some little time it seemed impossible to save the dwelling, it was done at
                  last by tearing down the connecting buildings. When the danger seemed most
                  imminent, the little humpbacked girl, who was watching them, ran to him who seemed
                  to be the leader of the party, exclaiming with uplifted hands and streaming
                  eyes,—
               "Oh! oh! it'll all burn up, with poor sick missus, an' de leetle baby, an' de
                  pretty dresses, an' ebery ting."
               
               "Are they here,—in this house?" he asked, with his interest strongly excited.
               "Oh, yes! up de stair. I'll show massa de way."
               So she took him around through the open window, parlor, and hall, and up the front
                  staircase. On the landing, at the top of the stairs, the young officer was met by
                  an apparition that startled and surprised him. It was Catharine in her white
                  night-dress, with her babe in her arms, who, supposing herself alone in the
                  burning dwelling, had forgotten her weakness in her extreme terror, and, crawling
                  from the bed, was feebly trying to make her escape. She stopped short at the sight
                  of a man in loyal uniform ascending the stairs, looked eagerly in his face for a
                  moment, murmured Theodore's name, and fell forward fainting in his arms. The
                  precious babe dropped from her nerveless grasp, but was caught by little watchful
                  Effie before it struck the floor. Theodore himself came near losing his balance,
                  and falling down the stairs, he was so shocked and overcome by this strange and
                  unexpected meeting: but he recovered in a moment; and, following the child into
                  Catharine's chamber, he laid her upon the bed, where she soon regained her
                  consciousness. The arrival of Mrs. Hunter just then was warmly welcomed. She had
                  found Aunt Dinah and the children, and brought them home, only to find, that, but
                  for the Union soldiers, they would have found no home to receive them. Catharine
                  was soon restored, without in the end sustaining serious injury. The meeting with
                  Theodore, and the news he brought from home, was like a cordial to her fainting
                  spirit.
               Mrs. Hunter was obliged to confess her past injustice to those who treated the
                  people of Richmond so forbearingly. When the great and good President visited it a
                  few days afterwards, she was glad to welcome him whom she had once bitterly
                  denounced, and to mourn for him, too, with a whole restored nation, when, a few
                  days later still, he was cruelly murdered. This seemed a strange consummation of
                  the horrors of a bloody civil war, to come as it did in the hour of victory, like
                  a black cloud that overshadows the brightness of a glorious day.
               He alone who knows the end from the beginning could tell why this great affliction
                  was sent upon our distracted country then,—perhaps that the glorious martyr's
                  death should be the means of healing some of its sectional and party bitterness.
                  The rebellion was now virtually over; and, after a few more struggles, peace was
                  restored to our bereaved and desolated country.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               GOING HOME.—THE FIRST LOVE AT LAST.
               
                  JUST as soon as Catharine was able to travel, and Theodore could
                  obtain a furlough, they made the journey home, where they were welcomed by the
                  dear mother and sister with open arms and warm, loving hearts, that found abundant
                  room for the beautiful little black-eyed stranger, who bore the name of Edward
                  Atherton.
               Harry, pale, emaciated, and just recovering from sickness and a severe wound, had
                  arrived a few days before them; so the joy of the meeting was as complete as it
                  could be, after all their strange and terrible experiences.
               Yet they had all grown much more than four years older in feeling since they
                  parted; and the dear, patient mother's head had visibly whitened by her long and
                  sometimes agonizing suspense regarding the children of her love. Dr. Morven, who
                  was now a physician of large practice, beloved and respected by the whole
                  community, had gone to live with Mrs. Hale; and little Jessie, as they used to
                  call her, with her head, heart, and hands full of her husband, two beautiful
                  children, and domestic matters generally, seemed perfectly happy and contented
                  with her surroundings.
               "You have not told me yet how you came by the wound that occasions your lameness,"
                  said Catharine to Harry a few days after their return. "It must be a great
                  affliction to an active young fellow like you."
               "Yes: it is so;" and Harry's smiling face sobered in an instant. "Yet I have so
                  much reason to thank God that it is no worse, that I scarcely mind it most of the
                  time. You see, after I escaped from Manassas, where I met with you, I was sent
                  West and South, and finally, with Sherman's loyal army, made that famous march to
                  the sea. First and last, I passed through a score of battles and sieges unscathed,
                  until we got to that miserable little village of Bentonville last March. There, in
                  a hotly-contested battle with Joe Johnston's army, I was shot through,—just below
                  the knee. Our regiment just then met with a sharp repulse, and were obliged to
                  turn and retreat before the rebel squadrons. In their hot haste, they could not
                  stop to pick me up; so I was left to the mercy of the enemy. After lying for hours
                  in the hot sunshine and night-dew, I was picked up and taken to a rebel
                  field-hospital; and there, but for Lloyd Hunter, I should no doubt have lost, not
                  only my limb, but my life."
               "Lloyd Hunter!" echoed Catharine in surprise.
               "Yes: Lloyd Hunter, who, though he recognized me only as a suffering human being,
                  kindly interposed to save me from the barbarity of an ignorant and savage rebel
                  surgeon, who, in spite of my piteous pleading, was, it seemed, almost in sport,
                  about to apply the knife and saw to my quivering limb. Though not a regular
                  surgeon, Lloyd, it seemed, had attained to wondrous skill and great reputation in
                  the rebel army,—so much indeed as to make his word a law; and his humanity and
                  piety were quite as proverbial as his skill. He decided, that in my case
                  amputation was unnecessary, dressed my
                  wound himself, and afterwards, when he found me out, treated me in the kindest
                  manner. And for that I owe him unspeakable obligations, as I think do hundreds of
                  other Union soldiers, who came within the sphere of his influence. His heart, I am
                  sure, was not in the rebellion; and he worked day and night to ameliorate as far
                  as possible the suffering caused by it."
               "But how did you escape at last?" said Catharine, with a mental backward glance
                  and her eyes filling with tears, as she remembered their last parting in Richmond,
                  and the earnestness of her appeal to Lloyd to do this very work that had
                  undoubtedly been the means of saving her brother's life. Was not that, too, one of
                  the rewards of her self-sacrifice? How many streams of beneficence sometimes flow
                  from one unselfish act, word, or thought!
               "I remained with the rebels until the surrender of Johnston's army," said Harry in
                  reply to her question, "when, I assure you, I was very glad to be surrendered
                  myself, and sent home."
               Harry had always liked Lloyd Hunter, and knew well enough how Catharine had
                  regarded him in the past; and he was not sorry to see that his name had still the
                  power to awaken some of the old emotion in her heart; for not only Harry, but the
                  whole family, in their active loyalty, had felt indignant at Catharine for
                  marrying the "old Rebel General," as he called him,—supposing, of course, that she
                  had done it from motives of ambition, and the desire for wealth and power.
               She would not undeceive them in his lifetime for a good many reasons; but now,
                  when she heard the feeling plainly expressed, she felt as if it were due to
                  herself, once for all, to explain the facts to her own family. Yet for the honor
                  of the name she bore,—her child's,—and the memory of him, who, for love of her,
                  had committed such treason, they were not to reveal it to other. So, in saddened
                  tones, and with many tender memories, she told them the story of her wedded life.
                  And then indeed they were all deeply affected by the knowledge of the price she
                  had paid for Harry's life, and all she had suffered on account of it,—and Harry
                  more than all the rest, who begged her forgiveness for his harsh judgment.
               And when they heard of all Gen. Atherton's after kindness,—his sincere penitence
                  and deep sorrow for his part in bringing about the rebellion, his late efforts to
                  bring peace to his distracted country, and of all his really noble qualities of
                  head and heart,—they were ready to forgive him. And they felt, too, as Catharine
                  did, as if God's hand were really guiding her through it all, that she might
                  become a blessing to hundreds.
               Her visit to the old home was eminently satisfactory to the whole family, who
                  enjoyed every moment of that precious reunion; for each one had a separate
                  history, that would have filled volumes, in all those bloody years, that must be
                  rehearsed for the benefit of the others. And each heart became more endeared to
                  the others by this close communion and mutual sympathy. But every thing in life
                  must have an end; and so did this memorable visit: for it was necessary for
                  Catharine to return to Richmond to settle up her husband's affairs, and look after
                  the poor dependants upon his estates, who now, though free, in their ignorance and
                  darkness, needed some one to instruct and guide them, until they had learned the
                  art of taking care of themselves. So, taking Theodore with her to look after her
                  affairs, Catharine bade her friends adieu, and set out for Richmond.
               
               They stopped a few days in Washington, where Theodore had business connected with
                  the army; and while there they also visited Grace and Helen Tremont, who, since
                  the death of their father in a rebel prison, had made that city their home. But
                  they were now anxious to return to Richmond, and look after the relics of their
                  once large fortune; so they accepted Catharine's invitation to join her party.
               One evening, while they were in Washington, they went, for a diversion, to one of
                  President Johnson's levees. For some time they wandered through the gorgeous
                  rooms, considerably amused by watching the indiscriminate crowd of people who on
                  such occasions throng the executive mansion, sunning themselves for a moment in
                  the beams that ever like a halo surround the heads of those in power, at least to
                  some admiring eyes. They had shaken hands with the presidential party, and were on
                  the retreat,—Theodore and Grace in the advance, and Catharine and Helen in the
                  rear,—when all at once Catharine felt a hand firmly laid upon her shoulder.
               She turned back angrily to see who had taken such an unwarrantable liberty, and
                  was confronted by a face close up to her own, which though it made her start, she
                  did not at first recognize. But there was no mistaking the voice that exclaimed a
                  moment later,—
               "Why, how d'ye du, Miss Kate? I'm darned glad to see ye. Where in the world did ye
                  come from, any way? Come, let me introduce ye to my wife;" and, with his long,
                  yellow finger, he pointed admiringly to a prematurely-faded yet still fine-looking
                  woman, elegantly dressed, and blazing with jewels, whose casual yet scornful
                  glance at him at that moment plainly announced nounced the degree of estimation in
                  which she held him. Her extravagant style of dress, too, clearly indicated the
                  reason why she, a deserted and disappointed belle, had married him,—for the sake
                  of his ill-gotten millions.
               But millions could not hide his innate vulgarity, or teach him the decencies of
                  life, or the manners of respectable society. Catharine tried to rebuke, and get
                  rid of him, by turning silently away,—as if she did not recognize him; but it was
                  of no use.
               "Ah, I see!" he continued with a wicked leer of those little malignant grave eyes
                  she remembered so well,—"top-lofty as ever! I always liked it, though: it made you
                  look so handsome and queenly. I always had a fancy for queens. It was jest the
                  reason I married that gal yonder,—'cause she looked so much like ye. But she's
                  proud as Lucifer and ugly as sin," he whispered confidentially, as he kept close
                  to Catharine's side as she moved along. "You see," he continued, "that I know all
                  about ye still, Mistress Catharine. I know you've got rid of that darned old rebel
                  general; and, if I was only a widower now—by golly, I'd be steppin' up tu ye!"
               "Do you mean to insult me, sir?" exclaimed Catharine with a withering look of
                  contempt. "I have no desire now or ever, Mr. Sweep, for your further
                  acquaintance;" and she swept by him like a queen indeed, caught Theodore's arm,
                  and was soon out of the reach of his impudence and importunity.
               Sweep had indeed gathered his millions; but he had also caught a Tartar, who
                  despised him, would spend his money in careless extravagance, and harass and
                  torment his whole future life.
               Catharine re-opened the old Atherton mansion soon after her return to Richmond; and Nell, who, since
                  her father's death had remained on the old plantation, was invited to make it her
                  home once more. She seemed grateful for the invitation, accepted it at once; and
                  all her old stiffness and acrimony were soon swept away by Catharine's kindness
                  and forgiving love. They met, not as mother and daughter, however, but more like
                  long-estranged sisters; united by the tie of that beautiful child, the first sight
                  of whom brought back the bitter memory of her own to Nell's bereaved heart, as
                  well as that of the lost father and brother it so strongly resembled.
               That memory was indeed a blessed one to poor storm-tossed, life-wrecked Nell
                  Atherton; and it bore blessed fruits in a fervent love for the child that had come
                  to fill the places of the dead in more than one bereaved and mourning heart, and
                  to bear the name of a proud race to future generations.
               The change in Nell was indeed as wonderful as it was unlooked for. Her old proud,
                  intriguing spirit had been bowed to the dust in shame and humiliation. And in her
                  wretchedness, misery, and deep regret for all the sins of her past life, she had
                  sought, and felt as if she had found, forgiveness through a Saviour's love, and
                  obtained that glorious hope for the future, that can alone make the thought of a
                  blasted and disappointed life endurable.
               And not only had the deformities of the soul been healed, but also those of the
                  countenance; from which the scars had mostly been erased by the hearing hand of
                  Time. So, with little of the old pride and arrogance left, she retained much of
                  the old beauty, that ever and always commands attention and admiration.
               Soon after their return to Richmond, Catharine and Theodore had a call from Col.
                  James Hooker, one of their friends and near neighbors in early life: and Nell, who
                  happened to be present, proved her power by renewing the passion with which she
                  had inspired him while at school at the North in youth's bright and glorious
                  morning.
               She had fascinated, bewitched, and flirted with him then, though considering him
                  her inferior; but now, when she herself felt as if he was her superior, he
                  succeeded in inspiring her with a nobler and truer affection.
               Catharine at first felt some anxiety regarding his attentions, because he had
                  helped to save her from the fire in Columbia, and knew her past history. Knowing
                  it, and a good many of her faults besides, she thought he would be unwilling to
                  marry her. But she was mistaken. He had loved her always, and was for that reason
                  willing to overlook the past, and make her his wife. There were Southern men too,
                  old admirers of hers, who would have been glad to retrieve their fallen fortunes
                  by marrying her; but, in spite of her former treasonable proclivities, she now
                  preferred an energetic, intelligent, Northern business-man to a dilapidated
                  Southern gentleman. All who knew the man considered her fortunate indeed, and felt
                  as if he were far too good and worthy for the lady of his choice.
               Theodore and Grace Tremont, who had also treasured a fond regard for each other
                  since their early school-days, and who had met several times during the war, were
                  to be married at Christmas. Mrs. Hunter, with her old hospitable spirit, had
                  insisted on making the wedding: so now she contrived at the same time to marry off two nieces instead of one;
                  though the melancholy state of the country made a great display unadvisable.
               So, when the time arrived, the double-wedding came off privately; only the
                  particular friends and relatives of the families being present. Uncle Nick, who
                  was home once more, and Aunt Dinah, were particularly resplendent upon the great
                  occasion; and Nick especially, who had loved little Grace always, and who, after
                  saving Theodore's life, had become strongly attached to him, shed real tears of
                  joy as he pronounced his blessing upon the union. Lloyd, too, was there, and met
                  Catharine for the first time since their sad and hopeless parting. Both had
                  dreaded yet perhaps desired this meeting; yet, knowing nothing of each other's
                  present feelings, had felt some anxiety regarding the manner of their future
                  intercourse.
               There was some embarrassment at first; but, before the evening was over, they
                  found themselves talking quietly together regarding the events of the war, and
                  finally of some of their plans for the future.
               He had, it seemed, since peace was declared, been trying to gather the people upon
                  the old plantation at Hunter Hills, and his own near Richmond, to instruct them in
                  their duties to God, each other, and their late masters; to establish schools
                  among them, and teach them how to live so as to be self-dependent in this life,
                  and prepared for that which was to come. His whole heart seemed to be in the work;
                  which was one in which he had her entire sympathy, and one too, which, by Harry's
                  help, she was already planning to put in operation upon Atherton Plantation.
               The meeting between Nell and Lloyd was very embarrassing barrassing, as well it
                  might be: but she was used to disagreeable contretemps; and he was so glad, through all his troubles, that she
                  had not chosen to marry him, that both soon recovered their equanimity.
               Upon the whole, the wedding was a very pleasant affair, and, as is often the case,
                  the means of bringing about another a few months later between Harry Hale and
                  Helen Tremont. As she and Grace had inherited considerable wealth, some of her
                  Southern friends tried to interfere to prevent, as they said, her sacrificing
                  herself to a poor limping Yankee lover. But neither their persuasions, Harry's
                  poverty, nor the surgeon's fiat of "lame for life" could in the least destroy the
                  affection she had conceived for him, or her faith in his inherent nobleness. So in
                  the early springtime she married him; and poor Harry did not seem at all
                  displeased about it. And afterwards, when Theodore and Grace, and Mrs. Hale and
                  Jessie, had gone back to the North, she and Harry settled down upon the old
                  Tremont plantation.
               Catharine had calculated so much upon having Harry to manage her estate, that she
                  was a good deal disappointed by this new arrangement, even though she rejoiced in
                  their happiness. Yet she found, after her return to Atherton plantation, that she
                  had some capacity for farming, as well as several other avocations.
               The work was performed as well indeed as it could be done by the wretched
                  remainder of the people, who once belonged to the estate, with all she was able to
                  gather from the surrounding country. They had, it is true, run wild with their
                  vague, unreal ideas of freedom; and it took some time to initiate them into the
                  true idea of earning their living by paid labor. But she understood the case much
                  better than they; was very patient with
                  their shortcomings, and very soon they began to see the wisdom of the plan, that
                  so easily procured subsistence for their starving families. Nor was it long before
                  they almost worshipped her who had led them so wisely, knowing it was for their
                  own best good.
               She established a school and Sabbath school, in which grateful little Effie, whom
                  she had taught to read, and a young lady of the neighborhood who had been left
                  homeless and destitute by the war, proved valuable assistants. She also cultivated
                  the acquaintance of her neighbors, and especially of the poor whites, who were
                  very destitute, whom she assisted physically, mentally, and morally, to the
                  extent; of her power. So you see, the old idea of trying to do good had not left
                  our heroine yet, nor will it probably to the end of her useful life.
               So busy had she been, and so much had she found to do, that Catharine hardly
                  realized that summer was over, until one fine September morning, when she received
                  an unexpected call from Lloyd Hunter. When the slightly-embarrassed greetings were
                  over, he said he had called to announce the fact that his mother, with her family,
                  had returned from the Springs, where they had spent most of the summer, and Walter
                  had grown better every day; and, that they might be expected upon the morrow at
                  Atherton Plantation.
               "Well, I shall be delighted to see them all," said Catharine with a glad look;
                  "and will not you also remain with us, and add to the pleasure of the visit?"
               "I should be most happy to do so, but cannot spare the time. You know, that, like
                  yourself, I am trying my hand at farming; and that, with a little unavoidable
                  surgery, gives me plenty of occupation."
               They talked of his plans a while, and then turned to other subjects,—the weather,
                  the crops, the political aspects of the country, her school, her improvements, and
                  at last her baby, who, just beginning to walk at that moment, followed by Effie,
                  came toddling into the room. He looked shyly at Lloyd at first, and ran to his
                  mother; but, before a half-hour was over, he had sidled up to him, climbed upon
                  his knee, and seemed very much inclined to make his acquaintance by laughing,
                  crowing, and pulling his hair and whiskers.
               "He is getting too rude. Pray put him down, Mr. Hunter: I never saw him so
                  familiar with a stranger," said his mother, coloring with vexation at the child's
                  conduct. "Here, Effie, take him out for a walk."
               "He seems to have uncommon sense and penetration," said Lloyd, smiling, as he
                  surrendered the child to his little nurse. "He has discovered that I am not a
                  stranger, but a friend,—or at least ought to be. He seems willing to accept me as
                  one; will not you?"
               "Certainly. I hope we shall never be any thing else."
               "But I hope for something else, dear Catharine,—a tie that is nearer and dearer.
                  Is it in vain for me to think of it?" said he earnestly.
               "You cannot really wish it, after all I have gone through," said Catharine in
                  surprise.
               "But I do wish for it, hope for it, pray for it. Oh! you do not know how I long
                  for your presence, your help, your sympathy. I live on, it is true, and do the
                  best I can. But life is cheerless, joyless, and incomplete without that sweet
                  communion of soul you alone can bring to me,—you, who of all the women in the
                  world I still love."
               
               Catharine was deeply affected by this avowal, which touched a responsive chord in
                  her soul; yet after a few moments' silence,, during which she was trying to
                  command her feelings, she said in a tremulous tone,—
               "Lloyd, I owe it to your truth and love and constancy to own that you are still
                  dear to me. Yet I have little faith, as a general thing, in the happiness of
                  second marriages, and especially those of widows with children, and young men,
                  who, like you, have wealth, talents, and every advantage that could win for them a
                  choice of the youngest and fairest. The world, too, always sneers at such
                  marriages, and talks of the artful, scheming widow, who has entrapped that fine
                  young man by her intrigues."
               "But, Catharine, though a widow, you are not a scheming one; and certainly you
                  have never sought to entrap, but rather repelled me."
               "They would believe it none the less."
               "I care not what they believe, if you will only become my wife, dear
                  Catharine,—the sharer of my destiny."
               "It is not wholly the world's opinion that I care for," said Catharine with a
                  troubled look. "I also care for your happiness, which I do not believe would be
                  increased by such a union. The memory of our early love may be very sweet to us
                  both: yet I have known other loves since then; so we are no longer equals. I have
                  lived much faster than you: I am older than you in thought and feeling, physically
                  and mentally. You are still young, having had none of my sad experiences; and, if
                  you wish to marry, you can have a choice of youth, beauty, and fortune."
               "I do not wish it if I could. I am four years your senior; so I am older than you
                  in years, if not in experience rience. But, whether young or old, it is you alone
                  I love, and no one else in this world, can, or ever will, fill your place to me. I
                  could wish indeed that you had never been another man's wife; but, knowing my own
                  past delinquencies, I can never blame you for that."
               "Nor can I regret it," said Catharine thoughtfully. "When I think of that marriage
                  now, it is with the feeling that it was ordained of God to bring about certain
                  events; and that I was but a feeble instrument in his hands to accomplish his
                  plans of mercy and love."
               "Why, then, may you not believe that another with me may be ordained by him to
                  work out other plans quite as important to the welfare of a great people?"
               "If I thought so, I might not hesitate. But thus far since my husband's death my
                  path of duty has seemed plain to me. My child, and these poor people around me,
                  literally starving, not only for the bread of earth, but that of heaven, have
                  demanded all my time and care."
               "The same demands are made upon me. But, Catharine," he continued eagerly, "could
                  I not be a help, and not a hinderance, in your path of duty? Could I not be a
                  father to your beautiful boy, and help you to bring him up 'in the nurture and
                  admonition of the Lord'? Could I not assist you in devising plans for the benefit
                  of the people, not only upon your plantation, and mine ten miles away, but also
                  through the whole Southern country? United, could we not do much,—very much more
                  than either of us could do alone; come nearer to the hearts and homes of our
                  suffering people; more abundantly and efficiently influence their lives?"
               "I don't know," she began doubtingly.
               
               "But I know, dear Catharine, if you do not, that it would be so. I know, too, that
                  you must often feel the need of a strong arm and a loving heart on which to lean.
                  You expected to have found it in Harry; but you were disappointed in that hope.
                  Then, why not accept one upon which you would have a claim for life."
               "I will own that; I have often felt this need since I came here, and especially at
                  first; yet there are a great many considerations that forbid the thought of a
                  second marriage for me."
               "Well, I want you to think of it," said he earnestly: "I will not take your
                  decision now. I know you can sympathize in all my views for the future. I know
                  that your heart is full of that enthusiasm of humanity that would lead you to a
                  life of toil and self-sacrifice for the benefit of the human race. You have the
                  true missionary spirit, as you have abundantly proved during the war. And know
                  that you are more capable of inspiring other souls with the same feelings—even as
                  you once did mine—than any other woman of my acquaintance."
               "I think you overrate my powers."
               "No: I do not. And if you were to go through the whole South, as I have done
                  during and since the war, you would feel, as I do, the imperative need of using
                  them; for the mental and moral darkness, destitution, and ignorance are
                  everywhere. The late masters, most of them ruined, bereaved, and terribly
                  embittered against the redeemed race, who are ignorant, helpless, and starving,
                  oppress and tyrannize over them to the extent of their power. They are embittered,
                  too, against all Northern men and women, and will scarcely listen to their
                  suggestions; but Southern men of just, generous, and philanthropic spirit, and
                  able to support themselves might just now do them an immense amount of good."
               "I have no doubt of that, or that you are just the man for such a place; for you
                  have a strong, sympathetic, and personal influence that would convince where
                  others would fail."
               "Well, if I have, I hope you will feel it," said he, smiling. "I think myself that
                  I can do some good by personal effort: at any rate, I shall try. But, if I had a
                  faithful female coadjutor,—one whose heart was in the work, and who could mingle
                  freely with the women of the South, who now fearfully preponderate,—I could do a
                  hundred times more,—work that would benefit the present, and the results of which
                  might endure to future generations. And will not you, dear Catharine, who have the
                  requisite talents, the thoroughly-practical education, the energetic will, and the
                  generous enthusiasm needed in such a position, join me in this noble work, before
                  which all other selfish and thoroughly personal considerations should at the
                  present time sink into insignificance?"
               "Oh! I do think it a work that is needed,—in fact, to fully restore peace and
                  prosperity to the country, imperatively demanded. But I know you over-estimate my
                  capabilities; and, above all, forget that I am a Northern woman, a hated
                  Yankee."
               "You have identified yourself so fully with the South during the war, that you are
                  now regarded as a Southern woman by all. Your praises are on many grateful
                  Southern lips, your memory a green oasis in the desert soil of many Southern
                  hearts. What you have done and suffered for friends and foes during the past five
                  years will never, never be forgotten."
               
               "Well, I believe my own conscience bears me witness that I have done what I
                  could."
               "And do not heart and conscience both respond to this 'call from Macedonia,—"Come
                  over and help us"'?"
               "Yes: I cannot deny it, or that it is just what I have been dreaming about and
                  longing to do for months. And, had not my home duties seemed to demand all my
                  care, I might have done something more than dream," said Catharine frankly.
               "Those home duties can be easily arranged, now that we have made so fair a
                  beginning. And there are plenty of active business men and women, ruined by the
                  war, who would be glad to take care of our estates, and manage them as we
                  directed. Your child we should prefer to take with us wherever we went. The
                  necessity for this work, now so urgently demanded, will, I hope, soon cease; and
                  then we can return to our home, with the consciousness that we have done what we
                  could, in the vineyard of the Master, and not misimproved whatever talents God has
                  given us. I believe no thoughtful man could see hundreds and thousands of men
                  falling like autumn leaves around him, as I have done during the war, many of them
                  going to their death with oaths and curses or agonizing prayers for mercy upon
                  their lips, without feeling as if it were the noblest work in the universe to fit
                  men to live as they ought while they are here upon the earth and to induce them to
                  prepare for the life to come. But this work, to which I have previously referred,
                  seems to be what is demanded of us to-day. I feel as if God demanded it of those
                  whom he has fitted for it; of whom you, Catharine, are one. And I want you to
                  think of it prayerfully before coming to a final decision."
               When Mrs. Hunter arrived, and heard of Lloyd's proposal, she gave it her
                  unqualified approval, and urged Catharine to accept of it.
               They had been wronged by everybody, she said, in their past separation; and this
                  would make it all right again. It was just what she had been planning in her own
                  mind for some time.
               A woman had just as much right to make a second marriage as a man, she said;
                  though it was not always quite as advisable. Yet the wives of Washington,
                  Franklin, Jackson, and Bonaparte had done it, with multitudes of other nobler
                  women, whom the world delighted to honor. It would surely be no discredit to the
                  noble name she bore to exchange it for another quite as distinguished; and she was
                  sure it would be the best thing that could happen to all concerned.
               Once Mrs. Hunter would hardly have given Catharine such counsel as this; but now
                  she loved her as a sister, and had such a high regard for her worth and talents,
                  that she felt as if Lloyd could not find a nobler woman in the universe to share
                  his destiny.
               Catharine finally consulted her friends at the North; and, as they were all of
                  Mrs. Hunter's opinion, she concluded to follow the bent of her own inclinations,
                  and become Lloyd Hunter's bride.
               So they were quietly married upon the ensuing Christmas, and, after a brief visit
                  to her Northern home, returned to the South, and began their noble work. From
                  their past connection with army life, both had many acquaintances among all
                  classes of the Southern people, many of whom were deeply indebted to them for past
                  favors, and very grateful. So they were enabled to go with safety into the darkest
                  and most benighted regions, where light
                  from the Freedman's Bureau could not penetrate, and where Northern men and women,
                  would at that time have been repulsed with indignation and scorn.
               Their own wealth, fine talents, and high Southern connections enabled them to go
                  among the highest as well as the lowest; to plead with and persuade the people, in
                  public and in private, in churches, school-houses, or log-cabins, that it was not
                  only for their best earthly interest, but also their solemn duty, to extend the
                  hand of friendship and encouragement to the ignorant, oppressed, and long
                  down-trodden slaves. They also endeavored, so far as it was in their power, to
                  inspire both the late masters and the new-born freemen with a spirit of
                  forbearance and conciliation, of mutual forgiveness and forgetfulness of past
                  injuries, which was the only thing that could conduce to the welfare and happiness
                  of both, and save them and their country from ruin.
               Both could plead earnestly, eloquently, and convincingly; and the good they have
                  been enabled to do in the years that have passed since the war is incalculable.
                  They have succeeded in opening the eyes of hundreds of the former masters and
                  mistresses to the injustice, oppression, inhumanity, and unworthiness of their
                  conduct towards their former slaves, and led them to forbearance and amendment.
                  They have inspired in many other hearts that spirit of the Master that will lead
                  them to try to imitate his noble example. They have been the means of establishing
                  schools, and houses of worship, in many dark and desolate places; from which
                  streams of knowledge and light from on high will eventually flow to civilize,
                  enlighten, and redeem all the surrounding country. They have mingled among the
                  people, and taught those who were ignorant and shiftless how to make the best use
                  of their slender means, which they increased upon many fitting occasions.
                  Thousands of the former masters and mistresses who have lived in affluence, and
                  boasted of their aristocracy, were now, poor, spiritless, and dejected, and needed
                  some such reviving influence to lead them to a better and more useful life and a
                  higher destiny. Catharine's eminently practical education fitted her admirably to
                  be a domestic adviser to such as these, as she had been brought up in a home of
                  thrift and economy, where small means had been made to work out the great ends of
                  education, improvement, and respectability.
               Wherever they went, they endeavored so far as was in their power, to abate old and
                  sinful prejudices, to initiate needed reforms, to persuade the discouraged to cast
                  off their indolence, and begin a thorough reformation of heart, life, and
                  character; and, above all, to lead souls out of darkness, ignorance, and
                  discouragement, up to light and hope here, and a better prospect of glory in that
                  beyond the grave. They are now resting at home; a happy in their mutual affection,
                  and rich in the gratitude of multitudes, they are on earth laying up treasure in
                  heaven.
            
         
      
   
