
    ----CITATION----
        Bradshaw, Wesley (1837-1927). Pauline of the Potomac, or, General McClellan's Spy .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5567 wright2-0048
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               PAULINE OF THE POTOMAC,
               OR General McClellan's Spy.
               AN AUTHENTIC AND THRILLING NARRATIVE Of the beautiful and
                  accomplished Miss PAULINE D'ESTRAYE, who since the opening of the Southern
                  Rebellion has performed some of the most startling and noble deeds that have ever
                  been recorded in history. This heart-stirring narrative has been compiled from
                  reliable sources, including the diary of the lovely heroine herself.
            
            BEAUTIFULLY ILLUMINATED WITH MAGNIFICENTLY COLORED ENGRAVINGS, EXECUTED
               SPECIALLY FOR ITS PAGES.
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               Published by Barclay & Co., No. 56 North Sixth Street.
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to the act of Congress in the year 1862, by BARCLAY &
                  CO., In the Clerk's Office of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
            
         
      
      
         
            Pauline of the Potomac, or, General McClellan's spy
            
               PAULINE OF THE POTOMAC;
               OR, GEN. M'CLELLAN'S SPY.
               An authentic history of the life of Pauline D'Estraye, and also a thrilling
                  account of her startling adventures and narrow escapes while employed by General
                  M'Clellan as a Spy in Virginia and other Southern States.
               For a fuller explanation and understanding of this strange and eventful history,
                  however, the publisher respectfully refers the reader to the following letter from
                  the Compiler, Wesley Bradshaw, the National Historian of the present war. It
                  explains itself.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              Philadelphia, April 1862.
                              
                              
                                 E.E. BARCLAY, ESQ.,—
                              
                           
                           Dear Sir:—From the opening of the disastrous war that is now wrapping
                              the winding-sheet around the cold form of many a fond mother's noble
                              boy, and sprinkling her hearthstone with tears of blood and sorrow, I
                              have felt convinced that it would be incomparably more gratifying to
                              the dear ones left behind, to see the valorous deeds of their heroic
                              fathers, sons and brothers, recorded on the never dying page of
                              History, than inscribed upon dull, perishable tombstones, which, after
                              coldly watching their graves for a few years, will only fall to earth
                              and crumble on into oblivion with the sleepers beneath.
                           
                           I have, therefore, with no little labor and trouble, gathered and
                              stored up many a stirring and perilous incident and adventure of the
                              war, that might perhaps have never reached publicity through any other
                              channel. In my researches I have also come upon individuals, whose
                              names, although some day destined to become immortal by reason of
                              noble deeds, have, as yet, for cogent reasons, not appeared to any
                              noticeable extent. Pre-eminent among these stands the name of Miss
                              Pauline D'Estraye, the only daughter of Julien D'Estraye, Esq., a
                              distinguished French exile.
                           The following biography of this patriotic and accomplished young lady
                              I have obtained, partly from a journal of her own, and partly from
                              those few persons whose important public positions have made them
                              intimately acquainted with her, and thoroughly conversant with her
                              valuable services to the land of her adoption.
                           Without adding more words, however, to this already too lengthy
                              letter, I shall at once lay before your readers the narrative. And I
                              feel assured, that ere closing it their hearts will swell with
                              gratitude and admiration toward the beautiful and noble orphan child
                              of France, PAULINE OF THE POTOMAC.
                           
                              Yours, &c.
                              Wesley Bradshaw
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               It may possibly seem to the casual reader a wide and premature digression from our
                  starting point, to open a narrative, so directly connected with our own National
                  Affairs as is the following, in a foreign land. This would be eminently true and
                  just were its various scenes and incidents drawn from the imagination alone of the
                  novelist; but, as they are all realities, all well authenticated facts and
                  unadorned life pictures, we are of necessity forced to trace the thread as we find
                  it, back to the gloomy days and terrible events of the French Revolution of
                  1848.
               Doubtless a large number of those who peruse the succeeding pages have a more or
                  less vivid remembrance of that Revolution, by which the imbecile and vacillating,
                  though brave and talented, Louis Phillippe fell, together with the tottering
                  throne which he had so poorly graced.
               Since her last previous political convulsion, France had lain slumbering in a
                  doubtful state of quiescence until her repose was broken in the year mentioned,
                  with so much of national misery and bloodshed. Alas! for the land of Lafayette! In
                  all her desperate efforts for Freedom she wounds only herself, and, bleeding at
                  every pore, sinks to earth, after a brief struggle, only to have the yoke replaced
                  about her neck for a fresh and still more tedious period of years. But enough; let
                  us not intrude farther upon our limited space a subject, the proper treatment of
                  which would fill volumes.
               M. Julien D'Estraye, Pauline's father, was, by birth, wealth and station, an
                  aristocrat, a class of persons, who, in all revolutions, but most especially in
                  French Revolutions, are the particular objects of the merciless hatred and
                  resentment of the lower classes. Monsieur D'Estraye, also, occupied a peculiar
                  position between the two antagonistic castes we have just mentioned. Plainly
                  perceiving the danger attending the sudden attainment of unlimited liberty by a
                  people who were really unprepared for its blessings, and being honest enough to
                  advocate only a gradual emancipation from tyranny, he rendered
                  himself unpopular with the fiery, hasty masses, who wished to grasp the much
                  desired result at once, and hateful to the nobility, who were heartily opposed to
                  the welfare and advancement of any but themselves.
               For some time previous to the outbreak of the Revolution, M. D'Estraye saw that
                  the lowering storm must shortly burst over the devoted land, throughout whose
                  whole extent, in city, town and village, secret organizations were constantly and
                  insidiously fomenting discontent and disorder. Wishing to be out of its reach, he
                  resolved to settle up his financial affairs, and, with his daughter, who was the
                  sole object of his solicitude, retire to his chateau near Genoa, in Italy. At this
                  time Pauline, in her eleventh year, was the almost constant companion of her
                  doating parent, as her mother had been dead nearly two years.
               Monsieur D'Estraye's calculations in regard to the commencement of the national
                  tempest were incorrect, and scarcely one-half of his business matters were
                  satisfactorily arranged, when Paris broke out into open revolt, and the fearful
                  scenes of "THE REIGN OF TERROR" seemed about to be re-enacted. We here quote an
                  extract from Pauline's diary, the artless simplicity of which must impress all
                  with its truthfulness.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "February 22, 1848.—
                              
                           
                           This morning I was 
                                 awakenened
                                 awakened
                               early by the crowds of people in the streets shouting, and
                              singing the 
                                 Marsaillaise
                                 Marseillaise
                              . They were going to
                              the Champs Elysees, where Papa says some bad men, who think of nothing
                              else than being great, have made a banquet, where their wicked
                              companions may meet together and bring about a civil war. About noon
                              the Mounted Municipal Guards galloped up the Faubourg St. Honore to
                              disperse a mob who had erected a barricade. I heard the firing of guns
                              all day after, and when darkness came on, I began to grow exceedingly
                              anxious about Papa, fearing that he might have been killed. But he got
                              home safely about 8 o'clock, and, after kissing me, told me all about
                              the terrible scenes that he had witnessed while out. By 9 o'clock I
                              heard no more guns firing, nor any more noise; everything was quiet,
                              and, so, bidding Papa good-night, I ran up to my chamber, went down on
                              my knees by my bedside, and thanked God for preserving him from harm.
                              Then I took down my journal in which I am now writing down the day's
                              events, as I do every evening. I will now write, 'good-night, Papa,
                              and God bless you, very much.'
                           
                              PAULINE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The following day, (and for many successive days and weeks), little Pauline's
                  diary or journal was entirely neglected, the youthful heroine being too busily
                  employed in assisting her father with the preparations that, with the aid of one
                  or two trusty servants, he was making to escape from the city, as the latter was
                  momentarily becoming more lawless and dangerous. Late in the afternoon, all being
                  ready for the flight, M. D'Estraye, taking his heroic daughter upon his arm, was
                  in the act of passing out through a rear entrance to his dwelling, when a
                  messenger arrived, and, without awaiting the usual etiquette of an introduction,
                  hastily put in D'Estraye's hand a slip of brown paper, saying as he did so:
               "Read, Monsieur! It is from my master. Read, without delay!"
               Although much astonished, Pauline's father did as the strange postman desired,
                  and, starting back upon finishing the perusal, first glanced inquiringly at the
                  bearer, then anxiously upon his daughter, and finally, after a moment's
                  deliberation, re-read the note, this time aloud. It ran thus:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              MONSIEUR D'ESTRAYE:
                           
                           You are about to fly. Do not attempt it. Ledru Rollin, who is your
                              enemy, has had spies about your house for several days, and if you try
                              to escape your doom is sealed. Make no movement until I see you, which
                              will be some time between this and sunrise, when I will prove to you
                              my gratitude for the past.
                           
                              JEROME ANTONELLI."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Do you remain, Monsieur?" asked the bearer of Antonelli's letter, with much
                  anxiety in his tone, as he stood impatiently twirling his hat.
               "Tell your master that I shall await him here," answered D'Estraye, slipping a
                  piece of gold into the other's hand, who, a moment later, was gone.
               Pauline's father immediately countermanded the orders he had already given
                  relative to his departure, and, taking care to see his house well secured for the
                  night, he retired to his library, still accompanied by Pauline, to await the
                  appearance of the author of the billet that had so suddenly altered his original
                  designs.
               "Papa," said his daughter, as she seated herself upon a footstool beside him, and
                  gazed fondly up into his face, "I have sometimes heard you speak of this
                  Antonelli, won't you please tell me all about him? And tell me, too, why Monsieur
                  Rollin has put spies around our house?"
               "I am afraid," replied M. D'Estraye, smoothing back the soft, chestnut ringlets
                  from off Pauline's forehead, "that you would be unable to understand the
                  explanation required by the last part of your question, but the first I will
                  answer."
               "Many years ago, Jerome Antonelli, whose father was a Frenchman and mother an
                  Italian, was thrown accidentally in my way. He is a necromancer or wizard, and at
                  the time of which I speak was performing at the Imperial Theatre, where, by a mere
                  chance, he first made my acquaintance. One night I missed him, and, upon inquiry,
                  learned that himself, wife and daughter, (the latter, by the-bye, was your
                  namesake, and about your own age), had been suddenly taken ill with a virulent
                  fever. My pity was awakened by the circumstance, and I visited the afflicted
                  family, whom I found, (although Antonelli at times realized large sums), in great
                  distress, lacking even some of the necessaries of life. I had it in my power to
                  assist the poor people, and of course I did so.
               "In the course of a few days the mother and daughter died, while Jerome mended,
                  and finally recovered. When I parted with him, after he became well enough to
                  attend to his business, he told me, with grateful tears in his eyes, that if ever
                  he had it in his power to repay me he would do so. Since then the first I have
                  ever heard of him was this afternoon in the shape of the note which you heard me
                  read."
               Pauline was about to express her surprise at the strange story, when the porter
                  entered the library, and tremblingly informed his master, that three rough-looking
                  men having knocked for admittance, had,
                  upon his opening the door, forced their way into the lodge, demanding peremptorily
                  to see Monsieur Julien D'Estraye.
               "Show them into the reception chamber, Jean, and I will wait upon them in a few
                  minutes," answered M. D'Estraye, waving the servant out of the apartment.
               As Jean was turning toward the door, some one outside pushed the latter back
                  against the wall, and the next moment the three intruders, who must have followed
                  the porter up stairs, strode into the room. They were dark, sinister looking men,
                  and the hilt of a knife and butt of a pistol, that protruded from under the vest
                  of each, added to their repulsiveness an idea of assassination that curdled the
                  blood.
               "Good evening, Citoyen* D'Estraye," said the chief of the three, bowing politely, "we heard
                  your message as we were standing close to your library door, and so instead of
                  giving you the trouble of waiting on us, we have done ourselves the honor to wait
                  upon you."
               As M. D'Estraye, who had upon the entrance of the trio risen from his chair, gazed
                  upon his unwelcome guests, a thousand conflicting thoughts and emotions sped
                  through his mind on swifter wings than those of lightning. But, cool and collected
                  as he was brave, our heroine's father suffered no alteration of his feelings to
                  become visible upon his countenance. With the utmost urbanity, therefore, he
                  requested to know from his visitors, to what he was indebted for the pleasure of
                  their call. As he spoke he carelessly placed his hand under the breast of his coat
                  and seized the butt of a concealed pistol.
               "You will excuse us, Citoyen D'Estraye," immediately replied the spokesman of the
                  party, "but we have come hither to take you before the 'Committee of Public
                  Safety.'"
               "The Committee of Public Safety!" quickly retorted M. D'Estraye, "I know of no
                  such Committee, Messieurs, and I must, therefore, decline your invitation."
               The speaker displayed, as he made this reply, the silver mounted butt of his
                  weapon. He scarcely did so, however, before, at a given signal, the trio before
                  him simultaneously drew both their pistols and daggers. The latter were long,
                  two-edged, murderous-looking weapons.
               "Monsieur D'Estraye," said the leader of the intruders, with the same
                  imperturbable politeness as before, "we have come to take you before the Committee
                  of Public Safety. If you will go, you shall go alive. If you will stay here, you
                  shall stay dead. You have three minutes to decide in."
               
                  *During the Revolution all distinction being
                  abolished by the Radicals, or Red-Republicans, every man addressed his neighbor
                  with the plain term Citoyen, (Citizen.)
               The speaker, replacing his dagger, drew forth his watch.
               One minute of the allotted three passed in silence so deep that the breathing of
                  each of the occupants of the library was audible to the others. Half the given
                  time was gone, and no word was yet spoken to break the tomb-like stillness, when
                  all at once, all were startled at the sound of a solemn, sepulchral voice that
                  seemed to come from the ceiling directly over their heads, saying slowly and
                  distinctly:
               "Submit, Julien D'Estraye! Submit!"
               All eyes were involuntarily raised to the ceiling, but, of course, nothing was to
                  be seen. As the strange, unearthly tones struck upon the ears of the intended
                  victim, he thus addressed his disagreeable visitors:
               "Messieurs, I am in your power, but, were it not for my daughter here, I assure
                  you that you should have the pleasure of assassinating me. For her sake, however,
                  I yield myself your prisoner, provided that she be allowed to bear me
                  company."
               "Thank you, Citoyen," rejoined the spokesman, with his former cold politeness,
                  "you have saved us much trouble, and, in return for your courtesy, it gives us
                  great pleasure to accede to your request."
               At this moment the same sepulchral voice, from its place in the ceiling, gave
                  forth a wild burst of laughter, and then, as all eyes were again involuntarily
                  raised to the spot from whence it seemed to come, it suddenly ceased, and
                  everything was once more quiet. However, the mysterious interruption did not long
                  hinder the trio from the execution of their original design, that of making M.
                  D'Estraye their prisoner, for, within seven minutes after, he and Pauline, both
                  blindfolded, were being whirled away with their captors in a close carriage. Up
                  one street and down another was the vehicle driven, apparently for the purpose of
                  bewildering the prisoners as to the distance and direction they were being
                  carried. Presently the coach (commonly called in Paris a fiacre) suddenly stopped, and the door being thrown open, M.
                  D'Estraye and his heroic daughter, who had thus far scarcely spoken a word, were
                  requested to step out and follow their mysterious companions. They of course
                  obeyed, and, still blindfolded, soon found themselves in a narrow passage that
                  ended in a flight of stone stairs. Descending these, they came into a second
                  passage, or rather a subterranean archway, that felt damp, and had a faint, mouldy
                  smell.
               The prisoners were, a moment or so later, ushered into a large, underground
                  chamber, that partook somewhat of the same faint mouldy smell as the passage through which they had
                  just come. Here they were seated upon a stone bench and left to themselves for
                  some time. At length one of their captors returned, and removed the bandages that
                  had, up to the present moment, blinded them. By the light of a small, iron lamp,
                  which hung from a hook in the ceiling, M. D'Estraye immediately recognized his
                  jailor as the leader of the trio by whom he and Pauline had been brought
                  hither.
               "Citoyen D'Estraye," said the latter, in a loud, gruff voice, which seemed rather
                  assumed than natural, "you will be obliged to remain here until to-morrow evening,
                  when you will be examined by the Committee."
               The captive was about to reply, but was cut short by the other, with the
                  words:
               "I know what you would say, Citoyen D'Estraye, but it is useless, and I have other
                  business. Good evening, Citoyen."
               The next moment the prisoners were once more alone. After making a survey of the
                  small, cramped apartment, which, though not to be compared to his own handsome and
                  richly furnished home, was not entirely destitute of those articles that give an
                  air of comfort to a room, M. D'Estraye sank upon a chair, nearly overcome at the
                  thought of the situation of himself and child. Like the tempest tossed mariner, he
                  strained his eyes in every direction to discover, if possible, some friendly
                  twinkling star, or glimmering beacon light, which might guide him to a safe
                  harbor. Thank Heaven, he saw what he longed for.
               At his side, leaning her chin upon his knee, sat Pauline, gazing silently and
                  sorrowfully up into his face. In her pale, wan cheeks, down which pearly tears
                  were coursing their way, he saw the friendly twinkling star, and in her sweet,
                  dove-like eyes he saw the glimmering beacon light. Forgetting for the moment all
                  his troubles, the loving father impulsively bent down, and, pressing Pauline close
                  to him, kissed her tenderly, and spoke to her some words of consolation and hope.
                  In reply the angelic child convulsively clasped her arms about his neck, and
                  murmured in low, fervent tones:
               "Oh, my dear Papa, may I not pray for you?"
               "Yes, daughter, yes," answered M. D'Estraye, releasing Pauline, that she might not
                  perceive the emotions awakened within him by the solicitude and piety of her
                  question. She immediately arose, and crossing the room, kneeled devoutly before a
                  crucifix. How beautiful, how touching was that picture; those little, clasped
                  hands, those upturned eyes, those moving but silent lips, and those wan cheeks
                  that sudden peril had so blanched. Presently the young suppliant finished her
                  prayer with the audibly spoken words:
               "Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for my dear Papa," and, returning to her father's
                  side, she again embraced him. The Catholic Religion is the prevailing one in
                  France.
               An hour later, Pauline, having lain down upon an humble couch which stood in one
                  corner of the apartment, was buried in a deep slumber that, in spite of
                  everything, forced itself upon her wearied senses. The neighboring clocks had
                  tolled midnight some ten minutes, when, all at once, M. D'Estraye, who, still
                  awake, sat thinking gloomily about the future, was startled by the grating of the
                  bolts of his cell-door. After a pause the latter was quickly but cautiously pulled
                  open, and the jailor, of whom we have spoken, strode into the room, drawing to the
                  door after him in the same hasty but wary manner as he had opened it.
               "Monsieur D'Estraye," he said, dropping the republican term, Citoyen, and speaking
                  in entirely changed tones from those which he had previously used, "you received a
                  letter from me this afternoon, in which I promised to see you between then and
                  morning. I have kept my word."
               "You certainly have me at a vast disadvantage," replied M. D'Estraye after a
                  lengthy pause, scrutinizing his visitor from head to foot with surprise, "some
                  explanation is certainly necessary."
               "I know what your thoughts are, Monsieur D'Estraye," was the rejoinder, "but you
                  shall be fully satisfied in a single moment. You, of course, see that I am one of
                  the three by whom you were arrested. Now then, I turn my back to you, thus, pass
                  my hand over my face, thus, and—'Presto' as we wizards say—I turn again, and you
                  see before you Jerome Antonelli! who, God bless you, Monsieur D'Estraye, has now
                  an opportunity to be grateful for what you have done for him in times past."
               "Jerome, as I live!" exclaimed the prisoner, starting up, and grasping the
                  unstretched hand of the other. "But," continued he, "all that has happened since I
                  received your note to-day is so inexplicable, so marvelous, that, although I feel
                  I can trust you implicitly, it is utterly beyond my comprehension."
               "Pray, be seated then, Monsieur, and I will clear up the whole mystery," replied
                  Antonelli, drawing up a chair opposite to that of D'Estraye. The latter did as he
                  was desired by his companion, who, without delay, commenced:
               "You must have already suspected, Monsieur D'Estraye, that the excited state into
                  which Paris and the principal cities of France have been brought, is the result of the operations of
                  the Secret Societies, the principal one of which is that ruled by Ledru Rollin,
                  who mortally hates all but Red Republicans. Some short time ago I became, for
                  several reasons, a member of Rollin's club, and soon after learned of his dislike
                  of, and designs upon, yourself. His intention was to confine you until after the
                  revolution is completed, or even, should he find it necessary, put you out of his
                  way by surer means. I determined upon your rescue, and had myself selected with
                  two others to manage your seizure, which I accomplished successfully this evening,
                  although I owe you an apology for the somewhat rough and unmannerly means resorted
                  to. I had, however, to play my part naturally before my two companions who were
                  bitter Republicans. The rest you know, Monsieur, that is, with the exception of
                  what is yet to come."
               "And what is that, Jerome?" asked D'Estraye, a slight shade crossing his features,
                  as he thought upon the fact that his companion was a member of his enemy's
                  club.
               "It is," replied Antonelli, rising from his chair, "that whenever you are ready to
                  leave this cell I am ready to guide you to my own house, where you can remain in
                  safety until all danger is passed."
               It is almost needless to say, that but a short time elapsed ere D'Estraye and
                  Pauline, with their deliverer, reached the street. Gazing about him, D'Estray
                  exclaimed:
               "Why, this is the Rue de la Madeleine! we are not so far from our own home as I
                  thought."
               "Be cautious, Monsieur," said Antonelli, in a low tone, glancing suspiciously
                  about him in the gloom. D'Estraye took the hint, and nothing more was said until
                  the little party reached the dwelling of Antonelli, situated in the street that
                  was subsequently called the Rue Lamartine.
               From this period up to the time that M. D'Estraye and his daughter set sail for
                  America, many and various were the scenes and trials through which they passed;
                  but we are compelled to give only a very cursory sketch of them, as their detailed
                  narration would fill more than double the space at our disposal.
               On Thursday, the 24th of February, the political storm, that had commenced two
                  days previous, reached its climax, and the mobs, sweeping before them all
                  opposition, seized the Palace of the 
                     Tuileries
                     Tuilleries
                  , from which Louis Phillippe and his family hastily fled, and completely
                  ransacked it. From this day forward Ledru Rollin, with the exception of Lamartine,
                  became the greatest and most influential man in France; and it was with the utmost
                  difficulty that Antonelli
                  
                     "If you go," continued the speaker, "you shall go alive. If you stay here
                        you shall stay dead. You have three minutes to decide in!" See page
                        18.
                   managed to prevent M. D'Estraye and Pauline from being discovered by the
                  wild and lawless followers of Rollin, who, taking the law of Fraternity and
                  Equality, in a most liberal sense, would oftentimes visit his house without the
                  slightest ceremony.
               One evening in the 
                     succeding
                     succeeding
                   June, during which month Generals Cavaignac and Changarnier defeated the
                  rebels so terribly, Jerome Antonelli came home with what at first seemed a slight
                  wound in one of his limbs. During the night, however, he became so ill, and grew
                  worse so rapidly, that, on the third day after, he was dying. When informed that
                  he could not recover he made no reply, but, closing his eyes, remained quiet for
                  several hours. Then rousing, he called Pauline and her father to his bedside, and,
                  taking each by the hand, he spoke to them, in a voice faint and broken, concerning
                  the friendly connections that had existed between himself and them, dwelling
                  particularly on the kindness of M. D'Estraye to him when he was sick and in want
                  and trouble. In conclusion he directed M. D'Estraye where to find an oaken box,
                  containing some articles of great value, rare gems, pearls and gold, that he had
                  become possessed of while traveling in Persia and India. These treasures in the
                  event of the latter's death were to go to Pauline and finally to the cause of
                  Liberty.
               "Yes!" he gasped, as his glazing eyes brightened for a moment and he started to a
                  sitting posture, "for Liberty! for Liberty! Vive la
                     Liberte!"
               With the last word trembling upon his lips the speaker fell back dead.
               Shortly after this the political tempest, that had so nearly destroyed France,
                  abated, and was finally hushed into peace by the election, to the Presidency, of
                  the present Emperor Napoleon.
               The body of Jerome Antonelli was buried in the beautiful cemetery of Pere La
                  Chaise by his two sincerely mourning friends, whom he had so enriched by the
                  contents of the oaken box above mentioned. M. Julien D'Estraye, recovering a small
                  portion of his own former possessions, converted them into cash, bade Adieu to his
                  native land forever, and set sail, accompanied by his daughter, Pauline, for the
                  United States, when both arrived, safely in the summer of 1849.
               The first view that our heroine and her father, who had thus voluntarily exiled
                  themselves, had of the country which they had selected for their future home was
                  just after sunrise on a Sunday morning. As the Captain had informed them the
                  preceding afternoon, that he would make land about daybreak, they were on deck
                  just as the rays of the coming sun began to make the stars in the eastern sky shine somewhat dimly. The Captain
                  had informed them correctly, for even at that early hour they could just perceive
                  the dark land line rising apparently directly out of the ocean, far to the
                  westward. Presently the sun cleared the watery horizon in the east, and in a
                  moment more the wooded hills and slopes of America burst in a glorious panorama
                  upon their sight.
               "How beautiful, my daughter, is yonder land of liberty!" exclaimed M. D'Estraye to
                  Pauline. "There we shall be free! there we shall be safe to think and act as we
                  please, without fear of tyrannical rulers or lawless mobs. Many years since, when
                  the United States were battling bravely and almost despairingly for their
                  independence, Lafayette, whose wise principles for the government of France are
                  undoubtedly correct, left the land of his birth to fight in the noble cause. For
                  that reason, even if for no other, I love the United States, and you, daughter,
                  must learn to love them, also."
               "Oh my dear Papa, I shall love them, I know I shall!" enthusiastically exclaimed
                  Pauline, who looked like a fairy queen as she stood there upon the deck of the
                  bounding vessel, her long, silken curls blown back by the fresh land breeze, that
                  also rendered her cheeks more than usually rosy.
               It was not long before M. D'Estraye and his daughter landed in New York, and took
                  up their abode at one of the most aristocratic hotels in the city, where both soon
                  made many friends and acquaintances in the first circles of society. During the
                  course of the summer they visited all the places of note and interest in the
                  State, and so much gratified was our heroine with her journey, that she at length
                  prevailed upon her indulgent father to make a tour of the whole country, not even
                  excepting the prairies and mountains of the Far West, which, she naively urged,
                  were so full of romance and adventure.
               A majority of mankind believe, that in the gradual working out of the grand plan
                  of Providence, God raises up peculiarly talented persons for perilous and
                  particular times. This seems to be eminently the case in regard to the United
                  States. Perhaps there is not another man in the country, besides General
                  M'Clellan, who, could, at the present time, guide and control, with his ability,
                  the vast army that hails him as its chief. Yet no one would have thought, when
                  several years ago he resigned his Captaincy in the Regular army and took an
                  engineer's position upon a railroad, that this act eventually gave him the
                  knowledge which to-day is the great secret of his success. This knowledge was
                     the exact capability of railroads for massing troops and military stores
                     at the necessary points. But there is no limit to the goodness of God,
                  and we find that the same Providence that has given us an unapproachable leader
                  has given us also subordinate characters to surround and support him, characters
                  of whom perhaps we have as yet heard little or nothing, and yet whose services
                  are, in their particular spheres, and bearing upon the general result, equally as
                  valuable, equally as essential as M'Clellan's.
               When Julien D'Estraye acceded to Pauline's desire to travel through every State
                  and Territory of the Union, he little dreamed that, a few years later, he thereby
                  empowered his daughter to render to our Government the most important and valuable
                  information and service at a time when vile and heartless conspirators had stirred
                  up brother against brother, and invoked the Demon of War to desolate so many happy
                  homes throughout our land. We may even go farther down the past. It would approach
                  impiety for us to assert that it was nothing more than chance, which, far away in
                  the land of Napoleon and Lafayette, during the bloody scenes of 1848, threw
                  Pauline D'Estraye into the company of the wizard, Antonelli, who beguiled her
                  tedious hours with instructing her in the mysteries of his wonderful art. These
                  mysteries thirteen years afterward proved to be of incomparable value to her, and
                  through her to the United States. But in place of abstract remarks and deductions,
                  we prefer the "logic of facts." Let the plain, unvarnished narrative prove what we
                  have advanced.
               The heroine of our life drama was, from an early age, possessed of remarkably
                  close observation, sound judgment, and a most retentive memory. These rarely
                  combined points of character increased as she advanced in years to such an
                  unparalleled degree as to cause a prominent member of President Lincoln's cabinet
                  to exclaim, after having enjoyed an hour's conversation with her: "Miss D'Estraye
                  is the most accomplished and intellectual lady I have ever seen."
               Some few years ago M. D'Estraye, after having fully gratified his daughter's
                  desire for traveling, resolved to settle in the South, as the climate there more
                  nearly resembled that of his native country. For this reason he purchased a
                  handsome villa or country-seat at Beaufort, South Carolina, for use in the Summer
                  season, and a city residence in Richmond, Virginia, where he and Pauline intended
                  to spend the Winter months. The second summer that the D'Estrayes removed from
                  Richmond to Beaufort an intimate and much esteemed lady friend introduced to them
                  William Fairfax, a young and wealthy tobacco dealer of Lynchburg. His object in
                  coming hither was to recruit his health, which a too steady attention and
                  application to his business had somewhat
                  enervated. From the moment of the introduction to each other a mutual liking
                  sprang up between Mr. Fairfax and Pauline, which, as both were of an ardent
                  deposition, did not require any great length of time to ripen into a deep
                  affection, nay, more, a pure unselfish love. The young Virginian soon became a
                  constant visitor at M. D'Estraye's villa. His open, manly manner, joined to other
                  graceful accomplishments, his probity and high family standing, all conspired to
                  induce Pauline's father to look favorably upon, and encourage the intercourse
                  between the young Virginian and his daughter.
               In the Winter of 1859 Mr. Fairfax, after gaining the willing consent of Miss
                  D'Estraye, formally asked her hand of her father. The request was cordially
                  granted, and, for special reasons, Christmas of 1860 fixed as the wedding day.
                  During the lapse of the intervening months, however, great and unexpected changes
                  occurred. The fearful tempest, that, for many years had been hovering upon the
                  political horizon of America, burst with fury upon the nation. After having
                  carefully and insidiously matured their wicked designs, the originators of our
                  present National troubles applied the incendiary match, and in a moment the dark
                  and lurid clouds of bloody contention obscured our firmament. But the sun begins
                  to shine again, the lurid clouds are rolling rapidly away, and, ere long, we shall
                  be enabled to discover and punish those who have inflicted so much suffering upon
                  us.
               M. D'Estraye and Mr. Fairfax had never been able to agree in politics, nor had the
                  former, whose age and vast acquirements gave him a corresponding precedence, ever
                  been able to dissuade his young friend from a blind adherence to the doctrine of
                  State Sovereignty. As the happy day which was to see him wedded, to Pauline
                  D'Estraye was close at hand, Mr. Fairfax left Lynchburg for Richmond a few days
                  after the Presidential election day last November. Of course, at the first
                  opportunity, the topic touched upon was the exciting one of Secession, and, during
                  the argument that ensued, Fairfax became so warm and bitter on the subject, that
                  he at length declared himself in favor of Monarchy and not only opposed to the
                  Union but to a Republican form of government altogether.
               "William," replied M. D'Estraye, after a pause of a few minutes, "it grieves me to
                  hear you avow such principles, and I feel compelled to say to you, that, in
                  consequence, it will be utterly impossible to allow my daughter to become your
                  wife."
               The young Virginian started as though he had been crushed beneath an avalanche,
                  and, as the blood left his face, he was about to exclaim something, but M.
                  D'Estraye prevented him with the words:
               "William, I do not make this decision in the heat or haste of the moment, but I
                  have been forced to it by the violent avowals of your principles for some time
                  past. From her childhood my daughter has been educated to love and venerate free
                  institutions and a Republican form of government. The mutual love, which I know
                  exists between yourself and her, might indeed induce an abandonment of the subject
                  for awhile, but still, it must, at some future time, be brought forward, and
                  whenever it is, the unhappiness of my daughter is sure to follow. I, therefore,
                  interpose my authority, and forbid any further intercourse between you."
               "You will surely, sir, allow me at least to bid Pauline farewell," replied Fairfax
                  in a husky voice, after a long silence, during which he bit his lips till they
                  bled.
               "Certainly, William, to that I have no objections; come to-morrow at three
                  o'clock."
               The two men parted, and M. D'Estraye, going to his library, sent servant to bid
                  Pauline go thither. The latter, little dreaming of the blow that was about to fall
                  upon her, instantly obeyed. She soon learned the heavy tidings, however, which
                  bore her to earth even as the tender rose is crushed down by the sudden storm. For
                  some time our heroine sat silent, and then, going to her father, she laid her head
                  mournfully upon his shoulder, and murmured, without a tear, but im an unusually
                  low tone of voice:
               "Oh, my dear Papa, this is indeed a terrible blow, but you know best."
               M. D'Estraye was deeply touched by his child's filial devotion, and, after another
                  pause, he said:
               "My dear Pauline, in doing what I have done, I have regarded no feeling of my own,
                  but only your own future happiness, and, in proof thereof, I will add, that if you
                  can persuade William to sincerely abandon his doctrines of Monarchy and Secession,
                  which you know you yourself abhor, nothing will give me greater pleasure than to
                  bless your nuptials."
               This gleam of sunshine infused a new life into Pauline, and, with many an
                  endearing term, she thanked her father for the favor. 
               The next day, punctual to the appointed hour, William Fairfax came, and was
                  received by M. D'Estraye and his daughter. M. D'Estraye was as kindly cordial in
                  his greeting as usual, but the young Virginian, graceful and affable as ever, was,
                  on the present occasion, sad and
                  reserved. After spending a quarter of an hour in general conversation, M.
                  D'Estraye arose, and, excusing himself on account of an engagement that would
                  detain him between one and two hours, left the lovers to themselves.
               "Doubtless," said Fairfax, opening the conversation, "your father has communicated
                  to you, dearest Pauline, his intentions in regard to our approaching
                  marriage."
               "Yes," rejoined Pauline, "but he has made it dependent upon a certain condition,
                  and I know, dear William, that, for my sake, you will acquiesce."
               "Then there is hope yet!" quickly answered Fairfax, his cheeks flushing as he
                  spoke, "name the condition, and if it is at all in my power, it shall be
                  fulfilled."
               "It is in the event of my being able to convert you from your devotion to this
                  doctrine of Secession, which Papa says will be a death blow to the real liberties
                  of the people."
               The flush left the cheeks of Pauline's lover as he rejoined:
               "That is impossible! No! my dearest Pauline, not even for you, though I love you
                  beyond anything earthly, will I ever abandon the position I have taken. I believe,
                  before Heaven, that I am right, and you would think so also, were you conversant
                  with the plans and hopes of the wise and patriotic leaders of this grand
                  movement."
               "Oh, do not talk thus, William. Look you upon that flag hanging there. It was
                  given by Lafayette himself to Papa, after having been borne through several bloody
                  battles of the Revolution that made your country great and free. Your ancestors,
                  William, died for that banner, and will you now take up arms against it? Will you
                  trample it beneath your feet? I, William, am but a frail woman, and the daughter
                  of a foreign land, but I love that banner, that American flag, and would die
                  sooner than see it harmed!"
               "God forbid, dearest Pauline," answered Fairfax, "that I should causelessly
                  trample yonder flag under my feet; but, as God is my judge, I will never submit to
                  oppression because the unprincipled oppressors seize that banner as their own
                  proper standard."
               For more than an hour the conversation went on in this strain, each of the lovers
                  becoming more and more enthusiastic in their opposite causes, until at last
                  Fairfax, nearly beside himself with anger, seized his hat with the intention of
                  hurrying forever from the presence of her whom he so fondly and truly loved.
                  Pauline sprang to an open Piano and touched its keys. As the sweet tones gushed
                  from the instrument, which was a remarkably fine one, Fairfax paused. A few more
                  touches and the lovely performer, her eye sparkling with light, and her cheeks
                  flushed with a carmine hue, sang, in tones of thrilling power and sweetness, the
                  Star Spangled Banner. As she concluded the last verse she turned from the piano
                  and glanced at her lover, who still stood in the spot where her first magic notes
                  had arrested him. Striding to her side Fairfax exclaimed:
               "Farewell! dearest Pauline!" and pressing her to his breast he imprinted a burning
                  kiss upon her lips. The next moment he was gone and she was alone.
               A few minutes later, M. D'Estraye returned, and found Pauline with her arms folded
                  on the key-board of the piano, and her head leaned forward upon her arms. She did
                  not notice his entrance until he spoke to her, when she quickly roused up as
                  though waking from a dream. She narrated to her father all that had happened,
                  concluding with the words:
               "I know that William really believes and feels himself to be in the right cause,
                  and this makes my grief for him so much heavier."
               "I also believe him sincere," replied M. D'Estraye, "and am surprised and sorry
                  that such a noble, honest and intellectual man as he is, should allow himself to
                  be led astray by this artful Davis and his coadjutors, who, in the end, after
                  digging a pit for both North and South, will perish miserably in it
                     themselves."*
                  
               
               The painful subject was at last dropped, with the mutually expressed wish of both
                  father and daughter that it might never be reverted to again.
               Weeks and months came and passed away, bringing with them momentous events. State
                  after state seceded, and acts of hostility to the government followed each other
                  with such fearful rapidity that it seemed at length as though the mystic cord,
                  which for nearly a century had bound our States in one glorious Union, was about
                  to be rudely broken asunder.
               While attending a lecture one evening in the latter end of March, M. D'Estraye was
                  suddenly taken ill. Being removed to his residence, a physician was summoned, who
                  pronounced his malady to be a severe attack of paralysis. By this unexpected event
                  Pauline was reminded that she might, in the twinkling of an eye, be deprived
                  forever of her loving parent, on whom she depended solely for guidance and
                  protection. For more than a week, therefore, she never left his bedside longer
                  than a few minutes at a time, and, not
                  
                     *How truly did the exiled D'Estraye prophecy. Only a few months have passed
                        since then, and the war is in full progress that will hurl the conspirators
                        from their wicked pinnacle.
                  
                  
                  until the physician assured her that the invalid was out of present danger, did
                  she allow herself a whole night's repose. M. D'Estraye gradually recovered up to
                  the 13th day of April, when he became much excited by the news of the fall of Fort 
                     Sumpter
                     Sumter
                  . Such a deep effect did this disaster take upon his already shattered
                  system that his physician expressed great fear of a second stroke of the disease
                  that had prostrated him supervening. This unfortunately occurred about daybreak of
                  Sunday, the 14th. The physician was instantly called. Upon viewing the patient he
                  shook his head ominously, and, to a question of Pauline's, at parting,
                  replied:
               "Miss D'Estraye, while ,there is life there is always hope. Still, in candor I am
                  bound to say to you, that your father's recovery must depend entirely on the
                  changes of the coming forty-eight hours. We will do all we can for him. Give him
                  the medicine prescribed, and I will call presently again."
               Eleven o'clock came, and Pauline, all alone, still bent over her charge,
                  moistening his parched lips, whispering words of religious hope and consolation in
                  his ear, and pressing kiss after kiss upon his forehead, from which she constantly
                  smoothed back the thin, scanty grey locks. As she continued her gentle
                  ministrations she recollected a scene of thirteen years ago, a subterranean cell
                  in Paris, occupied by a captive and his child. As the remembrance struck her she
                  said in a low, sweet voice to the invalid:
               "My dear Papa, I will pray for you;" and she kneeled down. The picture of thirteen
                  years ago had grown somewhat, or rather matured, that was all. There were the same
                  clasped hands, the same upturned eyes, and the same spiritual expression. Pauline
                  had not been thus occupied more than a minute or so, when M. D'Estraye groaned and
                  exclaimed:
               "Pauline! Pauline! where are you?"
               "Here, Papa, praying for you!" hastily answered the fair girl, rising to her feet,
                  and bending over her father with a fluttering heart.
               "I feel so singular," said M. D'Estraye, faintly, "I scarce know how."
               A glance sufficed to convince the pale and weary watcher that the dreaded change
                  had come. Still, however, with a strange hope, she followed out the directions of
                  the doctor in case of such an event taking place, and had the satisfaction, in
                  about half an hour, of seeing her father apparently much better. A little past
                  midnight he roused up, and fixing his gaze upon Pauline, said to her in a clear,
                  steady voice:
               "My darling child, you and I are about to part for awhile, for my time on earth is
                  short. You have been a loving, dutiful daughter, and now that I am dying, I wish
                  to devote you to a good, a holy cause."
               At this moment our heroine's feelings refused control, and, as she convulsively
                  pressed her lips to the departing one's forehead, her tears dropped fast upon his
                  face, and she sobbed aloud.
               How strange, how sublime must be the thoughts and emotions born in the breast of a
                  dying father, as his dimming eyes look up into an angel daughter's sorrowful face,
                  and as he feels her tears falling upon his clammy cheek like a gentle and
                  refreshing dew.
               "My dearest Pauline," resumed M. D'Estraye, after the former became somewhat,
                  composed, "I have often heard you say, that in the event of your ever being left
                  alone in the world, you would enter a convent and take the veil. I would dedicate
                  you to a different, but a glorious cause. Still, if you prefer to adhere to your
                  original intention you are at liberty to do so."
               "Oh, my dearest Papa, command me and I will obey. In no other way could I be
                  happier than in devoting myself to whatever cause you may name."
               "Then, my daughter, go and bring me the American flag which hangs in the sitting
                  room."
               With flying footsteps Pauline went, and returned with the banner to which she had
                  pointed her lover during their last interview. Taking the sacred, time-worn relic
                  reverently in his hands, the dying father bade his daughter kneel at his bedside
                  upon a richly-wrought footstool. Then draping the flag down over the kneeling
                  girl's head and shoulders like a bridal veil, M. D'Estraye thus addressed his
                  daughter:
               "Pauline, my child, I devote you to America, the land of our adoption. This banner
                  has yet to be carried through many a bloody field ere it is triumphant; but,
                  Pauline, my child, wherever it goes, you will go, in cloud or in sunshine, in
                  victory or defeat. On the battlefield heroes will be wounded beneath its folds;
                  you will be there to smile upon them, and to give drink to their parching lips.
                  They will die; you will be there to pray for them, to weep for their mothers and
                  sisters, who may be far away. Pauline, this, this is the cause to which I devote
                  you. This starry flag, the standard that Washington loved, the standard that
                  Lafayette loved, the standard that your father loves, this flag, Pauline, is the
                  veil that you now take,'and my last, best 
                     blesssing
                     blessing
                   go with you, my daughter. America, I give you my child, the offering of
                  my heart."
               
               Ere the sun came up the chamber of M. D'Estraye was darkened, the curtains were
                  drawn tight, every one stepped lightly and spoke softly, Death inhabited the
                  mansion. How touched with pity would have been the national heart could it have
                  contemplated the scene in that chamber. There upon the couch, covered with a snowy
                  white sheet, rested in its final slumber the form of the exile, whose last act, an
                  hour or so previous, had been to offer up his beloved daughter upon the altar of
                  his adopted country. And close beside the couch, sat that daughter, very pale, but
                  tearless, her beautifully moulded form still gracefully draped in the American
                  flag in which her father had folded her.
               Let us not, however, dwell longer on the many sad, sad days that followed
                  Pauline's irreparable loss, but, passing them in mournful silence, go on to more
                  stirring and thrilling hours of her eventful history.
               Leaving the settlement of the estate devised to her by her father, in the hands of
                  a prominent lawyer of Richmond, (who, we have since ascertained, entered the
                  Confederate service and was killed at Ball's Bluff), Pauline D'Estraye, at the
                  earliest moment, devoted her energies and the means at her command to the
                  fulfillment of her father's wishes. The first step toward this, she took in coming
                  North and attaching herself to a regiment of volunteers in the capacity of nurse.
                  Nothing out of the ordinary line of occurrences happened to her in this
                  occupation, until the ever memorable twenty-first of July. The account of her
                  experience on this day we take verbatim from her own note book, merely remarking,
                  that its truth is amply proven by corresponding statements and facts, to one or
                  two of which we shall call attention as we proceed.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "July 22, 1861.—
                              
                           
                           "By the great goodness and mercy of God I have, although a prisoner on
                              my way to Richmond, been wonderfully preserved from bodily harm during
                              the past terrible thirty hours. For several days back the army, under
                              General McDowell, has been making preparations for a forward movement,
                              and I was not, therefore, astonished when, early yesterday morning, I
                              was awakened by the rolling of drums, martial strains, and shrill,
                              bugle notes, accompanied by the steady tramp of companies, battalions,
                              and regiments. Upon leaving my tent I found our own regiment just on
                              the move to take its position in the right wing of the advance. To my
                              salutations the brave and eager fellows made different and
                              characteristic replies. One called out:
                           "'Get your lint ready, Miss Pauline, we're going to have a brush!'
                              another: 'Please don't forget me, Miss Pauline!' another: 'Good bye,
                              Miss Pauline, God bless you!' and yet another: 'You'll be wanted near
                              the flags, to-day, Miss Pauline!'
                           "In spite of my natural dread of the approaching conflict, I could not
                              repress the pleasurable feeling of safety which came over me at the
                              moment, as I gazed upon the thousand bright bayonets gleaming along,
                              and knew that every brawny arm beneath them would, in case of need, be
                              bared to shield me from peril.
                           "There now began to be much haste, as two or three hours had been lost
                              by the dilatory movements of a certain brigade. These were fatal hours
                              for the Union cause, for they enabled General Johnson, of the
                              Confederate army, to bring up his column at a propitious moment, and
                              insure the defeat of our brave soldiers.*
                              
                           
                           "The enemy did not open fire upon the advancing column until it
                              reached a little valley through which flowed a tributary of Bull's
                              Run, but here their belching cannon, shotted to the muzzle with grape
                              and canister, hewed deep lanes in our ranks. God of mercy! how may I
                              describe the sound of a storm of grape shot tearing its hellish path
                              through serried ranks of human beings. I simultaneously saw the flash
                              of the pieces, heard the harsh, deep thunder of their iron throats,
                              and saw the flight of their missiles like a lightning flap of the
                              death angel's wing. A breath, and, trampled under their comrades' feet
                              roll in bloody agonies, or lay in quiet, eternal slumber, a hundred
                              unfortunates. I think of their dear ones at home, I think of my
                              father's last words, and I forget all danger, and bound forward to
                              minister to the wounded. I hear the whizzing of solid shot, the
                              screaming of shells, the whistling of bullets; but I heed them not,
                              and they speed past me on their deadly errand, leaving me unscathed.
                              Surely the good angel of mercy protects me.
                           "Oh! what a terrible, what a fearful day was yesterday; and yet its
                              horrors were strangely blended with romance. Among a number of
                              touching and thrilling incidents that came under my notice were two in
                              particular, the first of which pity, for the one concerned induces me
                              to record, and the other I note down on account of its connection with
                              my own history.
                           "As our brigade surged backward and forward upon the bloody field, its
                              path was momentarily marked with freshly fallen victims. And as these
                              were the objects of my solicitude, I was unconsciously
                              
                                 
                                 *This is proved by a reference to Brigadier General McDowell's
                                    Official Report of the Bull Run Battle.—W. B.
                              
                               led nearer and nearer to the enemy's
                              lines, until at last I found myself nearly alone among a group of
                              wounded soldiers, the greater number of whom were Secessionists. I
                              knew that they were fighting in the wrong cause, but, for all that,
                              they were human beings, brothers in distress, some of them dying. As I
                              glanced down upon their pale, blood-streaked faces, pity alone took
                              possession of my heart, and with no other emotion in my breast, I
                              moistened the parched lips of all, alike, whether Union or
                              Confederate.
                           "Under a tree, and a little apart from this group, lay a beautiful
                              boy, (for he could not certainly have been older than sixteen), a
                              native I judged of Louisiana. He was dressed in a superb uniform or
                              rather costume, for it was not of any military pattern or make with
                              which I am acquainted. He had three wounds, a slight one upon the
                              right temple, a deeper one upon the left shoulder, and a horrible one
                              through the right hip. This last wound, which was necessarily fatal,
                              was caused by a large, solid cannon shot.
                           "Cutting a canteen from the dead body of a soldier I stepped to the
                              lad, and placed it to his lips. I then wiped the blood and dust from
                              off his forehead and face. Until this moment I had not noticed, that
                              in his hand he tightly grasped a richly bound pocket bible. As I
                              pushed back his curling locks, wet with his own blood, he started,
                              shuddered with agony, and then opening his eyes, which were of a
                              peculiarly beautiful blue, he smiled sweetly up in my face, took
                              another and deeper draught than before of water from the canteen, that
                              I had a second time put to his lips, and again closed his eyes. A
                              moment or so after, he once more awoke, this time, however, in
                              delirium. His struggle was soon over, however, and presently, with a
                              gasping sigh, he murmured: 'Mother! mother!' smiled faintly, and
                              died.
                           "Oh, how deeply I yearned over that dead child, thus offered up on the
                              altar of the traitor, Davis, and his vile compeers, and how tenderly,
                              as I thought of his mother, far away in her sunny home, did I close
                              his eyes and compose his limbs, placing his bible upon his breast, and
                              folding his arms gently over it.*
                              
                           
                           "With a prayer for his soul, I was turning away to find some fresh
                              patient, when I found myself close to a squad of Confederate soldiers,
                              who had become detached from a Mississippi regiment. So occupied had
                              been my attention, that I had not, until this moment, become aware of
                              the fact, that the Union forces had retreated, leaving me thus exposed
                              to capture. Three or four of the squad of Mississippians I have just
                              mentioned strode toward me in advance of the others. Happening to see
                              a miniature American flag that was pinned upon the bosom of my dress,
                              they instantly, being partially intoxicated, halted, and, drawing each
                              a huge bowie knife, raised them above their heads with the intention
                              of throwing them at me. I noticed that these fearful weapons, all of
                              which were more or less besmeared with blood, were secured by the
                              handle with long thongs or cords to the wrists of their
                                 possessors.*
                              
                           
                           
                              
                              *The reader doubtless remembers seeing an account, given in the
                                 newspapers, of the body of a boy, richly dressed, and with his
                                 arms folded over a pocket bible upon his breast, being found by
                                 a burial party that went over the Bull Run battlefield a day or
                                 so after the contest. This must have been the one here spoken of
                                 by Miss D'Estraye.—W. B.
                           
                           "A cold chill ran over me as I beheld my singular and appalling
                              danger, and, powerless to utter the slightest word for mercy, I stood,
                              trembling in every limb, expecting each instant to feel the cold,
                              murderous knives buried in my flesh. But my time had not yet come.
                              Seeing the intentions of my intended assassins, one of those behind,
                              who, from the stripes upon his sleeve I saw was an orderly sergeant,
                              sprang forward, exclaiming:
                           "'Down with your knives, you drunken scoundrels! would you murder a
                              defenceless woman, and without knowing, too, whether she's Union or
                              Secesh?'
                           "My would-be executioners grumbled something about 'Yankee flag' which
                              I did not distinctly hear, and returned their weapons to their
                              sheaths, as the orderly stepped to me and, ascertaining who and what I
                              was, made me his prisoner. During the ensuing conversation that I had
                              with my captor, who, I must say, treated me with gentlemanly
                              deference, I learned that under a shed, distant about a quarter of a
                              mile, were a number of wounded soldiers of both armies. I immediately
                              requested that, if possible, I might be taken thithern. He said he had
                              no objections to that for I might be of good use there. Accordingly he
                              guided me across a field and through a patch or two of woodland to the
                              designated place. Before reaching it, however, he insisted
                              peremptorily upon my removing, or at least concealing, the little
                              silken flag upon my breast. Knowing that it would benefit neither the
                              cause in which I was engaged nor yet myself to retain it where it was,
                              I acceded to his demands.
                           "I shall never forget the sensation of horror that seized me as my
                              eyes first fell upon the rude hospital and its miserable occupants. I
                              can only compare the place and scene to what I conceived to be a
                              
                                 
                                 *Although at first doubted, it has since become a
                                    well-authenticated fact that several Confederate Regiments were
                                    armed as Miss D'Estraye describes that her assailants were.—W.
                                    B.
                              
                               wholesale slaughter house in
                              full operation. The cries, screeches and groans of the unfortunate
                              sufferers were 
                                 incessent
                                 incessant
                               and heart rending. A space at one extremity of this shed was
                              converted into a kind of primitive room for wounded officers by
                              several army blankets, which, hurriedly fastened together, depended
                              from a rafter of the roof to the ground, thus constituting a partition
                              or wall. Amid the noise, bustle and confusion, a surgeon, who had just
                              risen from amputating a man's foot as my captors and I came up,
                              ordered me into the officers' quarter, or ward; without asking any
                              questions or having heard a word from the sergeant who had brought me
                              hither. Doubtless he took me for a devoted friend to the Confederate
                              cause, who had come to offer those little kindly services which can
                              never be better performed than by the hands of woman.
                           "The next minute I was ushered by my guide into the officers' ward
                              mentioned, where lay six or eight wounded men attended by three
                              surgeons. The first of them, dressed in the uniform of a Major, was
                              none other than my former suitor, William Fairfax. He was lying upon
                              his back, with his face turned away, but, still, I knew him at a
                              glance. As I recognized him all my old affection revived, for, though
                              he was in such a wicked cause, and though months before we had parted,
                              as we imagined forever on earth, yet I loved him still, and a low cry
                              of anguish and pity burst from lips as I sprang forward to his side.
                              At the same moment he quickly turned his face toward me, and
                              exclaimed:
                           "'Who spoke then? Tell me, for I am blind; but I thought I knew the
                              voice.'
                           "I did not reply for a little space, for my tongue was paralyzed as I
                              looked down upon those once handsome, noble features. William Fairfax
                              was indeed blind. His eyes, that had so often and so fondly gazed into
                              my own, had been torn, or rather cut, completely from their sockets by
                              a rifle ball, and their places were now covered with strips of plaster
                              and lint. Taking his hand in mine I at length made answer:
                           "'William, oh, William! would to God that I had died ere seeing you
                              thus!'
                           "Almost crushing my hand in his spasmodic grasp, my lover, on hearing
                              these words, started to a sitting posture, and, while in imagination I
                              could almost see his lost eyes gazing at me, exclaimed:
                           "'Pauline! Pauline! what witchery is this? or, am I delirious? Oh, I
                              would give my life, my soul, to have my eyes again, were it only for
                              an instant, that I might turn upon you one single, farewell
                              
                                 "Down with your knives, you drunken scoundrels! Would you
                                    murder a defenceless woman, and that, too, without knowing
                                    whether she's Union or Secesh?" See page 37.
                               glance. Tell me, why. are you here? Tell me all! Talk to me!
                              Oh, that I could see you!'
                           "My lover fell back with a deep, groaning sigh, as he uttered these
                              fervid words, and I continued to gaze upon him with a heavy sorrow on
                              my heart. At length, however, commanding my feelings, I narrated to
                              William my story since we had last parted up to the present time. When
                              I had finished he replied in a lower tone than before, and drawing me
                              down to him as he spoke:
                           "'Do not leave me, Pauline, till I die, I have something to tell you
                              before I go.'
                           "'Oh, you will not die, William!' I impulsively rejoined. My lover
                              shook his head and repeated the words:
                           "'Do not leave me, Pauline, till I die.'
                           "At this moment one of the surgeons stepped up, and made a more
                              thorough examination of Major Fairfax's injuries, than the necessity
                              of previous haste had allowed.
                           "'His wound is not mortal, is it?' I inquired anxiously of the
                              surgeon, who replied:
                           "'I fear, Madam, that he cannot recover. The injury done is peculiar
                              and terrible.'
                           "About two hours later an ambulance was driven up, and William Fairfax
                              placed in it and carried to a farm house about a mile distant whither
                              I also accompanied him.
                           "The utmost attention was paid him by the wife and daughters of Mr.
                              Gregory, the proprietor, who himself was away from home with a
                              Virginia regiment which he had joined some weeks previous. The surgeon
                              had spoken alas! too truly, and on the third day after reaching the
                              farm house of his friend, William Fairfax was dying. The afternoon was
                              close and sultry, and the doors and windows of the room in which he
                              laid were all thrown wide open to admit the few breaths of air that at
                              long intervals were stirring.
                           "As the sun began to go down it became very perceptible that the
                              unfortunate officer was rapidly approaching his end. He seemed
                              perfectly conscious of the fact, for, calling all the family about his
                              couch, he 
                                 adressed
                                 addressed
                               to each some appropriate remarks, and bade each an
                              affectionate farewell. Turning lastly to me, he said:
                           "My dear Pauline, I told you on Sunday that I had something to say to
                              you, ere I died, and now, in the presence of our friends here, Mrs.
                              Gregory and her daughters, I ask you to forgive me for having incurred
                              your father's enmity, and also for casting from me your love, by
                              attaching myself to the vile cause of Davis and his associates. At the
                              time that you and I parted apparently forever, Pauline, I believed, as I told you at the time,
                              that I was right, but since then I have found out my error. Still my
                              pride would not allow me to recant, and, having beside, in an
                              impetuous moment, risked all my wealth on the projected government, I
                              determined to stand by it to the death. I have done so, and you now
                              behold me what I am; an inglorious wreck.'
                           "'Twenty times, Pauline, on last Sabbath, as I beheld the bright flag
                              borne forward by our foes, did I long to range myself beneath its
                              folds, and die as did my ancestors in the Revolution. And, as I gazed
                              through the broken battle clouds upon its stars and stripes, I thought
                              of the day we parted, when you pointed me to the flag given to your
                              father by Lafayette, and plead so eloquently for the cause it
                              represented. Oh, dearest Pauline, with your forgiveness granted to me
                              and that flag pressed to my heart I would die happy! yes, happy!
                              happy!'
                           "'Then you shall die happy, my dearest William, I freely forgive you,
                              and here is that same old flag!'
                           "As I concluded this reply, I took from my bosom the American banner
                              that my father when dying had wrapped about me, (since which time I
                              had continually worn it next my heart), and, shaking it out to its
                              full size, laid it upon my lover's breast. He took the precious relic
                              in both hands, and, with a fervency I shall never forget pressed its
                              folds to his lips a dozen times in as many seconds. He then
                              exclaimed:
                           "'Dear old banner, I love you still!' and again pressing it to his
                              lips sank suddenly into unconsciousness. From this lethargy he awoke
                              about nine o'clock, and, turning over on his side, cried out once
                              more:
                           "'DEAR OLD BANNER, I LOVE YOU STILL!' and died.
                           "As the curtain thus fell upon a fresh and most important scene of my
                              eventful life, I could not help remarking, even amidst my grief, the
                              coincidence, that the same National emblem which had been wrapped
                              about me by my dying father, had now in turn been folded by me around
                              the form of the only being I loved on earth. This afforded me a sad
                              gratification. As the corpse of my lover was being prepared for burial
                              it was found that he had grasped the flag so tightly in his hands that
                              it would be impossible to remove it without fitting or tearing it
                              away. This I would not hear of for a moment, and, therefore, in his
                              coffin, William Fairfax still retained his star spangled winding
                              sheet, and it went with him to his narrow, dusty bed where he and it
                              will slumber peacefully on till the last day."
                        
                     
                  
               
               Although Pauline D'Estraye had been captured by the enemy upon the battlefield,
                  still she had never seen her captor, the orderly sergeant, since he led her to the
                  hospital shed on the day of the contest. She was, of course, no longer a prisoner,
                  but perfectly free to go wherever she chose.
               If she needed any additional stimulus to induce her to carry out her father's
                  wishes in regard to her adopted country and its sacred cause; she received it in
                  the sincere and heart-touching repentance of her lover, William Fairfax, and from
                  the moment of his death she became more determined than ever to give what little
                  aid was in her power to sustain the integrity of the Union unbroken.
               She thirsted, however, for a more important part in the great drama than she had
                  hitherto occupied, and she accordingly began to cast about her to find the desired
                  sphere of action. For a long time all her mental efforts were in vain, and she had
                  nearly given up any further thought about the matter, when, like an electric
                  spark, an idea suggested itself to her. She would go to the newly appointed
                  Commander in Chief of the Union Army, General M'Clellan, and offer him her
                  services as a scout or spy. At first her innate, sterling integrity and honesty
                  repelled the questionable office; but when it occurred to her, that, for years
                  upon years, treachery had been most actively and insidiously engaged in mining the
                  very corner stone of our temple of Freedom she no longer hesitated, and,
                  accordingly, the next day after forming her design, she bade Mrs. Gregory and her
                  daughters (who, notwithstanding that Mr. Gregory held a position in the
                  Confederate army, were staunch Unionists) farewell, and set forward on her
                  perilous journey.
               We said that Pauline started the next day after forming her design; it was rather
                  the next night or just about dusk, for she well knew that it would be almost
                  impossible for her to pass the rigorously kept lines of Beauregard and Johnson in
                  daylight, and even as it was, though the night was dark and the wind high, she
                  barely escaped the outer pickets. As she was making her way with the utmost
                  caution past the guard, she unavoidably stumbled and fell to the ground, snapping
                  and breaking in her descent some dry sticks and branches. In an instant the
                  sentinel's challenge rung upon her ears. It was a fearful moment of suspense that
                  followed, but her plan had been matured beforehand for just such an emergency, and
                  she promptly put it in execution. Instantly rising, she bounded off through the
                  patch of wood in which the picket was stationed, taking an oblique direction away
                  between it and the spot where she had fallen. Of course, as she sprang away
                     without replying to the challenge, the
                  sentinels discharged their muskets, but with no other than the usual results.
                  Before the reports of the pieces had died away, Pauline, adopting the 
                     strategem
                     stratagem
                   of the hunters and Indians of the Far West, dropped down upon the earth
                  and commenced cautiously winding her way along, in a crouching position. She was
                  not pursued any distance, however, and even had she been, she could easily have
                  baffled her inexperienced foes.
               In due time she reached the Federal lines and came in in company with several of
                  Colonel Ellsworth's Fire Zouaves and the Sixty Ninth Regiment.
               Hastening up to Washington, Pauline D'Estraye proceeded directly to the
                  headquarters of General M'Clellan, but was refused admittance for the reason that
                  he was too much engaged to see visitors. Three days in succession did our heroine
                  go to the General's office, but as yet had been unable to see him, and she was
                  despairing of an early accomplishment of her object when she happened to come
                  across a newspaper paragraph in which was given a brief sketch of M'Clellan's
                  life.
               "It must be the same!" exclaimed our heroine hopefully, as she finished reading.
                  Throwing down the paper she was presently attired in an out door costume and
                  wending her way once more to the "Headquarters." Arriving there she sent up her
                  card, accompanied by a note, to General M'Clellan, and was soon after told to
                  "step in." As she did so, the General, his face wreathed in its characteristic,
                  pleasant smile, came forward from the centre of the apartment to meet her. Leading
                  her to a seat he said:
               "Why, Miss D'Estraye, you are indeed a stranger; why did you not send up your name
                  and also your note when you were here before?"
               "Because, General," replied our heroine, "I never for a moment supposed that Major
                  General M'Clellan, Commander in Chief of the Army of the Union, and Captain
                  M'Clellan, of 
                     the the
                     the
                   Army of Mexico, were the same person. I know not why, but the idea never
                  once came into my mind."
               The gallant chieftain laughed heartily as he rejoined:
               "Well, Miss D'Estraye, when staying at your father's house during my tour in the
                  South, I must say that I myself little thought the unseen circumstances and events
                  of a few years would render my promotion so rapid."
               During the course of the conversation that from this point ensued between General
                  M'Clellan and his fair visitor, the latter narrated to the former her eventful
                  career up to her late escape from Manassas, dwelling with glowing enthusiasm upon
                  the deathbed scene of her rebel lover, William Fairfax.
               "By the bye," said General M'Clellan, "I endeavored to obtain that identical flag,
                  the gift of Lafayette, from you father, but without success. Nothing could induce
                  him to part with it. However, it could scarcely be put to a better purpose than
                  enshrouding a penitent Secessionist. And that reminds me," continued the speaker,
                  becoming somewhat more serious, "of the proposition you make in your note, one
                  which, to speak candidly, Miss D'Estraye, I fear you have not fully weighed and
                  considered. The office of a Scout or Spy is one of the most important and
                  responsible ones in an army, although, as you have observed, it is, in the present
                  peculiar war, a most honorable one. It is one attended by innumerable and
                  oftentimes insurmountable difficulties and dangers, and one, also, requiring large
                  experience, courage, shrewdness and tact."
               "Well, General, I can advance no other nor better reasons for my desire to enter
                  into such a service, than I have already stated to you. Still, however, your own
                  judgment must settle the matter, and should you decide me as not fitted for the
                  position I have desired, I shall immediately return to my old one."
               The Commander in Chief pondered in silence for some time, and then made
                  answer:
               "You have at least two great requirements, Miss D'Estraye; the first, a thorough
                  knowledge of the geography of the Southern States and their lines of travel, and,
                  second, loyalty to the sacred cause in which we are all engaged."
               "Yes, General," replied Pauline, "the first I attained by continual traveling in
                  company with my father, and the last was so deeply instilled in my heart, also, by
                  my dear father, that nothing can ever eradicate it."
               Again M'Clellan paused in silence for a few minutes, and then, as though having
                  definitely decided the question in his own mind, he rose, and, taking his fair
                  visitor by the hand, said:
               "I accept your proposition, Miss D'Estraye. Be in readiness this evening any time
                  after six o'clock; I will send a carriage to your hotel for you. You will observe
                  the precaution, however, to veil deeply your features, in order to prevent the
                  possibility of your recognition by any one."
               Thanking the Commander in Chief warmly for his acquiescence in her patriotic
                  proposition, Pauline bade the latter good day, and returned to the hotel at which
                  she was stopping, to pass the hours intervening between that time and night. As
                  the day drew on to a close, our heroine
                  became somewhat anxious, and it would be impossible to describe her pleasure, as,
                  at about seven o'clock, she beheld from her window, a carriage drive up to the
                  front entrance of the hotel. Five minutes more had not elapsed ere she was
                  rattling away to "Headquarters," or rather, bounding away, for, although
                  Washington is the Capital of such a great country as our own, it does not boast
                  the luxury of paved streets. She had so fully carried out the General's request
                  concerning the precaution against her recognition by any one, that the hero
                  declared upon her being ushered into his presence that he scarcely knew her
                  himself. After some little general conversation, relating to the undertaking in
                  which our heroine was about to engage, the subject was gone into in its special
                  details.
               "Well, Miss D'Estraye," said M'Clellan, "I think the matter I have in hand will
                  put your abilities to a severe test, but should you succeed you will more than
                  realize my most sanguine expectations. There is a man by the name of Dallett, who
                  has been employed in an official capacity for more than a month under General
                  Scott. The General mentioned him to me as a person, who, although professing the
                  strongest Union sentiments, is really at heart rank secessionist and a traitor. He
                  is suspected of having furnished the enemy certain information that resulted in
                  the repulse of our troops at Bull Run.
               "And I myself have a very strong suspicion that he is now diligently making close
                  observation of our lines, of defence and fortifications, preparing several
                  valuable maps, and obtaining fresh information, all of which he will either remit
                  by an agent to the enemy or desert with himself. It is, of course, in my power to
                  order him under arrest, but I fear that in such an event the documents he already
                  has in his possession will be instantly pushed forward to their destination. Now,
                  this I wish particularly to avoid. If Dallett can, without suspecting anything, be
                  prevented for the next three weeks from sending or taking any information to the
                  rebels it will be sufficient. Here is a paper giving you all the points, facts,
                  names, places and so forth, you need, to get fully on his track, from which point
                  I intend to trust entirely to you to thwart him if possible. If you succeed we
                  shall be saved nearly a month of time, which, at the present expense of carrying
                  on the War, will save the country millions of dollars.*
                   And here is a pass with which, you will be enabled to go wherever you
                  choose within the lines. If there is anything else by which you think you will be
                  further aided let me know."
               
                  
                  *The contents of this paper we suppress, for the reason, that although the
                     war may in fact be said to be already settled, still it would not be
                     advisable at any time to break in upon the precautionary measures adopted by
                     the astute chieftain of the Army.—W. B.
               
               Pauline read attentively the paper put into her hands by General M'Clellan, and
                  then, considering for a minute, or two, replied:
               "No, General, nothing more, I believe. Yes! yes!" she continued, interrupting
                  herself, "there is one thing I had nearly forgotten. It may perhaps become
                  necessary for me, in the performance of this duty, to assume different costumes
                  and even names. And as I may, from time to time, wish to see you concerning the
                  matter, it will be necessary that I have some means of insuring a prompt audience
                  with you."
               "That was well thought of, Miss D'Estraye," replied the Commander in Chief. "And
                  you will, whenever you wish to see me, put this mark upon your card, which will
                  instantly gain for you a conference." After a little further conversation, during
                  which the eccentric but lovely and patriotic Pauline agreed with the Commander in
                  Chief upon signals and other matters, the two parted. The proffer of money for her
                  expenses was made to Pauline, but she immediately declined it, insisting upon
                  paying her expenses out of her own private purse.
               Ere she laid down to rest that night, our heroine had obtained information with
                  which she could open her labors the next morning, and, by the time that Dallett
                  had commenced his day's work, Pauline was on the alert, noting his every
                  action.
               In this connection it will not be out of place to remark that, doubtless many
                  might consider the course of Miss D'Estraye as rather masculine or at least out of
                  the established line of conduct for a female and a refined lady; but we beg leave
                  to remind our readers that Miss D'Estraye was French, and that what would seem
                  indecorous to American women, is by no means so regarded by the gentler sex in
                  France. In judging, therefore, of an action done by one of the latter, we are
                  compelled to examine its intention rather than the manner of its
                  performance. With this explanatory digression we resume the thread of our
                  narrative.
               Dallett, whom both Scott and M'Clellan suspected of being a traitor, continued on
                  in his customary manner, observing his usual caution, and little dreaming that he
                  was pursued like his own shadow by Pauline D'Estraye, who, with the most
                  surprising dexterity, successfully put into use for the furtherance of her object,
                  several of the magical arts and tricks in which Antonelli had instructed her while
                  she and her father were fugitives concealed in the wizard's dwelling. On the third day after commencing her
                  watch upon Dallett, she was led to believe that he intended to make his escape by
                  himself the following night about twelve o'clock, and, of course, intended at the
                  same time to carry away with him the maps, letters, and other documents valuable
                  to the enemy.
               At first she determined to hasten to "Headquarters," inform General M'Clellan of
                  the fact, and secure Dallett's arrest, but, on second thought, she resolved never
                  to lose sight of the traitor until she had secured, if possible, the papers she
                  suspected he was going to take with him. Accordingly she prepared herself for the
                  event. Procuring the uniform and equipments of a zouave, she crossed the Long
                  Bridge a short time before Dallett was to start, and after traveling along the
                  road which led from it down into Virginia and parallel with the bank of the
                  Potomac, she at length came to a lane or by-way where she knew Dallett would leave
                  the high road, as this would furnish the shortest line by which to reach Manassas
                  Junction, the headquarters of the rebel leaders. Going a little distance up this
                  lane, which was deeply wooded on one side, she secreted herself and calmly awaited
                  the appearance of the traitor. The result proved the correctness of her
                  information and the deductions she drew therefrom, for, just a little past one
                  o'clock, her attentive ears heard the faint sound of a horse's hoofs in the
                  distance. Although her heart trembled within her with excitement and convicting
                  emotions, she controlled her feelings and nerved herself for the scene that was
                  quickly to follow.
               The night was not light, heavy patches of cloud now and then drifting across the
                  sky and hiding the stars from the view. Still there was light enough to admit of
                  one person descrying another at a little distance. Nearer drew the hoof sounds,
                  and our heroine pushed her way through the bushes in which she was concealed to
                  the edge of the road. Nearer still they came, and Pauline gave the sabre bayonet
                  upon her rifle a wrench, to assure herself that it was securely fastened in its
                  place, and drew back the hammer of her piece. Then clearing entirely the bushes,
                  but still remaining in their shadow, our heroine peered through the darkness down
                  along the lane to see if perchance she could catch a glimpse of the advancing
                  horseman, who she did not for an instant doubt was any other than Dallett. In a
                  moment more she beheld him dimly in the starlight.
               "Heaven prosper me!" she breathed in an inaudible whisper, as the rider came
                  fearlessly on, not at a very rapid pace, however. A moment of suspense passed, and
                  then, as the new-comer trotted up to where stood our fair sentinel, the latter
                  started out into the road directly in front of the horse, exclaiming, as she
                  brought her bayonet to a charge:
               "Who goes there?"
               "A friend," promptly returned Dallett, for it was he, reining up his steed, as he
                  answered, within ten paces of the self-constituted picket, who rejoined:
               "Advance, and give the countersign!"
               "Boston!" answered Dallett, as promptly as before.
               Boston was the pass-word for the Federal army on the night in question.
               "Then you are my prisoner," said Pauline, adopting suddenly a brilliant ruse, and
                  firmly bringing her piece to bear upon Dallett, who, hitherto supposing that the
                  rebel lines were yet a good distance away, instantly replied, with a mixed
                  expression of doubt, surprise and joy in his voice:
               "Ha! some mistake here, my fine fellow! some mistake, I assure you! The
                  Confederate lines have not been pushed forward so far as this."
               "If the Unionists are not sharp,' replied our heroine, "the Confederate lines, and
                  the army itself, will soon be in Washington."
               "Bravo! I'm in better luck than I supposed," said Dallett, thrown entirely off his
                  guard, "I took you for a — Lincoln sentinel, but I find you're Secesh. Now the
                  truth is this, my man: I am a bearer of important intelligence and dispatches to
                  the Commander of the Confederate army to whom I am now bound. I would give you the
                  pass-word, but it has failed to reach me to-day, and, therefore, I am without it.
                  You will consequently have to call the Corporal of the guard and pass me through
                  as a prisoner, though I would rather travel more rapidly. I did not for a moment
                  suspect that our friends had pushed forward their pickets so far as this; but
                  supposed that I was still some distance within the Union lines."
               "Is your name Dallett?" asked Pauline.
               "It is."
               "Then, the Commander in Chief has ordered me to signal your arrival at this point,
                  after which your speedy arrival at your proper destination will be insured. Excuse
                  me, Mr. Dallett, for my seeming rudeness; but you know soldiers have to obey their
                  orders strictly."
               "That's all right, my fine fellow, that's all right," said Dallett, patronizingly
                  in return. "What signal is it that you have to make?"
               "I have to send up these three rockets, within half a minute, according to the
                  numbers marked upon them; but I'm almost afraid to do it after all, for I've never been much used
                  to rocket service, and so, I'm afraid of making a bungle of it. However, here
                  goes."
               As Pauline finished speaking; she began to arrange the three rockets that she had
                  brought with her, and which were in reality a signal to General M'Clellan, instead
                  of, as Dallett fully believed, one for General Johnson or Beauregard.
               "Here!" exclaimed the traitor, dismounting as he spoke, "you had better let me
                  make that signal, you don't handle those rockets very scientifically. You say they
                  are marked."
               "Yes, Mr. Dallett, here are the numbers 1, 2, 3; you can see for yourself."
               Dallett had by this lit a small wax taper by whose flame, the figures alluded to
                  by Pauline were rendered visible.
               "Take care of my horse," resumed Dallett, drawing forth his watch, and preparing
                  to touch off rocket number One. This was exactly what our heroine desired, and
                  she, therefore, sprang with alacrity to the bridle of the steed, at the moment
                  that her over-confident companion fired the fuse of the rocket. A moment later,
                  and, with a whizzing screech, the latter reached the heavens, where it burst,
                  throwing abroad a deep red light.
               "That's singular!" muttered Dallett, as his intent gaze discovered this fact, "but
                  I suppose it must be all right."
               As he ended speaking, the second rocket was touched, and instantly mounted
                  heavenward, dispensing a plain, white light.
               "What does a white one mean?" soliloquized Dallett, in a more anxious voice than
                  before. No time had he, however, to settle this question, ere the flame of his
                  little wax taper had ignited the fuse of the third rocket. As though to prolong
                  his anxiety this one burned slowly and it was not until he had applied the fire
                  three times, that the fiery messenger, hissing his doom in his very face, fled to
                  the clouds. It burned a longer space, also, than the other two, when at last it
                  ended all further suspense by exploding, and casting a light, like the first, deep
                  red.
               Dallett involuntarily dropped the taper he held in his hand, and, still keeping
                  his eyes bent up to the spot in the sky where the last rocket had died out, he
                  exclaimed:
               "Good God! red, white, and red! That's exactly the signal I was to make in case my
                  plans had been frustrated, and my object defeated!"
               "That signal, then, is the right one!" added Pauline, in a cold, firm voice.
               
               
                  
                     "But in the meantime," replied the fair captor, curveting her horse in
                        the rear of Dallet, and still keeping her revolver leveled directly at him,
                        "you will take up your line of march for Washington. Forward!" See page
                        58.
                  
               
               "What do you say, fellow?" wrathfully asked Dallett turning sharply upon our
                  heroine.
               The traitor's heart must have died within him as he beheld, by the light of the
                  stars overhead, the scene that at this moment presented itself to him. As he had
                  fired the third rocket and was so attentively watching its upward flight, Pauline
                  had slipped her rifle, with its gleaming sabre bayonet, quickly but noiselessly
                  into the thick bushes on the roadside, and, vaulting lightly into the saddle of
                  the steed she was holding by the bridle, drew a revolver, and silently leveled it
                  upon her traitor companion.
               "One more movement," exclaimed Pauline, in a commanding tone, to her dumbfounded
                  prisoner, as, urged by the impulses common to all cowards, he seemed inclined to
                  attempt a flight, "and I blow your traitorous brains from your skull, and trample
                  your vile carcass into the earth, beneath the hoofs of your steed, that will now
                  serve a better master than he has hitherto done. You are my prisoner, as I told
                  you at first. I have been watching you for three days past, and have taken you in
                  your own snare. You, yourself, have, by the signal you just now made, informed
                  General M'Clellan of my success, and your own capture, and in a very little time a
                  mounted guard will arrive to convey you to a cell."
               With a horrid oath, the chagrined captive replied:
               "Well, it's true I've been outwitted this last bout, but I've got the satisfaction
                  of having done as much harm to the Lincoln government, as any twenty other men in
                  the Confederate service, and I may, even yet, have a chance to repay you for this
                  night's work, and if I do, the Lord help you, for I'll roast your heart piece
                  meal, you cursed abolition mud-sill!"
               "But, in the meantime," replied the fair, captor, curveting her horse in the rear
                  of Dallett, and still keeping her revolver leveled directly at him, "you will take
                  up your line of march for Washington. Forward!"
               The traitor had no other course left him but to obey, for his captor seemed
                  determined to force him to do so, or else ride him down. So, with another sullen
                  curse, he stepped away in the direction indicated by Pauline, she, at the same
                  time reminding him that her pistol was still bearing upon him, and would most
                  certainly finish his earthly career in the event of his attempting to escape.
               The two had gone but a short distance after reaching the main road leading up to
                  the Long Bridge, when a squad of cavalry came galloping down toward them. In a
                  minute more the squad reaching our heroine and her captive, surrounded them, and
                  then halted. Pauline, giving the latter
                  into the charge of the officer commanding the cavalry, fell into line with the
                  rest, until after re-crossing the Long Bridge, when, galloping away to
                  Headquarters, she presented herself, her picturesque uniform all bespattered with
                  mud, to General M'Clellan who was anxiously awaiting her.
               Placing in the hands of the highly gratified commander a large bundle of papers,
                  maps and so forth, that she had found in two saddle satchels, or small bags, upon
                  Dallett's horse, our heroine modestly, and in a straightforward manner, narrated
                  to M'Clellan the whole story of the traitor's capture, on which he had placed so
                  much importance. After receiving the hearty congratulations of the distinguished
                  soldier, our heroine, being much fatigued with her exertions, both mental and
                  bodily, for the past three days, bade him farewell until the next evening, at
                  which time he had requested her presence again, and departed for home. Arriving
                  here she cast herself upon her couch, and slept soundly until the next morning's
                  sun was high in the heavens. She did not go out at all that day, but remained
                  within doors recruiting her exhausted strength, and preparing her toilet for the
                  conference she was to hold in the evening with General M'Clellan.
               At the hour appointed she was punctually at Headquarters, where, after a most
                  pleasing interview with the gallant General, she was introduced by him to the old,
                  war-worn veteran, General Scott, who, during the course of the day, had been made
                  acquainted with the daring and successful stratagem adopted by her to capture
                  Dallett. The aged hero expressed himself in the highest terms of admiration of the
                  exploit, telling Pauline that she had brilliantly accomplished that which the
                  shrewdest and most experienced government detectives and scouts had failed to
                  compass.
               Though it would no doubt be extremely pleasing to the warm and numerous friends of
                  Miss D'Estraye to give a full detail of the conversation that passed between her
                  and her two distinguished friends, yet, from the prudential motives, which have
                  already led us to suppress some interesting information,*
                   we pass over it, with the remark, that ere its conclusion, Pauline had
                  been commissioned to go on a tour or journey of observation throughout the entire
                  South; but more particularly in those states in the East, bordering upon the
                  Atlantic Ocean. She was to report at regular intervals, if possible, or at such
                  other times as she might deem most necessary.
               This appointment truly carried with it great honor, but it was also accompanied by
                  fearful dangers and trials. Our heroine, however, accepted the perilous mission
                  with every manifestation of pleasure. Once more did General M'Clellan broach the
                  subject of remuneration or her services, and her simple, beautiful, noble reply,
                  deserves to be recorded in the hearts and memory of the whole American nation.
               
                  
                  *See note at the bottom of page 48.
               
               "General," she answered, "I am an exile among your people, but I love the
                  Americans, and the best and only reward I should ever desire for my poor services,
                  would be, that, when I die, your people, coming to my grave, should say: 'She
                  loved our nation; she was our sister.'"
               In the course of conversation a question had arisen between Scott and McClellan,
                  as to what our heroine's particular department should be designated, and by what
                  title she herself should be called. At last the hero of Lundy's Lane laughingly
                  settled the matter, by saying, that her department should embrace the whole
                  country, while, in view of the field in which she was principally to operate, her
                  most appropriate title would be Pauline of the Potomac.
               To look upon the stern features presented by artists in all portraits of General
                  Scott, one would imagine that none other than words of peremptory command ever
                  issued from his compressed lips; but this is a mistake, much of the same nature as
                  that generally made by people when they suppose Washington to have been a man,
                  whose excessive dignity never permitted a smile to lighten up his features.
               For a few days subsequent to her capture a the traitor, Dallett, Pauline remained
                  in Washington for the purpose of fully preparing herself for the dangerous
                  undertaking into which she was about to enter. All her arrangements being finally
                  completed, she started Southward. Without the occurrence of any incident or
                  accident of more than common importance she reached Richmond, where, however,
                  almost the first person she met, while out promenading on the afternoon of her
                  arrival in the City, was the orderly sergeant, by whom she had been captured at
                  the battle of Bull Run. As she was not disguised he instantly recognized her, and,
                  coming up, accosted her in a polite but rather awkward manner. She was dressed
                  handsomely and in a fashionable manner, wearing prominently displayed a Secession
                  rosette, the more surely to divert suspicion from herself. This rosette at once
                  struck the attention of the orderly, and he opened his conversation with an
                  allusion to it.
               "How do you do, Miss, D'Estraye?" said the rebel soldier, "I see you've changed
                  your colors since we first met."
               Nothing could have been more opportune for our heroine's wishes and purpose than
                  this question, for it afforded her a chance of guiding the ensuing conversation so as to avert all
                  suspicion, and yet not to commit her own conscience to direct falsity. It was,
                  therefore, with one of her most winning, gracious smiles, that she replied:
               "Well, now answer me, sergeant, do you not believe that that is
                  right?"
               "That's just exactly what I do believe," answered the simple minded orderly, his
                  eyes glistening with delight, "and I rather thought at the time, that you had made
                  a mistake in choosing the Yankee side, on the day of the battle, when I seen you
                  going round like an angel among our poor boys that were wounded."
               "By-the-bye, I never, until now," almost interrupted Pauline, wishing to keep her
                  companion on the track on which she had so adroitly thrown him, "had an
                  opportunity to even so much as thank you for your gallant interference in my
                  behalf, upon that fearful day, when I would, without doubt, have been murdered by
                  those terrible men who were going to cast at me their bowie knives."
               "Oh, now don't mention that at all, Miss D'Estraye, please don't," said the
                  orderly, "I'm only too much pleased to think that I happened to be at hand when
                  them drunken villains attacked you. You see they had got liquor some way or other,
                  and I expect felt kind of wicked anyhow, for, the few besides them that you saw
                  with me, were all that were left alive out of a whole company of us, officers and
                  all, the rest being cut all to pieces. I am here in the city now, recruiting, and
                  I expect to be full day after to-morrow, when I'll get my commission as Captain,
                  and go away the same night."
               Our heroine, with the judgment of a good general, capped the climax of her
                  strategy by the reply:
               "Then, as you will doubtless need some money in carrying out your object, I must
                  beg of you to accept this from me as a small memento of my gratitude."
               As she ceased, she put into the hand of the outwitted fellow a gold piece. He
                  gazed upon it for a moment or so, as though he had not seen a coin of that sort
                  for a long, long time, and then looked inquiringly into the face of our heroine,
                  who completed her victory by saying, with a laugh:
               "Uncle Sam's eagles are not at a discount with us here in Richmond, if his flag
                  is."
               "That's so, Miss D'Estraye, that's so!" answered the orderly emphatically,
                  "they're not only at no discount, but at about fifty cents premium on a dollar. I
                  only wish I had a flock of them sort of eagles. I'm very much obliged to you for
                  your kindness and liberality."
               
               
                  
                     PAULINE'S introduction to Lieutenant-General Scott, by Major-General
                        McCLELLAN. See page 54.
                  
               
               "Do not forget though, for all," jokingly rejoined Pauline, "that I am, by the
                  rules of war, your prisoner."
               "Oh, Miss D'Estray," was the answer, "
                     its
                     it's
                   not for the likes of me to think about making a prisoner of a lady like
                  you. And, besides, I know you're on the right side, or else you wouldn't have been
                  so kind to our poor fellows on the battlefield, that were wounded, and you
                  wouldn't have asked me to take you from there right straight to the hospital, and
                  you wouldn't be wearing that rosette. No! no! Miss D'Estraye, I know you're on the
                  right side."
               For several minutes more our heroine kept up the conversation with the rebel
                  soldier, and by the time that she parted from him she had not only gained his
                  respect and friendship, but had, besides, obtained from him information of the
                  highest value to her, in the prosecution of her designs. He did not leave the city
                  until nearly a week after his interview with Pauline, and then, as he was marching
                  through one of the principal streets, at the head of his company toward the
                  railroad depot, he saw her seated on a balcony viewing the procession. As he
                  passed he not only saluted her himself, but, pointing her out to his men, said
                  something to them, to which they replied, with three loud huzzas, the color-bearer
                  of the company saluting her by slightly lowering toward her the Secession flag he
                  bore.
               This was the last that Pauline ever saw of the orderly, or rather Captain, whom
                  she subsequently learned was killed a few days after reaching camp, by the
                  bursting of a howitzer, from which a squad under his command were firing a
                  salute.
               For two weeks after reaching Richmond Pauline was constantly on the alert, making
                  observations and obtaining information which might be at all useful to General
                  M'Clellan, to whom she was to report within a certain time, either by signals
                  within sight of Alexandria or Washington, as prudence or necessity might dictate,
                  or by a personal interview. During the last week of the two, she had been using
                  her utmost exertions to obtain possession of a book of new signals, and the key
                  thereto, which had been adopted and put in use by the rebel Generals and their
                  signal corps. But this was by no means an easy matter, and she had nearly given up
                  the idea of obtaining them at all, when the thought struck her, that by a bold
                  manœuvre, boldly carried out, she might possibly compass the much desired end.
                  True there was much risk attending it, and should she unfortunately be discovered
                  and taken, the certain and ignominious death of a spy awaited her.
               But, beside having a dependence on her own powers, Pauline was of that class, who, like Napoleon, are, to a
                  certain extent, Fatalists, or, more properly and 
                     reasonaby
                     reasonably
                  , Providentialists, believing that there is a certain and irrevocably
                  fixed time, at which it is ordained that we pass from the scenes of this world to
                  take our part in those of the next. With such a faith as this, it ceases to be a
                  wonder that a refined and yet frail being like our heroine, should undertake the
                  accomplishment of a task, from which the bravest man would have most likely
                  shrunk. Still, like Napoleon, she left no desirable result to be brought about by
                  chance alone; but deliberately prepared and executed every movement of her plot
                  for the grand success.
               Colonel Farquair, the commanding officer of a corps of signalers in the city, had
                  been introduced to our heroine, and taken more than a passing fancy for her. She
                  resolved to turn this to account, and, therefore, though she could in reality
                  experience only feelings of abhorrence and contempt for a man, whose best
                  abilities were directed in hostility to the sacred cause in which she was engaged,
                  she led him to imagine that, she looked with favor upon his suit. This had the
                  desired effect, and, within a day or two of the time at which she was to report
                  progress to General M'Clellan, the enamoured officer, who had paid so much
                  attention to her as to almost wholly neglect his duties, proposed for her heart
                  and hand.
               "Colonel," she replied, with much dignity, "such language is out of place. Were I
                  even in a mood to accept your propositions, I should feel obliged to refuse at
                  such a crisis as the present. You know not at what moment you maybe ordered away
                  to the field, and, once there, you may be cut off in the twinkling of an eye.
                  Rather would I hear you speak of bravely facing the foe; of dying for the cause
                  you have espoused. Such is the language that should be uttered by a hero, rather
                  than the softly-spoken vows of the heart, and the sweet words of love."
               For some minutes the conversation was carried on in this strain, the gallant
                  Colonel urging on his siege, and our heroine gradually but surely drawing her
                  unsuspecting adorer to the desired point. This she presently accomplished, and,
                  without his for a moment 
                     supecting
                     suspecting
                   her design, gained from him the intelligence that on that night he
                  intended to give up his command of the signal corps, to take the Colonelcy of a
                  regiment of cavalry, or rather to exchange his post. It would take him all the
                  rest of the day to finish his arrangements and, as he might not be able to see her
                  again for several days, he requested that he might be allowed the pleasure of
                  paying her a visit on his way up from his station or rendezvous. To this Pauline,
                  of course, cordially assented, and so they parted.
               Our heroine lost no time in making preparations for her coming adventure, for she
                  felt fully assured that the Colonel would never part company with his book and key
                  of signals, until he had delivered them safely into the hands of the officer
                  appointed to succeed him. She knew, also, that he would be obliged to pass her
                  hotel on his way up. This, therefore would be her only opportunity, whether it
                  proved successful or not, for he would then most certainly have with him the prize
                  she so much coveted. Procuring a military suit she hastily altered its trimmings,
                  and marks of rank, so as to accord exactly with that worn by her suitor. This,
                  upon retiring to her own room, immediately after supper, she donned. These
                  preparations, which a casual observer of fashionable life would have thought were
                  being made for a masquerade, were not completed a moment too soon, for, just as
                  Pauline had placed her cap somewhat jauntily upon her head, a horseman galloped up
                  to the front door of the hotel, and dismounted. A moment or so after, a servant
                  brought up the Colonel's card. She immediately sent down a request that her
                  visitor should come up stairs to her private parlor, as she did not wish to
                  descend to the general reception room.
               The gallant soldier was presently shown up. After the servant had withdrawn, our
                  heroine removed from about her a large shawl, with which she had concealed her
                  military attire from the eyes of the latter, as an untimely discovery might have
                  ruined her whole plot. The Colonel, laying down a flat, square package upon the
                  centre able, stood for nearly half a minute and gazed in the utmost astonishment
                  at his fair companion, who, with a merry laugh, advanced, made the military
                  salute, and, extending her hand, said:
               "Good evening, Colonel Farquair; you seem surprised."
               "Indeed, Miss D'Estraye, it is more than seem, for I am indeed really surprised.
                  To speak truly, you have so taken me by storm that I hardly know what answer I am
                  making."
               "Then as your thoughts are completely thrown into confusion, and refuse to rally,"
                  replied our heroine, using a military metaphor, "I should, by the rules of war,
                  take instant advantage thereof; but I will be magnanimous, and allow you, while I
                  make an explanation, to reform the broken battalions of your thoughts. You must
                  have already noticed the fact that my disposition is somewhat eccentric, and it
                  gives me pleasure to indulge myself in most of my odd fancies. So, just after you
                  went away to-day, an idea struck me to see how I would look in a Colonel's
                  regimentals, and, on the spur of the moment, I obtained a suit, which has cost me
                  some hours of hard work to alter to that of a Colonel of the Confederate
                  army."
               
               "And certainly you have succeeded most admirably," returned our heroine's suitor,
                  with gracious smiles.
               "But my bit of masquerading is not yet finished," added Pauline.
               "Why, are you going to raise a regiment for the war; or follow some lover to the
                  tented field?" asked Colonel Farquair.
               "Oh, no! by no means quite so romantic yet. I merely wish, with your kind
                  permission, to take a canter up the street with yourself; that is all."
               "By my sword, which I hope never to disgrace," replied Farquair, in gratified
                  tones, "you shall do just whatever pleases your fancy; but with this stipulation,
                  that if you go up with me, you return by yourself; for, though it would afford me
                  the greatest pleasure to accompany you back, I shall be obliged to remain at the
                  rendezvous to transfer my papers and some other matters to my successor."
               "That is a hard condition, but nevertheless as it is a military necessity I
                  submit."
               "Where is your horse, Miss D'Estraye? I did not see any standing in the street,"
                  rejoined our heroine's highly pleased companion, for, being himself of a lively
                  and somewhat mischievous disposition, the Colonel appreciated a joke with a keen
                  relish.
               "Well, really, Colonel," answered Pauline, "I have been so busy preparing my
                  uniform, that I have not had time to send down to the hostler, and, therefore, if
                  it is not too much trouble, may I ask you to step down to the back office, and
                  request him to saddle Black Tom for me; but of course dispensing with the side
                  saddle?"
               "Certainly, with pleasure," replied Farquair, rising from the seat he had taken,
                  and passing out of the apartment. He had scarcely crossed the threshold, however,
                  before he turned back and said: "I suppose that parcel on the table will be all
                  right?"
               "Assuredly, Colonel, I will be responsible for it."
               "Then, that is sufficient."
               With this reply the rebel officer strode away to carry out the request of our
                  heroine, whose eccentricity delighted him.
               The moment Farquair turned away this time, Pauline, her lips compressed, and her
                  cheeks pale from the effect of the effort she was about to make, seized the
                  package, which she felt was a book, and almost bounded to the door. Slightly
                  opening the latter, she curiously watched her unsuspecting companion striding
                  along the hall, until he came to the rear staircase, leading down to the back
                  office mentioned. The instant he had disappeared from view, she hurried out, and,
                  quickly gaining the opposite staircase, which led down to the front of the hotel,
                  she descended it, walked boldly through the main hall, and out into the
                  street.
               Here a knot of idle boys had gathered about the Colonel's steed, a a high mettled
                  and beautiful animal. Brushing these aside, our heroine sprang into the saddle,
                  and, amid the cheers of the urchins, cantered down the street in the direction of
                  the river. She had not neglected the precaution, in her preparations, to secure to
                  the heels of her boots a pair of spurs, and these she held in readiness to plunge
                  into the flanks of her steed, should she be prematurely discovered. The result
                  proved the wisdom of her forethought, for, from some reason or other, when he
                  heard the boys cheering, and heard also the clattering of hoofs, Colonel Farquair
                  ran to the front door to see that his horse was all right. He soon discovered, of
                  course, that the latter had disappeared, and began, cursing and swearing
                  dreadfully that it should have been allowed to run away.
               "He didn't run away!" exclaimed several voices at once. "An officer came out and
                  rode away on him; we thought it was you."
               [The Colonel was a small man, so that our heroine might easily have been mistaken
                  for him, as far as regarded size.]
               "What!" thundered Farquair, a sudden suspicion crossing his mind, of who the rider
                  really was; "an officer did you say?"
               "Yes, an officer," replied a gentleman, who had been a witness of the bold
                  manœuvre, "a Colonel, I should say, from the glimpse I had of his uniform."
               Without another word Farquair hurried back into the hotel, and, almost flying up
                  stairs reached the room so lately occupied by our heroine. Dashing open the door,
                  he entered, and cast his eyes upon the centre table, on which had lain the parcel
                  he had brought in with him. For a moment he stood as one stupefied, and then,
                  clenching both his hands in his hair, threw himself down upon a sofa, exclaiming,
                  in tones of anguish:
               "My God! I'm ruined! I'm a ruined man! She's nothing else than a Union spy. And to
                  think, infernal fool that I am, that I have been so easily hoodwinked!"
               So astonished had been the proprietor of the hotel, upon seeing the excited manner
                  of Farquair, that he had followed him quickly up stairs, and beheld him cast
                  himself upon the sofa in the manner we have mentioned.
               "Calm yourself, Colonel," he said, stepping to Farquair, and laying his hand
                  soothingly upon his shoulder, "calm yourself, and tell me, what is the
                  matter?"
               The latter, thus appealed to, managed at length to control himself, so far as to give the landlord a hurried and
                  somewhat broken account of what had taken place, and asked him to have his best
                  horse saddled that he might go instantly in pursuit of the fugitive. This the
                  landlord agreed to, and, in a very short time after, the exasperated rebel was
                  galloping away in the direction in which our heroine had disappeared.
               Colonel Farquair was a shrewd, sharp man, and in proof of this, it is sufficient
                  to say, that, in less than half an hour after setting out, he came within sight of
                  the fair fugitive. He could just see her dimly, a short distance ahead, riding at
                  no very rapid pace, and he now began to think that, after all, she might be
                  playing a practical joke upon him, and he was about to hail her, when he beheld
                  her suddenly dart away with the speed of the wind.
               As cool as she was courageous, Pauline had resolved to husband the strength of her
                  steed for the real race, for that she would be immediately pursued she entertained
                  not the shadow of a doubt. She had, therefore upon getting out of sight of the
                  hotel, rather slackened her gait than otherwise, keeping her spurs ready for use
                  the moment she should see danger behind.
               "Forward!" she involuntarily exclaimed, as the clatter of the hoofs of her
                  pursuer's horse sounded in her ears. As she spoke, the rowels sank deep into the
                  flanks of the steed beneath her, who bounded away, quivering in every limb with
                  sudden pain.
               An instant later Farquair spurred his animal onward in pursuit, and the race now
                  began. On flew Pauline, and on flew the enraged Colonel, grinding his teeth, and
                  inwardly cursing himself for his stupidity in allowing himself to be deceived.
                  Presently the silvery, gleaming waves of the river appeared, and the rebel
                  commander congratulated himself that his prize was now certainly gained, for she
                  would never attempt to pass this formidable barrier. But how delusive are
                  oftentimes the fondest of human hopes and wishes.
               Gathering the reins in one hand, and settling herself more firmly in the saddle,
                  Pauline, who, in passing we may say, was an expert and accomplished equestrian,
                  wavered not an instant, but with another plunge of her spurs, dashed her steed
                  headlong into the river. Nothing daunted, although much astonished at the boldness
                  of the act, Farquair attempted to follow suit; but he was thwarted in his design
                  by an accident that he had not looked for. Such had been the haste with which his
                  horse had been saddled and bridled, that the girths had not been buckled with
                  sufficient care, and must have been too tight, for, just previous to reaching the
                  edge of the water, they broke, and the animal, balking at the same moment, threw
                  his rider with much violence directly over his off shoulder. Fortunately for the
                  Colonel, instead of falling upon the hard ground, in which case it is more than
                  likely that he would have been instantly killed, he was cast into the water,
                  which, at that spot, was shallow enough, however, to allow him to strike the
                  bottom with much force.
               Upon finding himself relieved of his burden, the Colonel's horse set off at full
                  speed down along the shore, and, by the time that his master, half-stunned, much
                  bruised,and dripping wet, emerged from the river, was out of sight. The rebel
                  officer, who had been so unfortunate, seeing the straight to which he had been
                  thus brought, was fain to return on foot to the quarters where he was to meet his
                  successor in the command of the Signal Corps, and make known his sad misfortune;
                  for the parcel that had been borne off by our heroine, was indeed the book and key
                  of the new signals in use in the forces of the Confederate States. Further than
                  this it has never transpired what became of the Colonel; but if he escaped a court
                  martial, he was certainly more fortunate than others, whose offenses had been much
                  lighter.
               Pauline, after plunging so boldly into the sweeping river, swam the noble steed,
                  that bore her. so bravely, only a short distance out into the stream before she
                  turned his head down with the current. As she felt his powerful limbs steadily
                  working beneath her like levers, she felt confident that he would carry her safely
                  to shore again, and it was not long before he did so, for she soon became
                  convinced that her pursuer had given up the chase, and accordingly at the same
                  time made for the north bank. Reaching this in safety, she once more urged her
                  horse onward, and did not draw rein until she was six or eight miles from
                  Richmond. Fearful, however, of breaking down the noble animal, that had thus far
                  served her so gallantly, our heroine allowed him now to travel at his own gait
                  until daylight, when, putting him again to his speed, she soon after reached a
                  farm house, at which she dismounted.
               Entering boldly, she asked to see the proprietor, who presently, making his
                  appearance, she demanded a horse of him, in the name of the Confederate States,
                  that she might continue her journey, which admitted of no delay. At first he
                  equivocated, saying that he had sent all his horses away, but when she stated to
                  him, that, beside making the demand in the name of the Confederate States, she,
                  unlike that government, intended to give him an equivalent, in the horse she had
                  brought with her, he recollected that, in a neighboring field, there was a fine
                  animal which she could have, one that did not, belong to him but had been
                  committed this care by a friend, who he
                  thought, however, would not object to the exchange. Of course this was too
                  transparent not to be seen through at once by our heroine; but she affected not to
                  notice it. Within twenty minutes more she was galloping along on her bold and
                  perilous journey.
               Traveling in this way, with as much expedition as possible, our heroine at last
                  reached the Potomac river, which she struck some miles below Aquia Creek, so
                  renowned as the locality where the Rebels erected their most formidable batteries.
                  She had ascertained in the course of her flight, that the Confederate lines were
                  so strictly guarded in a 
                     Norththerly
                     Northerly
                   direction, that she must almost certainly be captured should she attempt
                  to pass them. In consequence, she deemed it most advisable to make for the
                  Potomac, and hail some vessel passing up to Washington.
               It was a bright and beautiful morning on which, sheltered from observation from
                  the land by a cluster of trees and bushes, she stood upon the shore of the noble
                  river, and watched anxiously the appearance of some upward bound vessel. For
                  nearly an hour had she been thus waiting when she saw with joy a steamer coming
                  up. Before it came abreast of where she was, Pauline began waving her handkerchief
                  to attract the attention of those aboard. Whether her motions were observed or
                  not, she was unable to tell, but she had the bitter disappointment of seeing the
                  vessel pass on her way without giving any sign of having recognized her signal.
                  Her anxiety was heightened to an actual fear of failure, by the same course being
                  pursued by several successive vessels, that had been followed by the first. At
                  last, however, her perseverance was crowned with success, and her heart fairly
                  leaped for gladness, as she beheld a steamer head across stream, directly toward
                  her, and shortly after saw a boat manned by a full crew, push off from her for
                  shore. It was not long before she stepped into the boat, and started for the
                  vessel. They had not rowed many yards, however, before, over the crest of a ridge
                  they beheld a company of cavalry who came dashing down with whirlwind speed to the
                  shore, doubtless intending to fire a volley upon the boat and its occupants, and
                  then perpetrate one of those "masterly retreats" for which the Confederates have
                  become famous.
               A moment later, a puff of white smoke leaped from the deck of the steamer,
                  accompanied by the roar of a pivot gun. Pauline knew instantly what this meant,
                  and instinctively she raised her eyes, just in time to catch a glimpse of what
                  seemed to be a bird, with its wings closed, shooting across the sky; but what in
                  reality was a large shell, that, aimed with fatal accuracy, fell and exploded
                  directly in the midst of the advancing company of horsemen, blowing several of
                  them to pieces, and scattering the rest like chaff in the wind. These instantly
                  retreated in wild confusion up the hill, down which they had come so defiantly,
                  but ere they had gained a place of safety, there came another puff of white smoke
                  from the deck of the steamer, another roar, and another shell sped toward the
                  fugitives, on its errand of death. Striking the ground close to one of the
                  horsemen who had lagged somewhat in the rear of his more hasty companions, the
                  fearful missile burst, rolling both horse and rider to earth in one mangled
                  mass.
               Pauline, on coming aboard the steamer, retired to the cabin in company with the
                  Captain, to whom she explained the reason why she wore the Uniform of a
                  Confederate officer, exhibiting to him, also, the special pass given her by
                  General M'Clellan. As this was perfectly satisfactory, our heroine experienced no
                  further trouble in landing in Washington, on reaching which city she drove to her
                  hotel, where she speedily changed her military disguise for her own proper dress.
                  This done; she hastened away to Headquarters, to see General M'Clellan, bearing
                  with her the precious parcel containing the rebel signal book and key, which she
                  had so adroitly and boldly wrested from the possession of her Confederate friend,
                  of Richmond, Colonel Farquair.
               The General was busy at the time, but her card gained for her an immediate
                  audience, much to the astonishment of a group of patient expectants in the
                  ante-room, who made the most strenuous endeavors to gain a sight of the features
                  of one so highly favored by the Commander in Chief. In: this, however, her
                  precaution had disappointed them.
               The General's face was covered with glad and gracious smiles as he cordially
                  greeted Pauline, placing former a chair immediately opposite his own.
               "The first duty, Miss D'Estraye," began the chieftain, with a humorous twinkle in
                  his eyes, "is to court martial you, or rather to institute a court of inquiry, as
                  to the reason why you made no signals at the time appointed, for which, however, I
                  doubt not you can give very good reasons."
               Our heroine smilingly rejoined, as she handed to M'Clellan the signal book:
               "I think, General, that in this book you will at once find a satisfactory excuse
                  for my neglect, or rather inability, to signalize you at the appointed time. You
                  asked for one signal, and I have brought you many."
               
               The Commander in Chief, without waiting to respond, immediately that he received
                  the book, proceeded to examine the nature of its contents, in which occupation he
                  had not been engaged a minute before he fully ascertained the character and
                  consequently the value of the prize.
               "The Court unanimously acquits you, Miss D'Estraye," he exclaimed, closing the
                  book, and taking his fair companion by the hand. "Tell me, however," continued he,
                  "in what manner you became possessed of this prize?"
               Our heroine, with that gentle modesty and simple candor which so prominently
                  marked her character, related to her attentive listener she story of her
                  adventures in Richmond, with what difficulty and danger she accomplished her
                  object, and, also, her subsequent, perilous journey to Washington; describing with
                  graphic vigor the affair of the cavalry company and the steamer. At the
                  conclusion, general M'Clellan again congratulated and thanked our heroine for her
                  heroic devotion to her adopted land.
               "There remains one part for you yet to perform, Miss D'Estraye," he continued,
                  after a quarter of an hour's further conversation, "one of the utmost importance
                  to fully complete the success you have already inaugurated."
               "Then all that is necessary, General," promptly answered Pauline, "is, that you
                  should name it."
               "It is this," resumed the Commander in Chief, "that you allow me to arrest you as
                  a spy and traitor."
               Pauline started, and a perceptible paleness overspread her beautiful features, as
                  she noticed that, during the utterance of the last sentence, her distinguished
                  companion cast upon her a peculiar, meaning look. Ere she had time to utter the
                  exclamation of surprise that came instantly upon her tongue, the General,
                  perceiving the effect that his words had taken upon her, hastened to add:
               "Do not be alarmed, Miss D'Estraye, you seem to mistake my meaning. Allow me,
                  therefore, to explain the matter. You may readily suppose, that the rebel leaders,
                  finding this book of signals has been lost, and, that it has most likely reached
                  us, may, perhaps, set about having it revised and altered. This would, however, be
                  a work of so much trouble, that they would, most likely, seize gladly upon any
                  pretext which would save them the labor. Now, to induce them to the belief that
                  this book, although reaching us, will not be used, nor even be paid any attention
                  to, by us, and consequently will do them no harm, I will order your arrest as a
                  Secessionist Spy, and follow it up properly, giving you, personally, the
                  assurance, that you shall be privately liberated in three days."
               Our heroine, upon hearing this explanation, cheerfully assented to the proposed
                  plan, only asking that her name should be suppressed. To this request General
                  M'Clellan cordially agreed.
               Accordingly, the next day Pauline was conveyed to secure quarters, and the
                  succeeding morning to that, a paragraph, which was copied by every paper
                  throughout the length and breadth of the land, appeared in the Washington
                  newspapers. It ran thus:*
                  
               
               
                  "STRANGE RUMOR!—
                  "A Southern lady, who has resided several years in South Carolina, but for some
                     time past has lived in Richmond, has arrived in Washington, and had an
                     interview with the Commander in Chief. The main object of the visit is to
                     dispose of a new code of signals which, she says, is now in use by the
                     Confederate Government. But it is thought that the price demanded by the fair
                        rebel—One Hundred Thousand Dollars!—is rather too steep, for
                     even such a well to-do old gentleman as Uncle Sam to pay. The whistle is too
                     dear. In fact the whole affair is considered nothing more than a ruse de guerre, and the fair patron of Jeff. Davis
                     has been arrested on the suspicion of being a spy."
               
               This piece of intelligence produced quite a stir among the Secession sympathizers
                  in Washington, and it was, without doubt, immediately communicated by them to
                  their friends in arms. Up to the present date all the signals made by the enemy,
                  (and General M'Clellan's brilliant strategy has, by this time, rendered a change
                  in them useless), have always been found to correspond exactly with those laid
                  down in the book obtained by Pauline. Consequently, with the assistance of the key
                  thereto, all the signalized manœuvres of the forces of the Confederates have been
                  just as intelligible to general M'Clellan as to their own commanders.
               According to his promise, General M'Clellan had our heroine set at liberty within
                  three days after her arrest, without the slightest noise being made in the matter
                  and, in less than a week after her release, she once more set her face Southward
                  for a fresh journey of observation. Previous to taking her departure, she had an
                  interview with General M'Clellan for the purpose of receiving instructions, which
                  latter, for reasons we have already once or twice stated, we
                  
                     *
                     *Our readers no doubt remember having read the news item here spoken of.—W.
                        B.
                  
                   omit. During the course of this interview M'Clellan
                  narrated to our heroine the following:
               "On the third night after I first reached Washington to take command of the army,
                  I had a very peculiar dream. I thought that I was sitting with my maps before me,
                  when, all at once, the walls and ceiling of the apartment, in which I was,
                  vanished, and I found myself gazing Southward, over the whole expanse of the
                  Southern States, from the Atlantic ocean to the Mississippi river. I also noticed
                  that during this time there had been standing near me a shadowy being, whose
                  features, however, were invisible, and therefore prevented my recognizing him. He
                  addressed to me some words of command, and, at the same instant, an indescribable
                  but resistless power took possession of me. Involuntarily I seized a pencil, and
                  commenced noting and marking down all the points of military importance, positions
                  of troops, and so forth, that, as I looked forth over the immense panorama before
                  me, I beheld with as much distinctness as I now perceive you.
               "By the time I had finished, I became aware of a sudden and intense brightness
                  near me and, looking hastily up, I saw that the shadowy figure I had hitherto seen
                  was no longer an indistinct shadow, but the glorified spirit of Washington, the
                  Father of his Country. Again he addressed to me some words, in the same slow,
                  solemn tones as he had used before, which being finished, there came a loud clap
                  of thunder, and I awoke. But you can scarcely imagine my astonishment, when, on
                  glancing at the map before me, I saw that during my dream I had literally covered
                  it with a net work of pencil marks, lines and figures.
               "Comparing this strange, unearthly map, which I had thus drawn, or rather
                  completed, in my sleep, with what I had beheld while looking abroad over the
                  Southern panorama which, in fancy, had been spread out before me, it indicated,
                  that, at a certain point, the enemy were rapidly concentrating heavy forces for a
                  combined attack upon the capital, here, which must have proved successful. True,
                  all this was only a dream; but so vivid was the impression of danger it left upon
                  my mind, that I could not rest until I ascertained whether such was the fact or
                  not. I did so immediately, and, miraculous as it may seem, found the dream
                  verified in every particular. By speedy combinations I was enabled to thwart the
                  threatened movement, that otherwise, must have resulted in fresh disaster to the
                  glorious cause of our Union.
               "From that moment I became more than ever before convinced that Heaven was on our
                  side, and that, through the interposition of Divine Providence, the bright flag to
                  which you, Miss D'Estraye, have so nobly devoted your means and energies, will,
                  ere long, float proudly over every foot of our undivided country."
               "I now perceive the reasons, General," replied our heroine, as the Commander in
                  Chief finished his strange narrative, "why you wish to be so fully informed
                  concerning this Norfolk affair."
               "Then you doubtless see, also, the necessity of what I require," was the General's
                  answer.
               "I assure you that I do," rejoined Pauline, "and I beg to add, that my poor
                  abilities shall be taxed to their utmost to accomplish the mission with which you
                  have entrusted me."
               "It would be superfluous, Miss D'Estraye, to say that I have no doubt you will. So
                  I will but pray that God will speed you on your perilous journey."
               With these and a few other farewell words, M'Clellan and his fair spy parted, the
                  latter to hasten to Norfolk, and the former to proceed with the mighty work still
                  before him.
               Owing to her great ability to disguise, not only her figure, but also her
                  features, especially the latter, for which she was originally indebted to the
                  wizzard of Paris, Jerome Antonelli, our heroine, after experiencing many narrow
                  escapes reached the city of Norfolk, 
                     Viginia
                     Virginia
                  . Once indeed did she deem herself lost; but, by her coolness, courage
                  and determination, she succeeded finally in extricating herself from her perilous
                  position.
               She had just left Petersburg behind her rather late one afternoon, fact it was
                  drawing close on toward evening, to reach the next railroad station in time for
                  the following morning's train, as she did not wish, from motives of prudence, to
                  take the cars in the city. As she was riding carelessly along, she became aware of
                  being pursued, at least such was the idea that entered her mind as the sound of
                  hoofs struck upon her ears. She feared to look back, and she feared, also, to
                  gallop away, for, in either case, were those behind really pursuers, she would
                  either way attract specially their attention and confirm their suspicion, which
                  she might otherwise avert. So she kept on at the same even, careless pace at which
                  she had hitherto been riding, until her new companions, three Confederate
                  troopers, were close upon her, when she turned partially in her saddle, and
                  returned their salutations.
               "Where might you be travelling, to, Mister?" asked the foremost one,
                  riding close up to Pauline, and touching his cap as he spoke, while a second came
                  close up on the opposite side of her, and the third reined in his horse a pace or
                  so immediately in the rear of the party.
                  Pauline instantly noticed this manœuvre, and as quickly comprehended its meaning;
                  but there was not a quiver in her tone as she replied to her interrogator, that
                  she was merely riding out from the city for a little recreation.
               A silence of a minute or so ensued, during which the troopers and our heroine rode
                  along, the two on either side of her now and then exchanging significant glances
                  that meant her no good. He who had first accosted her then abruptly resumed:
               "I think I know you, Mister. I think I've seen your face before
                  to-day."
               "Quite likely!" answered Pauline, with a smile of apparent indifference. At the
                  same moment, however, a deadly chill ran through her whole being, as she
                  recognized in her interrogator one of the identical four villains, who, at Bull
                  Run, were about to slaughter her in cold blood when prevented by the orderly
                  sergeant, who himself, as the reader is already aware, subsequently met such a
                  tragic fate. A single glance of scrutiny at her companion on the other side,
                  convinced her that he was also one of the four, and she, by this time, entertained
                  no doubt that he who rode behind was a third one of the same party.
               "And that ain't all," continued the leering ruffian, who had constituted himself
                  the spokesman of the trio, "I know I've seen you before, first at Bull Run, where
                  you was going to be served just as all your infernal Yankee crew ought to be
                  served; and then to-day again, in Petersburg, here. And we, all of us, know you're
                  sailing under false colors, or rather sporting borrowed clothes. You ain't a
                     man as you want to make out; but a woman; and a handsome one at that.
                  And so we'll just make you our prisoner, We'll give you quarter, and treat you
                  good, if you'll submit; but if you go to putting on any high tragedy why we're the
                  boys as is used to taking blood. Ain't that so, boys?"
               "That's so, comrade," replied the speaker's two vile companions.
               Miss D'Estraye, in her journal, in referring to this incident, says:
               "I scarcely know how to characterize my feelings at this trying moment, as I
                  comprehended at once the horrid peril which stared me in the face. I feared not
                  death, for the battle's fiercest blast had failed to pale my cheek; but that fate
                  worse than death, that doom which indelibly and forever darkens woman's fair
                  escutcheon, made me tremble, made me a coward. My heart seemed to come into my
                  mouth as I stood thus upon the very verge of the abyss into which I seemed about
                  to be helplessly plunged. I was alone, a weak, fragile woman, in the power of
                  three strong, wicked men, whose black
                  
                     "Looking hastily up, I saw that the shadowy figure, I had hitherto seen,
                        was no longer an indistinct shadow." See page 72.
                   designs, were I a double idiot, I could not fail to understand. Night
                  was also rapidly falling, and a cry for help would be as useless as the shriek
                  uttered by the tempest tossed mariner driving upon the breakers of ocean. What
                  could I do? A moment of hesitation, of delay, would seal my fate. I was armed with
                  a pair of small revolvers, but the idea of taking human life, even in exchange for
                  my own, was something so appalling that I shrank from the commission of the act.
                  But my honor was to me more than life twenty times over, and, besides, I had not
                  yet accomplished the grand object of my mission. In an instant, therefore, my
                  resolution was taken, and as quickly put in execution.
               "Whipping out one of my revolvers, I discharged it directly at the villain on my
                  right, and, without waiting to see its effect, immediately after levelled and
                  fired at the one on my left. Then, dashing my horse forward, I galloped away,
                  though expecting every moment to feel a bullet from the remaining one's pistol in
                  my back; but, though the deadly missile went singing past my ear, the good God
                  whom I worshipped, and in whom my trust was ever placed, mercifully preserved me
                  from harm.
               "Bounding along at headlong speed until I reached a bye way leading into another
                  road, I turned into it, and having reached the latter, hastened directly back to
                  Petersburg, confident that, by boldly returning to the city, I was much safer than
                  in continuing my journey. The next morning I watched eagerly for the newspapers,
                  anxious to see any account in them of the adventure of the previous evening in
                  which I had been forced to take so conspicuous a part. I was greatly rejoiced, and
                  relieved of a terrible mental weight, when I learned that the two vile men whom I
                  had shot down were painfully but not dangerously wounded.
               "A hint to me to be more cautious than usual, I found in the closing paragraph of
                  the item, wherein a thousands dollars were offered for my apprehension as a
                  dangerous spy, and a minute description given also of my personal appearance;
                  which latter, of course, was my appearance in the eyes of the wounded men and the
                  companion, who, the evening before, instead of pursuing me, remained, after firing
                  at me, to assist his disabled friends. But I was not to be caught so easily, for,
                  ere I had retired to rest after my perilous adventure, I had so changed my
                  identity, that I would not have feared to present myself before even my enraged
                  fellow travelers, from whose clutches I had so narrowly and Providentially
                  escaped.
               At the earliest practicable moment our heroine again bade farewell to Petersburg and resumed her journey toward
                  Norfolk, which city she reached after experiencing one or two unimportant
                  incidents and slight delays, and immediately set to work to fulfil the objects of
                  her coming hither. One of the principal of these was to ascertain all the facts in
                  relation to the old United States' ship Merrimac, of whose intended alteration
                  rumors had already reached the ears of the Commander in Chief. At the outset she
                  met with difficulties which were apparently insurmountable; but her ready
                  invention, resources and tact, presently overcame them all, and she at last gained
                  almost daily admittance to the dock where the vessel was being razeed and altered.
                  And it was no great length of time ere she learned all the details of the
                  reconstruction of the latter, her armor and armament, and also what she was
                  intended to accomplish.
               All this information, besides other, almost equally valuable, our heroine recorded
                  in the smallest possible space, and then concealing the papers containing it about
                  her person, she set off as soon as possible on her return to Washington.
               She had comparatively little difficulty in reaching Richmond, but, Northward from
                  that city, she soon learned that traveling was still more difficult and hazardous
                  than ever before. After carefully considering the matter, and weighing the
                  chances, she, therefore, resolved to follow the course she had pursued before,
                  which was to reach the Potomac, hail some passing vessel, and thus get to
                  Washington without the delay and danger arising at almost every step of an
                  overland journey thither.
               Setting out, she safely reached the river named, and was even more fortunate than
                  before, for, happening to fall in with a "Contraband," whom she detected in the
                  act of drawing a canoe out of a willow thicket on the bank, in which, he confessed
                  that he and his wife were going to paddle out to a steamer that was then in sight,
                  she persuaded him to allow her to take a seat in his fragile little vessel, which,
                  soon bore her and her two ebony friends safely to the steamer.
               Once aboard, our fair Spy had no longer any anxiety, for though the rebel
                  batteries had yet to be run past, yet not much apprehension existed on that
                  account, as the latter were generally so badly served, that scarcely one shot in
                  one hundred ever reached its mark. As in the previous instance, the special pass
                  of General McClellan, when once more under the dominion of the Stars and Stripes
                  acted like a charm. In due time, therefore, Pauline arrived at Headquarters, where
                  she delivered into the hands of the highly gratified Commander in Chief her papers
                  and notes, and again received his warmest thanks and commendations for this
                  additional service she had rendered to the Government. A hasty perusal of the
                  documents she had brought elicited from M'Clellan the remark:
               "I fear they will be a little too soon for us after all, and do us harm ere it can
                  be prevented. However, the Navy Department must do its best in the matter."
               When, in connection with these words of M'Clellan, we call the reader's attention
                  to the fact, that had the Monitor not been so hurriedly finished as she was, and
                  dispatched, even before being fully completed, to meet the Norfolk monster,
                  Merrimac, the latter, after destroying our wooden feet in Hampton roads, would
                  have been able to go out to sea, when nothing could have prevented her steaming up
                  to Washington itself and shelling the city; we repeat, that when we call the
                  reader's attention to this fact, he will at once perceive the value and importance
                  of the service rendered by Miss D'Estraye. He will also appreciate the modesty and
                  sterling worth of our heroine, when he is informed, that it has been her constant
                  desire and aim, that her name should not be trumpeted abroad over the land, in
                  connection with the great results that have been brought about through her
                  instrumentality.
               Unlike many of those who have during the present war obtained furloughs for rest
                  and recreation, after having achieved great and glorious deeds, Pauline never for
                  a moment accepted, much less sought for, the shortest release or repose from the
                  arduous and dangerous duties she had voluntarily assumed. Consequently but a few
                  days elapsed after her arrival at Washington from Norfolk, before she once more.
                  hastened away into the enemy's country, on what she piquantly termed "a little
                  tour of observance."
               Upon arriving near the Confederate lines, she found that they were so strictly
                  closed that to pass them under ordinary circumstances would almost insure her
                  arrest. In vain she awaited a favorable opportunity to get through, and she was on
                  the point of returning to seek some other route, when one night a storm of wind
                  and rain set in. While this was at its height she set forward once more,
                  determined, if at all in her power, to go through into the desired land beyond. In
                  her longings for success and her ardent resolve to a accomplish her purpose,
                  Pauline had forgotten to take into consideration the condition of the roads, and
                  in consequence, by the time she had traveled some distance, she found herself so
                  fatigued with walking, or rather wading through the deep mud, that she was almost
                  ready to abandon her intentions and turn back. By this time, however, she was
                  within the outer Confederate lines, and to retrograde now was equally dangerous as to go forward; and so
                  with renewed vigor she pushed on.
               As we write, it may seem to the reader almost as incredible as it at first seemed
                  to ourselves, that such a young, beautiful, accomplished and wealthy lady as Miss
                  D'Estraye, should thus brave the dangers of an occupation, from which the stoutest
                  and bravest men would almost have shrunk. But as the facts in the case are so well
                  authenticated as to admit of no question, we have only left to us the duty of
                  recording the narrative plain and unvarnished as we find it.
               On toiled our heroine through the darkness and tempest, and when daylight at
                  length came, she had the unalloyed satisfaction of finding herself in comparative
                  safety. So exhausted was she, however, upon reaching the house of a Unionist, well
                  known for his loyalty, that she could with difficulty stand upright, and it was
                  several days before she was again strong enough to continue her journey. The
                  further South that she advanced, the easier she found it to travel, and, with the
                  most 
                     consumate
                     consummate
                   skill, as she flitted from town to town, she extracted information that
                  became valuable to her in some way or other from every one who possessed any. In
                  the course of her journey, as Richmond was the Capital of the Confederacy, and,
                  therefore, the centre of all the civil and military doings and operations of the
                  assumed Government, she soon reached the city, where some little time before she
                  had so completely and adroitly outwitted Colonel Farquair. That gallant but rather
                  too credulous officer was one of the first persons sought after by Pauline, whose
                  utmost inquiries, however, elicited no more concerning him than what we have
                  formerly herein given. The reason of Pauline's anxiety concerning Farquair's
                  whereabouts was, as much as anything else, to avoid coming into collision with
                  him; for, though she had outgeneraled him once, she did not care to give him the
                  slightest opportunity to return the favor. 
               Ascertaining in the Confederate Capital that certain movements and preparations
                  were in progress at New Orleans and Mobile, she at once started for these two
                  important cities of the Southwest. On her route, which she did not always select
                  the most direct, our heroine came to Raleigh, North Carolina, in which city she
                  wished to stop a few days. Here she saw a number of prisoners who had been
                  captured while fighting in the Federal army. Among these was a young man, who,
                  from his uniform, which was shabby and much worn with constant service, she saw
                  was a Lieutenant. The resemblance the captive soldier bore to her deceased lover,
                  William Fairfax, as so strong, that Pauline was unable to take her eyes off him,
                  until at last her prudence was recalled by observing one of the guard watching her
                  suspiciously. She immediately averted her eyes, but, ere turning away from the
                  spot where the prisoners had been halted in their march, should not resist parting
                  glance at the face which had so deeply impressed her. The captive Lieutenant had,
                  from the first, noticed her seeming recognition of him, yet still his good
                  breeding would not allow him to even return full her gaze; but there was in her
                  parting look so much of pity and benevolence, that, unable longer to maintain a
                  frigid demeanor, he smilingly bowed, and politely lifted his cap to her.
               At this moment the prisoners were ordered forward, and, as they moved away,
                  Pauline turned down a side street just behind her, and soon lost sight of them.
                  From that time out, in the midst of all her labors and perils, the pale but noble
                  face of the Federal officer haunted her continually, and a feeling sprang to life
                  within her for him, which she had never experienced for any one save William
                  Fairfax. Could it be that the flame of affection, which, since the death of the
                  latter, had smouldered away in her breast, had been fanned once more into life by
                  the features of a stranger and a captive? We shall see.
               The day following Pauline left Raleigh and hastened forward to her destination
                  where she finally arrived in safety. Here, however, she encountered much more
                  danger than she expected, more, in fact, than she had met with during her whole
                  journey hither. Still, however, nothing daunted, she persevered in her perilous
                  task, determined to fulfil the errand on which she had come.
               It is an old, but also a true adage, that, "the pitcher goes often to the well,
                  but is broken at last." And this was eminently true in its application to our
                  heroine.
               From Mobile she had proceeded to New Orleans, and, after gaining all the
                  information that she wished, she returned to Mobile. For once, now, however, her
                  usually good fortune failed her, and she was seized and thrown into jail on the
                  suspicion of being a spy. Thus at last she found herself accused and incarcerated
                  among bitter enemies on a charge, which, if substantiated, would most certainly
                  consign her to a doom as certain as it was ignominious. Of this she was fully
                  aware, and, therefore, calmly resigning herself to whatever was to befal her, she
                  sent the greater portion of her time in religious duties.
               Several persons during this time visited her, and endeavored by every species of
                  artifice to entrap her into a confession of her true character and intentions; but she successfully
                  foiled all their attempts. The last of these visitants was a lady, who, with the
                  co-operation of the jailor, tried to induce Pauline to believe that she was a
                  Unionist, and had obtained the privilege of coming to see her, only through
                  bribing the jailor, whom she hinted to Pauline, was himself slightly touched with
                  loyalty to the United States. But, unfortunately for her deeply laid plan, she
                  injudiciously let drop a word or two early in her conversation, that convinced our
                  heroine at once of her sinister designs, and consequently put her on her guard.
                  Finding her intended victim fully awake to her object, the lady left, retaining
                  however, her bland mask of polite pity to the last.
               Immediately after Pauline had been arrested, her boarding house had been
                  thoroughly searched for letters, dispatches, or papers, containing information,
                  wherewith to convict her of the charge laid against her. But her foresight had
                  rendered this also useless, for she had selected a place of concealment for all
                  her papers, where, should they be discovered, they would never do their owner the
                  least harm. Her foes, therefore, being disappointed in their first hopes, had been
                  obliged to resort to various subterfuges and stratagems to endeavor to criminate
                  her, but as we have seen without success. Still, though unable to accomplish their
                  object, by either fair means or foul, they were determined, at least not to allow
                  her her liberty, and she was, therefore, arbitrarily, and, of course, illegally,
                  detained a prisoner, by those very persons who, at that identical time, were
                  loudly denouncing the suspension of the Habeas Corpus by the President.
               Another Week had passed away, and our heroine, relieved for the present of the
                  apprehension of death, began to find her captivity irksome, deprived as she was of
                  every employment, and not even allowed a book, paper, or any other means of
                  passing away her time. At the expiration of this week, the sailor came to her one
                  day and ordered her to follow him.
               "Or just hold on a minute," he said, gruffly, halting at the cell door just as he
                  was about to lead our heroine from her small apartment, "I suppose I must obey the
                  orders. There's a Yankee officer over on the other side down with the small pox.
                  None of his men friends will go and stay with him, and we won't allow any of our
                  own people to go near him, for fear of spreading the disease. I thought of you, as
                  you're reported, and, in fact, known to be a friend to the Lincolnites; may be you
                  wouldn't be afraid to go and take charge of him. It's a pity our boys ever gave
                  him quarter, and put all this trouble on to our hands."
               "Has he the then no one to take care of him?" asked Pauline, her sympathies at
                  once aroused for the unfortunate stranger, although the same time she could not
                  repress, a 
                     supicion
                     suspicion
                  , arising from the strange and almost brutal language of her companion,
                  that this might be a fresh ruse against herself."
               "No, of, course not," replied the hardened jailor, in answer to her question,
                  "there's no one here foolish enough to risk catching their death for the best
                  Yankee prisoner that ever lived."
               "Then, sir, lead me to his cell, I fear no contagion when Mercy calls
                  me to perform a sacred duty; a duty due to every living being whether friend or
                  foe."
               "You're a spunky woman, anyhow," replied the jailor, with an unassumed dash of
                  admiration in his tones, as he glanced at his fair prisoner, and then stepped out
                  of the cell into the corridor to guide her to the sick soldier.
               They had not far to go, and soon therefore, arriving at the cell of the invalid,
                  Pauline's companion stood aside, and, pointing into the small room, bade Pauline
                  enter if she chose.
               Our heroine waited for no second bidding; but, without the slightest hesitation,
                  crossed the iron threshold, went directly to the dirty window, drew aside the
                  dingy curtain, that rendered the prison chamber still more gloomy than otherwise,
                  and then turned to the bedside of the unfortunate officer. As her pitying gaze
                  fell upon the features of the latter, she started back, and a strange emotion
                  seized her heart. The stricken captive who had been so terribly, so heartlessly
                  neglected, was none other than the Lieutenant whom she had seen passing with his
                  comrades through Raleigh.
               Many and various were the emotions that crowded themselves into the mind of our
                  heroine, whom the poor sick one was too prostrated to recognize. But as he felt
                  the small, cool hand that pressed itself gently upon his hot brow he exclaimed
                  with grateful, tremulous accents:
               "God bless you, Madam, oh, God bless you for this kindness. You are the first one
                  who has turned aside to even look in upon me since I was taken sick."
               "Be of good cheer," replied Pauline, taking the invalid hand in her own, and
                  speaking to him in soothing tones, "we will soon have you well again."
               "I fear not," answered Lieutenant Adams, for such in fact was his name, "this
                  fearful disease has such a hold upon me that it is impossible for me to
                  recover."
               "Oh, no, not so bad as all that!" exclaimed Pauline, in a sprightly tone, with a view to dissipating the despondency of
                  his mind. "In a very short time we will make you so comfortable that you will
                  scarcely know you are a stranger in a strange land."
               "Ah, yes!" said Adams, catching the full meaning of the last sentence, "I am
                  indeed a stranger in a strange land."
               Pauline knew that there was no time to lose, for the terrible malady was just
                  beginning fully to set in on her patient, and the most desperate symptoms of the
                  disease had yet to come. So, stepping to the door, outside of which still stood
                  the jailor, she requested the latter to send her a couple of servants and obtain
                  for her certain medicines she named. As though relenting of his hitherto harsh and
                  merciless feelings and conduct, the jailor hastened away and immediately fulfilled
                  the fair nurse's request.
               It was not long before, with the assistance of the servants, Pauline had converted
                  the mephitic cell into a clean and tidy chamber. This essential duty performed,
                  she turned her full attention to her captive friend, and from that time till
                  midnight she continued anxiously to watch by his bedside, now and then speaking to
                  him words of consolation and hope.
               As she had anticipated the medicine she gave him had but a palliative effect, and
                  not until the malady had reached and passed its height, did she expect to bring
                  about a change for the better. But at the proper time, she was not disappointed in
                  her hopes, and thenceforward her patient rapidly mended, until one day she
                  informed him, with a glow of something more than affection upon her lovely
                  features, that he was now out of danger.
               Long and interesting was the conversation that followed this announcement, and ere
                  it had closed each had opened the sacred garners of their hearts and entrusted to
                  the other their precious contents. And there, in the lonely captivity of their
                  cell, did Pauline D'Estraye and Lieutenant Adams, who owed his life to her tender
                  care and solicitude, plight their troths, and vow to live only for each other.
               The saying has almost become a hackneyed one, that "truth is stranger than
                  fiction;" but thousands of incidents happening every day have conclusively proved
                  it, and we may, without fear of contradiction, affirm, that there is more romance
                  in real life, that is being continually brought to our notice, than in the almost
                  fervid imaginings of the novelist. Who would have asserted when Lieutenant Adams
                  and our heroine first noticed each other in Raleigh, that the unseen circumstances
                  of the future would eventually throw them into the relative, positions we have
                  seen them occupying, and that, while the inmates of a prison cell, they would
                  exchange vows of eternal love and constancy?
               Although a rank Secessionist, the jailor of our lovers, as we are now at full
                  liberty to call them, had become so favorably influenced by the devotion of our
                  heroine, that he granted both her and Adams many privileges of which it was
                  otherwise in his power to deprive them. Each day they were allowed an hour in the
                  morning and afternoon if the weather was clear to walk about in the garden
                  attached to the prison. On one of these occasions, the subject of their
                  conversation being their incarceration, and the chances of their early or distant
                  release, Lieutenant Adams imparted to his betrothed the fact, that he had been,
                  ever since his recovery, continually devising some plan by which they might in
                  company make their escape, and endeavor to reach the Union army.
               So contented, however, had Pauline become, while tending her lover through his
                  sickness, that she had scarcely given a thought to the subject until the moment it
                  was mentioned to her by him. Her active mind instantly took hold of the idea now
                  though, and she quickly advanced several plans for the accomplishment of the
                  desired end, for the consideration of her companion, who was bold, brave and
                  determined. Their allotted hour soon flew away, and they were obliged, while in
                  the midst of their deliberations, to return to their cells. Ere separating,
                  however, each promised to think over some further plans and compare notes in the
                  afternoon.
               Each was, of course, impatient of the intervening hours, and both were delighted
                  when they once more met it the garden where in safety they could converse on the
                  absorbing topic of their attention.
               Various were the plans each had thought of and now suggested, none of which,
                  however, seemed safe enough to reduce to practice, and they were again about to
                  postpone the whole subject for a little time, when suddenly a solution of the
                  difficulty flashed upon the mind of our heroine, which was, in reality, a
                  combination of portions of several of the plans that had been already advanced by
                  one or other of the lovers. With beaming eyes she laid it out in its minutest
                  details to Adams, who could scarcely repress an exclamation of delight at its
                  conclusion.
               For nearly a week after this, Pauline and her lover, watching their opportunity,
                  obtained and concealed about there such articles as they intended to use in making
                  their way out of the jail. Everything within their limited power, by the
                  expiration of this time, however, being ready, they fixed upon midnight of Sunday
                  to make their hazardous attempt. The
                  elements seemed to favor them, for about sunset a most violent storm came up,
                  which raged uninterruptedly until late the following morning.
               Just after twelve o'clock had struck, both our adventures made their way silently
                  and with safety to the yard, where meeting at a spot they had previously
                  appointed, they prepared to scale the high stone wall that yet barred their
                  progress. This wall was the most formidable obstacle they had to deal with, for,
                  beside being so high, it was hard and smooth, and was capped with a broad roof,
                  that came far over, inside and out, in eaves. The ridge, also, or lap of the
                  shingles composing this roof, looked inward, and thereby prevented a hook, thrown
                  from the prison yard, catching in it. The only place, therefore, where a kedge or
                  hook, projected over the top of the wall, could take hold, was under the edge of
                  the outside eave. Having, while at college, studied trigonometry, Lieutenant Adams
                  had, by means of a thin strip of wood, regularly notched, been enabled to measure
                  from his cell window the exact height of the wall. This enabled him correctly to
                  estimate the length of the rope ladder necessary to reach its top, a very
                  essential thing in such instances as the present.
               After many fruitless endeavors, he at last succeeded in securing the ladder in its
                  desired position. Swinging his full weight upon it to satisfy himself that it
                  would hold, though on this point he had scarcely any doubt, for the greatest care
                  had been used in its construction, he rapidly mounted. Ere he reached the top,
                  however, the seemingly frail support suddenly slipped, and a thrill of horror ran
                  through Pauline, who was steadying it below, as she expected the next instant to
                  see her lover dashed to earth at her feet. But it was only the edge of one of the
                  shingles that had been cut through, by his weight coming on the thin but strong
                  cord which passed over it, and the undaunted climber hurried up, until he stood
                  safely upon the comparatively narrow roof.
               Instantly casting down one end of a strong cord which he had taken up with him, he
                  bade Pauline secure it about her body and follow him. With the utmost coolness and
                  confidence our heroine did as she was directed, and began her ascent. The wind
                  blew in heavy gusts, and at these times the frail ladder swung fearfully, and, but
                  for the precaution taken by Adams, it is more than likely that she would have been
                  thrown down, notwithstanding her tenacious hold. Presently, however, she reached
                  her lover's side, and in a very short time the ladder was drawn up, and, the hooks
                  being secured under the inner eave, it was let down on the outside.
               Pauline, the rope still around her body, was the first to descend. Outside, the
                  wind was, of course, more violent than in the prison yard, and the danger of the
                  descent, therefore proportionably increased. But, thanks again to the protecting
                  cord that Adams still grasped securely, his fair companion, reached the ground
                  safely. The moment she did so, our hero commenced his descent, which was as safely
                  made as Pauline's.
               Thus the lovers now found themselves at liberty, or, more properly, only out of
                  prison for the most imminent danger, that of pursuit, had yet to come. However,
                  putting their trust in God, they started boldly on their perilous flight. Before
                  morning dawned they were many a mile away from their late dreary abode, and, even
                  then, resting but for a short time, they again set forward more rapidly than
                  before. They were indeed favored by Providence, for, from the time of their
                  escape, to their reaching Claiborne, on the Alabama river, they had neither heard
                  nor seen anything of any pursuers, nor had they encountered any other danger worth
                  mentioning. 
               Here obtaining fresh disguises, they procured also a bateau, in which they
                  continued their flight. Lying close in concealment during the day, in some
                  convenient shelter, they traveled only by night, the better to avoid danger.
               One night, when about thirty miles above Claiborne, they saw some little distance
                  ahead, up the right bank of the river, a number of camp fires, around and among
                  which were groups of men, some lying, some standing, and some walking about. In
                  its the scene was picturesque and very romantic, yet to our fugitives it was
                  anything but agreeable. About midnight, however, the encampment, which was that of
                  a band of Confederate recruits going down to Claiborne, sank into quiet, the fires
                  burning gradually out, while the drowsy sentinels, posted only for drill and
                  practice, could be dimly seen sitting on logs, 
                     apparenly
                     apparently
                   as fast asleep as their comrades. It was at this juncture that our hero
                  determined to pass the camp, and, muffing his oars afresh, he set forward. He
                  might as well have spared all his precaution, however, for he experienced not the
                  slightest difficulty in passing up, and in twenty minutes more he was at a safe
                  distance from the locality.
               Without much hardship, notwithstanding that they were thus making their way
                  through a country filed with peril, at least for them, our fugitives at last
                  reached Cahawba, also on the Alabama river. Holding a consultation now as to the
                  best manner of proceeding, they came to the decision that, although the shortest
                  distance to the North was up through the line of operations in Tennessee, yet, from the intelligence that reached
                  them, it would be most advisable to take the longer route, into Virginia. The
                  great advantage, also, that this course possessed, was the fact, that Pauline was
                  familiar with almost every foot of the way. As soon as the escaping lovers had
                  definitely settled upon the intended route, they lost not a moment in setting
                  out.
               Crossing the country to Montgomery, which it will be remembered was the first city
                  selected as the Capital of the Confederate Government, Lieutenant Adams and his
                  fair companion there took the Railroad to Richmond.
               Aside from being often perplexingly delayed by causes beyond their control, our
                  fugitives finally got to Concord, a little town some thirteen miles east of
                  Lynchburg, Virginia. Here, however, 
                     they they
                     they
                   were nearly discovered, and would doubtless he been seized, at least on
                  suspicion, had they not beat a hasty retreat back to Lynchburg from whence they
                  took the Railroad leading up to Gordonsville.
               Although they were so well disguised, yet the risks of continuing their flight by
                  the regular highways of travel became so great, that the fugitives determined to
                  endeavor to reach Alexandria by crossing the country intervening between that
                  place and Gordonsville. Two or three, days elapsed, however, before their
                  preparations for this tedious journey were completed, and, even then, they were
                  detained nearly the rest of the week, by an unexpected accident, from setting out.
                  Once fairly away, however, they felt themselves in comparative security, and made
                  good progress until they arrived within a few miles of Fairfax Court House; when,
                  move in whatever direction they might, they seemed to run continually into danger.
                  Every road and lane, by night as well as day, appeared to be filled with scouts
                  and patrols. Indeed, early one morning just before sunrise, as they were passing
                  across a narrow road that wound through piece of woods, they were nearly lost. In
                  such an out-of-the-way place and they did got dream of encountering either foot
                  travelers or horsemen, and they had got nearly half-way across the road before
                  they noticed the clattering of hoofs. Without waiting to ascertain which way the
                  mounted intruders were coming, the lovers instantly fell back into the bushes
                  skirting the woods, from which they had only a moment before emerged.
               They had hardly concealed themselves in their retreat, when two horsemen rode past
                  at full speed, the dirt from their horses' heels being thrown with violence into
                  the faces of the crouching fugitives, who breathed much freer on finding that they
                  had not been seen.
               "That was the nearest to capture, yet," said Adams, in a low tone of relief, as he
                  drew Pauline closely to him.
               "It was certainly quite as near as I ever wish to be to enemies," replied our
                  heroine.
               "It seems to be getting worse and worse as we advance," rejoined Pauline's lover,
                  in a musing tone, "now, if we could only get within a reasonable distance of the
                  Union line and then make a bold dash for it—"
               "Make haste slowly, dear George," interrupted Pauline, "is a good old saying, and
                  we must still keep it in practice as we have hitherto done. We might lose all we
                  have thus far made by one of those bold dashes of yours. In two or three days, or
                  rather nights, more, we shall be within three miles or so of the Federal pickets.
                  If we can then obtain horses and get sufficient start, then I think a dash will be
                  safe enough. But now, that we are on the eve of enjoying the fruit of our mutual
                  toils and dangers, let us not cast it recklessly from us by an inordinate desire
                  to obtain it."
               "You are right, dearest Pauline, you are right," replied Adams, "I am too
                  impatient, I know; but it results from my anxiety to see you safe out of this
                  miserable place, and freed from this terrible suspense."
               By this time the fugitives were satisfied that they might cross the road without
                  fear of encountering any more stragglers, and so, leaving their hiding-place, they
                  hastened away, keeping constantly a sharp look out for danger.
               During that day, although their progress was rather slow, they did not fall in
                  with any one who gave them any trouble. They continued their flight thus until
                  they were within five or six miles of the Federal army, when the bright stars of
                  the third night after their adventure with the horsemen, glistened brightly down
                  upon them. About midnight, after traveling in a direction Northeast, between
                  Alexandria and Fairfax Court House, they had diminished this distance by more than
                  a mile, when a short distance ahead they described a row of log huts or cabins.
                  Advancing cautiously, they ascertained these to be the quarters of a squad of
                  Confederate cavalry.
               Under a shed near by were fifteen or twenty horses, for two of which our lovers
                  would have given nearly all they possessed, and which they endeavored, by every
                  plan they could devise, to obtain possession of. But, after watching until close
                  on to daylight, they were about to retreat from their position to one of more
                  security, when a negro servant came out of the largest one of the cabins, went to the shed in the rear, presently
                  brought forth two chargers, and, leading them to the cabin, which was doubtless
                  the officer's quarters, left them standing opposite the door while he himself
                  re-entered.
               "Now is the moment, dearest Pauline," earnestly whispered Adams, "no one is about;
                  let us go mount those horses and be off! Come, quick! Now, or never!"
               As he finished the speaker strode forward, accompanied by Pauline, who, as though
                  catching the danger-daring inspiration of her lover, seconded him in every motion.
                  A few moments sufficed for their to reach the steeds. The door of the cabin was
                  ajar, and the latch in the hand of some one, who was giving some hasty orders ere
                  coming out. The moment was a critical one; for should the officers, for whom the
                  steeds were intended, make their appearance an instant too soon, all would be
                  lost, and Pauline and her lover be made captives once more.
               Placing her foot in the stirrup of the off horse, Pauline grasped the reins, and,
                  with a slight assistance from Adams, vaulted into the saddle. Almost at the same
                  moment Adams bestrode the other animal, and, even as the cabin door opened, the
                  noble animals were off like the wind, bearing their new masters bravely toward
                  safety. An instant more and the alarm was given, and several shots were sent
                  whistling after the fugitives ere they were half way out of range. A sharp twinge
                  in the right ear, convinced Adams that a ball had passed through it. But, not
                  noticing it, he called to Pauline to lean well down over her horse's neck, and
                  thus lessen the risk of being struck.
               The ruddy glow in the eastern sky warned the flying lovers that daylight was
                  rapidly coming upon them, and consequently the danger of being retaken, before
                  reaching the Federal lines, proportionably increased. Although pursued by the
                  squad stationed in the cabins, from which they had started on their race for life;
                  still they were confident that they could distance them, and consequently, the
                  only danger now to be feared, was that of meeting fresh squads or scouts. Of these
                  they felt assured that many were scattered throughout the country through which
                  they must necessarily travel. Just as daylight fully broke, their worst
                  apprehensions were confirmed.
               As they were bounding along they chanced to glance across a large field to the
                  right, around the northern boundary of which wound a lane. A short distance down
                  the latter they beheld four horsemen, riding furiously forward, apparently with
                  the intention of gaining the road on which they were, and thus cutting off their
                  advance. The chances were about even for both parties reaching the junction of the
                  road and the lane at about the same moment, in which case the lovers were
                  lost.
               On rode the fugitives, and on came their enemies. The latter were so sure of their
                  victims that they had drawn their sabres, the cold, glittering flashes of which
                  were sufficient to make the blood run cold. At this moment, when the fate of
                  Pauline and her lover seemed sealed, the latter, dropping the reins, drew his
                  revolvers, and, while at full gallop, leveled them across the corner of the field,
                  upon the first two horses of the advancing foe, and fired. Both animals fell
                  headlong to the ground with their riders, and, in the confusion thus occasioned,
                  our fugitives rode madly, safely past the end of the lane. Their two remaining
                  enemies, however, intent only on their capture, left their fallen comrades to take
                  care of themselves, and dashed on in hot pursuit.
               The horses ridden by our lovers trembling, beneath them, and covered with foam,
                  were fast failing from their previous terrible exertions, yet on, on they
                  flew.
               "Courage, Pauline, courage!" almost gasped Adams, "we shall soon be safe now!"
               Our heroine answered only with a look of affection, and determination, and clung
                  the closer to her saddle.
               A few minutes more passed, and then, as the fugitives reached the crest of an
                  elevation in the road, Pauline's eager eyes caught sight, in the distance, of a
                  Star Spangled Banner, floating proudly upon the breeze.
               "Oh, George! look! look! we're saved! we're saved! there's the old flag
                  again!"
               These fervent words had scarcely passed Pauline's lips, before two sharp reports
                  rang out from behind, and her left arm fell broken and dangling at her side, while
                  a deadly pallor instantly overspread the features of her lover, who, however,
                  still retained his saddle.
               The next moment the clear, ringing reports; of several Minnie muskets were heard, 
                     followod
                     followed
                   by a wild and defiant shout from an outer picket of the army of the
                  Union."
               "God bless you, brave soldiers!" was all that our wounded fugitives could utter,
                  as their horses, staggering almost to their knees, were seized by the strong arms
                  of friends, and themselves lifted tenderly from their saddles.
               They were kindly cared for, and their tale soon reaching the ears of the Commander
                  of the Department, he visited them in the hospital, whither they had been
                  conveyed, and had with them a long conversation. Their injuries, which were not
                  serious, were attended to, and, having it
                  in his power, the General commanding granted Lieutenant Adams leave of absence,
                  and afforded to them both special conveyances for reaching the Headquarters of
                  General, M'Clellan, where, in due time, they arrived.
               That gallant chieftain was no less astonished than pleased at the safe return of
                  Miss D'Estraye, whom he began to fear had met an untimely fate, as he had heard no
                  tidings of her since her departure so long before. He expressed the deepest
                  commiseration for her injuries, and congratulated her upon her Providential
                  escape. Lieutenant Adams he highly complimented for his bravery and daring,
                  promising him promotion at the earliest opportunity. This meeting took place just
                  previous to General M'Clellan taking the field in person, and, ere its conclusion,
                  our heroine and her betrothed had confided to him, as children to a father, their
                  intentions for the future, and obtained from him his ready assent to honor their
                  nuptials, at the conclusion of the war, with his presence.
               Further than this we have naught to record of interest to the reader. Yet we
                  cannot close without saying, that we think the latter will cordially join us in
                  wishing long life, prosperity and happiness to the heroine of this simple,
                  unadorned narrative, PAULINE OF THE POTOMAC.
               
               After the above had gone to the printer the Compiler ascertained that, among the
                  mortally wounded of the Confederate army at Yorktown, from which almost
                  impregnable stronghold General M'Clellan drove the enemy, was Colonel Farquair. He
                  commanded a regiment of the cavalry force that formed the rear guard of the
                  retreating army, and fell nearly at the first fire. When carried into a little
                  old-fashioned house that served for an hospital, he entered into a short
                  conversation with the Federal surgeon who was 
                     examing
                     examining
                   his wound. As the latter was turning from him to another wounded man, he
                  said to him:
               "Ah! it was a heavy blow to us when M'Clellan, through Pauline D'Estraye, got
                  possession of those signals. However, it can't be helped now. It's all up with
                  us!"
               Farquair died the next morning.
               
                  W. B.
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
