
    ----CITATION----
        Buz.. Dolby and Father .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5966
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               DOLBY AND FATHER. 
             
            BY "BUZ." 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               P. S. WYNKOOP & SON,  
                     108 FULTON STREET. 
                  
               
             
            1868. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by P. S. WYNKOOP & SON, In the Clerk's office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New York. 
            
               BAKER & GODWIN, PRINTERS, 
               PRINTING-HOUSE SQUARE, NEW YORK.
             
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            IT has been our purpose in writing these few pages to present at least three ideas: First, the beauty of Consistency, sometimes noticeable in the lives of Individuals who consider Policy the best honesty; Secondly, "Uncongeniality" and "Incongruity," brought into contrast with a private charity not only wholesale in its nature, but somewhat "Borriboola-Ghaish" in its tendency; Thirdly, a national charity, which "suffereth long and is kind"-a forgiveness peculiar to our people, which in some cases is more marvelous than the repentance. To illustrate this last point, we have introduced an old Captain of universal information, who, we assure our readers, is a real personage, who still retains kindly remembrance of old Dartmouth Prison, and is one of the few still living there held in confinement by the English in the war of 1812. However appropriate or inappropriate his references and quotations may be regarded when referred to the various tastes and opinions of different individuals, his memory, at least, is unimpaired by age, and is quite independent of a criticising community. 
            It is quite possible that some of these points may suggest the idea of an application; if so, we leave each person to make the application as it may seem just and proper to himself. 
          
          
             
            DOLBY AND FATHER. 
             
               CHAPTER I. ADDITION. 
               CHAPTER II. WHY WE CALL IT DOLBY AND FATHER! 
               CHAPTER III. WHY WE DO NOT CALL IT DOLBY AND SON. 
               CHAPTER IV. "THE COMMOTION." 
               CHAPTER V. "THE SEPARATION." 
               CHAPTER VI. "WHAT THE YEARS BROUGHT!" 
                
               CHAPTER VII. "THE NEXT ANNOUNCEMENT." 
               CHAPTER VIII. THE SECRET. 
               CHAPTER IX. THE OLD CAPTAIN. 
               CHAPTER X. "CHARITY SUFFERETH LONG AND IS KIND." 
               CHAPTER XI. "THE RAMBLE AND THE REVELATION." 
               CHAPTER XII. "ONCE MORE AND NO MORE AFTER." 
             
          
       
      
         
            Dolby and father 
             
            DOLBY AND FATHER. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               "ADDITION." 
               DOLBY was alive, to begin with. There can be little doubt about that. His advent was regularly noticed in the prominent register of arrivals, and the senior gentleman of the firm, "Dolby and Father," was appropriately and numerously congratulated. This pleasant announcement early in the morning of the eighth of March is said not only to have confirmed various speculations of some weeks standing, which had arisen among the intimate friends of Mr. Dolby's family who resided in the village of the occurrence, but also established as a fact, unquestioned and universally conceded by the representatives of either sex, that Dolby was really alive. At least, the individual whose existence is referred to in this early period of his history could not remember a time when he was not endowed with breathing propensities. We are therefore obliged to believe that, either Dolby was alive to begin with, or the "begin with" was a good deal anterior to his personal recollections. He may not have been, figuratively speaking, as thoroughly alive as a frog, a weasel, cistern-water, or Herkimer cheese; he may not have possessed that tenacity of existence frequently observed in the feline species; but there can be no doubt as to the fact that Dolby was really alive. In the words of a popular author, "This point must be distinctly understood, or nothing wonderful can come of the story we are going to relate." If a strange termination, therefore, should not conclude the history of a person so distinctly introduced, we will always entertain a private opinion that the appearance of Dolby was regarded merely as a matter of fiction, meteoric in his nature and origin, and not sufficiently contemplated at the outset. In our own minds we have no more doubt that Dolby might in all confidence be regarded as an established axiom of vitality exactly twenty years before he arrived at his twenty-first birthday, than that the moon, two hundred years ago, was made of green cheese-and inhabited. "Mind! I don't mean to say this of my own knowledge," but it was a fact universally acceded. The neighbors knew he was alive? Of course they did; and, indeed, Miss Hinkie, a middle-aged lady, who sometimes did her hair up in yellow curl-papers, and was sometimes called a dressmaker, is said, at a small tea-party at Miss Coffin's, across the way, to have made a direct reference to the welfare of Mr. Dolby's family a little more than twenty years before Dolby would arrive at his prerogative of manhood. A staid bachelor the next door was also observed, soon after the morning of March the eighth, to have turned down a leaf in his copy of "In Memoriam," and pencilled, as if for consolatory reference: 
                      
                        "An infant crying in the night, 
                        Whose only language is a cry." 
                     
                  
                
               We feel, therefore, constrained to say that, either Dolby was a sentient individual, from early in the morning aforesaid, or else the previous solicitude of Miss Hinkie was uncalled for, and the subsequent selection of poetry entirely inappropriate and inapplicable. Whether existence was a thing to be desired, or whether life was thrust upon him at an age when he was incapable of successful resistance or of appreciating its responsibilities, we allow philosophers and moralists to determine. Satisfied we will ever remain if, in this age of incredulity, we can establish beyond a peradventure or the possibility of a doubt the starting-point of our history; and if this chapter seems too brief to demonstrate so important a fact, we find consolation in the first chapter of a "Less Miserable" work by another author, and also remember with secret gratification the advice we are constrained to follow, that the briefer the chapters and the fewer we present the more profitable will it be to the friends of Mr. Dolby, and greater appreciation will it find at the hands of an intelligent community-an intelligent community who occasionally find pleasure in "Notes for General Circulation," provided they are national, and who in the last few months have fully illustrated the divine injunction, "When a man smites upon one cheek, turn to him the other also," as if in so doing we are capable of heaping coals of fire upon the heads of those who have "never been prejudiced otherwise than in favor of our country, who have always felt a great interest in the Young Republic." And while we wish to observe that "Consistency is a jewel," and also have a firm conviction that slinging ink on the "Stars and Stripes" is not the best way of annihilating our institutions, we also believe that this compound interest, which has accumulated so rapidly during our "last twenty-five years of social advancement" as a people, so far exceeds the principal that it has been found convenient on more than one "public occasion," to omit some little inuendoes, or slight passages of meaningless pleasantry, lest it might not tickle the ears of an "American audience." For instance, that little reference to the value of United States security, introduced just before the appearance of the first spirit. But in our zeal for gratifying an intelligent community, we have partially wandered from our subject, and fearing it is now too late to overtake it in this first chapter, we pass to the next, by saying that, of some things we can never be certain in this world. We believe in Paradise Lost-there is some such reference concerning Hypocrisy. But of one thing we feel tolerably sure-that Dolby was alive to begin with. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               WHY WE CALL IT DOLBY AND FATHER. 
               As it would be a natural query why we have thus christened the story we are approaching, we feel like anticipating the anxiety of the reader, and stating, for his or her benefit jointly or severally, that it is our present intention to clear up all little questions of this nature, to the end that, when we arrive at the thrilling part, it will not be necessary to insert three or four explanatory chapters to knit up the thread we omitted to fasten in the beginning. In other words, the thread which in Dolby's case may have been suddenly severed, we intend to tie up at this point, and then follow the remaining thread of his existence down to a time within the memory of men still living. And while we feel like congratulating the younger branch of the firm on his successful introduction at his first appearance before the public, it may be well to state incidentally that, however much or little the American people like foreign forms or customs, it is not our intention in the construction of this work, or in the arrangement of our ideas, to follow the foreign and polished tendency of setting out in the middle, stating, with all modesty and deference, that, if the work must die, let its leanness tend to consumption! But oh! may it never suffer from an attack of the gout, or run entirely to waist-that saddest tendency of cheap-covered literature! It must also be admitted by every reader of Truth represented in the line of Fiction, or even peruser of fiction trailing in the line of Truth, that a proper attention to questions which are naturally suggested tends to put the reader on the best of terms with all parties represented, establishing a happy confidence, which, in the present crisis of this history, is a thing devoutly to be wished; and, moreover, we have no hesitation in saying that it is our purpose to attempt a new school of fiction-not quite as good as Walter Scott's, nor quite as complex in its nature as Wordsworth's idea of the poetic element. But it is much to be regretted that, in a government of free and democratic institutions, writers should place so great a distance between themselves selves and their readers, that they should write learned treatises with gloves on, and measure ability by the folio. Punctuated folly at ten cents a line, accurately prepared by modern essayists whose venerable noses are adorned with spectacles generally not of the best pebble, or even the most transparent buckskin, meet us at every corner, and as the musical "only two cents" worth of printed matter makes evening hideous, we can truly turn to our homes saying, Of driving many quills there is no end, and such reading is a weariness of the flesh! Amidst all this weary jargon, this new school of fiction, having for its first representation "Dolby and Father," takes for its motto the words of one of the few poets who ever sat upon Nature's tripod, and understood the language of her divinity: 
                      
                        "Ay free, aff-hand your story tell 
                        When wi' a bosom crony." 
                     
                  
                
               And looking up from these lines, kind readers, into your faces, and feeling the warm grasp of your hand upon these leaves, we feel that we have already established that familiarity and confidence which ought to make of mankind a common brotherhood, traveling as we all are "on the level of time to that undiscovered country from whose bourne no traveler returns." And we assure you that, after we have settled a few questions of this nature, the omission of which would at least always trouble our own conscience, we will proceed with that conciseness and directness which marks the early account of "Tristram Shandy," when about the same age as the individual we found alive at the opening of the preceding chapter. Whether Dolby's father possessed that philosophical turn of mind which characterized the elder Mr. Shandy, we are hardly prepared as yet to affirm or to deny, but we are certain that he had no friend like "Uncle Toby" to fill up anxious intervals with wholesome conversation; and we are also equally certain that Dolby's father did not have that clock-work system of disposing of trifling occurrences which frequently, like coming events, cast their shadows before them-a fact in this case either attributable to the inconsistency of Yankee clocks, or a derangement of the lunar system. 
               At the commencement of Dolby's history, Dolby's father may have been about eight and fifty years of age-a tall, firm-built man, with bushy hair and whiskers, upon which the last few winters had sprinkled snow-flakes too cold for any spring sunshine to melt, and too bristly for even the tenderest affection to endure. Over thirty years a large "Suspender Manufactory"-not far from the Litchfield Hills-had groaned and buzzed under the sign of "Dolby and Father." Over twenty years had the numerous family of "Norwood" prided themselves on the relationship of Mr. Dolby. . . But in the very height of the prosperity and activity of the early firm, as if in preparation for the long-looked-for event of another Dolby to perpetuate their existence-exactly two years and three months before the actual announcement-the senior partner of the firm had glided imperceptibly from the world, to find that rest and comfort which a Rubber Suspender Manufactory; can never afford and it is no more than justice to the character of Mr. Dolby to say that he did not "solemnize it with a bargain, nor was he an excellent man of business for many days thereafter." Two years and three months preceding the eighth of March, the firm "Dolby and Father" was an orphan. Mr. George Dolby was no more. For three days, the blue yarn, the red yarn, the pink yarn, and the little strands of rubber were left in a state very like the affairs at Pompeii one summer evening-the Sleeping Palace of German Legends awaiting the coming of the Fairy Prince, or the less fictitious and more recent bridal preparations of Miss Havisham, the living character of great expectations unrealized. For three days the looms looked at each other in astonishment, as if one long New England Sunday with its silence had settled down upon the manufactory of suspenders. And yet Dolby never changed the sign. There it stood, two years and three months afterwards, above the very peak of the manufactory, "Dolby and Father." The firm was known as "Dolby and Father." Sometimes, people who wished to be familiar called Dolby George, and sometimes Charlie; but he answered to both names. It was all the same to him. And now, as this happy event was announced on a bright morning in the month of March, it seemed as if every wheel in the old manufactory fully appreciated the information. The dinner gong sounded merrier than it had for years; the whistle blew freer than it had been known to do for months; the steel fingers plied livelier among the threads. Dolby had risen from Dolby to Father, and a new Dolby had come to take his place. How the firm at first was ever called "Dolby and Father" would only be a matter of conjecture-a question quite as difficult to answer as, "Why a door-nail is more dead than any other piece of ironmongery;" for instance, a coffin-nail, an iron knocker on a haunted house at midnight, or even a piece of gold twisted into a ghastly "skull and bones." But the love we have for truth, although only used as a log-line to mark the progress of fiction, restrains our unhallowed hands from disturbing even the cobwebs on the old sign preserved in a distant branch of the family of Dolby, and, like the Sibylline Books, carefully placed in the cellar and covered with barrels to preserve it from the wreck of time. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               WHY WE DO NOT CALL IT DOLBY AND SON. 
               AS it has become a very fashionable and quite sensible custom among our modern readers of modern fiction to skip every other chapter, we write this not only for the benefit of those who omitted the last, but also to answer, briefly, a question which quite probably has already presented itself to those interested in the commencement of this history, to wit: why this choice addition to literature was not called "Dolby and Son?" We repeat, emphatically, that this attempt is peculiarly a national work, alone worthy of American genius and precocity; and anything which would confound our idea or purpose with any pamphlet heretofore written or published, would be an injury, at once serious and lasting. It might destroy our literature, and be a blot upon our reputation, which even "twenty-five years of progress and social advancement" would not be able to remove. It would be (metaphorically speaking) a bottle of superior "indelible ink" rashly poured upon the ruffled bosom of society, at a time when low-cut vests would reveal the blemish. And we wish, also, by the very title of our work, to lithograph this fact upon the memory of every person-that, although the younger Dolby was, for some months, an eleemosynary institution, depending somewhat upon the kindness and charity of his immediate relatives and friends, nevertheless, it should be distinctly kept in view, that he was never, strictly speaking, regarded as an olive plant, but was always considered the rising branch and immediate partner of the well-known firm, who presided over the financial matters of the manufactory of suspenders. In addition to these valuable reasons, we have recently come into the possession of a Diary, which bears evident marks of having been once the property of a gentleman boarder in the house of our friend, Miss Hinkie, the middle-aged lady of yellow curl-papers, which not only throws light upon the question under our immediate consideration, but also tends to illustrate a few characteristics in Miss Hinkie's composition. In perusing it, we not only found many references to her amiable and attractive qualities, but also very original sentences tences, which had escaped her lips, under peculiar circumstances, and which he evidently regarded as oracles, as they were delivered under the inspired fury of the Goddess. He seems here to have passed many years of his life, in continual fear of an action for breach of promise, and bound, as it were, by some cruel destiny, sighed, like "Mrs. McStingers's" lodgers, for deliverance and peace, and frequently referred, with bitterness, to the moment in which he stopped and read the touching placard, hung up in the parlor window: "Apartments to let, for a single gentleman. Enquire within." By those who knew him best, the sad choruses of Electra are said to have been his only classical consolation, and in his utter desolation of spirits, he is said to have frequently broken a temperance pledge, signed regularly every month, and carried in his vest pocket, for reference. In this Diary, on a leaf intended for "Cash Account," (by the way, the only leaves unoccupied in this interesting work of his hands,) we read: "Received this, the twenty-fourth of April, information through Miss Hinkie-that delectable channel of interesting statistics-to the effect that the young man across the way, who has crept slowly up the slope of months, as most of us have crept, and stubbed his toes against the uneven surfaces of the rising years, as some of us are beginning to do on the other side of the declivity, has been christened, and they call his name after that unfortunate king of England who was executed one pleasant morning for the gratification of Mr. Cromwell." In short, that the younger Dolby, of crowing and crying hours, had been christened Charlie. So it must at once be evident to all, that it now makes little difference whether we call the firm "Dolby and Father" or "Dolby and Son," for Dolby's name was Charlie, and the father's name was Charlie. Son and father were equally Charlie. The son's name was admitted to be Dolby, and his paternal progenitor was universally believed to be Father. If this reason is not now apparent, we are certain that the father was, and equally certain that the firm, "Dolby and Father," had ceased to be an orphan. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE COMMOTION. 
               DOLBY, after a process quite similar to that known in the art of Photography, slowly bleached into a very presentable appearance. In fact he was an infant worthy of the firm: day by day becoming a heavier axiom of noticeable vitality. One evening, about eight weeks after the tea party at Miss Coffins, where respectful and neighborly solicitude was shown in reference to the welfare of Mr. Dolby's family, and exactly seven weeks after the eighth of March previously noted and recorded, and about five weeks and three days after the leaf in "In Memoriam" was turned down, and the passage pencilled which has reference to baby soliloquies in the still watches of the night by the sympathetic bachelor who resided next door-on this evening which we have distinctly pointed out, as it chanced to be a sad era in Dolby's life, Miss Hinkie ventured to kiss the newly christened child in a silent agony of joy. What it was that induced her to disturb the serenity of an infant's countenance at this unappreciative stage of life-of his life-can never be fully known. Perhaps it was the overflowing of one of those deep wells of "might have beens" as she looked at the fair child. At least we are willing to regard it as one of those "womanly impulses among the finest of our imperfect nature." But whatever it was, this fact must be distinctly noticed, as it is one of the marked features of Dolby's existence, the fact that Miss Hinkie, the middle aged female, kissed Dolby when only seven weeks of age. 
               Now for many years Dolby's father had frequently said that kissing was a humbug! a kind of diet which, in cases of sickly temperaments, frequently led to insanity and suicide, and it was commonly discussed at tea parties that his bristly moustache was worn mostly as a means of defence. Whether these speculations had foundation in fact, or were only an outgrowth of social exaggeration or loquacious fiction, true it was that no citadel was ever better guarded, and equally true that up to this time kissing was a thing unknown in Mr. Dolby's family, at least in his presence, for many years. A scowl passed over his otherwise expressionless countenance, which reminded poetical Miss Hinkie of Rhoderich Dhu in his combat with James Fitz James. This was followed by a shadow, which reminded her of the parting of Conrad and Medora, or the exile of Hafed's darling in the "Fire Worshippers." This in its turn changed to an expression which reminded her of the ghostly visit of the murdered King of Denmark, "more in sorrow than in anger," and all gradually rolled up together of their own accord, like faded sunset clouds in a dull parcel of expression, which failed to remind poetical Miss Hinkie of anything in particular, except a few of the best written passages in "American Notes for general circulation." Late that night, when the middle-aged lady was sleeping in blissful ignorance of the commotion caused by that seemingly trifling and innocent amusement, when the younger Mr. Dolby was happily unconscious of either his existence or importance in this vale of tears, Dolby senior suddenly removed his feet from the iron railing, rose from his chair, and in a soliloquy which, for pointed and feeling expression, has no parallel in prose or poetry, remarked in an audible tone: Kissing is a humbug! Gods and Goddesses who possessed quite a sufficiency of elasticity in their affections, and had nothing else to do, may have appreciated it! The philosophy of love is a humbug! What has Michelet to do with the manufacture of suspenders? Affection is all fiction! Money is power! What's magnetism, what's electricity, affinity, and reciprocity to the firm of "Dolby and Father"? It must be stopped. It's an article which may grow with what it feeds on. Never again shall the firm "Dolby and Father" submit to such an indignity! With this determination he went to bed, to dream of beautiful fishy countenances without mouths, of cats without lips, of musquitoes with tailor-like bills, of honey changing into vinegar, and as he turned upon his pillow he muttered Humbug! humbug! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE SEPARATION. 
               AFTER a few days of morose and anxious thought, Dolby's father was again seated with his feet upon the iron railing which bordered the hearth-stone, attempting vainly to bite his porcupine moustache. But this time he was not alone; at his right sat Mrs. Dolby looking up at his lowering expression with a countenance even paler than it had been for weeks, evidently awaiting in silent fear and agony, the result of the gathering storm. Humbug! Mrs. Dolby-all humbug! You can never convince me that kissing ever did or ever will do any child, male or female, any good. At least it won't mine; I can't endure it. It's a foolish habit. The mouth was made to talk and eat with, not to pucker out of shape in that way. Talk to me of sweetness or reciprocity of affection. Suppose it is. How would it look for two "molasses jugs" to be pressing nuzzles all day, and even maple molasses bottles reclining against each other in a transport of affection. I will not put up with it, and you do not seem inclined to conform to my ideas in regard to this matter; I tell you that child shall not be kissed, if I have to sit by his cradle the day in and the day out. They say "eternal vigilance is the price of liberty," and I regard it as equally capable of preserving my prerogative. It is needless for me to add that I prefer the rearing and education of my child-myself. It's all humbug! Good morning. Oh, Mr. Dolby, and her tearful eyes spoke eloquently. "Good morning," said the cruel hearted husband. Oh, Mr. Dolby! one word, one moment; cannot your wife be pardoned one word? Good morning. The door was closed. The birds that bright May morning poured bitter music in his ears: but he repeated Humbug! and never stopped to think whether their mouths were only made to eat with, and carry food to their young, or whether they are not humble agents in this world of sin, teaching happiness and love, translating in their songs the beauty and harmony of affection. There was a heavy heart that beautiful morning, bending over the little unconscious child, and if Mr. Dolby had seen those drooping lashes, he might well have wondered whether eyes were only made to see with, as the burning tears followed each other in an unbroken flow of grief. Oh! how deep must be the fountain of the heart which, through long weeks and months of sorrow flows on unceasingly. Weep! Well you may enjoy the luxury of tears which only a true deep nature like yours can ever know. Look tenderly and often upon the face of that fair child; for a voice more cruel than the fates is soon to separate thee for long years-if not for ever. Another week has passed, and the resolve has become a reality. A strange looking nurse is seen in Dolby's household. The child is sleeping, "tucked up warm in a-little basket bedstead disposed in a low settee, immediately in front of the fire and close to it, as if his constitution" like that of another infant we once read of "were analogous to a muffin, and it was essential to toast him" in his infancy. Mr. Dolby, this evening, sat for an hour in moody silence, looking at the fire now brightening here and dying there. The nurse knitting some little red and white stockings (how very little they looked), seemed to read in the blazing coals, a long history which reached far away in the past, and were it not that she now and then dropped a stitch in her knitting, she would have seemed in all reality to have been as far removed from the present, as the happy hours which long ago slipped through her unconscious fingers, like the yarn she was then fashioning into those little stockings, and had been unconsciously woven in her life history. The fire flickered, and now and then brands fell from the polished andirons into the ashes. The clock struck eleven, Mr. Dolby rose, looked at the beautiful features of his child, muttered "uncongeniality," and walked away. The nurse dropped a tear upon the little pillow as she whispered "poor child, cruelty, uncongeniality." The word had been spoken. The woman Mr. Dolby had sworn before God and man to love, cherish, and protect, whose heart had been his home, was now an outcast. A broken home. A broken heart-exiled-and in the sad pitiful record of humanity, there was another widowhood which sprung not from the grave. A deep, confiding, affectionate womanly nature mated with a selfish, cold, and brutal man, had endured and suffered for long years the sorrow of unrequited tenderness; and now in an hour when she fondly hoped that a common love would bind them together, when it seemed as if her prayers were at last to be answered, she was driven away, and the burning insanity of a broken heart, although it found refuge among earlier friends, ever muttered "uncongeniality," "uncongeniality." But in her loneliness she found one comfort-a well of sympathy in the desert of her sorrow. She loved to read over and over again the story of little Florence-that "child in innocent simplicity, that woman in her modest self-reliance, and her deep intensity of feeling: both child and woman at once expressed in her fair face, and gracefully mingling there, as if the spring was unwilling to depart when summer came and sought to blend the earlier beauties of the flower with their bloom:" and she thought of little Nell, who in her dreams seemed sometimes to have grown a lovely woman, and she thought of the cold hatred of Mr. Dombey, and at the mention of little Paul, who always wondered what the waves were saying, and ever spoke of the country "farther away-farther away," she would weep and dream again of the old Grandfather at the grave of little Nell. The Bible and these two stories seemed her only sad comfort, and she copied until she knew by heart those beautiful passages which make these works immortal; and in her musings she often thought how true and good must be the heart which could feel for such distress! how true to nature and to home must be the man whose life labor seemed to be to lift up the unfortunate, and how he would write of "uncongeniality," if he knew the grief of her broken heart. How the flimsiness and hollowness of such an excuse would be made apparent, in his clear delineation of the human character as he linked another name-to be immortal in infamy with the memory of Gloster and Iago. Among these selections which she so loved to read and copy, were the following: "But it is not in the nature of pure love to burn so fiercely and unkindly long. The flame that in its grosser composition has the taint of earth may prey upon the breast that gives it shelter; but the sacred fire from heaven is as gentle in the heart as when it rested on the heads of the assembled twelve, and showed each man his brother, brightened and unhurt:" and then followed notes which none could read. And again, "not an orphan in the wide world can be so deserted as the child who is an outcast from a living parent's love," and beneath this was the word "Charlie," as if it had been partly written, but blurred and changed to the name of Paul. And yet, in all her writings and selections, never but once was reference made to Mr. Dolby. About him she was always silent as if ever waiting for a kindly summons to return to her child, her home, her husband. And this, too, was a selection from the writer, whose sympathy had become her only happiness. The selection was in reference to the cold, hard armor of pride, in which Mr. Dombey had lived encased. "It is the curse of such a nature, it is a main part of the heavy retribution on itself, that while deference and concession swell its evil qualities, and are the food it grows upon, resistance and a questioning of its exacting claims foster it, too, no less. The evil that is in it finds equally its means of growth and propagation in opposites-who wears such armor, too, bears within him ever another heavy retribution. It is of proof against conciliation, love, and confidence! against all gentle sympathy from without, all trust, all tenderness, all soft emotion; but to deep stabs in the self-love, it is as vulnerable as the bare breast to steel; and such tormenting festers rankle there as follow upon no other wound." And Mrs. Dolby wondered "whether it were possible-," and the lines stopped, the sentence was unfinished. There were traces of tears upon the paper. But turning to the chapter from which it was copied, we thought she was about to write-and wondered "if in his sullen and unwholesome brooding-the man who had exiled her-whether he made a distorted picture of his rights and wrongs, and justified himself with it against her." 
               Alas! that so many of us should be writing false histories of our lives. Alas! that while some of us ridicule the "Borriboola-Gha" and the distant Africa of Mrs. Jelliby, that we should lay down our pens in ignorance or carelessness of the grief that lies throbbing at our own feet. Alas! for this wholesale charity, that cannot be retailed to even our best and dearest friends! Can you tell me-can any one tell me, from personal, bitter experience, the truth or falsity of this other sentence, written upon the paper in which she wrapped her diamond wedding-ring, which, like Ophelia's presents, had ceased to be valuable. If any one can, she can finish this chapter with tears. "It had been hard-how hard may none but Florence ever know-to have the natural affection of a true and earnest nature turned to agony, and slight or stern repulse substituted for the tenderest protection and the dearest care. It had been hard to feel in her deep heart what she had felt, and never know the happiness of one touch of response." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               WHAT THE YEARS BROUGHT. 
               TEN years have passed away, and Mr. Dolby has exchanged his New England home for a wider arena, as if to drown whatever feeling or remorse he may have for the past in that ever rising and ebbing tide, which carries out the old and brings the new-that vast fluctuating sea of fortune, in which faded beauty and poverty are the to-day's ebbing of a proud yesterday, and must ever be the to-morrow's ebbing of to-day. It is the evening of the twenty-fifth of April-the return of that day which his stubborn nature still labored hard to justify-the evening of the dark resolve which had made a blot upon his history, so deep and indelible that even a tear-drop of the Recording Angel could hardly-as it seemed sometimes to himself-erase it from the pages of Eternity. He was becoming an old man now in years. Still he preserved much of the elasticity and vigor of youth, which contrasted strangely with the shadows which remorse had stamped upon his countenance. Still, with unbroken regularity, he resorted to places of amusement, as if to drown some dark memory. To him the past was a grave, covered with weeds, which grew up in a night as often as they were plucked away. This evening-it must be borne in mind it was the twenty-fifth of April-he was about to listen to the rendition of "A Christmas Carol," in prose. The clear, blue sky, the bright, unchanging stars, and the silvery moonshine (which once found its way through leafy trees and bushes, far away in his childhood home, to play upon the laughing brooklets, whose unconscious hymns of praise had, long ago, filled his soul with gladness), had little eloquence in these later years for him. Yes, there is many a man now living, who has neither interest nor profit in our "gas manufacturing companies," and yet appreciates gas-light much more than God's pure moonshine; who loves darkness better than light, unless it be the light which burns low in the dens of iniquity. To such men, the quiet of nature, and its deep eloquence, are voiceless. O! if these would only stop and think for a single moment, in this brief career of life, how few and short the years will be before they must return again to the same dust which, perhaps, only a century ago, nourished the flower whose tiny roots drank deep of these beautiful streams, and was nourished by the same air which now fills their pulses with the flow of health, then they would find greater pleasure in perusing the volume which lies open before them, and illustrated with wonderful beauty, as if God knew we were children, and was teaching us here, in language we all can understand, the rudiments of his love, preparatory to that life where the dreams and longings of the wise and good shall become a blessed reality. Yes, Mr. Dolby had drifted far away from his early teachings. And as he sat, patiently awaiting the Reader's appearance, in that crowded gathering of petroleum and ancestral dignity, he little thought of the crime, and grief, and beggarly starvation, which lay down and cursed and wept, almost within the hearing of the rustle of embroidered fans. He did well, methinks, amid the lace and purity of this fashionable evening apparel, if these snowy hats, and snowy plumes, and snowy strings, and snowy scarfs, seemed at all to him like the froth and foam of society-as if the elite were being rapidly boiled into preserves, and needed skimming. But now the Reader has taken his place at the little stand. The flow of musical voices at once ceases, and for two hours Mr. Dolby listened intently to the rendering of that strange story. It is finished. The waves of beauty, which vied with each other, are beginning to roll out, to be broken and lost in the darkness, and still Mr. Dolby, as if it were a strange fascination, remained in his place, looking at the desk where the Reader had stood. At last he rose from his seat, and, with his eyes still fixed upon the stage, muttered, "Uncongeniality-uncongeniality." Still muttering that one word, which in his heart found a sad echo, where pride and hope for his child dwelt together in close companionship, he turned to his home. He thought of "Scrooge," "His Nephew," "Marley's Ghost," "Little Bob Cratchet," and "Tiny Tim," and as he ascended the steps he half expected to see some shadow gather itself into form and present itself at the doorway. He paused and turned down the hall gas. The stairs creaked no more than usual beneath his feet. He thought it would be a relief if they would. If some spirit might only come from that invisible world to tell him the way to mend his sadly broken life. His sleeping room was quite the same as he had left it, save the fire was burning low in the grate. He closed the door, put on his slippers, and, sitting by the fireside, attempted to court repose. Over against him was an old mirror, richly carved in the darkest mahogany-an heirloom, brought from England long ago, broken and wrinkled, like the spirits and faces of many who in years before had stopped before it to arrange a tie or adjust a curl. Hanging around the wall were also many old paintings of ancestral worthies, as if met in centennial gathering and unable to choose a chairman. But as he looked up at the old mirror, a face, pale and sad, seemed to look for an instant at him and pass away. It was impossible from where he was sitting to see his own reflection, and, involuntarily, he looked behind him. He rose, approached the mirror, looked about the room. Nothing-it's all humbug! only fancy! and he raked the fire in the grate, very much amused at his imaginative faculties. "Well, that is the nearest that I ever came to seeing a ghost. It is strange how persons can be humbugged into beliefs of that nature. I wonder if old Marley went home with any one else to-night." There was an illustrated edition of Hamlet lying upon the table. He opened it, facetiously remarking, that while he was receiving calls of this nature, he would extend an invitation to the buried "Majesty of Denmark." But as he read, he wondered whether there was not some strange inconsistency in the frequency of these ghostly visitations on Christmas Eve, in the story to which he had just listened, because 
                      
                        "Some say that ever 'gainst that season comes 
                        Wherein our Savior's birth is celebrated, 
                        The bird of dawning 
                              ingeth
                              wingeth
                            all night long; 
                        And then, they say, no spirit dares stir abroad;
                         
                        The nights are wholesome; then no planets strike- 
                        No fairy takes, nor witch hath power to charm, 
                        So hallowed and so gracious is the time." 
                     
                  
                
               And while he was wondering which took the poetic license, "The Carol" in prose or Marcellus in his midnight poetry, the book fell from his hand. He started up, looked at his watch. It was a quarter of twelve. He had been almost lost in his deep conjectures, and in another moment would have been in dreamland, had it not been for a ground-swell which had again carried him out to sea. He at once got into bed, and was soon asleep. Now, whether it was a dream or disturbed fancy repeating itself in sleep, almost too untangible and unreal for even a dream- whatever it was, he had hardly fallen asleep when the same sad countenance which he saw in his broken mirror again appeared, and looking out from the frame as if it were a picture of grief, pointed slowly to each bed post in succession, beginning with the one nearest Mr. Dolby's head, and likewise nearest the wall, where hung in tarnished gilt the oldest Dolby of the ancestral line. Mr. Dolby shuddered as the features in the mirror became more distinct, and seemed to say, by solemn sign and gesture, "Look and listen!" Now, we remark, in passing, that the bedstead was in no way peculiar-that is, to an American people-although the absence of curtains might attract the attention of certain travelers whose tastes and opinions on some subjects are worthy of being circulated for "general information;" and yet we believe there was in our country, even before the "last twenty-five years of improvement," one hotel "where the English traveler could find curtains to his bed for the first and probably the last time in America." There was nothing, as we have said, very peculiar about the bedstead or bed-posts, except the absence of curtains for the accommodation of English travelers, It wasn't quite as large as the "great bed of Ware," or quite as small as a "library-shelf" on a Western "canal-boat," where living volumes put themselves up and took themselves down of their own accord, and where the unborn Martin Chuzzlewit once rolled in and slept. Neither were the bed-posts very singularly carved nor wrought in strange and grotesque figures, the design of the original architect being merely a very large pumpkin, set up on a very square stick, which tapered slowly toward the pumpkin-a work, at least, in which the execution equalled the design. (And more than once have we looked up at these high posts, or similar ones, fearing they might in some unexpected moment shake the wooden ornaments from their lofty eminence, and cause them to roll down like huge boulders over the tranquil surface of our rest, crushing the beautiful image of sleep into more than ten thousand fragments, and breaking the thread of some beautiful dream so short that it could not be fastened in the woof of memory.) But although there was nothing very peculiar about this bed, three times the hand in the mirror pointed to each post in succession, and the third time Mr. Dolby seemed to rise as if compelled by some hidden magnetic power. The moonlight fell upon the snowy counterpane. The bed-posts seemed to be clothed in pale moonlight garments and each post became respectively, "Marley," "Scrooge," "Ophelia," and "Tiny Tim." The invitation extended to the buried Majesty of Denmark was answered by proxy in the beautiful features of his expected daughter-in-law. The reading of Hamlet and the evening's entertainment strangely blended, and in the curious chambers of the mind grouped together in distorted reality. Whether Dolby could see through transparent Marley sufficiently well to recognize the "two buttons on his coat behind" he did not observe, but Mr. Dolby noticed that Mr. Marley had wound about his waist a chain of broken wedding-rings, which grated harshly together "like sweet bells gangled and out of tune," to which Ophelia pointed, sighed, and handed Marley a faded flower. Scrooge did not look as if he felt at all like cracking jokes, nor did he regard Marley with that cool indifference which he might have done if he had really considered him "an undigested bit of beef, a blot of mustard, a crum of cheese, or a fragment of an under-done potatoe." In fact, he looked a good deal more like Macbeth at the appearance of the Ghost of Banquo, and there is every reason to suppose that the plotting King thought there was more of "grave than gravy" in the departed Banquo's composition. 
               Rather a strange gathering! thought Mr. Dolby, or so he seemed to think, in the midst of this horrid nightmare. Again that sad countenance looked out from the mahogany-framed mirror, and he knew it now. The tearful eyes looked into the very depths of his soul, as if they read clearly and distinctly every thought and purpose of his life; and the face was as pale and deathly as the silent reality of "dust to dust, ashes to ashes!" And still the uplifted hand was pointing at the strange company. In the midst of this silence, as deep as that which brooded over chaos, Marley seemed to take from his side-pocket a paper-covered edition, marked "price thirty-five cents," nicely illustrated with a "plum pudding" on the outside, and a strange collection of living and creeping things, which would naturally remind a person familiar with the history of 
                     Pharoah
                     Pharaoh
                  , of the plagues which came upon Egypt. Looking slowly at the cover as if recognizing some of his most intimate friends, he opened near the beginning of the book and slowly and solemnly read as follows: "Oh! for a good spirit who would take the house-tops off with a more potent and benignant hand than the lame demon in the tale, and show a Christian people what dark shapes issue from amidst their homes to swell the retinue of the Destroying Angel as he moves forth among them. Bright and blest the morning that should rise on such a night: for men, delayed no more by stumbling-blocks of their own making, which are but specks of dust upon the path between them and eternity, would then apply themselves like creatures of one common origin, owning one duty to the father of one family, and tending to one common end to make the world a better place." Remember well my warning-see to it that you listen to our next announcement. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE NEXT ANNOUNCEMENT. 
               THE clock seemed, at this point in Mr. Marley's remarks, to strike twelve, solemnly, and, as it were at a great distance, like a bell heard far off at sea. He ceased until the last vibration of the plate was again lost in the whispering of the seconds, and he opened a smaller book with a similar cover marked "price twenty-five cents," and said, This is my history. You listened to it this evening and know it well. Still further over, and he spoke slowly as he turned the leaves, whose rustle was almost as ghostly as the pale moonlight garments which seemed to tremble at every word. Still further over is the history of "A Haunted Man." I will read: "If I could forget my sorrow and wrong, I would-" The ghost repeated: If I could forget my sorrow and my wrong I would-'Evil spirit of myself,' returned the haunted man, in a low trembling tone, 'my life is darkened by that incessant whisper.' 'It is an echo,' said the phantom. 'If it be an echo of my thoughts, as now indeed I know it is, I suffer it to range beyond myself. All men and women have their sorrows, most of them their wrongs. Ingratitude and sordid jealousy, and interest, besetting all degrees of life. Who would not forget their sorrows and their wrongs?' 'Who would not, truly, and be the happier and the better for it?' said the phantom. 'These revolutions of years,' said the haunted man, 'what do they recall? a tissue of sorrow and trouble.' 'But common natures,' said the phantom, with its evil smile upon its glassy face, 'unenlightened minds and ordinary spirits, do not feel or reason on these things like men of higher cultivation and profounder thought.'" He closed the book, and looking with his stony eyes at Dolby, said: "And did you never before to-night feel the flimsiness of that light excuse which ten years ago broke the bond to cherish and protect? Mr. Dolby, I come not (as I once came to earth) to tell you how you can escape the woe which all your life awaits you. There are sins which years of repentance can atone, but the sundering of the greatest vow made at God's altar, for the light and trifling reason of an uncongenial nature, seeks in vain for repentance and peace. Ten lives would be too short repentance for one moment's woe like that your deeds and acts have caused. Think then, and compute if you can, how many lives it would be necessary to re-live, to make atonement for all these years of misery. Ask yourself what the ten years have brought. Wealth and flatterers; gloom and remorse. If, in addition to all this, you had the reputation of genius, and your name was in all men's mouths, without a rival in the wide world, it would only be the larger concourse assembled to witness your condemnation. However much they might flatter your pride by acknowledging your talent, there is a private life whose reputation no man can shun. The recognition of the truth and goodness of the heart is the noblest compliment; and the purest tribute ever paid to genius was on the tomb of an ancient poet: 'Jupiter, wishing to find a home for all the graces, chose the heart of Aristophanes.' Mr. Dolby, money may be power. You have a son: look well in your pride to his education." He turned again to the first volume which he had laid upon the snowy counterpane, and said: "I will read one other reference and I have done." Opening then, near the beginning of the book, and looking for an instant at the mirror, begun: "'Papa! what's money?' The abrupt question had such immediate reference to the subject of the father's thoughts, that he was quite disconcerted. 'What is money, Paul,' he answered, 'money?' 'Yes,' said the child, laying his hands upon the elbow of his little chair, and turning his face up to his father's. 'What is money?' The father was in difficulty. He would like to have given him some explanation involving the terms circulating medium, currency, depreciation of currency, paper, bullion, rates of exchange, value of precious metals in the market, (and perhaps the value of United States Security;) but looking down at the little chair and seeing what a long way down it was, he answered: 'Gold and silver and copper, guineas, shillings and half-pence; you know what they are?' 'Oh, yes, I know what they are,' said Paul. 'I don't mean that, papa. I mean what's money, after all?' 'What is money, after all,' said Mr. Dombey, backing his chair a little that he might the better gaze in sheer amazement at the presumptuous atom that propounded such an inquiry. 'I mean, papa, what can it do?' returned Paul, folding his arms (they were hardly long enough to fold), and looking at the fire, and up at him, and at the fire, and up at him again. Mr. Dombey drew his chair back to its former place, and patted him on the head. 'You'll know better by and by, my man,' he said. 'Money, Paul, can do anything.' He took hold of the little hand and beat it softly against one of his own, as he said so, but Paul got his hand free as soon as he could, and rubbing it gently to and fro on the elbow of his chair, as if his wit were in the palm and he were sharpening it, and looking at the fire again as if the fire had been his adviser and prompter, repeated, after a short pause, 'Anything, papa?' 'Yes, anything, almost,' said Mr. Dombey. 'Anything means everything, don't it, papa?' not observing or possibly not understanding the qualification. 'It includes it, yes,' said Mr. Dombey. 'Why did'nt money save me my mamma?' returned the child. 'It isn't cruel, is it?' 'Cruel,' said Mr. Dombey, settling his neck-cloth, and seeming to resent the idea, 'no; a good thing cannot be cruel.' 'If it is a good thing and can do anything,' said the little fellow, thoughtfully, as he looked back at the fire, 'I wonder why it didn't save me my mamma?'" Marley closed the book, put it in his pocket, took out his handkerchief in a professional way, but was surprised to find he had no brow to wipe. After a few moment's consideration, during which "Tiny Tim" told "Ophelia" that once on Christmas Day when he went to church, "he hoped the people saw him, because he used to be a cripple, and it might be pleasant for them to remember upon that day who made lame beggars walk, and blind men see." To which Ophelia said: "White his shroud as the mountain snow. We must be patient, but I cannot choose, but weep to think-" and then, turning to Mr. Dolby, "There's rosemary, that's for remembrance; and there is pansies, that's for thoughts. There's rue for you and some for me." Mr. Scrooge then tied a neck-cloth about his neck, as if he were in a New England city, and was afraid of taking the real "genuine American catarrh," which, although a more desirable disease than twenty-five years ago, ought still to be warded off from sickly natures. They then fell into a ghostly procession, headed by Marley, with his chain of broken wedding rings "wound about his waist and reaching over his arm," followed in order by Ophelia, Scrooge, and Tiny Tim. They looked for a moment at the fire-place and the mahogany-framed mirror. Their evening's visitation was completed, and as they neared the window there was a creaking of the sash: it opened and they passed away. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE SECRET. 
               FOR long weeks this miserable man kept the horrid dream closely locked in his own bosom, as if in this close concealment it would die of its own accord. But it would not leave him. A poison had entered his soul which no human medicine could reach, and as the wild dream became a dreadful reality, ever growing more hideous in its dark outlines, he seemed to carry about with him a load of grief almost too great for life to endure. Day and night it presented itself. Hour by hour it condemned him. The tearful eyes always upbraided him, and the words continually rung in his cars,-"What have the years brought? Wealth and flatterers, gloom and remorse; if in addition to all this you had the reputation of genius, and your name was in all men's mouths, without a rival in the wide world, it would only be the larger concourse assembled to witness your condemnation." He was almost a haunted man, and "you should have seen him in his dwelling about twilight, when the wind was blowing shrill and shrewd with the going down of the blurred sun; when it was just so dark as that the forms of things were indistinct and big, but not wholly lost; when sitters by the fire began to see wild faces and figures, mountains and abysses, ambuscades and armies in the coals; when people in the streets bent down their heads and ran before the weather; when windows of private houses closed up tight and warm; when lighted gas began to burst forth in the busy and the quiet streets, fast blackening otherwise; when stray pedestrians shivering along the latter, looked down at the glowing fires in the kitchen, and sharpened their sharp appetites by sniffing up the fragrance of whole miles of dinners; when little readers of story books by the fire-light trembled to think of Cassim Baba cut into quarters hanging in the Robbers' Cave, or had some small misgivings that the fierce little old woman with a crutch, who used to start out of the box in the merchant Abudah's bedroom, might one of these nights be found upon the stairs in the long, cold, dusky journey up to bed; when in rustic places the last glimmering of day-light died away from the ends of avenues, and the trees arching overhead were sullen and black; when in parks and woods the high wet fern, and sodden moss and beds of fallen leaves and trunks of trees were lost to view in masses of impenetrable shade; when mists arose from dyke, and fen, and river; when lights in cottage windows were a cheerful sight; when the mill stopped, the wheelwright and the blacksmith shut their workshops, the turnpike gate closed, the plough and harrow were left lonely in the fields, the laborer and the team went home, and the striking of the church clock had a deeper sound than at noon, and the churchyard wicket would be swung no more that night; when twilight everywhere released the shadows prisoned up all day that now closed in and gathered like mustering swarms of ghosts, when they stood lowering in corners of rooms and frowned out from behind half-open doors; when they had full possession of unoccupied apartments; when they danced upon the floors, and walls, and ceilings of inhabited chambers, while the fire was low, and withdrew like ebbing waters when it sprang into a blaze; when they fantastically mocked the shapes of household objects, making the nurse an ogress, the rocking-horse a monster, the wondering child, half scared and half amused, a stranger to itself; when these shadows brought into the minds of other people other thoughts, and showed them different images; when they stole from their retreats in the likenesses of forms and faces from the past, from the grave, from the deep, deep gulf, where the things that might have been and never were are always wandering; when he sat gazing at the fire, and as it rose and fell the shadows went and came, when he took no heed of them with his bodily eyes, but let them come or let them go, looked fixedly at the fire, you should have seen him then!" You should have seen him when the spring sunshine began to gladden the world; when the sky day by day grew softer and purer, and the cold rains of winter became warm and fruitful, as it were tear drops from the throbbing heart of the universe; when the white burial robes of long desolate months were laid aside, and the angel of summer standing at the doorway, proclaimed that life had again risen from its sepulchre, and gone forth to fill the world with happiness, passing over the meadows and the woodlands, while flowers sprung up in her footsteps, to make the little hills rejoice upon every side, to clothe the pasture with flocks and cover the valleys with corn: you should have seen him then! That horrid visitation ever followed him, filling his soul with shadows darker than grief, for even the deepest grief clings to hope for consolation. It is remorse that sits upon the grave of an irrecoverable past, and to "burning lips holds bitter cups of gall." His friends noted the change which had come upon him, but his cold, haughty pride barred the door to all familiarity, and bolted every avenue of approach. But no living person since the world began has been able to starve a secret to death. Instead of emaciating it thrives and grows best in the darkness of its concealment, like rank and deadly weeds under the thickest shadows. Oh! the horrid night-mare of life when loaded with such bitterness. Oh! the worthlessness of existence when love has gone out in the heart, never more to be relighted. Oh! the deep questioning of silent hours which racked his soul with misery. Was this which haunted him a dream or was it reality? Was that pale face which had come and looked at him so often a disturbed fancy, or had such pure spirits as hers, which he had once taught to love him before that miserable distortion of soul and spirit had come upon him-before he despised the affection of a kind and trustful nature-had such spirits as hers, whose name he did not dare to take upon his lips, the power of disembodiment? If not, what would the old mirror, with its darkly carved frame, teach him, with its constant reminders? Why did it bring back the sad memory of years? Thus through long weeks these dark questions called louder and louder for an answer, and in attempting to dig deeper the grave of his memory, and pluck away the thorns which grew upon it, he only revealed more and more its burial place. Nor in the midst of these darkening shadows was his spirit able to find sympathy even in his favorite authors. It is one of the just retributions of sin that crime can find little consolation. One morning, as he was looking over his library, he found a little book which he had not seen for years, beautifully bound, and presented by a friend who had visited England many years ago. He considered it at the time a rare curiosity, although it has ceased to be such in our country. As he opened it he found he had pencilled what then seemed to him a beautiful passage. He seated himself, and read as follows:-"If the poor, with all their abject wants and all the necessary degradation of their lives, can live virtuous, what excuse have the affluent and those who have been prosperous in life?" How every line brought up the past, and as he looked at the dusty cover, he thought with a shudder of the "thirty-five" and "twenty-five" cent edition which Marley carried in his side pocket the evening of the ghostly visitation, that evening of strange vagueness and stranger reality. But striving to dismiss from his mind the remembrance of that nightly interview, he proceeded:-"Cant as we may and as we shall, to the end of all things, it is very much harder for the poor to be virtuous than it is for the rich" (he wondered whether this were really true), "and the good that is in them shines the brighter for it. In many a noble mansion lives a man the best of husbands and of fathers, whose private worth in both capacities is justly lauded to the skies. But strip from him his fair young wife, her silken dress and jewels, unbind her braided hair, stamp early wrinkles on her brow, pinch her pale cheek with care and much privation, array her faded form in coarsely patched attire, let there be nothing but his love to set her forth or deck her out, and you shall put it to the proof indeed. So change his station in the world that he shall see in these young things who climb about his knee, not records of his wealth and name, but little wrestlers with him for his daily bread, so many poachers on his scanty meal, so many units to divide his every sum of comfort and further to reduce its small amount. In lieu of the endearments of childhood in its sweetest aspect heap upon him all its pains and wants, its sickness and ills, its fretfulness, caprice, and querulous endurance; let its prattle be not of enjoying infant fancies, but of cold, and thirst, and hunger, and if his fatherly affection outlive all this, and he be patient and watchful, tender, careful of his children's lives, and mindful always of their joys and sorrows, then send him back to Parliament, and Pulpit, and Quarter Sessions, and when he hears fine talk of the depravity of those who live from hand to mouth, and labor hard to do it, let him speak up as one who knows, and tell those holders forth that they, by parallel with such a class, should be high angels in their daily lives, and lay but humble siege to Heaven at last. Which of us shall say what he would be if such realities with small relief or change all through his days were his!" And, as he looked up, who shall say what I am to-day. Were these lines written to chide me, and did I mark them long ago for this reminder. Oh! this degradation of wealth which has caused me to forget my life, my life; and still the passengers of that crowded deck, returning from Quebec to Montreal twenty-five years ago, were repeating, as it were, for his own benefit, the long lessons of enduring kindness. True to each other in the midst of adversity, and he thought the question might well be asked, which of us shall say what these would be if, instead of all this suffering, they had been reared in homes of wealth and distinction? Would their confidence be deeper, their affections more unchanging, their lives purer? They might be happier. Yes, they might be happier, and after death a costly monument erected to tell their virtues: and wondering whether they would all keep their vows, he continued his reading:-"Looking round upon these people, far from home, houseless, indigent, wandering, weary with travel and hard living, and seeing how patiently and tenderly they nursed and tended their young children, how they consulted over their wants first, then half supplied their own, what gentle ministers of hope and faith the women were, how the men profited by their example, and how very very seldom even a moment's petulance or harsh complaint broke out among them, I felt a stronger love and honor of my kind come glowing on my heart, and wished to God there had been many Atheists in the better part of human nature there to read this simple lesson in the Book of Life." And what said Mr. Dolby shall I say for myself, in the midst of all this luxury, for the flowers of affection my own evil nature has blighted? and he recalled again the words of Marley at his bed, side:-"Ten lives would be too short repentance for one moment's woe your deeds have caused. Think then, and compute, if you can, how many lives it would be necessary to re-live to make atonement for all these years of misery." And he wondered whether the author meant this other sentence for persons who, like himself, had abused his trusts:-"I recognize the worst among the enemies of heaven and earth, those who turn the waters at the marriage feast of this poor world not into wine but gall." And still he read on to the completion of the work, dwelling long on the beauty of the closing sentence. 
               "The country by the railroad seemed, as we rattled through it, like a luxuriant garden. The beauty of the fields, the hedgerows and the trees, the pretty cottages, the beds of flowers, the old churchyards, the antique houses, and every well known object, the exquisite delights of that one journey crowding in the short compass of a summer day, the joy of many years, and winding up with Home and all that makes it dear-no tongue can tell, or pen of mine describe." And Mr. Dolby closed the book, sighing, "and winding up with Home and all that makes it dear." Yes! but this was more than twenty years ago. I wonder if we all can say it now. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE OLD CAPTAIN. 
                
                   
                     
                        "The frosts of age fell, but did not chill him."
                      
                     -Old Play.
                      
                   
                
               LIVING a near neighbor to Mr. Dolby, was an old captain, who had long ago retired in affluence from that wandering and active life led by the "Toilers of the Sea." His later trips had been in the tea trade with China, and he had made twenty voyages across the wide Pacific. Combining in his youth a roving and philosophical nature, he had gratified the one by visiting many countries and improved the other by studying closely the customs of different people. In a single line we have the whole record of his life: 
                     "A youth of labor and an age of ease."
                   A frank, cordial nature and varied information made him the most companionable and interesting of friends, and hour after hour would Mr. Dolby listen to his stories of strange lands lying far beyond the sea, while little Charlie, sitting upon his knee, would look up in wonderment as the little states and nations (crowded together on a single page in his atlas) stretched away with their lofty mountains covered with snow, and their deep rivers winding slowly to the sea. The dull science of geography became a series of fairy pictures, and the interminable capes, headlands, islands, peninsulas, straits, rivers, seas, and oceans, with their long names so often muddled in youthful brains, became real places where men lived and built cities, and fished, and where little children lived and played-facts never before realized in the pages of his atlas. In this period of life, when the imagination never grows weary, these happy hours, when "April melts in May-time," the most real, after all, of our unreal existence, although covered with the ruins of never-finished castles, little Charlie almost daily made a new trip with the old captain around the world. They would sail together under the white cliffs of Dover as if they were no farther away than the Palisades, and the next moment mingle with the whirl of life in crowded London; and now far away in Eastern lands they would visit the strange people of tea and hieroglyphics, floating on boats which looked like the picture of Noah's ark in Sunday-school books. And while the captain was superintending the lading of his ship, little Charlie would wonder at the strange language, their cramped feet, and wooden shoes. And the old captain would sometimes say, "My boy, I have carried enough tea across the ocean to convert the Croton reservoir into a 'tea-pot.'" And little Charlie half wondered whether they would not have to import a "volcano" to boil it. And now, with every sail spread, they would sail eastward on their homeward journey; and as if little Charlie had been really away from home for years, he found new music in those words which touch the heart of every sailor-"Homeward Bound." And when in his Sunday-class he sung: 
                      
                        "Tossed on the waves of a rough, restless tide, 
                        We're homeward bound, homeward bound," 
                     
                   he wondered whether the other little boys knew as well as he what it was to be on a "homeward" journey. 
               And now they are skirting the rock-bound island of St. Helena, and the old captain stands with folded arms as if he were the exiled hero standing beneath the shadows of Longwood, and in childlike language tells the story of that great general-his childhood in Corsica, the young artillery-officer in Paris, his retreat from Moscow, his return from Elba, the battle of Waterloo, his death at St. Helena-the wide circle he completed in the short journey of life, from an island birthplace to an island tomb. And in half soliloquy, as if forgetting little Charles' presence, he looks off, as it were, at the island, almost swallowed up in the waters, and says, "He was a great man, and I have often thought, when he stood upon that little island, and looked off upon these wide waters, he must have felt a secret pride thinking that all Europe, with her gold, her iron, and her tinsel crowns, was afraid of him, and guarded him there in that ocean solitude for fear of tottering thrones." And when the sails hung idly, and the sun described a wider circle in the sky, the old captain explained the ropes and pulleys, the sails, the pilot-wheel, and the chains which rattled as they passed over the little pulleys to the rudder ever buried beneath the green waters, and the great anchors, which had so often explored the dark caverns and the rocks that never knew the sunlight, lying in eternal rest, far below the pulsation of the sea, and visited coral-caves, and with its deeply blurred, rusty eyes seen all the mysteries which dwell in the deep waters; the windlass and the "log," which looked like a very small wedge, although it had so large a name that it used to seem to little Charlie like the trunk of a California tree. And when the long evenings came on, and they seemed indeed a "painted ship upon a painted ocean," and the bright constellation of "The Southern Cross" sank slowly in the glass-like waters, the old sailors would spin long yarns of sea-snakes, beautiful mermaids, and immense monsters, which never had form or substance except in vivid imaginations and children's dreams. And when the old captain said, "Well, little Charlie, I guess it is time for you to turn in," he would look around for his hammock-and seeing the familiar furniture of his own home, would wake up from his dreamland voyage, and wonder where the hours had gone. 
               But upon one subject, Mr. Dolby requested him never to speak in his son's presence or even his own-and this, it is needless to say, was the Captain's favorite topic. Mr. Dolby was unwilling to listen to even a single sentence which had reference to the beautiful ladies of Andalusia, the bright-eyed maidens of Peru or the sweet daughters of Chili. He could listen with pleasure to the visit which "Her Majesty of England" paid to the tomb of Napoleon after his remains were removed from that barren island to which the magnanimity of her people had exiled him: for he thought she shewed to good advantage the "jewel of consistency" (which always adorns the crowns of monarchs), as she stood uncovered at the tomb of a person-not of royal birth. He could listen with that pleasure which comes from righteous indignation to the bitter wrongs English arms had inflicted, and the brutality of English treatment-and he often perused that little page of England's generosity shown to the Spanish people-about the year 1811, and which her own historians have recorded to her shame. The French had driven out the Spanish troops, and taken one of the towns in the province of Andalusia. The English troops came to the assistance of the Spaniards and retook the town-but forgetting their obligations as allies, and even the common decencies of life, they made desolate the homes and hearts of this lovely city-sparing neither youth nor age; neither innocence or virtue, in their outrage-God save any people from the mercy of such defenders! But, these very men (and the old Captain's face brightened as he said it), these very men were sent to New Orleans soon after this outrage, and the bones of many of them now lie there to bleach, as if it were a just punishment for their crimes. Even in this world retribution is not always tardy-although the "rain falls on the just and the unjust." 
               But upon this tender subject-the beauty of those who lived under sunny skies-Mr. Dolby was unwilling to hear a word, and even begged the old Captain to pass them over altogether. Yet, it was plain to see, that this omission in his long narrative was ever made with reluctance. It seemed to the Captain very much like reading an old romance, and skipping all the pretty passages, and those, too, which had the most reality for him; for possessing a deep and affectionate nature these fair pictures had been the deepest stamped upon his memory, and it was his supreme delight to live over again among listening friends, his early and pleasant adventures. There was, moreover, that indescribable something always seen in deep affectionate natures which bound the young to him by the strongest bonds. Wherever he went, he was always surrounded by a crowd of youthful and pleasant companions, any one of whom would make life a Paradise, even in this home of sorrow. Very often he was the guide and protector of some little company like this, as they left the hot pavements pressed by eager and weary feet, and guiding with his own hands the little sail boat which he had kept for many years to gratify those "floating propensities" which no sailor can ever lose, they would sail up the river until the banks grew green, and stately trees with thick foliage mirrored their beauty in the water, and here under rustling leaves and beside sweet flowing brooklets, they enjoyed the freedom of nature, and the true poetry of existence. And after the fragments of these Gypsie pic-nics were removed, again and again they listened with renewed pleasure to the musical language of the songs of Spain; and as he translated the stirring words sung by the youth of Chili in their struggle for independence, their young faces would glow with enthusiasm, until they looked far more beautiful than even the most lovely of Spartan maidens, although painted by master hands, and hung in the untarnished gilt of classic poetry. 
                
               
                   
                     "Hear mortals the sacred shouts 
                     Liberty! Liberty! Liberty! 
                     Hear the sound of broken chains, 
                     Behold equality enthroned; 
                     See arising in the face of the earth 
                     The new and glorious nation, 
                     Her brows are crowned with laurels, 
                     A vanquished Lion at her feet, 
                     Then eternal be the laurels we have dared to win; 
                     Crowned with glory let us live, 
                     Or swear with glory to die!" 
                  
                
               And as they floated back in the long moonlit evenings, beautiful voices rung over the water the music of "Those Evening Bells" which ever breathe out in those sacred moments of closing day-the "sweet hour of prayer." He was so far advanced in life that all could love him with propriety, and enjoying the universal respect and confidence of the aged and the young, he passed on slowly to the bright threshold to meet the one who had gone before him. It was the happiest thought of his life that he had little to regret-that he had never deceived or wronged a single person in the wide world. And while conversing with those who were soon to take the places of their fathers, he would speak, as the heroes of old in the days of Themistocles spoke to their children, or Nelson at Trafalgar, when "England expected every man to do his duty." "Remember that in the hands of each one is the dignity of the Republic-that honor is the true test of manhood and the only safe chart in the passion-tossed voyage of life. Remember that these early habits will become your tyrants in manhood, if you are willing in youth to be their slaves, and more than all, when tempted by those who have forgotten the true dignity of life or those who by an unfortunate education have never known it; think of her who watched over you and prayed for you in your childhood, and remember if Pagan Philosophy ever taught one line of truth, it is, that 'Virtue is Happiness.'" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               "CHARITY SUFFERETH LONG AND IS KIND." 
               THE old Captain, Mr. Dolby and Charlie had long meditated a little trip into the country to visit a cave known as "The Stone Church." Early, therefore, one bright morning in the month of June, they were rapidly leaving the city with its noise and bustle far behind them. The straggling lines of brick buildings, ever reaching out as it were for the pure country air, have gradually sloped away into little villages; and long miles of pavement have at last narrowed into a single foot-path. For almost the first time in his life little Charlie looks upon the real map of the world: a map not bounded by crooked lines which mark the states, and counties, and townships, but reaching out, as it were, one and indivisible, bound together by every brook and river, and clasped and riveted by chains of eternal hills. (Would that all of us might occasionally look at the map of our country as Charlie saw it that morning, and not at the artificial lines of State boundaries and State differences! Perhaps some of us would be actuated by purer and juster views.) The green meadows sloping away, the shady woods, and "the little brooks which made these meadows green," filled his young soul with happiness, and he thought how nice it would be if he could live forever in such places as those by which they hastened. Places of revolutionary and local interest are hastily pointed out to him as they go whirling and whistling by; and as Mr. Dolby shows Charlie, upon the right, the winter-quarters of Washington, and recounts the suffering of our army during that long, severe winter, the old Captain said: "Is it not remarkable, Mr. Dolby, how quickly we Americans forget an injury? It is hardly eighty-five years since our struggle for independence, but in a little while we forgot all our injuries, and all the injustice our mother country attempted to enforce. It is a little over fifty years since the impressment of our seamen, and their imprisonment in Dartmouth Prison. In a few years we forgot that, and now in this last conflict, when our free institutions were assailed, and destruction was well nigh upon us, England, who for long years has denounced African slavery as iniquitous and unjust, renders assistance to a party who openly declared it the corner-stone of their new Constitution. Three years have passed, and we have almost forgotten that. We have been denounced by her editors, her essayists and her novelists, and still we receive them again and again in our arms. Truly, is not this national forgiveness a marvel, even beyond that 'charity which suffereth long and is kind.' Only twenty-five years ago one of England's finest writers visited us, or rather our insane asylums and canal boats, and went away to revile our institutions: who, writing of our Congress twenty-five years ago, used words like these: 'Here sat the many legislators-of coarse threats of words and blows, such as coal-heavers deal upon one another when they forget their breeding-on every side. Every session had its anecdotes of this kind, and the actors were all there.' Who saw in this gathering only 'the wheels that move the meanest perversion of virtuous political machinery that the worst tools ever wrought. Newspapers used for shields, and hired pens for daggers, shameful truckling to mercenary knaves, whose claim to be considered is, that every day and week they sow new crops of ruin with their venal types, which are the dragon's-teeth of yore in everything but sharpness; aidings and abettings of every bad inclination in the popular mind and artful suppression of all its good influences. Such things as these, and, in a word, dishonest faction in its most depraved and most unblushing form, stared out from every corner of the crowded hall. Here and there were drops of its blood and life, but they scarcely colored the stream of desperate adventurers which sets that way for profit and for pay; and thus the lowest of all scrambling fights goes on, and they who in other countries would, from their intelligence and station, most aspire to make the laws, do here recoil the furthest from that degradation.' 
               "His power of analysis also distinguished the three characteristics of our people. First. Universal Distrust, which has rendered us so fickle and given to change that our inconstancy has passed into a proverb. The second prominent feature, to give his own words, as we suppose it is peculiar to our people alone, forgetting for the moment the 'Alabama case,' and a few little incidents of that nature, is the love of 'smart' dealing which gilds over many a swindle and gross breach of trust, many a defalcation, public and private, and enables many a knave to hold up his head with the best, who well deserves a halter.' And third, 'The love of trade is a reason why the literature of America is to remain forever unprotected. 'For we are a trading people,' though they do, by the way, profess to be very proud of their poets; while healthful amusements, cheerful means of recreation and wholesome fancies, must fade before the stern utilitarian joys of trade. Schools may be erected East, West, North and South; pupils be taught and masters reared by scores upon scores of thousands; colleges may thrive, churches may be crammed, temperance may be diffused, and advancing knowledge in all other forms walk through the land with giant strides; but while the newspaper press of America is in or near its present abject state, high moral improvement in that country is hopeless. Year by year it must and will go back; year by year the tone of public feeling must sink lower down; year by year the Congress and the Senate must become of less account before all decent men; and year by year the memory of the Great Fathers of the Revolution must be outraged more and more in the bad life of their degenerate child.'" 
               "Mr. Dolby," said the old Captain, warming with his subject, "I once heard some person say that there is a difference between sarcasm and a slight verging on impudence, and I am inclined to the opinion that there is a perceptible distinction between national spleen and national civility. Notice a few other sentences in another work, and we can judge for ourselves without reading prefaces or letters, whether the writer was 'never prejudiced otherwise than in favor of the United States.' 'The more of that worthless ballast, honor and fair dealing, which any man casts overboard from the ship of his good name and good intent, the more ample stowage room he had for dollars! Make commerce one huge lie and mighty theft. Deface the banner of the nation for an idle rag; pollute it star by star; and cut out stripe by stripe, as from the arm of a degraded soldier. Do anything for dollars! What is a flag to them!' 
               And again, "It is no great matter what Mrs. Hominy said, save she had learnt it from the cant of a class, and a large class of her fellow-countrymen, who in their every word avow themselves to be as senseless to the high principles on which America sprang a nation into life as any Orson in her legislative halls: who are no more capable of feeling, or of caring if they did feel, that, by reducing their own country to the ebb of honest men's contempt, they put in hazard the rights of nations yet unborn and very progress of the human race, than are the swine who wallow in their streets; who think that crying out to other nations old in their iniquity, 'We are no worse than you!' (no worse!) is high defense and 'vantage-ground enough for that Republic, but yesterday let loose upon her noble course, and but to-day so maimed and lame, so full of sores and ulcers, foul to the eye and almost hopeless to the sense, that her best friends turn from the loathsome creature with disgust; who, having by their ancestors declared and won their independence, because they would not bend the knee to certain public vices and corruptions, and would not abrogate the truth, run riot in the bad, and turn their backs upon the good; and lying down contented with the wretched boast that other temples are also of glass, and stones which batter theirs may be flung back; show themselves in that alone as immeasurably behind the import of the trust they hold, and as unworthy to possess it, as if the sordid hucksterings of all their little governments-each one a kingdom in its small depravity-were brought into a heap for evidence against them." 
               And that other conversation between our friend "Martin" and "Mr. Elijah Pogram:" 
               "'We have no time to acquire forms, sir,' said Elijah Pogram. 
               "'Acquire!' cried Martin. 'But it's not a question of acquiring anything. It's a question of losing the natural politeness of a savage, and that instinctive good breeding which admonishes one man not to offend and disgust another. Now observe what this comes to, Mr. Pogram. The mass of your countrymen begin by stubbornly neglecting little social observances which have nothing to do with gentility, custom, usage, government, or country, but are acts of common, decent, natural, human politeness. You abet them in this by resenting all attacks upon their social offenses as if they were a beautiful national feature. From disregarding small obligations, they come in regular course to disregard great ones; and so refuse to pay their debts. What they may do, or what they may refuse to do next, I don't know; but any man may see, if he will, that it will be something following in natural succession, and a part of one great growth which is rotten at the root.'" 
                
               It may be that this is looking with favor upon the great mass of our people. This may be the language of foreign commendation. And perhaps you will remember, as "Martin" and "Mark" were returning to England, and "America was a cloud upon the sea behind them," that Martin asked Mark what he was thinking about, and he answered, "'Why I was thinking if I was a painter, and was called upon to paint the American eagle, how I should do it.'" 
               "'Paint it as like an eagle as you could, I suppose,' suggested Martin. 
               "'No,' said Mark, 'That wouldn't do for me. I should want to draw it like a bat, for its short sightedness; like a bantam, for its bragging; like a peacock, for its vanity; like an ostrich, for putting its head in the mud and thinking nobody sees it.'" 
               And yet we, as a people, have again taken this warm national friend to our bosom, and in a gush of affection or a sublime moment of ecstacy kissed him at his departure. And I ask any one who ever read the fables of sop, whether this forgiveness is not more marvellous than the repentance, even surpassing that "charity which suffereth much and is kind." Mr. Dolby shuddered as he thought of the ghostly visitation the evening he listened to the rendition of "The Christmas Carol," and meekly nodded an assent to the Captain's question. And all this time little Charlie had been looking at the hills over which the shadows and sunlight were chasing each other; at the laborers, as they looked up for a moment from their work, and wiped their foreheads; at the telegraph poles and the wires reaching away, he wondered where? and wondered how the messages were transmitted, and whether the little birds which sometimes perched upon the wires ever translated in their songs the sweet messages as they passed, and probably for the first time in his life, while in the company of the old Captain, was unconscious of what he said. And now they are nearing the little station, and the conversation is brought to a terminus, for the old Captain, Mr. Dolby, little Charlie, and the little basket, have arrived at their destination. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE RAMBLE AND THE REVELATION. 
                
                  
                      
                        "To him who in the love of nature holds 
                        Communion with her visible forms, she speaks 
                        A various language; for his gayer hours 
                        She has a voice of gladness and a smile, 
                        And eloquence of beauty, and she glides 
                        Into his darker musings with a mild 
                        And healing sympathy, that steals away 
                        Their sharpness ere he is aware." 
                     
                   
                
               LITTLE Dolby carrying the little basket, Mr. Dolby and the Captain, after a few minutes walk, found themselves in the midst of wild scenery, where deep "unbroken quiet holds her solemn reign," save the rustling of leaves in the overhanging branches, and the gentle murmur of lapsing waters, which ever makes silence stiller. Along the channel of the stream were large boulders borne down by the spring torrent, "with whirling stones and foam of the brown stream flaked with fierce yellow." A little footpath wound among the rocks, where withered branches break and crackle under the feet of those who, weary with crowded streets, come here 
                     "To slowly trace the forest's shady scene;"
                   or where newly fallen leaves tremble under lighter footsteps, when merry voices, blended with loud ringing laughter, make real the poet's dream of early times, when fairies dwelt in grottoes and sported beside bright-flowing brooklets. The footpath now enters a little defile, as it were a miniature pass of Tempe. The shadows deepen, and at once they all stop, and in mute reverence almost bow at this work of nature. A gloomy archway, opening in a solid rock, frowns before them like the heavy carving of old cathedrals in the middle ages. They enter the cave, stepping from stone to stone as a stream of water issues from the doorway, covering the whole thresholds, and the pulpit stands before them-like an old New England pulpit-reaching half-way to the ceiling. The walls are almost perfectly arched, and papered with green moss and white lichen. The old Captain directed little Charlie's attention to the rift in the rocks above them, which extended the whole length of this little chapel, over which the trees hung their green foliage, which, ever rustling and trembling, formed a trellis work with the blue sky, and asked whether "the church" had not a splendid skylight, more beautiful by far than the stained glass in Catholic Cathedrals, and little Charlie said it reminded him of the cave where the forty robbers hid their money, and where the unfortunate Cassim Baba forgot the "sesame" which opened the door, and the Captain told him that he had read when a little boy that in some fabled retreat like this, long before Malachi prophesied or Jeremiah wept over the fate of Judah, the second King of Rome, Numa Pompilius, was instructed in the laws by one of the Latin muses, whose name was Egeria, and little Charlie thought she must have been a beautiful woman to have lived in such a home, and wondered whether she had in her library "The Arabian Nights," or the story of "Don Quixote, the brave Knight of La Mancha," and if she had "he wished she might have been his aunt, and he might have come and visited her." And all this time Mr. Dolby stood apart, lost in his own thoughts, while the solemn language of the place "glided into his darker musings with a mild and healing sympathy." For the first time in the long dark weeks he felt like unbosoming the secret that had preyed upon his heart more bitter and cruel than even the fabled sufferings of Prometheus, for even at night, in dreams or in wakeful hours, it tortured his very soul. They passed out of the cave and up the cliff, until they came upon a broken tree, which had fallen,-an aged patriarch among his fellows,-and seated themselves upon its trunk. But little Charlie, not yet wearied amid the golden hours soon wandered away to find bright wintergreen berries and wild flowers, and Mr. Dolby, after a long silence, like a person who had made a deep resolve, commenced his history. The old Captain had long wondered what his early life had been, and listened intently to every word. He passed rapidly over his childhood, his love, his marriage, and came to the time when little Charlie was born, and here he hardly knew how to proceed, but knowing the deep warm heart of his friend, and the sympathy he had long felt for him in the gloom which hung over him, he proceeded. He recounted the many conversations which had led to their separation. The "uncongeniality," as he termed it, of Mrs. Dolby's disposition, and the ideas which led him to wish for the exclusive control and education of his child. He unburdened his very soul, spoke plainly, and in words of this import:-"We had lived very unhappily many years. Hardly any one who knew us intimately could fail to have known that we were in all respects of character and temperament wonderfully unsuited to each other. Of course the outside world could only judge this by our actions, and whose fault these actions were I cannot tell. Perhaps the blame is mine, and as I look back through these ten years of sorrow I sometimes think it is. She possessed a deep affectionate and forgiving nature, and I (although I am sorry to say it, yet I feel it just) became so lost in my own selfishness that I spurned her kindness and tenderness, and you see what I am to-day. Not even was I willing for our little Charlie to bind us together 'in appearance.' I had thought so much upon the little trifling subject as kissing as a way of expressing affection that I fear I became a maniac upon it. I am conscious of it now, but never have been until the last few weeks." And then he repeated the ghostly interview, and all the dark remorse which followed close upon that visitation. The Captain listened with breathless attention to that strange story, which shows how deeply injustice sometimes stamps itself upon the hearts of those who commit it. "And now," said Mr. Dolby, "You know why I have ever enjoined silence upon these subjects in the presence of Charlie, as I wished his education to be free from that poison which since the world began has ever been distilled from the lips of love, and I was unwilling to listen to them myself, as I knew they would bring up days long gone in my own history, but not yet buried in all these years of sorrow." And the old Captain sat long in silence, and when he spoke it was in sadness. "Let me tell you, Mr. Dolby, and listen kindly to my words: you are only crushing out in Charlie's heart the roses of love to leave the thorns of vice. Such a course of education as you propose-the dwarfing of these tender qualities-will make any person a deformed cripple of sin, for oh! there are days coming when passion can find no safe restraint unless bound by the purity of love, by a deep affection for some person who, in God's providence, has been created to make this life something beside a charnel-house of cold and deadly sin. Believe me, such education can never lead to good. Men may talk as they will about the frivolity of affection, and deny its existence, but while there is one pure and virtuous heart which believes in truth and devotion, their frivolity is sacrilege, and their argument a sophistry. Thank God, there are some pictures which can never be effaced from the heart! Thank God, there are noble deeds inspired by generous affection which can never be forgotten! And I remember once to have copied in a reading-room in Edinburgh some beautiful lines which I often repeat to myself with pleasure. 'And once upon a time, reader, there was a schoolmaster, and that schoolmaster had a wife, and she was young, and pure, and beautiful, fair and learned as the princess-pupil of old Ascham-Sidney's sister, Pembroke's mother-and her voice was ever soft, gentle, and low (an excellent thing in woman), and she was slow of heart to understand mischief, but her feet ran swift to do good, and she was simple with all the simplicity of girlhood, and wise only in the wisdom that cometh from the Lord; and her sweet young life was like a morning hymn sung by child voices to rich organ music. Time shall have thrown his dart at death ere death shall have slain such another. For she died, reader, long ago-and I once stood by her green grave, not far from dear Dunedin-died for all that she was so fair, so good, and beautiful; and I have heard it made a great difference to that schoolmaster.' And if there are any words which fill my soul with peace (and the old Captain's lips trembled and tears started in his eyes) they are in that beautiful poem, which is as pure as the snow-drifts piled about that country farmhouse, and as cheerful as the fire blazing upon the hearthstones those bleak December evenings- 
                      
                        'And yet, dear heart, remembering thee, 
                        Am I not happier than of old, 
                        Safe in thy immortality 
                        What change can reach the wealth I hold; 
                        What chance can mar the pearl and gold 
                        Thy life hath left in trust with me. 
                        And while in life's late afternoon, 
                        Where cool and long the shadows grow, 
                        I walk to meet the night that soon 
                        Must shape, and shadow overflow, 
                        I cannot think that thou art far 
                        Since near at need the angels are, 
                         
                        And when the sunset gates unbar 
                        Shall I not see thee waiting stand, 
                        And white against the evening star 
                        The welcome of thy beckoning hand.' 
                     
                  
                
               "Oh! Mr. Dolby, I often think like the wise king of old, we make costly houses of the wood of Lebanon, with pillars of silver and of gold, and deck it with purple, but we forget to pave it with love." It was a long conversation. At a little distance Charlie was sleeping sweetly upon a bed of moss. Still they talked on, and when the long twilight came-that hour when God seems to clothe himself with thick shadows, and come down upon the mountains to speak with his chosen children, they rose, feeling better for their communion with nature-to each of whom she had indeed spoken a different language, and as they looked again at the rocky walls growing gloomy; at the old pulpit, almost speaking in its loneliness; at the spray rising behind the rock-worn altar, as it were the sprinkling of holy incense, while the organ choir-the voice of dashing waters-chanted its perpetual "Te Deum," the old Captain turned to Mr. Dolby, and said that he believed as pure prayers had gone up here to Him who commanded the Ravens to feed the Prophet of old, in the wilderness beside the brook of Cherith, as have gone up from some velvet pews or the lip-service of a gilded prayer book; and as they passed down the path which follows the little stream-hurrying through this beautiful shady pass, laughing as it goes, and seemingly in haste to find the warm sunlight or to sleep under the green grass of the meadows-the old Captain found a parallel in our lives, that we all as children long to pass through the innocent spring-tide of life, to find at last, like the little stream, the heat of the noon-time, and soon sleep beneath the long green grass of the meadows, 
                     "Under the low green tent whose curtain never outward swings."
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               "ONCE MORE AND NO MORE AFTER." 
               THERE are moments of good resolve and real repentance in the lives of the most depraved of men, when virtue and truth triumph over long-seated wickedness and vice; some bright, golden moments to-day, although to-morrow may be as dark as yesterday. And it is charitable for those who are writing their history to attempt no farther scrutiny. There are hours of goodness woven in the "black serge cloth of crime," and would that the recording angel might then write the record which must decide eternity. And we prefer to close this little volume, leaving our readers to believe, as we ourselves trust and hope, that Mr. Dolby fully repented of the past; that he made a sincere confession to the one he had so cruelly wronged; that little Charlie was not always ignorant of a mother's love and kindness; that the words she had copied and read so many times were at last verified. "It is not in the nature of pure love to burn so fiercely and unkindly long. The flame that in its grosser composition has the taint of earth, may prey upon the breast that gives it shelter, but the sacred fire from heaven is as gentle in the heart as when it rested on the heads of the assembled twelve, and showed each man his brother brightened and unhurt." Some of our fair critics may think there is too little affection in a work of this nature, which omission, we assure them, would not have occurred were it not for two important considerations-first, the extreme youth of Charlie-a circumstance entirely beyond our control-and secondly, we have only attempted in these few pages to analyze some of the feelings which would come to men of ordinary minds, in like circumstances with Mr Dolby. How they affect persons of superior or inferior ability-men of greater charity, more wholesale in its nature, and more "Borriboola-Ghaish" in its tendency-we leave it for each one to decide as it may seem to himself. 
               But we wish it distinctly understood, that we never intend to write an appendix to this work announcing a change in any of our opinions, even if Mr. Dolby, his son or grandson, should allow us to visit their home, listen patiently to our stories, and send us away richer than when we came. Although we may find a popular precedent in second editions, where passages "have been expunged, or altered, or explained away, or patched into praise." 
               We know well that "charity suffereth long and is kind;" but we also know that 
                      
                        "He who seeks repentance for the past, 
                        Must woo the angel Virtue in the future." 
                     
                  
                
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
             
            P. S. WYNKOOP & SON, PUBLISHERS AND BOOKSELLERS, 108 FULTON STREET, NEW YORK. 
             
               GRANDPAPA'S ARITHMETIC. A FAIRY TALE. BY JEAN MACE. 
               1 vol. 12mo, 120 pp., cloth. Illustrated, $1.00 
               This work combines instruction with entertainment in a most pleasing manner. Under the guise of one of his delightful fairy tales, Jean Mace, the greatest living writer of this class of literature, unfolds the mysteries of the fundamental principles of arithmetic in so clear and simple a manner that every child who can read must understand them at once; thus, almost without an effort, mastering difficulties which months of tedious drudgery might not overcome. 
             
             
               LILLIPUT LEVEE. 
               1 vol. 12mo, 242 pp., cloth. Illustrations by J. E. MILLAIS, C. GREEN, and others, $1.00 
               One of the most delightful volumes of poetry for the young ever published in England, Lilliput Levee has already won a place among juvenile classics, and it is sure to be an equally great favorite here. 
               CRITICAL NOTICE. 
               From the Westminster Review.
                
               "'Lilliput Levee' is enriched with two charming sketches of Millais. This alone, we think, is a sufficient reason why all mothers should at once buy the book." 
             
             
                
                
                  
                     SHORT STUDIES FOR SUNDAY-SCHOOL TEACHERS.
                     BY REV. C. S. ROBINSON, D.D.
                     1 vol. 12mo, 250 pp., beveled boards, cloth, $1.50
                   
                  
                     SOMETHING ABOUT JESUS.
                     1 vol. 18mo, English flexible cloth, gilt, $0.75
                   
                  
                     MODERN MERCANTILE CALCULATOR.
                     BY A. D. Y. HENRIQUES.
                     1 vol. 8vo, 370 pp., $4.50
                     Every book-keeper and business man should possess a copy of this invaluable work.
                   
                  A THEORY OF THE UNIVERSE.  
                        8vo, 112 pp., paper, uncut, $1.00 
                        " " cloth, 1.50 
                     
                   
                  
                     ONE DAY'S WEAVING.
                     BY LYNDE PALMER.
                     Author of "Drifting and Steering," "Little Captain Good Fight," etc., etc.
                     1 vol. 12mo, 274 pp., $1.25
                   
                  HANDY-VOLUME EDITION THACKERAY.  
                        PENDENNIS, 1 vol. 16mo, 480 pp., $1.25 
                        NEWCOMES, 1 vol. 16mo, 480 pp., 1.25 
                     
                   
                
               Wynkoop & Son will send their Books by mail to any part of the U. S., prepaid on receipt of price. 
                
                
                  
                     THE HUDSON RIVER.
                     ITS LEGENDS AND POETRY.
                     1 vol. 16mo, 100 pp., $1.00
                     A beautiful book. Every lover of the Hudson should read it.
                   
                  HISTORICAL COSTUMES. BY HENRY L. HINTON.  
                        1 vol. 8 vo, 30 lithographic plates, colored by hand, beveled boards, cloth, gilt, $10.00 
                        1 vol. 8vo, 30 lithographic plates, colored by hand, beveled boards, morocco, gilt, 15.00 
                     
                   
                  FAYE MAR OF STORM-CLIFF. BY MISS S. J. PRITCHARD.  
                        1 vol. 12mo, 360 pp., beveled boards, cloth, $1.75 
                        " " " " gilt, 2.50 
                     
                   
                  MR. SECRETARY PEPYS. WITH EXTRACTS FROM HIS DIARY. BY ALLAN GRANT.  
                        1 vol. 18mo, 265 pp., beveled boards, cloth, $1.25 
                        " " " paper, 0.75 
                      (Illustrated with an exquisite steel engraving from Sir Godfrey Kneller's portrait.) 
                  HISTORY OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK. BY MARY L. BOOTH, TRANSLATOR OF MARTIN'S HISTORY OF FRANCE.  
                        2 vols. 8vo, 900 pp., cloth, 100 Illustrations, $6.00 
                        " " sheep, " 7.50 
                        " " half calf, " 9.00 
                     
                   
                
               Wynkoop & Son will send their Books by mail to any part of the U. S., prepaid, on receipt of price. 
                
                
                  
                     HANDY EDITION OF SHAKSPEARE'S PLAYS.
                     The Tempest. Two Gentlemen of Verona. Comedy of Errors. The Merry Wives of Windsor. Measure for Measure. A Midsummer Night's Dream. Much Ado About Nothing. Twelfth Night. Love's Labors Lost. As You Like It. The Merchant of Venice. A Winter's Tale. Taming the Shrew. All's Well that Ends Well. King John. King Richard the Second. King Henry the Fourth, parts I. and II. King Henry the Fifth. King Henry the Sixth, parts I. and II. King Henry the Sixth, part III. King Richard the Third. King Henry the Eighth. Julius Csar. Antony and Cleopatra. Troilus and Cressida. Othello. Coriolanus. Timon of Athens. Hamlet. Romeo and Juliet. Pericles. King Lear. Cymbeline. Titus Andronicus. Macbeth. Poems and Sonnets. Glossary.
                     Price per vol., in paper, 25c.
                   
                  HANDY-VOLUME EDITION SHAKSPEARE.  
                        13 vols. 24mo, cloth, in cloth case, $10.00 
                        13 vols. 24mo, morocco, in morocco case, 15.00 
                      A beautiful cabinet edition of Shakspeare, entitled "The Handy-Volume Edition," is issued from the Bradstreet Press, by Wynkoop & Sherwood. It consists of thirteen attractive little volumes, but printed on excellent paper, and with type not too small to be perfectly legible, even to the least brilliant eyes, and, in fact, presents a specimen of uncommonly choice typography. The edition contains only the text of the plays and poems of Shakspeare, and for those who wish to take a copy of the immortal bard on a journey or voyage, or vacation in the country, it may be recommended as the most convenient of the numerous editions now extant. 
                
               Wynkoop & Son will send their Books by mail to any part of the U. S., prepaid, on receipt of price. 
             
          
       
   
