
    ----CITATION----
        Benedict, Frank Lee, (1834-1910). Miss Van Kortland .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5780 wright2-0261
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               MISS VAN KORTLAND.
               A Novel.
            
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "MY DAUGHTER ELINOR."
            
               NEW YORK:
               HARPER & BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS,  
                     FRANKLIN SQUARE.
                  
               
            
            1870.
         
         
         
            MY DAUGHTER ELINOR.
            A Novel of American Society.
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "MISS VAN KORTLAND."
            8vo, Paper, $1 25; Cloth, $1 75.
            A good American novel, presenting life and society in the United States—the life that we live and the society of which we are a constituent part—has long been the desideratum of publishers and the despair of novel readers. * * * A story in which the characters are types of the American people at large, differing from the same social representatives of other countries, is rarely issued from the present. Such a story is "My Daughter Elinor," which is destined to attain a wide popularity, because delineating with naturalness and verisimilitude the life that is around us. It is from such books that the historian gathers the habitudes of the age of which he writes. In Mr. Grey we have the portraiture of the accomplished politician; in we have a real woman of flesh a reader has made love to in the days of premiere jeunesse. The style is easy and 
               naffected
               unaffected
            , at times straining overmuch at epigram, and again running a little into slipshod; and the dialogue is rapid and effective, never torturing with obvious comment or teasing with inevitable inference. Mrs. Hackett is a fresh and delightful Mrs. Malaprop, and Tad Tilman is an original drawn from nature.—N. Y. Evening Post.
            
            In some respects it will be justly regarded as the most successful attempt yet made to depict truthfully the aspects, traits, and tendencies—in a word, the normal characteristics of our manners and social characters.—Boston Transcript.
            
            The style is clear and vigorous, the dialogues are animated and interesting.—N. Y. Herald.
            
            A production of great interest, scholarly merit, and filled with humane and noble sentiments. The descriptions of scenery and character are graphic, and the conversations piquant, brilliant, and natural. The author has an admirable way of telling his story, which from the beginning never flags in interest. It is far from being sensational, yet it is replete with interest.—Jewish Messenger.
            
            PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, NEW YORK.
            Sent by mail, postage prepaid, to any part of the United States, on receipt of the price.
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by HARPER & BROTHERS, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
            
         
         
      
      
         
            Miss Van Kortland
            MISS VAN KORTLAND.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               AN AWKWARD MEETING.
               THE sun was setting; great masses of gold and crimson clouds floated in billowy swells over the sea of yellow glory that spread above the mountain tops, where the solemn pines rose distinct and dark against the amber radiance, like giant sentinels watching the scene.
               Margaret Dane stood at the window and looked across the beautiful valley, dreaming her youthful dreams, vaguely conscious of the loveliness about her, but only weaving it into her thoughts and making it a portion of the reverie into which she had fallen. She was dreaming of Italian sunsets and convent towers and picturesque peasants, and all the phantasmagoria of romance that had been called up by some book she had just read, after a somewhat profitless fashion, which is common to us all—I mean those of us who are weak enough or have youth enough left to like poetry and romance, or to dream dreams, and so forget the restless waiting or the dismal retrospection which make up our hardest burdens during certain periods of our lives.
               Existence was sufficiently fresh to Margaret Dane to leave her the impatience of suspense; though, like all young people who are imaginative, she was in the habit of thinking that she had lived a great deal, and that there were few things in heaven and earth which had not been much more than dreamt of in her philosophy or experience.
               Standing there, she commanded a view of the carriage-drive that wound up to the house from the road, and she saw a solitary horseman ride slowly along it, as if she had been a heroine living in the opening chapter of a mediæval romance. She turned from the window so suddenly that she sent the green curtains floating down over it like a pair of great wings that were trying to strike at her, and had to stop and fasten them up, and indulge in an irritated exclamation, as was natural, though she had brought the trouble upon herself.
               The sound roused a lady dozing in an easy-chair near the fire—a little, erect, withered, middle-aged lady, with curious fine wrinkles in her face which had evidently been made by ill health; who, even in her half-somnolent state, had preserved that rigidity of frame which is only given to women who are born old maids, and must stay so to the end of the chapter, though they may become wives three times over and mothers of double that number of off-spring.
               "What is it, Margaret!" she asked, in a small, reproachful voice that at once gave the key-note to a certain side of her character. "You never will let those curtains alone."
               "They never will let me alone, I think," returned the young lady, laughing a little at her own impatience; "they are always dropping their tassels on my head or reaching after me like unpleasant green claws—I verily believe they are alive and hate me as much as I do them."
               "I wish you wouldn't say such childish things," returned the small voice with a deeper shade of reproach; "I am sure I shall have the nightmare at twelve o'clock precisely and dream about them."
               "Then I shall have the worst of it, mother," said Margaret good-naturedly, "because you will frighten me half to death, and I shall be doomed to rush into your room with bare feet to waken you."
               "How can you say you would have the worst of it?" demanded Mrs. Dane—and the tone of reproach degenerated into mild fretfulness—"when you know how I suffer, and after that article I read to you about the woman who was not roused in time and so died, and her daughter—"
               "Was a prey to remorse of the most poignant description ever after," interrupted Margaret irreverently; "I remember it very well."
               "It was her daughter-in-law," moaned Mrs. Dane plaintively, determined, as usual, on the exact words being given.
               "Her daughter-in-law," amended Margaret, and added in a lower tone, "I've no doubt own sister to the other woman you read about yesterday who strangled her two babes with a speckled garter."
               "What did you say, Margaret?" asked her stepmother.
               "I say I will try not to prove so outrageous and abandoned a wretch."
               "Don't use such exaggerated expressions, Margaret; I am sure when I was a young lady at school in Boston under the care of dear Miss Honeyman—"
               Margaret interrupted her ruthlessly, for she knew from experience how long the digression would be if it strayed towards that revered female, whose very name she hated as deeply as she did the ologies her stepmother had forced her to study after the method of that wonderful woman, who had been the guide of Mrs. Dane's own youth and the unseen Nemesis of Margaret's. childish years.
               "Mr. Prescott is riding up, mother—I suppose I may order tea at once."
               "How you do fly about; Mr. Prescott won't be ready for some minutes yet."
               But Margaret was determined that those spare moments should not be devoted to reminiscences of the sainted Miss Honeyman—which hallowed name, I grieve to say, the willful girl was guilty in her thoughts of corrupting into old Haunt-a-man, without having the grace even to put the virginal title before it; so, at the risk of drawing a fresh shower of tiny reproaches upon her head, as inconsequent and irritating as a spent hail-storm, she said hastily—
               "I should not complain if he lengthened his few minutes into hours, I am sure."
               "There," said Mrs. Dane, with an oddly triumphant tone making itself audible through the querulousness of her voice, "you have taken one of your incomprehensible dislikes to him—I knew you would."
               "To Mr. Prescott, do you mean? Indeed, mamma, I don't think about him at all," replied Margaret with decision; "one can't dislike a man who doesn't even exist in one's thoughts."
               "I am sure he seems a very superior person, and well worth thinking about."
               Margaret shuddered at the term of approbation which was Mrs. Dane's word of all work when she desired to chant any body's praises, and, feeling a little irritable and very mischievous still, said laughingly—
               "He's an unmarried man, mother; I am sure dear Miss Honeyman would not have approved of my giving so much as the first letter of his name a place in my maiden breast."
               With all her odd ways, Mrs. Dane possessed a sufficient appreciation of fun, and she had to laugh, but she felt it her duty to add—
               "The frivolity of the young people of this generation was one of the things Miss Honey-man most lamented in her very last letter to me."
               "What a mercy she has gone where they can not shock her, or she torment them," thought Margaret, but prudently kept the irreligious observation to herself, while her stepmother withdrew her mind from recollections of the heavenward departed spinster, and said, just as plaintively as she had spoken while reproving Margaret—"I wish you would tell Nora to have flannel-cakes; Mr. Prescott said at breakfast that he liked them."
               "He had a gray flannel shirt on this morning; I should think that might answer. Ugh, how I hate a man that wears such monstrosities."
               "How can you, Margaret—"
               "I don't know, mamma, but I do—it comes of what old Mrs. Knight calls my unregenerate nature, I suppose."
               "Talk so, I mean," gasped Mrs. Dane, determined to finish her sentence. "After my making you read that article in Hall's Journal of Health, where he points out the virtues of flannel garments in such convincing terms."
               "I can only say that I shall never be virtuous, if possessing the quality depends on those articles," returned Margaret; "but I've no doubt Mr. Prescott has it in as great profusion as he seems to have flannel shirts; he looks disagreeable enough."
               A step in the hall made her bring her sentence to a hasty conclusion, and she escaped by a side door to avoid meeting the intruder, while Mrs. Dane leaned back in her chair, and being alone, was at liberty to laugh over Margaret's heedless speech; the merriment affording her more satisfaction than the reproof which duty would have compelled her to administer had her daughter remained.
               Margaret went up to her room, determined not to endure Mr. Prescott's society until it was absolutely necessary, and convincing herself that she had good grounds for her dislike, though she had never set eyes on the unfortunate before the previous day. But their introduction, or rather her presentation of herself to him, had been so very peculiar and so entirely opposed to any laws that the sainted Miss Honeyman would have laid down for the guidance of young women, that Margaret could find no consolation whatever except in thinking how shocked the spinster's ghost must have been if she chanced to be hovering about the dwelling of her former pupil, and in detesting Mr. Prescott for having arrived at the wrong time and becoming the victim of one of Honor Maguire's blunders, whereby he chanced to be seated in the room in which of all others he had no business.
               As a very young girl Margaret had been possessed of a fund of high spirits bordering on recklessness, but the troubles which had forced their acquaintance upon her during the past few years, and what she considered her mature age—she had seen her twenty-first birthday,—had in a great measure tamed them; the work rapidly assisted by the quiet life she had led since her father buried himself and his family in the coal region of Pennsylvania two summers before.
               It was the most unusual thing for her to indulge in girlish frolics nowadays; indeed, people who had only known her since her present existence began, would have said that the freak which I am forced to set down was quite out of keeping with her character. But we are very odd mortals, and so often commit follies that seem utterly foreign to our habits and the sedateness into which we have drilled our natures, that I am not much inclined to marvel at Margaret and her indiscretion. It came at an improper time, too. Her father had died suddenly only a couple of months before, and Margaret had loved him with an intensity of which only the few who knew her thoroughly would have believed her capable. But the last weeks, since the violence of her grief had yielded to that apathetic melancholy which follows, with a nature like hers, had been so utterly unendurable, and her stepmother had so moaned and lamented in every note in the gamut, had so drowned herself in tears upon every possible occasion, done mild hysterics at the sight of her lost husband's books or clothing, and made a jumble so absurd of the ludicrous and the sentimental, that Margaret began to feel an impatience even of her own sorrow, and was unable to help it, though she called herself all sorts of unnatural monsters therefor.
               And only the day previous, Mrs. Dane had gone out for the first time since her bereavement to spend a couple of hours with a friend, and before starting had tortured Margaret by her moans, fears, sniffs and headshakings, till the girl felt herself capable of going to any extreme of apparent gayety to evince her disgust of that mode of showing regret for the dead.
               It so happened that Mrs. Ross came over while Margaret was alone, and brought some young woman with her who had as thorough an appreciation of fun as Mrs. Ross even, and Margaret got telling them about her school-days and a play they had acted, wherein she had disported herself in boy's clothes. Then, from sheer desperation, and the difficulty she had to keep her composure from breaking down completely, she managed to get away from them, being inspired to hunt up the improper garments and array herself therein for their delectation and astonishment. She found the articles hidden at the bottom of an old box safe from her stepmother's inspection, under faded ball-dresses and other relies of the brief season of gayety which her girlhood had known, and in turning them over and thinking of the scenes which they recalled so vividly, she nearly forgot the purpose that had brought her there. But twenty minutes after, there stood looking in the mirror the most captivating, baddish boy, in a kind of Claude Melnotte blouse, wide trowsers, and dainty high-heeled boots, that ever one beheld. Margaret had hidden her back hair under the jaunty hat, and the front locks having been cut short to admit of frizzing, in accordance with the modern fashion, answered admirably to complete her disguise.
               She laughed outright as she surveyed her image—the first time there had been any real merriment in her attempts at mirth during those dreary weeks,—then wondered at herself for being so hardened. But recalling her stepmother's lachrymose lamentations of the morning, excited by a yellow silk handkerchief which was Margaret's detestation during her father's life, she began to laugh again and to feel hard and careless, at the same time to be shocked at the unnaturalness of her thoughts and conduct, until her nerves vibrated like slender steel springs that had been pulled beyond all tension and threatening to break.
               She had left Mrs. Ross and her companion in the room under her own. There was a staircase leading directly down to it, so that she should be able to appear upon them suddenly and startle them, as she wished.
               Her dainty boot-heels made no noise on the carpeted stairs, which were so seldom used that even as frequent a visitor as Mrs. Ross might have been ignorant of their existence, and Margaret ran down the steep inclined plane, still laughing to herself; but her foot caught in a loose rod, and she finished the rest of the descent with a rapidity that she had not bargained for. She slid with such force that her boot-heels struck violently against the door: open it flew, and Margaret landed full-length on the floor of the dining-room.
               She was a little hurt, but she preserved her presence of mind, held fast to her hat, which threatened to fall off, and while trying to kick away a rug which had rolled itself about her, she uttered a subdued war-whoop by way of still more astounding her two visitors, whom she supposed to be speechless with amazement.
               She heard an exclamation, but in a very different voice from that she had expected—struggled frantically with the rug which seemed determined to smother her—was driven quite out of her senses by a quick, heavy stop approaching her, and a man's voice that said—"Have you hurt yourself? Really, young gentleman, unless you are practising for a circus, I would advise you to leave off jumping down stairs in that fashion."
               A hand touched her. Margaret sprang to her feet, mechanically holding fast to her hat still, and confronted a tall, grave-looking personage, who stood regarding her with an expression that changed suddenly from a sort of reproving sympathy to a look of horror and disgust.
               "I beg your pardon," said he; "I fancy the woman has shown me into the wrong room."
               Margaret did not wait to hear; she was out of sight and had closed the door behind her while he was speaking; but it was a long time before she could sufficiently recover from her mortification even to feel a righteous wrath against the imbecile for having been led into a room where he had no business.
               She bad not seen him since until this morning; then his puzzled glance, as she sailed into the breakfast-room with a stateliness and severity of aspect that would have suited Lady Macbeth in her youth, nearly drove her frantic between amusement and anger.
               It was a very dull breakfast; nobody talked but Mrs. Dane, and Margaret got away from the table as soon as she could find an excuse. As she was going, she heard Mr. Prescott ask her stepmother if Mr. Dane had not left another daughter, and she caught the horrified look that came over his face again when the answer was given in the negative. She knew that he had been trying to give the stately young lady she now appeared that loophole to escape identification with the tom-boy of the previous afternoon, and her newly fledged hatred dilated to gigantic proportions at his impertinence.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               IN THE TWILIGHT.
               THE tea-bell rang before Margaret made her appearance in the dining-room where her mother and Mr. Prescott were waiting. She acknowledged the gentleman's salutation with a coldness so marked that he would have required more assurance than often falls to the lot of man to attempt to engage her in conversation. But he seemed to trouble himself very little about her mood, eating his flannel-cakes with relish, and talking pleasantly enough—though Margaret noticed with indignation that he appeared indifferent and somewhat abstracted—to Mrs. Dane about old friends of hers with whom he had been acquainted in the blessed land of Massachusetts.
               Chancing to look up towards the conclusion of the meal, Margaret met his eyes fixed upon her, and for the first time she noticed that they were very handsome eyes; gray, well-opened, though with a more searching expression than a person who had a secret to guard would have cared to bear unreservedly. But quick as a flash came another thought: Margaret fancied that she read in the glance a misinterpretation of her silence and coldness towards him; the man believed that she was ashamed of her escapade of yesterday, and he was trying to look indulgence of her folly, as if she had been a spoiled child. Naturally she was furious, and took the very first opportunity politely to contradict some speech of his not addressed to her, and to follow it up by disagreeing with her stepmother. Mr. Prescott waited patiently until she had finished her little explosion, then went on with his conversation as calmly as if she had not been at the trouble of airing her ill-humor, and Margaret felt an unladylike, not to say diabolical impulse rise in her soul, to scald him with the teapot then and there.
               The mild conversation, the evident effort Mr. Prescott made to bear his part in it, her stepmother's plaintive voice, her interruptions of herself in asking some commonplace question to indulge in a sigh and a parenthesis of regret over her recent loss, her finding mournful coincidences in the most opposite things, the very way in which she dallied with her dry toast, cutting it into little squares with as much precision as if they were to serve in demonstrating some geometrical theorem, all grew maddeningly wearisome to Margaret, and at last were not to be borne an instant longer if she expected to preserve her reason.
               She felt the almost irresistible desire that one often does when nervous and out of sorts, to say or do something utterly preposterous and outrageous—suddenly to dash at Mr. Prescott like a grinning maniac, or fly at her stepmother and fiendishly pull the funny little clump of hair she wore high on the back of her head, in shape and size exactly like a door-knob. As it would hardly do to indulge in such vagaries, for Mrs. Dane would certainly have taken refuge in hysterics, and Mr. Prescott looked cool and determined enough, Margaret thought, to carry her offending self off to the nearest lunatic asylum without loss of time, she took advantage of the first pause Mrs. Dane made in her halting drizzle of talk, and escaped.
               She was standing in the veranda, meditating a run down to the gates through the gathering twilight, when Mr. Prescott came out and joined her. She did not hear him until he was close beside her or she would have avoided his presence; indeed, she intended now to make the slightest possible remark that decent civility would permit and go her way, but before she had time to concoct a speech sufficiently frozen, he spoke himself.
               "I will only interrupt you for a moment, Miss Dane," he said; "I wished to ask a question."
               Margaret turned towards him in astonishment at the odd formula of words; remarked the same keen, observant look in the calm face and eyes, and was conscious, too—having an ill-regulated mind which always insisted upon thinking of a dozen things at once—what a peculiarly deep, rich voice he had, and wondered why, in spite of that, there was something which jarred upon her ear in its tone.
               "What is it, Mr. Prescott?" she asked, feeling that the scrutiny was prolonged more than she considered it her duty to bear.
               "I believe you told me that you had taken charge of all the letters and packages that had arrived since your father's death."
               "There was only one package—one express package," Margaret answered; "I put it away with the business letters—you took them all, I think."
               "Yes;—thank you."
               Evidently he had nothing more to ask; he drew a cigar-case out of his pocket, bowed and turned away. Scrupulously polite as his manner was, Margaret's state of mind made her feel that there was something almost offensive in it. She started down the steps, cheeked herself, and half turning her head over her shoulder, asked coldly—
               "I hope you found all the letters you expected?"
               "The letters were all there," he replied, as coldly as she had spoken.
               "Then there is nothing wrong, I suppose?"
               "Only I am a business man, and always like to be quite certain in such matters, and you know young ladies are sometimes a little careless—now, I have your assurance."
               Margaret passed on without another word, but if she had expressed her thought, it would have been—
               "And if you are a fair specimen of the race of business men, they are detestable creatures—you impossible prig! Why, he's a hybrid between a lawyer and school-teacher, with a little of a police-court judge mingled to make him rather more disgusting."
               It is the habit of the age to think and speak in exaggerated terms about trifles, and Margaret found it a relief as she walked slowly down the path, while the two faint lines that had a trick of showing between her eyebrows when she was disturbed or meditating earnestly, deepened almost into a frown.
               The moon was coming up above the trees, and blending her silvery rays with the last gleams of daylight, as Margaret reached the gates at the foot of the steep little descent that formed the grounds about the house. She was not a happy girl; even before her father's death she was far from being so; indeed she had been rather less visionary, and more tolerant of the emptiness of her life during these weeks that a real trouble had been upon her.
               She was thinking of her father; missing his companionship, his genial, brilliant conversation; mourning too much over his loss to have her fancies stray back, as had been their habit during the past two years, to the pleasant season of girlhood, which had preceded what she was accustomed to consider her sepulture in that lonely place. For Margaret had tasted just enough of the gayeties of life before that to make the draught agreeable and exciting; balls and operas had been just enough enjoyed to be fairy scenes to her; besides, she had known, girl-like, her little romance, and it had been a very pretty one, and had gone out suddenly enough to leave a sharp pain behind—a pain not connected with any real individual. She had long seen that the man who looked at her with such passion in his eyes, who talked such poetical sentiment, and lavished such charming attentions upon her, was in reality widely different from her ideal. But that knowledge did not make the pain wear off any more quickly, and left, when the ache passed, a dull loneliness and discontent, and a more intolerable feeling that in her baseless dream she had exhausted the power of loving, and must go on through existence and find it always barren and solitary.
               By no means an uncommon case, but as bitter to Margaret as a real suffering invented for her express burden. As we grow older, we learn that there is nothing original in the way of mental woes any more than there is in physical torture. Since the first patriarch who suffered a heart-break, and the earliest martyr crucified head downward, nobody has been able to enjoy the sensation of knowing that he has found any thing new in the way of misery.
               Margaret was roused from the occupation to which we are all given, of mentally canonizing her dead, and putting a halo about his forehead, by a woman's voice calling out from a little distance—the most absurd voice, with a nasal squeak, as though the sound were made as it is in dolls by pulling two wooden things together, and a deeper note added, as if Nature had got confused in her operations, and put in a man's falsetto by accident.
               "There you are, you picturful leetle creetur," it cried, "I walked by jist on the chance of seeing you."
               "How do you do, Mrs. Gallagher?" Margaret returned, "Why, where have you been so late?"
               "Wal, ye see I went up to sit a spell with Miss Ross, and she wouldn't hear of my coming away without my tea, and we talked a heap about you, for Clytemnestry's as fond of you as I am myself. And how's the lady-mother, my jewel?"
               "Tolerably well, thank you, Aunt Hilda."
               "Yes, that's what I like to be called—I used to think it was like a name out of a book, for I was always of a romantical turn of mind. And the lady-mother's well—a leetle struck down in a heap like—I know; she's not one to recover up and keep a masky smile as you or I might."
               By this time Mrs. Gallagher had got hold of both Margaret's cold white hands and was shaking them vigorously. "I'd like to kiss you," said she; "mayn't I? right on the top of your pretty pink ear—the left one."
               "Aren't my ears a match, Aunt Hilda?" asked Margaret laughing, as she submitted with a very good grace to the operation.
               "Oh, bless you, yes, but somehow I like to kiss the left one—law, I've as many whims as if I wrote poetry by the yard," and Mrs. Gallagher gave a prolonged cackle that answered for a laugh, and harmonized admirably with her squeaking voice.
               She was a tall, gaunt woman, with a waist that was too long; a narrow head and a face to match, decorated with the most enormous nose that ever any thing human wore, with a droll wart, like a pea, on the end of it; little sleepy, shrewd, gray eyes, and a very liberal allowance of month, and, in sufficiently odd contrast with all this plainness, a profusion of soft blonde hair which might have been the envy of a modern beauty.
               From the euphonious name of Gallagher one would have expected her to be an Irish-woman, but she had acquired the appellation some twenty years-five years before by her marriage with a stray son of the Emerald Isle, an educated, refined man, who had been attracted by her oddities, and discovered the keen perceptions and queer vein of sentiment that made her so different from the commonplace people among whom she had been brought up.
               Aunt Hilda was at least fifty now, and she had been a widow many years; living in a little cottage she owned in the outskirts of the village below, a perfect bird's-nest of a place in the summer time, with its trees and flowers and trailing vines, and a pleasant spot to see in the midst of the dust and blackness of the mining town.
               She could tell droll stories, sing Corporal Casey in her cracked voice, and had carefully nurtured all her peculiarities because they amused people, for Aunt Hilda was essentially a social person and must have companionship. Her acquaintance in general were content to set her down as a quaint, rather cracked body, who was to be coaxed into private exhibitions at which they could laugh, while in reality she was shrewder than the whole lot of them put together, understood them thoroughly, made their weaknesses serve her, and had a faculty of finding out secrets which would have rendered her dangerous had she not been exceedingly good-natured, unless some one attempted to shove her out of the way too roughly.
               "I miss your pa dreadfully," said Aunt Hilda abruptly; "I've cried a sight about him. I've always said that among all the new people the mines has brought here, there never was such an elegant gentleman—never! Talk about Abelard Straight, indeed—why he couldn't hold a candle to Mr. Dane, for all of his airs and his big new yellow house—he, with his head like a Pope's broom for washing windows, and that I can remember when he was only clerk in old Bunnell's store, and picking out the big eggs to sell for sixpence more a dozen; and now he wants to run for Congress, and talks in meeting like a Pharisee, as if nobody had any memory, and had forgot some of his leetle paradilloes as complete as he has."
               While Margaret was laughing, Aunt Hilda stopped for breath, cackled awhile herself, then resumed—
               "But your pa—Arthur Delancy Dane—ah, he was another sort; real blood there; blue as a Spanish Dalhigo, as the story-books say—I guess I've got the name twisted, but no matter. Whenever I was going by the office and he was standing in the door, he'd always time for a pleasant word: he wasn't afraid of a poor woman's breath taking the starch out of his dignity—not he. And it's the same with all of you—lady-mother and all—bless you, I wasn't born yesterday under a hay-loft, not to know quality when I see them, and brains too, and learnin', and them your pa had; and as for book-knowledge—"
               Words failed Mrs. Gallagher to express her sense of his erudition, and she could only wave her lean hands violently in the air, as if challenging some invisible enemy to dispute his merits.
               "But there," said she, "I needn't harry up your feelin's by my talk, and anyhow, Miss Ross told me what's good news—that Miss Van Kortland from York is a comin' to stay with her awhile this summer; a real highflyer she is, but just as affable-like as need be and sharp as a needle. She'll be company for you, as I said to Clytemnestry—my dear, I like to call her by the name, it's so grand and flowing. But about the new gentleman who's come to take your poor pa's place for a while—he's one of the company, I heerd, and he's staying with you."
               "Mr. Prescott. For the present, at least; he was an old friend of my father's," Margaret answered.
               "Though he's not old," said Mrs. Gallagher. "I see him riding by this morning, and I said to myself—'there's a spry chap,' and I'll bet you it'll turn out so."
               "Very possibly," Margaret said indifferently.
               "And there's no knowin'," pursued Aunt Hilda, wagging her head, and looking uncommonly sly, "there's no knowin'. I've always been lamenting there wasn't a fellar among all the chaps about the neighborhood that was fit to make a bridge for you across a mud-puddle."
               "Your imagination is too brilliant this time, Aunt Hilda; you will have to hunt up somebody else for Mr. Prescott to help over the mud."
               "Don't you like him?" demanded Mrs. Gallagher in a disappointed voice, which showed that she had already been weaving a pretty little romance for her favorite.
               "I don't know him," said Margaret; "never saw him until yesterday;" and her cheeks burnt to remember that first meeting.
               "Time enough, time enough," returned Aunt Hilda brightening up, and evidently determined to go on with another chapter of her novel. "But there, I've no business talkin' this way; but you know it's all well meaning—I'm powerful fond of you, my dear."
               "Thank you, Aunt Hilda," Margaret said, solitary and sad enough to be grateful for affection.
               "And you must come and see me, my dear—come down and see my patch. It'll be a sight in strawberry time, and the best shall be saved for you."
               Her patch was Mrs. Gallagher's favorite mode of speaking of her little home, and occasionally, in her odd jumble of talk, the words were very confusing and mysterious to strangers.
               "I'll be sure to come," Margaret said.
               "Do, my precious. Law, what a picturful thing you be! Your pa used to call you his Pearl, and no wonder—you're just like one. My dear, would you let me kiss the tip of your pretty little ear agin—the left one I'd ruther, though if you was to make me a Baronight to-morrow, I couldn't give rhyme or reason for the choice."
               Margaret yielded her ear to the caress, and Aunt Hilda mattered—
               "I snum! I'd like to bite it—so pink and soft. But don't say 'I snum,' my pictur; it's a vulgar word, and only fit for ugly old women like me. Keep a good heart, my precious, and don't be took aback, even if the lady-mother is dumpish pretty of'en; and be sure to come and see my patch before long;" and with many remembrances for Mrs. Dane and a repetition of farewells, Aunt Hilda went her way.
               Margaret walked slowly back through the moonlight, forgetting Aunt Hilda and her odd talk in gloomy thoughts, and sighing a little to think how long the night would be, because of late she had fallen into the bad habit of lying awake for hours, sometimes sleeping during the first watches, only to be roused as suddenly as if a cold hand had been laid upon her heart, and some spectral tormentor forced her to lie and look her dull life in the face, stretching away into the future with no break, no change—bleak and gray as a sandy road spread out under a chill November sky.
               As she reached the veranda she heard from the parlor, where her stepmother habitually sat, a sound like a sob or a gasp for breath, and an instant later Mr. Prescott's voice rang through the open doors, calling excitedly—
               "Miss Dane! Miss Dane!"
               When Margaret had disappeared among the shrubberies after their brief, unsatisfactory conversation, Mr. Prescott walked up and down the veranda for a time, smoking his cigar, with his arms crossed behind him and his head a little bent, after a habit he had when thinking seriously. There was a perplexed look on his face, a trace of indignation and regret mingled with it, and as he walked more and more rapidly up and down, and puffed vigorously at his Havana, the heavy brows knitted themselves closely together, and the expression of doubt and perplexity increased about the usually firm, close-set mouth.
               At length he heard Mrs. Dane pass along the hall and enter the little parlor that opened upon the veranda. He could see her through the parted curtains, sitting at a side window, and looking desolate enough in her still attitude amid the ashen gloom. Mr. Prescott hesitated for a while, then, with the air of a man who had decided that a certain thing must be done, he threw away the end of his cigar, passed into the hall, and joined her.
               "They haven't brought the lamp, Mr. Prescott," said Mrs. Dane in her depressed voice; "I dare say you don't like this twilight; it does seem dismal."
               He stopped by the hearth; gave the fire an impatient punch with the poker, and answered—
               "I like it, Mrs. Dane; don't have a lamp yet on my account."
               "I suppose you are very tired," she said; "there must be a great deal to do at the office—every thing has been left so long to the clerks."
               "A great deal to do," repeated Mr. Prescott; "but I dare say we shall get matters straight again very soon."
               "And do you think you shall stay yourself, Mr. Prescott?"
               "At least for this year, madam. I think it necessary that some member of the Company should be here all the time, and it happens to be more convenient for me than any of the others."
               "Ah, yes," sighed Mrs. Dane; "you would not be likely to find any manager you could trust, now that my poor Arthur is gone."
               "Mr. Dane was one of the most valued friends I ever had," Mr. Prescott said quietly; "boy and man, I owe much to his friendship and advice."
               "And he never made mistakes for others as he did for himself, Mr. Prescott; though he was too tender-hearted and too fond of books to be a thorough, practical business man. The patience with which he bore the reverses that forced him to accept the situation your Company offered, and come here to live, his care for us, his—"
               Mrs. Dane's voice died away, but she was not weeping; the tones had even lost their accent of querulousness. When she could speak again calmly, she changed the conversation. "Arthur thought you would buy up all those coal-lands above your tract, this year," she said.
               "We have hopes of doing so," Mr. Prescott answered. "Young Mr. Seaton owns them now; they were left him a few months since by his uncle."
               "Yes; the old gentleman was obstinate and would not sell at any price."
               "But Mr. Noel Seaton wishes to dispose of them; I had an interview with him in New York. I suppose he will come out here this summer, and we shall close the bargain, unless"—and there was a shade of scorn in Mr. Prescott's voice—"in his busy idleness he forgets the whole matter."
               "Yes," Mrs. Dane said again; she had a habit of offering that little monosyllable to fill up pauses in a conversation, but just now she spoke absently. "You took all the letters and papers that were here in the house, Mr. Prescott?"
               "Yes, madam. Indeed, I wished to speak with you about them."
               "About the letters?" demanded Mrs. Dane, in a confused sort of way.
               "About a package—"
               "There was an express package, Margaret told me," interrupted Mrs. Dane.
               "Only one?"
               "So Margaret said. Margaret has had charge of every thing; I have not been fit."
               "Certainly; you ought not to have been troubled, madam."
               "I am rather a poor creature, I am afraid. Arthur petted me so much, and my health is not good. And you got the package, Mr. Prescott?"
               "One package, madam; there ought to have been another. I supposed it had arrived before Mr. Dane's death, until I found that the men had not been paid off. It was a package of money for that purpose."
               He turned from the fire and looked at her as he spoke. The moon had come up and was shining in full at the window, making Mrs. Dane's face whiter than ever with its pallid rays.
               
               "It did not come?" she asked.
               "Not before his death, or it would have been paid out," he said positively.
               "Yes, yes; Arthur was so exact, so— And you can not find it?"
               "No; but there have been two packages received at the express office."
               "You have inquired?"
               "Indirectly. Pray don't be distressed, madam. Your daughter tells me—"
               "Yes," she interrupted in a trembling voice, "his daughter—Arthur's, you know!—I am not strong—I'm sorry to be so foolish—ah—"
               With a long shuddering breath she sank back in her chair, and Mr. Prescott, hearing Margaret's step on the veranda, called out to her in alarm. She hurried into the room and found him leaning over her stepmother, sprinkling her face with water; evidently less helpless and idiotic than masculine nature usually shows itself on such occasions.
               "Mrs. Dane has fainted," he said, as Margaret entered, retaining his wits sufficiently to offer the explanation at once, lest she might imagine matters worse than they were, and indulge in pathetic sobs and shrieks after the fashion of a certain order of young women that Mr. Prescott held in supreme contempt.
               If he had known Margaret Dane better, he would have been in no fear of a scene, though the pale, worn face lying back in the moonlight looked ghastly enough to make an excuse for a slight histrionic display on her part. She took her mother's hand, and feeling it quiver convulsively in her own, said quietly—
               "She has not fainted; it is a nervous attack—she is subject to them."
               She set Mr. Prescott aside with more coolness than was necessary, and proceeded to give her stepmother such assistance as could be available. Presently Mrs. Dane opened her eyes, but when she attempted to speak, her voice was so broken by her labored breath and the painful contraction in her throat, that nothing was audible beyond a pitiful repetition of her daughter's name.
               "Don't try to talk, mother," Margaret said, kindly; "it always makes you worse. There's a bell on the table, Mr. Prescott—please ring, if you can find it."
               He hastened to obey, rather admiring her composure; but as the table set in a dark corner of the room, and a chair, with the total depravity as common to inanimate objects as to the children of men, had established itself directly in Prescott's road, that gentleman's shins made acquaintance with it in a more impressive manner than was agreeable, causing him to give vent to a quick exclamation, which Margaret was not too much absorbed to catch and wickedly enjoy.
               The irrepressible mulatto boy whom Margaret favored, appeared with a lamp in answer to the bell, which Prescott rang sharply as a relief to his feelings, and was dispatched in all haste for Nora, who was cook and housekeeper both, and in each capacity the greatest tyrant that ever wielded a broom or bullied a subordinate, though devotedly attached to the family, and the more insufferable on that account.
               "She's got her narves," exclaimed Nora, as soon as she cast a glance at her mistress. "Shure, it's kilt she'll be onless ye lave her the pace of her mind," and she shook her head, ornamented with fiery hair and three black streamers, furiously at Mr. Prescott, as if the illness had without doubt been of his causing.
               "We will help her up stairs, Nora," said Margaret. "You can walk now, can't you, mother?"
               Mrs. Dane made an affirmative sign, and Nora became voluble again.
               "It's the woorld's wonder av she can, the poor lamb, what wid throubles and disturbances and too much discoorsin," cried she, with another jerk of her head in Mr. Prescott's direction. "Come wid your own Nora. avic; shure it's not hersilf will kape yer poor head in a buzz wid talkin'. Shtand out of the way, Miss Marg'ret dear, av ye plase, and I'll whip her right up intil me arms."
               "Can't I help you?" asked Mr. Prescott.
               "Indade, thin, I'd be ashamed of Nora O'Flaherty av she couldn't lift what doesn't weigh more nor a pillow—not that I'm above bein' obleeged to ye all the same," and she made a dive at her mistress, like an ogre darting on some helpless innocent who was to be devoured skin and bones.
               "Wait—wait," Mrs. Dane said feebly. "I must speak—I want—where is Mr. Prescott?"
               "To-morrow, mother," Margaret said: "you must not try to talk now."
               "Faith, ma'am, the gintleman ull kape," added Nora, "and, savin' his prisince, there'd be still a deal of min left av he didn't; so come wid your own Nora, and don't be makin' your poor head buzz worse nor it does. O, wirra! wirra! she doesn't weigh more than a spring chicken," she moaned, as she raised Mrs. Dane in her arms and carried her out of the room, preceded by Margaret, bearing the candle with which the belligerent Hibernian had come armed.
               When the procession disappeared, Prescott lighted a fresh cigar and went out to smoke in the moonlight. After a time, Nora's head appeared at the door, and she informed him with much circumlocution that her mistress was better, and Miss Margaret wished him good-night, being busy with a book for her mother's amusement.
               Prescott returned to the sitting-room, and, while trying to occupy himself with a newspaper, he could hear the murmur of Margaret's voice in the chamber overhead, and sat listening abstractedly till his thoughts wandered so far away that he forgot the matter which had seriously perplexed and annoyed him since morning.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               BETWEEN WALTZES.
               IT was the last possible attempt at gayety of the season; in fact, that word no longer had any significance so far as society was concerned, for it was already deep in May, and even the effort to brighten a little after Lenten mortifications had been weeks before relinquished.
               But just now, when every body was dull beyond belief—when people who had country-seats were thinking of flitting thither and settling upon the unfortunates whom they should bore with invitations, and by whom they should be bored in return—when Saratoga and the seaside had become the most familiar words in the months of young women, and no female creature "in the world" had any thing to wear—some adventurous spirit issued cards for one more evening. Naturally all those bidden to the festivity pronounced it a monstrous bore, and prepared with alacrity to victimize themselves, while the body of the great forgotten found consolation in declaring the whole thing ridiculous, and recalling the time when Mrs. Judge Hylaper had not money to pay for a pack of cards, though she was so particular where she distributed them in these latter days.
               It was a warm night. The faint breeze that surged up from the sea to Murray Hill and drifted in through the open windows of the drawing-rooms, obstinately refused to bring any cooling upon its wings; so that the only safety for the dancing portion of the throng, was never to stop in their gyrations, lest they should give out entirely; and the tabbies and neglected flowers who decorate the walls on such occasions were obliged to be more venomous than usual, in order to spice their scandal highly enough to have any flavor whatever to the jaded palates of their listeners.
               Noel Seaton made his appearance very late, wearing his most delightfully fatigued, insolent look, barely enduring his hostess, wearily oblivious of his host, not condescending to be bored by the rest of the world, and showing so plainly that he was too indifferent to make a pretense, that it was rather more aggravating than the strongest evidences of suffering and martyrdom would have been.
               But late as he was, Agatha Van Kortland, was still later; she floated into the rooms in the wake of her immense chaperon, with a face more regardless of the people than Seaton's own, and a dress so marvellous in its freshness and original in its style, that half the women fancied she had received a new importation from Paris, and in the secrecy of their souls they chafed against her with exceeding bitterness.
               She looked, Noel Seaton thought, as though she had just come up from some cool cave under the sea, and had flecks of the white foam still clinging to her hair and graceful knots of strange sea-weeds festooning her dress. She was paler, more unlike other people than ever; her eyes had a far-off expression, as if they were yet dazzled by the mysterious light away down in the ocean caverns, and she were listening to the distant mourning of the waves.
               Then he remembered that of course it was only acting, after all, and relapsed from his brief enthusiasm into a more hopelessly apathetic state than at first, and did not take the trouble to approach the lady, who had very little time to notice his presence or be vexed by his indifference, for she was immediately surrounded by a troop of dancing men (being, to use their own expression, the best "stepper" in the set), and the male Terpsichoreans were elbowed and mentally reviled by such of their brethren as went in for conversation, because Miss Van Kortland was equally at home in that agreeable art.
               But she saw Mr. Seaton—nothing escaped those eyes which looked so careless and unobservant, and were every possible color by turns, from pale green to black; and, whatever tint they assumed, always the most wonderful eyes ever put in a human being's head—she saw him, understood his mood immediately, and felt herself quite able to got the better of him before the evening should be over. They did not chance to be within speaking reach for some time. Noel clung to his refuge in a window recess until driven out of it by an invasion of harpies, as he secretly called them; but in making a rush down among the dancers to escape Mrs. Hylaper, who was trying to fix him with her glittering eye that she might offer him up as a holocaust on the altar of several partnerless young women, he almost ran against Miss Van Kortland, who was taking her seat and dismissing her late partner with as little ceremony as if he had been a paid-off domestic for whom there was no further use.
               "Were Cyrene and Arethusa and all the rest well, when you came up from under the sea?" he asked, by way of a first salutation.
               "You had better go back to school and study the Georgics," said Miss Van Kortland; "those females lived somewhere at the bottom of a river, and I am much too well brought up a young woman to know any thing about them."
               "May I sit down here?" he inquired, for she was established on a causeuse against the wall, that would hold two very comfortably.
               "I suppose so—somebody will be sure to come; it may as well be you as another," she answered, but made no movement to sweep her draperies aside to make room for him.
               "Confess that you would rather it should be me than another," he said laughing, as he seated himself without disarranging her dress—that most difficult trick for ordinary masculine humanity to learn. "There is no man here you want to victimize, and certainly you don't wish to be victimized by any woman."
               "The Fates forbid!" said Miss Van Kortland with a shudder; "I have had a troop of women about me all day, and hate the race from Eve down."
               "Miss Van Kortland included?"
               "I grew too thoroughly tired of her centuries ago, even to hate her," returned she with the prettiest little pretense of a yawn. "I will compliment you by saying there is no male biped I should be so willing to see here."
               "Now something wicked is coming."
               "No; I only feel severely truthful! I prefer seeing you because I can be as rude as I like."
               "You mean brusque, distraite—"
               "I don't mean any such trumpery French platitudes; I meant the downright vulgar English word I used. You have told me twenty times, when you were angry, that I was the rudest woman you ever knew."
               "Such exaggeration is natural to—"
               "Now don't say a young lady," interrupted she; "I'm not in a mood to be called names! Athenäis Schuyler has been in a lecturing fit to-day, and has called me that atrocious animal twenty times."
               "Did you rebel?"
               "At last I did, and vowed that I was no such thing—I think I convinced her finally that I was not; then she let me alone and ate her dinner with an injured look which almost drove me frantic."
               "I thought you appeared quite worn out by the weariness of living," said Seaton.
               "No; that is your style; you do the heavy bored and used up; I only look queerer and more ridiculous than usual. You are thinking this minute that I poked a black finger under my eyes before I came out."
               "I did think you had the habit, until last summer when I saw you cry one day."
               "You never saw me cry!" she exclaimed indignantly.
               "Oh yes, I did," persisted he teasingly; "you denied it then and always have, but you were crying—sitting alone on a stone bench in Mrs. Livingston's grounds and looking as doleful as Ariadne."
               "Don't be classical in your comparisons—
                     it it
                     it
                   is so dreadfully priggish! I told you I had got dust in my eyes."
               "I know you did, but I didn't believe it then, and don't now—dust doesn't blow over a green lawn."
               "I had been down to the road to watch for old Colonel Drysdale go by—that was the time I was rather making up my mind to marry him, and I wanted to see him at his best, which he always looked on horseback, by way of putting myself in good-humor."
               "You are quite out of breath, and no wonder—such a long sentence and such a horrible fib! You were rather trying to make up your mind to tolerate me then."
               "I beg your pardon—you are never right, even by accident! I was liking you better than usual, and not being very well, and consequently nervous and silly, I was afraid of being deluded into an irreparable folly by your mooning non-sense."
               "And you thought of marrying the old colonel in order to avoid the danger?"
               "Precisely so, Sir Oracle."
               "O, I didn't make the assertion; I only asked a question."
               "Then talk according to the rules of elocution, and put your interrogations with a rising inflection of voice."
               "Bless me, I don't think I can stand this sort of thing," said he with a shiver. "I never heard so many big words in my life; I feel as if I were reading a dictionary."
               "I wish I were one, sufficiently enormous and heavy to crush a load of people, and that all my acquaintances stood under the shelf, and something would knock me off directly on their heads."
               "You certainly are the most amiable young creature I ever met," returned Seaton.
               "I don't mind being called a creature, but I'm not young—I am almost twenty-five years old. Harry Lathrop swore at the club the other day that I was thirty, but that was one of his—two blanks here—though I dare say I look it."
               "Perhaps you would like a compliment?"
               "Perhaps I would like quinine or something else nasty! Any way, I feel as if I were a hundred, and people have seen me poking about in such places as this for so many years that I wouldn't wonder if they thought me so."
               "You 'came out' very young."
               "I always was out; I verily believe I was born in society—what a beastly word! When I was a tiny thing, papa would have me at his dinners and suppers—O dear, what fun they were! And it was no use for Athenäis Schuyler or any of the rest of the relations to scold, and papa used to let me scratch them dreadfully when they flew out at him."
               "I remember your father; what a delightful man he was!"
               "There's nobody left like him," sighed Miss Van Kortland; then, as if afraid of showing any trace of feeling, she rattled on more gayly than ever. "So the consequence was, as papa would never have company or go anywhere without me, by the time I was sixteen my face was as well known in all sorts of places where it had no business as old Mrs. Dashmore's."
               "Better, I should think, as nobody has seen her real visage for the last half-century."
               "And here I am twenty-five, and every body is tired of the sight of me and I of them."
               "Yes; you are a dreadfully neglected person."
               "And Athenäis Schuyler and the whole troop of ravens badger me from one year's end to another, and threaten me with throwing away the last of my chances—if I only could, and be done!"
               "Has that been the burden of the gorgeous old bird's song to-day?" asked Seaton.
               "She looks like a flamingo in that red gown—I told her so. Yes, partly that, but she dwells most on my folly and wickedness in wasting as much time as I had been doing, off and on, with a certain ineligible of my acquaintance whose initials are Noel Seaton."
               "Really, I have been called a great many bad names, but I didn't know the assurance even of the Van Kortland blood ever went far enough to say that."
               "She admits that you are more petted than any man in society—that word again—but every body knows you don't want to marry; and if you did, you must make a Cannibal of yourself and devour an heiress; then she pleasantly reminds me that I no longer am one."
               "I believe I am not positively in a state of abject poverty."
               "Why, you would be rich according to the ideas of any decently moderate person. But, as she says, nothing less than a shoddy contractor's rent-roll would keep two such people as we are out of the work-house, if they joined forces."
               "Much she knows about it."
               "As if I did not know how extravagant you are; and, as I have often said, of all white elephants you could have on your hands, a wife would be the most unendurable."
               "I think I have told you times enough that I wanted one," he answered, playfully still, but with a certain earnestness in his voice.
               "Oh yes, and there was once a spoiled boy who wanted the moon, just because he couldn't get it."
               "I knew very well what I wanted when I asked you to marry me," replied Seaton, quietly.
               "I don't think you ever went quite so far as that, even when you were trying hardest to be insane."
               "I have asked you regularly once in, three months ever since, and I mean to—"
               "Except when you happen to be too busy making love to some other woman."
               "Exactly; I don't intend to be deprived of any of the emoluments of my bachelor position."
               "That is really very good," said she, laughing. "Well, I promise not to be vexed when you at last marry the blond-haired young fairy that I have prophesied would be your fate."
               "I thought there was a time when I began to consider myself partially engaged to you: I didn't know it had been repealed."
               "Just a bit of idiocy of last autumn," said she. "There, we'll not talk nonsense; ask me to do that heavenly galop instead."
               He rose and offered her his arm, and away they whirled down the room. When the music ceased, Miss Van Kortland was besieged by half a dozen men, and Mrs. Hylaper, coming warily up behind Seaton, captured him without trouble.
               "She means to sacrifice me to that hideous Miss Ransom," he whispered to Miss Van Kortland.
               "A very proper thing to do," she answered; "think of her countless shekels."
               "Think of her abominable lisp, and look at that nose—why how could a man ever get at her mouth to kiss it?"
               "It would be in the way, certainly, but my modest imagination did not go to that length; besides, you would always be wanting to kiss some other man's wife too much to think about your own."
               "I hope you may have the chance some day of finding out whether that is true," said he, coolly.
               "Thank you," retorted she, with equal composure; "but I am not much given to that pleasant osculatory exercise, and I mean my own husband to be sufficiently endurable for all such efforts."
               "I think, with you, that I shall be."
               "Shall be what?"
               "Endurable enough for that."
               "So does Miss Ransom. Go off to her, and don't make me absurd by this low-toned conversation; why, its more compromising, if less vulgar, than whispering. Now go and prove you have the spirit of a martyr; propose to the Ransom, and help her to a position, and spend her money for her, and oh, do teach her how to dress."
               Mrs. Hylaper had been detained by somebody while they talked, but now she seized Seaton in the gripe of her jewelled fingers and bore him off, he whispering a last wickedness to Miss Van Kortland concerning the Skeleton Hand as a fine title for a story—their hostess's anatomy being less discreetly clothed with flesh than was desirable for a woman who wore so many diamond rings, and was so parsimonious of satin in having her dress waists made.
               With the reckless impulsiveness which was one of his strong characteristics, Noel Seaton rushed into a brilliant mood, and distinguished himself for the rest of the evening, while Miss Van Kortland did her part with equal conscientiousness, and looked odder and whiter every moment, and no amount of waltzing brought the slightest touch of warmth to the gloved hand which lay like a small icicle on the shoulders of her numerous partners.
               But after supper Seaton took possession of her again, and both having worked themselves into a state of excitement, they said more absurd things than their guardian angels would have cared to set down, and censorious dowagers within hearing confided to each other their distress at seeing Agatha Van Kortland flirt more outrageously each successive season; their fears that she would so hopelessly stigmatize herself among the ranks of the rapid young women that there would be slight hope of her marrying well after all that had been expected of her; and they pitied her and every body connected with her, with the serene delight which human nature is wont to display in such matters.
               Ponderous Athenäis Schuyler knew so well what was being said, that she grew very angry at Gay's conduct, in the face of the volumes of good advice she had lavished upon the intractable young lady that very morning; in her wrath she was foolish enough to administer a few words of rebuke in her relative's ear, and was nipped so severely in return, that her own ears absolutely tingled for ten minutes after, as though the chastisement had been corporeal.
               "I am going home," said Miss Van Kortland to Seaton. "Athenäis has reached that stage of anger and dismay from whence she will inevitably take refuge in wounded feeling if I provoke her further."
               "Keep on, then, by all means; she must be hugely amusing in the lachrymose vein."
               "You wouldn't think so if you had to hear her sob, and feed her with sal volatile," returned she, "Oh dear! I wish relations were an extinct species, like the dodo."
               "Envy me going home to the delight of my bachelor seclusion, with no family bosom to torment me."
               "I do! I wish I had been born a tiger in a jungle, instead of a petticoated abomination in a Christian country."
               "You will let me come and see you to-morrow?"
               "I do not think I will. I don't mean to see people any more."
               "You must have been dreadfully bored today to be so misanthropic," said Seaton. "Athenäis's lecture alone couldn't have done it; you must have been raking up every romance of eighteen, and trying to be unhappy over them."
               She smiled, but not pleasantly.
               "Romances never were in my line," said she.
               "Oh! oh!" exclaimed Seaton. "Think of your guardian angel and his distress!—when every body says no man ever looked in your face without coming to grief—"
               "Luckily you can make oath, if need be, to one exception," she interrupted, almost irritably. "You know I detest that sort of talk."
               Seaton was silent, wondering, as he did occasionally, when she betrayed annoyance at such speeches, if in her girlish recklessness she had hurt some man so cruelly that the recollection still caused her remorse and made her cling to her solitary womanhood as a kind of penance and atonement.
               "Good-night," she added, in a voice that was sharp, in spite of an apparent effort; "I'll not stay any longer to be abused."
               "I shall see you as you come down stairs."
               "No; I promised Mr. Edwards that he should have the supreme felicity of putting me into the carriage; he is a patient wretch, and deserves a little reward for all the lovely violets he sends me."
               She passed on in the wake of the injured and stately Mrs. Schuyler, and Seaton made his own way up to the dressing-room. He was down stairs again, standing in the vestibule, as Miss Van Kortland came out leaning on the arm of the patient Edwards, who was radiant in the gas-light over his poor tiny bit of happiness.
               As Miss Van Kortland seated herself in the carriage. Seaton caught her eye, and bowed. She smiled at him—such a wan, dreary smile, that it sent him home marvelling more than ever at the incomprehensible girl; marvelling, too, at the persistency with which he, the ficklest of his sex, had retained his interest in her—an interest which had not interfered with scores of ordinary flirtations, but which preserved and asserted its ascendency through them all.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE DAY AFTER.
               THE few words of preparatory expostulation which Mrs. Schuyler attempted in the carriage, were received in such ominous silence, that, vexed as she was, she did not feel equal to bearing her part in the conversation that might ensue if she succeeded in rousing her recalcitrant relative into speech.
               So Athenäis, once the fair and now the fat, revolved her wrongs in silence, like an overgrown Juno, and pitied herself exceedingly, though, really, it was not easy to see how it could possibly be her business that Miss Van Kortland had chosen to snub the newest of the satellites who had been revolving about her. But he was a very rich man, whom Athenäis favored, and she was as much provoked as if the obdurate damsel were her own daughter, and she at charges for her maintenance, which she never had been by a penny; Miss Van Kortland being too well acquainted with the peculiarities of relations in general to place herself in a position where any such rod of terror could be held over her head.
               When they reached home, and were going up stairs, Mrs. Schuyler paused at the door of her dressing-room, as if for her companion to enter, but the young lady was passing on with only—"Good-night; I hope you are not too tired to sleep."
               "No, I am not too tired," murmured Athenäis, with a lingering emphasis on the last word which her listener fully understood.
               "Then, of course, you will do it," replied Miss Van Kortland, with a cruel lack of comprehension of her state of mind, which Athenäis felt to be very hard to bear.
               "Aren't you coming in?" she asked, "I have little hope of sleeping for hours yet."
               "And I can scarcely keep my eyes open to see my way," returned Miss Van Kortland; "so good-night again."
               "I wanted to talk to you, Agatha," said Mrs.-Schuyler, and Miss Van Kortland shuddered at hearing her baptismal name in full from her relative's lips, for it foreboded a lengthy oration of the most dismal description, delivered in hopelessly involved sentences, after the habit of so many women when they try to be at once impressive and mournful.
               "I shall have to ask you to put it off till morning," she persisted, feeling that she could endure no more that night with the slightest show of patience.
               "You always say that," faltered Athenäis, "when I have any thing to say that is really for your good."
               "You speak as if you wanted to give me a dose of medicine; I don't feel in need of any, physical or mental, so good-night for the third time," and the voice was so decided that Mrs. Schuyler knew she could go no farther.
               "Oh, good-night to you," returned she, dropping the melancholy style and speaking more sharply than was consistent with her rigid ideas of good-breeding. "I am sure I hope you will sleep, though I shouldn't, I know, if I thought there was a person only two rooms off lying sleepless and anxious on my account."
               "Nor should I if I thought so," replied Miss Van Kortland; "I trust you will be more like yourself in the morning."
               With these words, which Mrs. Schuyler interpreted as a warning that the attempted lecture of the past day was not to be resumed, she walked on and entered her chamber. Athenäis could only follow her example, solacing herself, as the best-regulated people will at times, by banging the door, as she closed it, with as much ferocity as if she were shutting a sinner in a trap. Gay heard the sound and smiled, as she thought—
               "How she will torment that unfortunate maid of hers! Really, if I were not in a mood to be selfish, I would have gone in just to spare the poor creature by letting her take the edge off her anger on me."
               In spite of her declaration that she was sleepy, it was a long time before Miss Van Kortland went to rest. She was taking herself sternly to task for her conduct to Noel Seaton, after the wise resolutions she had so many times formed within the past nine months.
               She liked and admired him more than any man of her acquaintance; she always readily admitted that, but beyond it she would not permit her avowal to go. She had never until lately believed his affection for her more than an ephemeral fancy; but now that his persistence made her own that it was, she retreated in absolute terror from the idea of allowing her heart to soften towards a man so impulsive and excitable, so wholly the creature of caprice as she knew him to be. She had a special dread of the order of men to which he belonged, his very imaginativeness and susceptibility of feeling helped to render him the slave of a morbid, exacting temper, which on the least provocation would flame into a passion that, while it lasted, was as cruel and unreasoning as insanity. She knew that temperament so well, and she had powerful reasons for fearing it. She had once allowed a man of kindred nature to love her, had meant to marry him, though rather because she yielded to his impetuosity than because she felt that her heart had gone out towards him in other than a tender, anxious regard. She had suffered so much during that season her poor little romance had come to so dreary an end, that she had thought her common sense would prevent her ever running such risks again. She knew that Seaton's mind was of a much loftier order than that of the man whose memory could cause her a shudder after all these years, but she did not believe that its superior strength would enable him to cure those faults which he had in common with the hero of her old dream. That episode in her life was always painful to look back upon; it was a story unknown to any of the people about her now, but though there was nothing to remind her of those days, she could not forget, could not free herself at times from a vague sensation of remorse; though when she reviewed the matter, she could not perceive how it would have been possible for her to behave in any way different from that in which she had acted.
               Those recollections gave a certain sombre coloring to her whole cast of thought, they made her afraid of herself, afraid of any marriage, unless she could bring her mind to the sort of match Athenäis Schuyler desired for her, in which there would be great wealth, and enough respect and esteem on her own part to make the gilded fetters endurable. Above all men, the memory of that past caused her to fear Noel Seaton. If she believed in the durability of his love, if she cared for him—which she refused to speculate upon,—that story which she kept a profound secret would stand between them on many accounts, and make another cogent reason why she should not allow herself to be so weak as to trust to his love.
               She thought it all over again, as she sat alone in her room that night instead of going to bed like a sensible woman, and she vowed anew that there should be no flirtation even between them. She was glad of his friendship; his society was more congenial than that of any other human being; but they were only to be good friends—bons camarades—he must fully understand that. If Athenäis and the rest of the harpies chose to consider the intimacy a flirtation, why, they must; she cared very little about their disapproval, in that or any other matter.
               She would have a serious conversation with Seaton; he should exactly comprehend the grounds on which they stood; she would not for the world, heartless coquette as she was called, bring a moment's pain to him. Perhaps he would be angry, and leave her altogether! Well, maybe that would be best, though she sighed drearily at the idea of losing him; but rather it should come to that, than for her to go dreaming on until it was too late to turn back, without wrong to him and suffering to herself. She was very wise and determined, as it is easy to be in seasons of cool reflection, and at last laid her head on her pillow, with a comfortable conviction that she was improving in sense, and busy with a plan to go out of Noel Seaton's reach for the summer and allow him an opportunity to forget his folly.
               When the cousins met the next morning at breakfast, Mrs. Schuyler assumed the indifferent ent, in regard to Miss Van Kortland and her fate; scorned to allude to her barbarous conduct on the previous evening; talked of her own plans for the summer, the necessity of engaging rooms, if Saratoga was to have the honor of her presence, and finally said, with as much carelessness as she could manage—
               "Do you mean to go with me, Gay?"
               "I think not," Miss Van Kortland answered, with a languid amiability, suitable to the matutinal meal; "I am tired and worn out, and not equal to Saratoga."
               Mrs. Schuyler glared at her, but, keeping a firm hold of her patience, said with lofty politeness—
               "Between now and July you will probably recover from your intense fatigue."
               "I doubt it," returned Gay. "I feel as if I should like to go to sleep for six months, like a dormouse."
               "Dormice do not choose the summer for sleeping," said Mrs. Schuyler with calm disdain.
               "I should, in spite of natural history," replied Gay, laughing.
               "Do you forget that we have promised to visit the Thornes?" inquired Athenäis with a severity of voice and aspect that was an awful reproof to her cousin's untimely levity.
               "No; but we are only engaged there for two weeks the first of next month—thank goodness."
               "Mrs. Thorne would be flattered if she could hear the way in which you speak of her kind, her very kind invitation, I am not ashamed to call it. I have attention and adulation enough, heaven knows, but I am grateful they have not left me utterly blind to a sense of my own small merits."
               "That's a very pretty speech, 'Näis," yawned her unabashed relative; "you must have usurped the stock of humility that ought to have answered for the whole family tribe."
               It needed more self-control than Athenäis was accustomed to exercising to retain her stately composure, but she managed to ask, in what she considered a crushingly indifferent tone—
               "Might I be permitted to request any hint of your purposed projects for the summer?"
               "Yes; I mean to rush off to the quietest and most out-of-the-way place I can find, after we leave the Thornes."
               "May I inquire where you think of going?" still with the same magnificent courtesy.
               "I am going out into Pennsylvania to stay with Mrs. Ross. I wrote her I would come for a while, but now I have made up my mind to spend the whole summer."
               "It is not for a humble individual like myself to presume to comment upon the plans of a young lady so self-reliant and—"
               But here Mrs. Schuyler broke down in her dignified eloquence, and fairly sobbed—"I do think you ought to be ashamed of yourself, Gay, to treat me like this."
               "My dear cousin," said Gay, "I am at a loss to imagine what I have done. I can not afford places of amusement this summer, but I don't choose to say so to the world at large."
               "When you know how gladly I would save you any expense."
               "Thanks; but you know our bond—no such offers. I am very fond of you, Athenäis, though you do worry me; but I must be perfectly independent, or I should become so disagreeable there would be no living with me."
               "If you didn't waste so much money on useless charities—"
               "My dear, you don't know how much I have."
               "And how ridiculous that is! Then for you to insist on paying me board, as if I were a lodging-house keeper—"
               "Really, Athenäis, I never thought you a bit like one."
               "And throwing away your chances—this new one, of all the others—rich as a Jew—"
               "And old and ugly as the one of famous memory who wandered," interrupted Gay. "No, I'm neither ancient enough, nor ugly enough yet, to make it necessary for me to sell myself at such a tremendous sacrifice."
               "And do you mean to let Noel Seaton know where you are going, and have him philandering about you, just to make people talk more than ever?"
               "I particularly wish that he may not know," replied Gay.
               "I am glad of that at least; now don't let's talk about it or I shall not be able to eat any breakfast; perhaps you will change your mind."
               "Perhaps I shall; there will be little hope of it, however, unless you cease dragging your Wandering Jew before me in every conversation, besides inflicting his bodily presence each time you get a chance."
               Mrs. Schuyler understood the gentle hint, and as she liked exceedingly to keep Gay near her, she determined to be as sweet as possible, and go back without a struggle to her old habit of allowing the young woman to take her own way free from hindrance or question. A pleasant liberty that Gay Van Kortland was supposed to have enjoyed to its fullest extent from the time she could signify her baby will to her doting father, who then and always, till the downfall of his fortunes arrived, had surrounded her with luxury that might have satisfied a royal princess.
               In one of the terrible commercial crises which appear periodically to startle our country, every vestige of Philip Van Kortland's fortune disappeared as suddenly as those marvellous palaces described in fairy tales did under the wand of some evil-minded magician; and Gay, who had been the greatest heiress within so many leagues of Murray Hill, that any body outside those limits who might have been richer could only rank as a barbarian, found herself cut short in a career which for extravagance and success was said never to have been equalled on this side the Atlantic.
               Mr. Van Kortland had never been a business man, and this loss of his inherited wealth left him more helpless than Gay; so utterly crushed in spirit that it broke down his bodily health, which had been gradually failing under the life of self-indulgence he had not possessed strength of mind to relinquish, even after repeated warnings that he was no longer very young, and could not afford to tamper with his constitution.
               The father and daughter went down to Florida and lived with an older brother of Mr. Van Kortland's, and perhaps were not much better remembered by the world they had left than people in misfortunes have been since the old Romans sang væ victis. But vain, handsome, feeble-willed Philip did not live long to endure his humiliation—he went away to the world in which, we trust, the mistakes of this are set right.
               Gay remained with her uncle, who was infirm and ailing, and had been for so many years accustomed to the balmy climate of our American Italy, that a return to the North was out of the question, though he loved Gay well enough to have attempted it if she had desired. But Gay had no such wish; and as she lived out the poor little romance to which I have alluded, in the course of the year after her father's death, she had still less longing to take up the old existence with its excitements and pleasures.
               Her uncle died at length, and after a while Gay returned to her relatives in New York, who were naturally anxious to have her among them again, as they knew she had inherited a comfortable fortune. Over a year had elapsed since her return, and Gay was past twenty-four. She had chosen to make her home with Mrs. Schuyler, a cousin of her father's, and as she was in circumstances to be independent of that lady, she was sufficiently-comfortable with her.
               Her former success in society clung to her. No woman was more admired or a greater favorite, though her heedless tongue and her caprices gave rise to lengthy animadversions from sister-women, and Athenäis and the whole clan of high and mighty relatives were disappointed that she had not before this made a great match, when so many opportunities were always offering themselves for her acceptance.
               She had been an appalling flirt—there could not be two opinions on that head; but the affair which caused Mrs. Schuyler the most annoyance was this sort of intermittent business with Noel Seaton, going on at intervals ever since he came back from Europe a few months after Gay's reappearance. Athenäis liked them both, but in her worldly wisdom she greatly disapproved of any idea of marriage between the pair, and the most vexatious thing was that she could not decide whether there really were danger, or they quietly amusing themselves to see people puzzled.
               Truth to say, nobody was more puzzled than Noel Seaton himself, and he marvelled as much at his own part in the matter as he did at Gay's vagaries. Thoughts of marriage had never been at all in his line, and he had a reputation for wildness which made him a great favorite and very dangerous among women; but in many respects he was greatly changed since he admitted to himself that Gay Van Kortland had acquired a power over him which no other human creature ever attained.
               He had been madly in love with her at first—he had seasons of being so now. One thing was certain; though he was content to allow her to flirt, and took such amusements of that nature as the gods threw in his own way, he was always frantic at the idea of her marrying any body else, and, after brief falling off in his devotion, returned with fresh spirit to the task that he had set himself, or, as he sometimes phrased it in his thoughts when he was gloomy and sick of the universe in general, which fate had set him.
               He was thinking about it that morning as he walked toward the house—thinking about it as he sat in the library waiting for her appearance; then she entered in her noiseless way and he could not think at all, could only just feel and wonder at her for the most bewitching creature that ever lived out of a German legend. Not that she was a handsome woman, but unless one decided that before knowing her, one never found it out. Her month certainly was faultless, and she was so peculiar-looking, with her changeful eyes, her wavy bronze hair, her pallid complexion, that it was all more attractive than mere beauty. Another great charm was the perfection of her figure—neck and arms that the models of Phidias could scarcely rival; such willowy grace in every movement, and such positive genius in dress, that it was small wonder she held her own, no matter what new beauty dawned upon the horizon.
               "Admire my good nature in coming down to see you," said she, "when I was deep in a new book that interested me greatly."
               "But I told you I was coming, and you did not tell me I must stay away."
               "What a charming humility you have suddenly developed; I wish you would always be so meek."
               "You would not appreciate it if I were. But I am good-natured at seeing you alone once more—a thing that has not happened during any of my recent visits."
               "And would not now, I fancy, only Mrs. Schuyler is engaged with her old uncle, and as he is made of money she can not afford to neglect him."
               "What is the meaning of this new spasm of propriety on her part? is she taking up the Continental idea in regard to young women?"
               "No; she never troubles herself about any body else, but she does not approve of us—that is, she likes us both, but she doesn't wish us to like each other."
               "I wonder you allow a frivolous woman of the world to talk you over," he said impatiently.
               "Excuse me; I don't allow any body to talk me over; the virtue of submission is not on my list."
               "You say that as if you were cross."
               
               "I am not exactly; only I feel irritable—I would say nervous, only I hate the word."
               "Did I bother you by coming?"
               "You won't, if you'll talk pleasantly and be good."
               "I don't think I feel like being what you would call good. I came on purpose to say a lot of things to you."
               "What a very inelegant expression!"
               "Now, Gay, don't tease—you said I might call you Gay when there was nobody by."
               "Very well; I am not denying it. What are you going to do this summer—that is, where are you going, for you never do any thing?"
               "But I mean to. I could work fast enough if I only had an object."
               "It ought to be object enough to do the best one can in the best way, though that doesn't come with a very good grace from a useless wretch like myself. But you really have brains; you have painted pictures which show that—written things which prove it; but you're not constant to any one thing. There, I'm out of breath—I'll not lecture you."
               "I want to talk to you about all those matters. Tell me where you mean to go.
               "To visit the Thornes; Athenäis talks of Saratoga after that."
               "Horrible! How sick you must be of such places."
               "I am; but, like you and the rest of the world, I keep going on in the same round."
               "I was in hopes you would go to some quiet place, and let me come there—some place where I could settle down and write, and keep out of mischief."
               "That would not be proper, you know. It is keeping up the sort of acquaintance we do, that vexes Athenäis so much."
               "Why don't you tell her that I love you, and want to marry you?" he exclaimed impulsively.
               "Because she would be more vexed than over, and because it is not true."
               "It is true, and you know it! I have been in earnest from the first—you know I love you."
               "I think you are interested in me—like me; but, Noel, you don't want a wife—she'd be dreadfully in your way."
               "Do let me judge of that," said he frowning.
               "Thank you; but when my dear self is in question I prefer to have a voice in the matter."
               "If you married me," he went on, "I should be worth something in the world. Now don't tell me you've no vocation for playing missionary—it is true. I've tried hard enough to get over this thing, Gay—I really did not think it well for either of us; but I never cared for any other woman, and no matter what I did, I should never cease to care for you. Are you laughing, Gay?" he asked quickly, for she had turned her face aside when he began to speak so earnestly.
               "Laughing at you? Indeed I am not," she answered, looking full in his face, and he saw that her lips trembled and her eyes were moist—a rare sign of emotion with her.
               "You do feel," he exclaimed, "you do believe me, though I sit here and talk quietly instead of doing theatre, as I might to another woman."
               "I do think you mean it, Noel; but you would be dreadfully at a loss in a week, if I consented."
               "That is fairly insulting."
               "Hush! I can't talk to you this morning if you get angry."
               "You do care for me, Gay—more than you admit to yourself."
               "I don't want to lose you, if you mean that," she said honestly. "I often recommend you to marry, but I dare say I should be horribly vexed at first if you did."
               "Promise to make up your mind—"
               "I can't promise that," she interrupted. "I tell you frankly it would be better for you not to see me for a time."
               "Do you mean to sell yourself as these people wish?" he asked, trying to speak calmly.
               "I don't know what I mean to do—heaven help me!" she exclaimed, beginning to answer in her ordinary tone, and breaking off suddenly with that passionate exclamation, almost frightened to see how little she had gained by her attempted expostulations.
               They were interrupted by the sound of Mrs. Schuyler's voice; Seaton muttered something uncomplimentary as the door opened and the overblown beauty entered; but for once Gay resigned herself without a struggle to a flood of theatrical talk, glad of any intrusion that would break off her unsatisfactory conversation with her impulsive admirer.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               FURTHER ACQUAINTANCE.
               MRS. DANE did not appear at breakfast the morning after her illness, and Margaret was monosyllabic and indifferent; so Mr. Prescott drank his tea with very little attempt at conversation and took himself off about his business.
               He rode slowly down the winding hill which afforded an extended view of the beautiful valley stretching away between the lofty mountains, and approached the village, that looked out of place with its unsightly buildings in the midst of such loveliness. He passed Mrs. Gallagher's cottage, the one pretty spot in the outskirts of the straggling town; and that sagacious female, at work in her garden in a remarkable attire which only her genius could have devised, paused in her attack on the weeds to rest her chin on the end of her hoe-handle, while she cast an approving glance after him.
               "I like your looks," said Aunt Hilda to herself; "you look proud and hautile, but there's a regular Vesuvius in you all the same, and I expect you'll turn out to be one of my jewels."
               The gray eat that always followed her about the place, and was then close by watching a bird perched on a rose-bush, uttered an approving mew, and rubbed his wicked old head against her dress to attract attention.
               "The Doctor agrees with me," continued Aunt Hilda. "Law, the sense there is in that animal—talk about human-manity indeed! Yes, indeed, puss, I'm a goin' to drop in on that gentleman one of these days, and see what he knows about Byron and the classics generally. Jamdudum splendet focus, as poor Mr. Gallagher used to say—though I never could remember what it meant; but it sounds well, and many's the time I've made Abelard Straight look precious small firing it at him."
               This sudden recollection of her foe caused Aunt Hilda to go to work with fresh energy, while Mr. Prescott rode on, happily unconscious of the display of learning with which she proposed to test his powers at the first convenient opportunity.
               Mr. Prescott was very busy in his counting-room all the morning. There were numerous people to see, letters to answer, and the worriments of business generally; so that he found no time to carry out an intention he had formed of visiting the express-office, and if possible without exciting suspicion, make some further discoveries concerning the missing parcel. But late in the afternoon, as he sat alone in his private den, an emissary from that establishment, in the shape of a shock-headed boy with a marvellously dirty face, appeared, bringing a package of books that had just arrived.
               "Please to put your name here, sir," said he breathlessly, thrusting a little order-book under Mr. Prescott's nose.
               That gentleman went very leisurely about the task, and, as he wrote his name, asked the boy to cut the string of the package and undo it, which the short-breathed youth did with alacrity, because he intended to confiscate the cord. Mr. Prescott began turning over the leaves of the book, in which were written the lists of all the goods received at the office during the past two mouths, with the signatures of the persons to whom they had been delivered, attached.
               Swiftly his eye and finger moved down page after page of the greasy volume, while the boy whistled a low accompaniment over his labor. Suddenly Mr. Prescott's fingers stopped; he gave a start like a man smitten with pain, and sat staring at the line on which, under the date, was written "money package;" then in another hand-writing—a woman's—followed the signature, Margaret Dane.
               "Bundle's undone, sir; mebbe you don't want the string, sir," wheezed the boy, springing up from the floor as unexpectedly as a Jack in a box.
               "No, no, take it! Be off with yourself," returned Prescott good-naturedly, pushing the order-book towards him, and the boy rapidly disappeared, converting the cord into a lasso as he went, wherewith to torment any unfortunate small dog or eat that he might chance to encounter.
               Prescott sat dazed and confounded at this confirmation of his suspicions. The money had arrived; there was the acknowledgment of its reception in Miss Dane's own writing, yet she had assured him there was only one package, and that certainly he knew did not contain money. In the first place, it was horrible to think that she could have been guilty of the crime; in the next, that she could have had the boldness to appear so cool and unconcerned. If she had taken the money—three thousand dollars—could it be that she was so utterly silly in her girlish ignorance of business, that she never remembered how easy it would be to trace the loss home to her?
               It was the oddest affair altogether, and Prescott spent a great deal of thought over it, but to no purpose, only so far as making up his mind what to do was concerned. The money belonged to the company, and had been sent from New York in that way because there was not yet a bank established at Upsden. Before Prescott left town, he was informed that no acknowledgment of its arrival had been received, but supposed, as the president did, that was owing to the fact of its having reached there while Mr. Dane was ill, and since that there had been nobody empowered to attend to such matters.
               There was only one thing to be done, he must bear the loss of the money himself. If the girl were guilty, he could not expose her; but, prejudiced as he was, in the face of all the proof, he could not believe that she had committed the crime. If, woman-like, she had put the package away so carefully that she was unable to find it, and did not choose to acknowledge that such was the case until she discovered it, or if she had absolutely forgotten having received it, why some day she would make the matter clear. He was sorry now that he had mentioned the loss to Mrs. Dane; he could ease her mind, at all events. As for the young lady—well, about her and her share in the transaction, he really could not think: that she, with her delicate, refined face and manner, her honest, unshrinking eyes, could deliberately have been guilty of theft seemed impossible; but Prescott had lived thirty years in the world, and had known so many refined young women do such very remarkable things, that, like the rest of us, he had almost ceased to be surprised, whatever came.
               He was late home that night and had his tea alone, the Hibernian destroyer of much crockery informing him that Miss Margaret was out and that Mrs. Dane was not well, though she was lying on the sofa in the little parlor, and would be glad to see him when he was ready. He went in and found her still languid and weak, with a slight nervous tremor perceptible in her hands and head, and her voice shook somewhat as she answered his inquiries after her health.
               "Don't go out to smoke," she said, noticing that he had a cigar-case in his hand; "I'm used to it; Arthur was a great smoker, and I always liked the odor of a good cigar."
               So he sat down near her, and wished devoutly that he had held his peace on the previous evening, so that they might both be quite at their ease now.
               "Margaret has gone out to see our neighbor, Mrs. Ross," the invalid said; "I thought the walk would do her good."
               "Can I go for her?" Mr. Prescott felt bound to ask.
               "Oh no; she left orders with Jupe—she would only be annoyed at your taking the trouble. Margaret is peculiar about those things."
               Prescott thought the annoyance would have been as great to himself as to Miss Dane, so he said no more, feeling that to discuss her peculiarities would be venturing on unsafe ground. He began to talk about indifferent matters, but Mrs. Dane could not converse easily, and he saw so plainly what was in her mind that it was rather a relief when she said in her quavering voice—
               "I was so ill last night! But I think I did not dream it—though sometimes I do imagine things when I have a nervous attack—but you did tell me about some loss, didn't you, Mr. Prescott?"
               "I mentioned it," he said carelessly, "but I arranged it all without any trouble."
               "You did not think it was any carelessness, any mistake, I mean, of Arthur's?" she asked, twisting her fingers nervously together, and showing that she was so much shaken by her illness that she could with difficulty retain her composure.
               "Certainly not," he replied; "of course I knew it could not be."
               She allowed her head to droop among the pillows again, and drew a long breath. Prescott hoped she had done with the subject, but, after a short pause, she continued—
               "But you were not obliged to make any body any trouble about it?"
               "No, and shall not."
               "If it really is gone, I dare say it may have been lost in the house here; if so, it is sure to have been my fault. I am always getting hold of things, and putting them away and forgetting where I laid them."
               "My dear madam, I beg you will not think about the matter—I told you it was all settled," returned he, infinitely distressed by her willingness to shift the responsibility to her own shoulders, and wondering if she could have any idea where his suspicions had rested.
               "Yes—yes, I know," she said hurriedly. "But if it is lost, in the course of the year I could pay part; I have a little property of my own—it is to support Margaret and me, you know; I should wish to do it."
               It was pitiful to see what an utter wreck she was physically, and how long she must have suffered to become so. Prescott was more sorry for her than ever, because at first he had regarded her as belonging to the ordinary type of fretful women, who carefully nurse illness by way of making themselves of importance.
               "I beg you will never think of the business again," he said eagerly; "pray, promise me that you will not. But since we are on the subject, I must tell you that the Company desire to make you and Miss Dane a present, to testify their opinion of Mr. Dane's services to them—"
               "Nothing," she interrupted, more firmly than he had ever heard her speak; "not a penny. We are very grateful, but that could not be. My little income will support us nicely—we are very comfortable indeed."
               He did not attempt to combat her scruples, but said—
               "And now, my dear madam, in regard to myself. I have had great pleasure in staying with you these few days, but as I shall be here at least a year, I must have a settled home."
               "Yes—of course. I thought perhaps you would like to stay with us; but it might be dull."
               "I should like it exceedingly," he answered, "but I did not know you would be willing to receive me as an inmate."
               "Yes—I spoke to Margaret; she had no objection. Jupe can wait on you. I dare say you will be quite as comfortable as you could at one of the hotels."
               "Much more so, and I take it as a great favor," he replied, warmly.
               So, being a man who never left any thing unsettled, the whole matter was arranged before they had done talking, and Mrs. Dane grew quite cheerful in her quaint way. Margaret entered the room just after the affair had been disposed of, and her stepmother scarcely allowed her to finish her cool greeting to their guest before she called out:
               "Margaret, Mr. Prescott has concluded to stay with us; you know I was speaking to you about it."
               "That, of course, is for you and Mr. Prescott to decide," she answered, and Prescott thought she looked annoyed.
               "I promise not to trouble you, Miss Dane," he said, somewhat amused; "I am the most inoffensive of men."
               "I never allow any body to trouble me; but please don't be inoffensive, or I shall hate you," she replied, with the first smile she had vouchsafed him.
               "My dear," pleaded her mother, "Mr. Prescott does not understand your exaggerated way of talking."
               "But he will learn all about my bad habits, mamma, if he stays here, so it is useless for me to begin by putting on my company manners."
               "Quite useless," said he, with his grave smile.
               "Do you mean that you have such wonderful discernment you could see through my pretenses at once?" she asked.
               "Don't accuse me of being any such dreadful character," said he, and they both laughed.
               "I think you are better to-night, mamma," Margaret observed, going up to the sofa.
               "Somewhat better," replied Mrs. Dane; like most people in ill-health, rather resenting being told that such was the case, though she might have confessed it herself, if she had not received that assurance.
               Prescott sat watching Margaret Dane as she stood there with her long, sober-colored dress sweeping the floor. In accordance with a last wish of Mr. Dane's, neither of the ladies wore mourning, and there was something so essentially dainty and feminine in her whole appearance that he was more attracted towards her. She would have been an exceedingly pretty creature, he thought, if her mouth had not seemed out of keeping with her other features—a mouth that expressed self-will and determination; but, altogether, the face deserved study, and puzzled him a good deal.
               "Mrs. Ross is going to have a visitor, mamma," Margaret was saying, when Prescott came out of his abstraction enough to listen.
               "Is she? Please sit down; you fidget me. That young lady in New York she so often speaks of?"
               "Yes: Miss Van Kortland. She must be an exceedingly agreeable person, if she is as bright and witty in conversation as in the letter Mrs. Ross showed me."
               "Miss Van Kortland?" repeated Prescott.
               "Yes," said Margaret, carelessly, turning her head towards him; "a very dashing, fashionable woman, I believe. I suppose you don't know any such frivolous people."
               "I have met Gay Van Kortland, as she is always called," he answered, without noticing the rest of her sentence.
               "And a very unfortunate thing for any young lady to be always spoken of by a nickname," said Mrs. Dane; "it speaks volumes against her."
               "I am sure she must be charming," Margaret replied, with that subdued antagonism to her stepmother's dictum which Prescott had several times remarked.
               "She has that reputation," returned Mr. Prescott, to whom she had addressed herself, "but I doubt if that always be good fortune to a young woman."
               "Really, you and mamma have such very sage and depressing opinions, that I don't feel competent to discuss the subject with you," exclaimed Margaret.
               Mr. Prescott only bowed, but the air of mock humility which he assumed irritated her, and she froze all the more severely from vexation at having thawed a little. So the rest of the evening was not a success; Mrs. Dane nodded in an uncomfortable attitude, Margaret retreated to a window, and Prescott pretended to read, though he did not see a line of his book, lost in contradictory thoughts concerning this girl, who sat there in the moonlight, looking pure as a vestal nun, a certain impatience and weariness of her dull life visible on her face, which contrasted oddly with the perfect quiet she maintained.
               What was she thinking? Could she fail to be conscious of the discovery he had made, trusting to his regard for her father keeping him silent? Or what need of the money could she have had, unless there were some still deeper secret back to which he had no clue? It was the most idle speculation possible. To give the transaction any place in his mind, was to destroy the possibility of peace or comfort for him in the house, and, like most men, Mr. Prescott thought a great deal of his comfort, though he was by no means exacting or selfish.
               It must all be some hideous mistake, which the future would clear up. She had mislaid the packet and forgotten about it; some time in hunting over her girlish possessions she would come upon it and remember the whole matter He could content himself for the moment with that flimsy excuse, though he knew when the morrow came he should be no better satisfied than before. In the mean time he would rest on that credence and watch what a pretty picture the girl made with the soft rays playing through the young vine-leaves, and falling about her feet and trailing dress, until she looked like a painting of some virgin saint fenced in by a silver shrine.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               AUNT HILDA'S QUOTATION.
               AUNT HILDA GALLAGHER began to feel that she had not done her duty by herself or Mr. Prescott, in so long neglecting to allow him the pleasure of making her acquaintance, for the time had gone by until the date of his arrival counted back several weeks.
               So one pleasant evening after she had seen him ride past her place on his way home, she felt it incumbent on herself to go up the hill to inquire about Mrs. Dane's health, and learn how matters were generally up at Crosslands.
               The house retained the name of the original owner of the tract which the Company had purchased for their mining operations; and before Mr. Dane took possession it had been modernized, and converted into the pleasantest nest one could wish.
               The mines were working gradually up under the hill, but the entrance was so far below, on the road to the village, that the place seemed as quiet and deserted as if no sign of traffic existed; and even if one desired to go into the town, by making a slight detour one avoided the collection of cabins near the mouth of the pit, where the miners lived.
               The days had gone by with so little change that Margaret was almost excusable for thinking they stood still, and that she should be grateful for an earthquake or any other convulsion of nature which might bring a little excitement. But she was careful to keep such ill-regulated thoughts to herself, as the expression of them was certain to draw down a long lecture from her stepmother, all the more tiresome, because it was mild, and seemed constantly on the point of ending, and never did.
               Then Mrs. Dane fell into one of her slow illnesses, rather troublesome than dangerous; and as she was by no means an easy patient to have the care of, Margaret for more than a week had ample occupation for her time and her hands, though those tired thoughts of hers were just as restless as ever, and went circling about in the solitude of her soul, like a flock of belated birds that could not find their rightful place of shelter in the gloom.
               Mr. Prescott had been so kind and attentive during her stepmother's illness, that many of the prejudices she had conceived against him began to soften, except when he was in her presence; then they were certain to quarrel, and Margaret would feel called upon to detest him more thoroughly than before. Though, to be exact, she was the aggressor; he had a calm way of asserting his opinions, that always chafed her, and when she became vehement in consequence, he only grew the more cool and provoking.
               They were standing on the lawn that very evening on which Mrs. Gallagher, impressed by a sense of her culpable neglect, set out to make amends for it, and from having held quite an amicable talk, had come near a disagreement on the subject of Mr. Prescott's black horse, Sir Rohan. He was a beautiful creature, and Margaret, in the secrecy of her mind, was dying to mount him, though she would have suffered crucifixion rather than signify it. But as they stood there, she had seen the man leading Sir Rohan through the lane, and spoke so enthusiastically of his merits, that Mr. Prescott was delighted, because that horse was his idol.
               "You must be fond of riding," he said.
               "Indeed I am," she answered unguardedly. "The first season we were here I had a horse, but papa fancied he was not safe, so he sold him. He meant always to have bought me another, but he never could quite please himself."
               "I wish Sir Rohan were a lady's horse," said Mr. Prescott.
               "I am sure he is gentleness itself," returned Margaret.
               "Only he has an unfortunate and deep-rooted aversion to your sex—at least, to a riding-skirt—and will not permit one to come within reach of him."
               Margaret looked such utter contempt of any fear of any horse that ever curvetted or plunged, that Mr. Prescott said more decidedly, "He has been tried scores of times, but it was quite useless. Sir Rohan will allow nothing but coat and pantaloons to mount him."
               He spoke without thinking of the application Margaret might make of his words; then he saw her color and become somewhat confused, which only made matters worse. That was enough for a beginning; neither could have told how they branched off into a disagreement concerning the separate provinces of men and women in general—that prolific subject of quarrels; but Margaret found herself saying sharp things, and Mr. Prescott was more aggravatingly composed and satirical than usual.
               On the whole, it was fortunate that Aunt Hilda appeared up the path, just as Margaret was taking refuge in long words, which were not original, and expressing opinions in which she did not agree, goaded on by Mr. Prescott's imperturbability.
               "How do you do, and how do you do?" called Mrs. Gallagher, as soon as she was within speaking distance. "You picturful cretur, you; I was hungry for a sight of you, and I hope I don't interrupt," continued she, near enough by this time to shake Margaret's hand, and perform a courtesy for Mr. Prescott's benefit.
               "I am very glad to see you," Margaret said. "Mrs. Gallagher, this is Mr. Prescott."
               "And I hope I see him well," said Aunt Hilda; "I've made your acquaintance, though you haven't mine; but you ride past my patch twice every day, and I've got to know you so well, that it seemed ill-mannered a'most not to give you good-day."
               Prescott said something so civil to her, that he rose to a lofty height in her estimation at once.
               "You're truly obleeged," said Aunt Hilda; "it's a treat to have a little suffusion of such in this neighborhood, for if it wasn't for this picturful little cretur here, I declare I should starve, in a mental elementary way."
               "Mrs. Gallagher is as fond of novels as I am," said Margaret; "and knows Scott and Byron by heart."
               "They were the poets in my day," said Aunt Hilda; "and I can't give in to your new ones, though not a word do I wish to say to derogate their claims."
               "At all events, they can not crowd your favorites aside, in any body's opinion," Mr. Prescott answered.
               "I am glad to hear you say it, sir; you're a man with an opinion, and you know how and why you make it," said Aunt Hilda. Then, feeling that the moment had arrived to try him with her grandest test, she squinted up her eyes, and exclaimed, "Jamdudum splendet focus.
               "Do you read Horace, too?" asked Mr. Prescott.
               Aunt Hilda drew a deep breath of satisfaction; he had come through that scathing trial in triumph. She seized his hand and shook it warmly, peering so curiously at his left car, that Margaret expected to hear her request to be allowed to kiss it on the instant, and thought how she should enjoy Mr. Prescott's face during the operation. But if the desire rose in Aunt Hilda's soul, she decorously repressed it, and said,
               "You read him, at all events, and that's what I wanted to know. Bless your soul, I know no more what it means than the babe unborn; but it was a saying of poor Mr. Gallagher's, for his learning was awful, and when he had a drop down, he would reel off the long words like thread off a bobbin. But I wouldn't own to another not knowing the sense of it; I just hold that sentiment over Abelard Straight's head, when he gets to putting on airs. Why, he's got so, that if I just say jam, impressive-like, he'll begin to wriggle like a skinned eel. It's conscience, my dear, for, with all his talk, he doesn't apprehend the Latin accidents from algebra, and well he knows that I know it, and hates me according."
               "Poor Mr. Straight is very much out of favor with Aunt Hilda," Margaret said, to afford Mr. Prescott an excuse to smile.
               "And well he may be," pursued Aunt Hilda; "for what does the Good Book say about deceiving the widow? and him a deacon, and trying to run the Presbyterian school-house fence into the end of my patch, and I standing there, and telling him what he might expect his latter end to be. I did, my dear, and ten lawyers couldn't show me cause to regret it."
               "But you carried your point, Aunt Hilda, so you can afford to forgive him," said Margaret.
               "I did, my dear, and there's no use to go over it all agin. Mr. Prescott, I'm proud to know you, sir, and I hope you'll come to see my patch; and in a few weeks, if strawberries can make your mouth water, I'll provide the material."
               Prescott thanked her, and promised to come.
               "I've not been quite myself, my dear, lately," Mrs. Gallagher explained to Margaret. "Living alone too much depresses the spirits, there's no doubt, and a little touch of the aguy added makes matters worse. Do you know, I really think it would do me a world of good just to teach a grammar-school."
               The jumble of ideas was too ludicrous; Margaret laughed outright, and Mrs. Gallagher joined her, quite as well able to see the fun of the thing as any body else.
               "Laugh away, my pictur," said she, "there's nothing spiteful about you. And how's the lady-mother?"
               "Better, thank you, Aunt Hilda."
               "It's nerves, and a weakness of the chest, the doctor says. I've been so heaps of times," said Mrs. Gallagher; for it was one of her peculiarities always to have had every conceivable disease that attacked any body of her acquaintance.
               "Will you come into the house?" Margaret asked. "Mamma is not down stairs yet, but you can go up. Mr. Prescott and I are going to have some tea, and I dare say after you can persuade him to read Shakspeare to you, instead of keeping it all to himself, as he does every evening."
               "Miss Dane has never condescended to hint that she would like me to read to her," said Prescott.
               "Oh, pray admit at once that you did not think I even knew who Shakspeare was," retorted she.
               Aunt Hilda looked from one to the other with a sudden perception that the acquaintance between them was not growing so smoothly as was desirable; but with her head still turned Shakspeareward, she only chanted in an unearthly voice what she might have considered a delicate warning— 
                     
                        "'Black spirits and white,
                        Blue spirits and gray,
                        Mingle, mingle, mingle,
                        You that mingle may.'
                     
                  
               
               "Macbeth, isn't it? Bless your soul, couldn't I do the witches in a way to make your blood run cold! Do you know, my dear, I've always thought it a pity that so much ugliness as I've got—full share for three—should be wasted. Immortal Will! Well, Mr. Prescott, I can tell you, women have got an immortal won't."
               "They have indeed," returned he, laughing more heartily than was customary with him, while Margaret looked almost vexed at his impertinence, having understood Mrs. Gallagher's meaning as plainly as he did.
               They entered the house, and when she had taken her tea, Aunt Hilda went up to visit Mrs. Dane. As she came down stairs after a tolerably long stay, she blinked her eyes furiously, and said to herself, "There's something more than common the matter, and things have got a twist amongst them all. If I was at the bottom of it, I might do good, and I might do harm: but it's there as sure as my wart's on the end of my nose," and Aunt Hilda mechanically put her finger up to see that the decoration was still in its place.
               She had her finger on it when she entered the room, and, with her usual habit of expressing any thought in her mind, however distant from the subject other people were discussing, she said abruptly to Prescott,
               "Sometimes I feel as if it was gone, and I can't be quiet till I touch it. I don't say it's pretty," and she removed her hand and stood before Prescott with her head on one side, "but it's mine, and I'm used to it—the wart, you know. Bless your soul, it went away onct without rhyme or reason, and I declare I felt so lonesome I couldn't bear to look in the glass: the day it began to come back I had quite a jubilation. And now let's have a little Hamlet, Mr. Prescott, for he's uncommon soothing after a cup of tea."
               But whether she listened to the reading or made remarks, or seemed blinking her eyes preparatory to a doze, Mrs. Gallagher watched the pair before her as narrowly as if determined that the slightest look or movement should not escape her notice, and she was no better satisfied than she had been in regard to Mrs. Dane.
               "There's something amiss," Aunt Hilda said over and over to herself; "something that keeps them from all pulling together with a long pull and a strong pull, as a house ought to do."
               She went away with her mind full of that suspicion; and long after she was at home and ready for bed, she sat thinking over her kitchen fire while she smoked a private pipe, arrayed in the most marvellous costume which the imagination of an elderly woman ever conceived, and looking, as she leaned back in her great old-fashioned arm-chair, with the broad ruffle of her night-cap flapping about her face, exactly like a white owl in a hollow stump.
               "It ain't right! There isn't one of 'em with an easy mind! Wal, wal, I've seen a deal pilgrimaging through this vale, and I've learned to keep a close mouth, but I shall be proper sorry if there's any thing to keep them two from coming together, for I've set my heart on it. He's a jewel of price, and I can see it. How he took to Jamdudum—bless your soul, as nat'ral as a cat to cream! No make-believe about him! I'd like to see Abelard Straight tackle that chap; why, he wouldn't leave enough of him in ten minutes, on any argufying you could offer, even to make a shadow, for all he's a deacon, and wants to run for Congress—he indeed!" and Aunt Hilda was obliged to smoke another pipe to soothe the irritation she always felt when thinking of her foe.
               Margaret went up stairs after Mrs. Gallagher's departure, but found her stepmother in one of her nervous tremors, when neither reading nor conversation were any relief to her: nothing to be done, in fact, except to put her to bed as carefully as possible, and listen to many subdued complaints while the performance was going on.
               Margaret was very patient and attentive, but, in her heart, she never had any great sympathy to bestow on Mrs. Dane's ordinary ailments, believing that she might frequently exercise a little self-control; and though the opinion seemed a harsh one, probably any body who has been forced to take care of a nervous invalid would have joined in her private sin of judgment.
               But to-night Mrs. Dane was so much more shaken and miserable than usual, that Margaret could not pass it by in silence, and asked if Aunt Hilda's visit had been too much for her.
               "No, no," she answered, in a voice that to a listener would have sounded as if she were irritated with Margaret; though the girl herself knew that it only meant she was so tired she seemed ready to break in pieces, and as if her nerves had in some mysterious fashion got on the outside of her skin. "I was really glad to see her; she talks in such a quaint way, and she had such a great admiration for your father."
               Margaret dreaded to have her stepmother get on that subject, for the two women were so unlike that the way each had of enduring grief was irksome to the other. Mrs. Dane was given to long monologues setting forth the virtues of the deceased, wetting her pocket-handkerchief profusely, and moistening herself generally during the process; while of her own free will Margaret would never have mentioned her father's name, so unutterable was her terror of being pitied and sympathized with, and having her affliction and her feelings pawed and tossed about by the people around her.
               "My poor, poor Arthur!" continued Mrs. Dane. "Oh, Margaret, don't seem so hard and cold."
               "I don't think I am either, mother," replied she, "but if I am, I can not help it."
               "I know you are not; of course I did not mean that, but you are so unwilling to talk about him. I know it is not your way, but I seem to want every body to love and respect him."
               "Certainly no one could have failed to do the latter while he lived, nor can they now he is dead."
               "No, no; of course not."
               "And surely you have nothing to be anxious about—I mean nothing where his memory is concerned." The tone was half assertive, half interrogatory, and Margaret repeated her words almost sharply, for her stepmother was always slow of speech, and just now the habitual hesitation was unbearable. "You could have nothing," she added.
               "Nothing—I could have nothing! The noblest, best, truest man in the world—always think that, Margaret! Let no shadow ever come between you and your veneration for his memory. It ought to wear a halo in your thoughts like the picture of a saint in a Roman Catholic chapel."
               These words touched Margaret, yet they almost offended her, in suggesting the possibility that she could have had any other feeling towards her father. But by this time poor Mrs. Dane's head was shaking like a leaf in the wind, and her breath came with a sound like a strangled whistle; so Margaret could risk no more conversation, but got her into bed with all speed.
               When she went down stairs she passed directly out on the veranda, fancying that Mr. Prescott was in the house and wanting to think over her stepmother's words; but she came full upon that gentleman standing on the steps in the moonlight with folded arms, looking away over the tree-tops in an attitude so motionless that he appeared taller and more unapproachable than ever. He did not turn at the sound of her step; but as she made a movement to re-enter the house, he asked quietly,
               "Did you find Mrs. Dane better?"
               "No; very nervous and excitable," Margaret said, as she moved forward and stood near him on the steps; and somehow every thing had got so wrong with her that his very composure annoyed her as much as her stepmother's excitability had done.
               "Nothing has happened to make her so?"
               "Nothing on earth; which makes me wonder the more."
               "What seems to trouble her?"
               "I can not tell; there is nothing, in fact, only she is melancholy and broken-down in spirits."
               "You are quite sure?" he asked, in the odd tone in which he sometimes addressed her—a searching, inquisitorial voice that jarred upon her exceedingly.
               "What could there be? She talks and thinks only of my father."
               Margaret had to utter the word slowly, but she would not allow her voice to tremble, though the effort she made took away the sharpness with which she had begun to speak. "Certainly there can be nothing in such thoughts to make her anxious. She knew very little about his business affairs; but if she had, though he died so suddenly, there could be nothing to trouble her."
               "Nothing," Mr. Prescott replied assuringly.
               "Of course you would have known," she added.
               "Of course," he answered. "Nobody could have found the slightest fault with his management."
               "It is only because she is weak and nervous," Margaret said, carelessly, as if that incomprehensible last word explained every thing.
               Her coolness sent Mr. Prescott's mind back to the thought that was never very far absent where she was concerned, and he could not resist saying,
               "You are sure there is no cause unconnected with her grief for your father which makes her anxious and gloomy?"
               "What could there be?" she asked, with a certain defiance in voice and look, he fancied.
               "That, of course, you would be the only person to answer," he said, gravely.
               "Really, Mr. Prescott," returned she, with a little laugh, "one would suppose you thought I was making Mrs. Dane some trouble. Allow me to thank you for your good opinion, but my conscience acquits me."
               "I don't think my words implied that, necessarily," said he, irritated in turn, and speaking the more calmly; "but you are to be congratulated on the approval of your private guardian."
               She flashed one indignant glance at him—was there more than anger in it, he wondered—and passed into the house without any ceremony of leave-taking whatever, and Alan Prescott stood there alone, once more beset by his doubts and suspicions, and made as miserable from his inability to throw them aside as if they had been personal feelings of remorse that tormented him for some evil deed.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               AN IDLE TALK.
               IT is necessary to admit that Noel Seaton had become a very selfish man, but there certainly never was one who managed to make selfishness so charming. He was capable, too, of doing the most generous things from impulse, so that it appeared it was the effect of the life he had led, rather than his natural disposition which was in fault; besides, there was so much dash and glitter about him, it really seemed that he ought to be allowed his own way, and have the world made generally easy and pleasant to him. If the thing were trifling on which he insisted, he was so bewitchingly earnest about it that one was ashamed to refuse; if important, his arguments were so specious that one was inclined to think they must be right, in the face of any amount of contradictory evidence.
               The most hopeless part of the whole business was, that he deceived himself by his own sophistries, and, when he went wrong, had to suffer spasms of remorse; the very fact that his agony was never of long continuance making it all the more poignant while it lasted. He had been left his own master at an early age. That dyspeptic gentleman, Lord Byron, has told us from experience what an unfortunate heritage that is to a youth with a vivid imagination, and Noel could have borne the same testimony in his own case, and have put it in very pretty verse, too.
               Unlike many men of this generation who have reached twenty-eight, though he had seen and felt so much that life did not appear to have a new sensation to offer, Noel was constantly finding fresh aims, and was as much deluded by them as if countless others had not fallen withered monstrosities upon his hands. He was one of those exceptionally handsome men, with brilliant coloring and violet eyes, who always look picturesque and uncommon, and get so much more than their rightful share of adoration from feminine nature.
               Whatever he attempted he did so well that one could not help believing him possessed of positive genius; the only trouble was, he never wanted to do two things of the same sort. His short poems and magazine articles made every body prophesy that his plays and his novels would be admirable as works of art, but he never finished any of them. For a time he fancied that it was as a painter he must meet with his great success, and his sketches and the two little pictures exhibited in the Academy were so full of promise that all the critics agreed with him; but after that he was content to dream, and see his pictures by the light of fancy, through a cloud of tobacco-smoke. It had been the same when he attempted modelling, and talked beautifully about having at last found his mission and his life-work; but when the ideal head was near enough completion to make his friends marvel and exult, he stopped short, and poor Guinevere's bust stood in his rooms for two whole years, with an unfinished smile of melancholy on her lips.
               During the earlier part of his youth he had lived on the confines of Bohemia, both in this country and Europe; but owing to his family position and his charming talents in society, the Philistines had insisted on keeping him always within the verge of respectability. He had a proper poetical contempt for money, and the luxurious tastes of a duke, so that during those first years he became accustomed to remarkable alternations in his surroundings. All these things had fostered his natural recklessness and inability to concentrate his faculties upon one object, though, since twenty-five, he had been relieved from the exciting uncertainties in which he had before lived; a relative having good-naturedly died and left him a moderate fortune, which, with another of his inconsistencies, he had not squandered.
               He had been making love to some woman from the time he was a boy in jackets, and, oddly enough, he always seemed to pity himself because he was never able to be constant. He concluded that must be because the real feeling was not yet found, and plunged as eagerly into the next affair that offered, ignorant, as so many people seem to be, of the fact that infidelity in love can become as much a matter of habit, as giving way to bad temper or untruthfulness.
               But his passion for Gay Van Kortland had been a new era in his life. Whether because she puzzled him by being uncertain and changeable as himself, so that the interest was kept as fresh as if she turned into a new woman each week, or whether from the first the sentiment had taken deeper root than any preceding one, certain it is, he was as much under the dominion of her spells as ever, and prided himself exceedingly on the ability for constancy which he displayed.
               Sometimes they had been on the verge of an engagement; sometimes they had been in fierce quarrels for weeks; sometimes they agreed to be the warmest and best friends; at others, to fall apart as strangers; but whatever whim was uppermost, Noel never was able to relinquish his primal object for long; and however much she determined to do so, Gay never could be willing to lose him entirely.
               They were both those unfortunate creatures, born flirts; and it is very difficult for such people to tell themselves what is an emotion of the heart, and what some witty woman called the struggles of their flirting-machine. That poor romance in Gay Van Kortland's life had made her distrust herself more than she deserved, and so thoroughly confirmed her in her habit of privateering, that she found it difficult to have faith even in the feelings which most strongly asserted themselves.
               Since the conversation they held the morning after Mrs. Hylaper's reception, the two had seldom met alone, partly owing to Athenäis Schuyler's craft, and in a measure to Gay herself; for she was in one of her solitary, misanthropic moods, when she felt so weak and babyish that she dreaded the influence of Seaton's protestations and lotos-eater dreams.
               But he met her one morning when she had gone up the avenue for a walk, to escape her own wearisome thoughts, and Athenäis's companionship, which might be as delightful as that lady believed it, but had a trick of palling upon Gay's mental, as much as highly-spiced food does on the physical organization.
               Noel had left his lodgings early, having an errand down town; and as it really ought to be attended to, of course the imp of the perverse made the idea of Wall Street for half an hour more than usually loathsome to him, and instead of hailing an omnibus and going about his business like a reasonable Christian, he strolled up the deserted street, and dreamed a lovely poem in the sunlight.
               It was the first of June now, and more heavenly weather never visited Eden. Standing on Murray Hill, and looking down upon the sea of houses and streets, was like gazing into some enchanted city. The birds sang, and the young leaves upon the ailantus and maple-trees seemed to quiver with a very ecstasy of living; the soft wind was redolent with country scents, and the whole influence of the time was to give one the indolent, dreamy feeling which only that season of the year can bring to perfection.
               Seaton saw Miss Van Kortland walking before him; he knew her the instant he caught sight of her, and hurried on, reaching her side, before she was aware of his presence.
               "I knew my intuitions were to be trusted," said he; "common sense said go down town, but I bate common sense, and something told me not to heed her this morning of all others."
               "Your familiar, I imagine," replied Gay, without turning her head towards him, though her face had softened into its sweetest smile at the sound of his voice; "I should suppose experience might have taught you that he is the most treacherous spirit that ever beguiled man, and always leads you into serapes."
               "How can you bear to be vituperative such a glorious morning?" asked Seaton, laughing.
               "I am upheld by a consciousness of doing my duty," said Gay.
               "And that, like virtue, is its own reward, I suppose; but it must be quite as uncomfortable, and as little worth having."
               "I don't think you are prepared to speak on either subject."
               "Oh yes; on the principle that people usually talk the best about what they know the least."
               "Ah! viewed in that light, what a judge you must be in both cases!"
               "How very severe you are this morning; the Prophetess must have got the best of you at breakfast;" it being Seaton's fancy to designate the fair Athenäis by that name, owing to a habit she had of indulging in Cassandra-like ejaculations, after something which she had never prophesied came to pass.
               "She was rather more wearing than usual," Gay said; "she insisted on reading scraps from the morning papers, and on saying 'I knew it' in regard to every failure or marriage, whether she had ever heard of the people or not."
               "Women who read the morning papers ought to be gibbeted," Seaton rejoined, with a sympathetic shudder; "has she had a legacy or an admirer, that she comes out stronger than usual in the Deborah and Miriam line of business?"
               "No; she is always more impressive and oppressive on the eve of a journey. Her soul has been much torn lately with her preparations for the summer, and the Jew and the spendthrift in her mind have had a severe struggle."
               "Which conquered?"
               "Really, matters ended about as usual, I think. Spendthrift had the supremacy while she was ordering her things, and Jew will wring his hands when the time for payment arrives."
               "And she will be a cheated, deluded woman."
               "Of course; and she will say, 'I told you so,' and convince me that I led her into extravagance. I declare it is so nice that I can abuse my relations to you; it leaves me able to keep up a very pretty surface with other people."
               "And having a surface is one of your articles of religion."
               "Indeed it is! I should not be frightened at the boniest skeleton that ever haunted a cupboard, if I could only keep him hidden."
               "I am not certain," said Seaton; "of course, one is laughed at, but the relief of howling is so great, that I am not sure but I should indulge in it."
               "Nonsense! You, of all men! Oh dear! this visit—I wish it was against the law for any body to invite any body else to their private pandemoniums."
               "A very proper name for 'home, sweet home;' though, attach a penalty, and there would be a certain zest in going. But you are not off yet?"
               "Day after to-morrow," Gay answered.
               "So soon?" he said. His disconsolate voice made Gay look at him for the first time, and she saw that his face had saddened in keeping with the tone.
               "Upon my word," said she; "one would absolutely suppose you cared."
               "It is possible that I do."
               "You only fancy it, my dear friend; you are always the victim of delusions."
               "Say of a delusion, and I'll agree with you, for I certainly am your victim."
               "How touching! Well, to be honest, I wish with all my heart you were going too, though I am glad you are not."
               "Consistent, and very clear."
               "I feel in a mood to enjoy your society, but you would be sure to be silly, and I should too—one is at this time of year."
               "I do believe you are afraid of caring for me."
               "Very much afraid. I don't know two people who would be so bad for each other."
               "You have said that so often you really think it means something—I should like to know how."
               "Every way, as I have clearly demonstrated scores of times; I can't say it all over again."
               "What did you mean by making that little scene the other morning?" he asked quickly.
               "What morning? I am always making scenes; I never lift my eyebrows without thinking of the effect."
               "Talking as if you meant never to see me again—and—"
               "There, there," she interrupted; "private theatricals never bear description. I wanted to warn you that I go about with a history and a mystery, like a heroine in three volumes."
               "Sometimes I am inclined to think that you are not happy," he said gravely.
               "You goose, to be taken in by such petty female tricks," cried she, laughing; "I thought you knew us better."
               "I have always told you that you were a new experience in the way of womankind."
               "Every man tells every woman that, and we all like to believe it, because it keeps up the romance."
               "Do you mean to decide on marrying your crooked Crœsus while you are gone?"
               "I never come to decisions; I always leave them exactly six months off."
               "And where do you mean to wait after this thorny visit is over?"
               "As if I ever knew where I should go! Am I not led wherever fate and the Prophetess may decree?"
               "Nonsense; when I know that she never does tease you beyond a certain point! My opinion is you intend to hide yourself somewhere away from me."
               "You have given me the idea—I dare say I shall carry it out."
               "Not if I know myself intimately."
               "But you don't, my dear friend—you know every body better than you do yourself. Perhaps this very week you may meet the blonde-haired, who I am convinced is in store for you."
               "Do talk reasonably."
               "So I do! Ah, what a mild, yielding little thing she will be; patient under all your vagaries, coming when she is bid, submitting to your flirtations, without a history and a mystery—"
               "Perhaps I had better wish you good-morning," interrupted he.
               "I am very sure you had, for good and all, as the children say; but you'll not do it."
               "If you will let me come where you are I promise not to tease you a bit—I'll be the nicest, jolliest fellow in the world."
               "And you can be very nice," said Gay thoughtfully, but straightway changed her tone to its former carelessness. "Well, if I find I can't live without you, I'll give you warning of my whereabouts, and we'll read books and dream and dawdle after the old fashion, and leave that preposterous question of marriage out of sight and remembrance."
               "Will you really send me word?"
               "I have no such intention at present."
               "I do think you are the most provoking woman I ever met! Why don't I turn this street and never speak to you again?"
               
               "Because you intend to get over your folly—it really means nothing—and be good friends, as a man and woman can be."
               "I never shall; no matter what scrape I get myself into, you may remember that."
               "And you'll get into a great many," said Gay. "Well, my lord, I must go home."
               "Not yet; stay out awhile longer," he pleaded.
               Gay allowed herself to be persuaded to stroll on, and they talked in their odd fashion, laughing at all things with a vein of seriousness through the whole, comprehending each other's thoughts at half a word, so thoroughly matched in an intellectual point of view that no wonder neither found it easy to break the bond of companionship, even if they could subdue the stronger feelings.
               Then something she said brought back his impatience, and he exclaimed suddenly,
               "I've three minds to go off entirely—bury myself in California or some other out-of-the-way place, and turn miner or something else unpleasant."
               The wind that floated down from the distant Palisades was balmy and soft as an early summer breeze could be, but Gay Van Kortland drew her shawl more closely about her and shivered with a sudden chill at this threat; forgetful that it was in keeping with her own advice—remembering only, now that they were so soon to part for a time, how dreary a lasting separation would leave her life.
               "It is time to go home," she said; "I am cold."
               "Cold such a morning as this! Walk on down to Madison Square, at least."
               "I tell you I must go home—I am cold," she repeated.
               He looked at her and saw that her lips were fairly blue, and that she was trembling, and offered no further remonstrance.
               They walked almost in silence till they reached Mrs. Schuyler's door, then Gay held out her hand and said,
               "Good-bye—you can't come in."
               "How cold your hand is!" he exclaimed.
               "One of my freaks," returned she. "Say good-bye."
               "No; I will come in to-morrow."
               "Athenäis will be on guard."
               "I shall come all the same; but this is the real good-bye, because we are alone. I love you—God bless you—there, I'll not be foolish for some time again."
               He walked quickly away, and Gay entered the house and went straight up to her room; nor was Mrs. Schuyler favored with her society until luncheon, at which meal a guest was present, and Gay came sailing into the room all eyes and nonchalance, as Athenäis described such moods, during the continuance of which she always had a wholesome dread of interfering with the young lady.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               OUT OF TOWN.
               THE days after Miss Van Kortland's departure on her visit were so void of any interest, that Noel Seaton had leisure to miss her a great deal, and, from lack of something to do, he found the world a very barren desert indeed.
               He lounged in the club windows, and mentally cursed the men who bored him, because like himself they were idle; he looked down at the trees waving in the Parade Ground, where the ragged children played, and thought of the country, and that reminded him of burial-places and other quiet spots, and he actually wished the fret and worry of living were over, and he at rest in some tranquil nook, just as most of us who are not fortunate enough to be kept busy have done many a time.
               It did not make the burden any easier, to say that he had no particular trouble. When one is in a serape, or suffering, there is a certain excitement to keep one up; it is the uneventful seasons, during which nothing happens, and existence is dull as a beach from which the tide has gone out, that are most unendurable to idle men afflicted with imaginations and mental qualities capable of being made of use if they were not frittered away.
               Nothing to be done—no new flirtation on hand, and the old ones stale as yesterday's champagne—most people gone out of town, and the others occupied with preparations—Noel Seaton felt that his was a hard case. He smoked more than was good for him, reviled his acquaintances and himself oftener than was safe for his soul, scribbled doleful German-sounding poems in the silence of the night when he returned to his rooms much later than any body but a policeman has a right to be out; began a novel, and grew disgusted with it at the end of the first instalment, though it opened brilliantly enough to have been snatched at by any ogre of a magazine publisher; and finally went down to Long Island to some bachelor's den for a few days, and made himself quite agreeable to the party, and almost enjoyed himself, till he remembered that he was doing so. Then he started off without loss of time, and no persuasions could keep him. It was a pity that his associates were so partial to his society, because a little wholesome neglect would have done him no end of good. He went back to town in great haste, remembering that Miss Van Kortland must have returned by this time, and during his brief journey, tormented himself with the idea that she might have gone away again and left no trace of her whereabouts, being of that peculiar type of man who would rush into womanly agitations and forebodings of evil, against which he was powerless to reason.
               He went straight to the Prophetess's house, and the door was opened by a stupid old woman who held sway in the mansion during the summer months. She was supposed to be Honesty in person, and was the Prophetess's great bulwark wark of comfort when absent from home, Gay Van Kortland said, because her eyes were so crooked that she could look round two corners at once. In answer to Seaton's inquiry if Mrs. Schuyler were visible, she only brought one eye to bear upon him with considerable difficulty, so sharp and bright that he felt as if she were attacking him with a corkscrew, and pointed mysteriously towards the little reception-room, never having been known to offer any information in the form of words.
               Seaton heard the murmur of voices issuing from that apartment; and feeling confident that Athenäis, the rotund, was bestowing prophetic revelations upon some unfortunate visitor, he coolly passed on to the library, saying to the woman, who watched him with her swivel-eye in full operation, as if intent on boring a hole straight through him,
               "Tell Miss Van Kortland I wish to see her."
               The hobgoblin performed a little pantomime which Noel interpreted to mean that he was to enter the reception-room, but, being a young man given to carrying out his own whims, he walked on, regardless of her mysterious signs.
               The library looked dreary enough with all the furniture in white nightgowns (the ghostly raiment proper for furniture in well-regulated houses, during the months when their owners seek the freedom of the country), and the blinds drawn down, as if the chairs and tables were so many mothers that had just given birth to the ottomans and footstools and other small articles, and could not bear the least gleam of light.
               Seaton established himself in an easy-chair by one of the windows, where there was a crooked-legged table which especially appertained to Gay, and still had some of her books scattered over it. He could hear laughter in the adjoining room, and the voice of the Prophetess rising above all other tones, and he was in a mood to be irritated thereby, calling her and her guests names not consistent with the rules of etiquette, and trying to amuse himself with the books, in order to avoid listening to what he irreverently termed the feminine cackle.
               He took up Gay's blue and gold volume of Tennyson, and being moved by the spirit and tempted by the sight of a pencil which her dainty fingers must have held, he scribbled some lines of verse on a blank page. They were prettily conceived and expressed, so that it was a pity they should have been brought to a lame conclusion by the sudden pushing ajar of the great doors, while the voice of the Prophetess called,
               "In the name of all that is mysterious, why are you sitting here in the dark, Mr. Seaton?"
               "Waiting for Miss Van Kortland," replied he coolly.
               "But, my dear sir, you can't engage my library for the whole summer," cried Athenäis, with a playfulness that made him hate her with fiendish energy.
               "She is not at home, then," he said, determined at least to appear prepared for the evil news.
               "No, she did not come back with me—a bird of passage, you know always, is my Gay. But walk in here and let us look at you. Dear me, to think that stupid woman did not come back to tell you. It was only that I remembered not hearing the door close, which reminded me you must still be a patient prisoner in this cavern."
               Seaton had to enter the reception-room and encounter Mrs. Hylaper, and another Gorgon of the Prophetess's acquaintance, feeling tolerably certain that the merriment he had heard had been at his expense, and to be pounced upon for news by all three of the old cockatoos, as he stigmatized them in his thoughts.
               "For we are just back in town," said the Prophetess, who seemed in an unusual flow of spirits, "with the verdancy of rural seclusion upon us. Tell us what has happened, do; we are dying for a little scandal."
               "I did not know your sex were ever at a loss for a subject," said Seaton, and had hard work to say it pleasantly.
               "Waiting in that cave has made him as gloomy as an old hermit with a white beard," exclaimed Athenäis, facetiously.
               They all laughed, and Seaton would have liked to knock their three frizzed heads together like so many billiard balls.
               "When do you expect Miss Van Kortland back?" he asked, and the three laughed more heartily.
               "I don't expect her; never can depend upon her," said Athenäis. She may join me at Saratoga—she may stay with her friend Mrs. Verney—she may disappear altogether. Don't ask me, because I am vexed at being disappointed."
               Seaton saw plainly that she did not intend to give him the slightest information in regard to the lady's whereabouts, so he would not gratify her by asking more questions, or making any sign of disappointment. He sat still a few moments, said as many disagreeable things as he could in a charming way; told the Prophetess she had grown stout and had more color, two things Athenäis, having once been a sylph and a beauty, utterly abhorred; congratulated Mrs. Hylaper on the fact that her son was on the point of marrying—particularly agreeable felicitations to her, as she had threatened never to speak to her offspring unless he relinquished his design; and found something equally entertaining to say to the third abomination; then took his leave, somewhat consoled by having been as venomous as was possible.
               Of course the three victims belabored him frightfully, and the best of it was that each condoled with the other two on his impertinence to them, and overlooked her own personal grievance. But Seaton would only have been charmed if he had heard, as he hurried off to his rooms to prepare for a departure in some direction, making such frequent mention of the prince of darkness, that one might have supposed he contemplated templated going to pay him a visit before he was summoned.
               While Seaton was fuming and upsetting his bureau drawers, and misconducting himself generally, Gay Van Kortland was being whirled along through the wilds of Pennsylvania as fast as the steam-fiend could convey her, having left her friends in Jersey early that morning, inconsolable at her loss. She was so worn out by her visit to the Thornes, Athenäis's companionship, and the society of her fat Crœsus, that she was not able even to enjoy her brief stay with Mrs. Verney, and wanted to get beyond the reach of any body who could make the slightest pretense of a right to her time or attention.
               It was delightful to lean back in her seat and have no one to trouble her; and she remembered that it she had still been heiress to a million, Athenäis would have thought her too precious to be trusted to make a day's journey without the guardianship of dragons in the shape of a maid and a man, and she rather congratulated herself on being of little enough consequence to be burdened only with a luncheon basket.
               She reached Upsden by the middle of the afternoon, found a carriage, and was driven swiftly out of the noise and dirt of the town, up the road that led past Crosslands, which, after making an infinity of short turns and growing steeper with each, finally brought Mrs. Ross's picturesque farm-house in view, perched up there like some extraordinary bird that was meditating a flight into the valley beneath.
               The most charming spot that a tired soul could have imagined for a summer retreat. An irregular, wandering old house, with halls that started straight enough and got crooks in their minds before they had gone ten feet; rooms appearing where one least expected them; short flights of stairs that deluded one into going in precisely the contrary direction to that aimed at; broad porches with cool stone floors, overhung by woodbine and Virginian creepers, where the robins and wrens loved to dwell; and all about the dwelling a great apple-orchard, peopled by orioles and cat-birds and brown thrushes, and tiny yellow songsters, that went darting about like flecks of sunlight, and sang a soft minor to the loud chant of the larger minstrels. There was a wandering brook that dashed down from the top of the hill in a violent hurry, forming a cascade near enough the dwelling for its organ-notes always to be audible, then flowed on through the orchard with a pleasant ripple across its bed of moss-covered stones. As Gay stood on the front veranda, there spread out beneath a magnificent view of the valley and the distant hills that wore a halo of such glory they made her think of the Delectable Mountains, and feel as if she had left the old life, with its petty triumphs and miserable cares, a whole world beyond.
               Mrs. Ross, the reigning monarch at Orchard Hill, was the daughter of an old friend of Gay's father, reared among stately Knickerbockers in the vicinity of Albany; but, years before, she had followed her husband out to the coal regions when their vast resources first began to attract attention. He had lost hope, health, and finally life there, as so many men did in the commencement of those enterprises, to which we have grown so accustomed that we cease to think how wonderful they are.
               Mrs. Ross held fast to her courage and the acres her husband had purchased, and for a long time past the lands had yielded her a fair income; her two boys were growing up and away at college, and she still hired the farm where she had been living at the time of her husband's death, and what was more, carried on operations in a style that made her place a model for the whole township.
               The sound of the carriage wheels brought her out on the veranda to meet Gay. She helped her to alight, kissed her on both checks, and exclaimed,
               "I've seen more unwelcome sights—a peck on the head with a sharp stone would be worse than your coming. Why, how glad I am to see you! I haven't dared to think about it for fear you should disappoint me."
               "As if I didn't always keep my word," said Gay.
               "As if any body ever did! You have been years coming—you're slower than Time in the primer." Then she hugged her again and looked at her approvingly from head to foot. "I sha'n't trouble you with that any more," said she; "I'm not given to such pistol-cracking except on extraordinary occasions. I don't think you've grown any uglier, nor any older."
               "Don't flatter my vanity so outrageously," laughed Gay.
               "And there's that poor man trying to burst a blood-vessel hauling at your great ark," said Mrs. Ross, glancing round at the coachman. "Where's Dan Simmons? Wait a minute, or you'll do yourself a mischief, young man. Dan Simmons, I say, where are you? He's like a dog when there are stray pigs about—not to be found on any terms."
               "Here I be, Miss Ross," growled a voice, and round the corner of the house came the oddest scarecrow of a man, whose legs and arms seemed not to match, and to have been attached to a body where they never belonged, with his left eye shut up completely, his mouth at one side as if it was dissatisfied with his face, and wanted to get over to the back of his head, and the rest of his features equally distorted.
               "You remember Dan," said Mrs. Ross. "I couldn't live without Dan! I always have a menagerie of the ugliest animals in the county, and Dan's the worst of the lot."
               Dan grinned from car to car, till his head looked like a sugar-loaf shaped island in a sea of mouth, and grunted out a welcome to Miss Van Kortland; then turned to assist the coachman, calling him by the first opprobrious epithet that suggested itself, whereat the Hibernian did not seem in the slightest degree moved, Dan being a privileged character throughout the neighborhood.
               "Now you come home tipsy to-night, if you think best," said Mrs. Ross, as Gay put some money in his hand, which he transferred to his pocket with a low cluck of satisfaction.
               "Sha'n't come home tipsy," grumbled he. "I seed Alzady Mari last night, and she telled me not to drink no more."
               "The most sensible ghost I ever heard of—mind what she says," said Mrs. Ross, and as she drew Gay into the house, she added: "That's his dead wife—he often holds long conversations with her and insists that he sees her by him. Nobody but me, I suppose, would be bothered with the fellow, but he does his work well enough, and drinks so much less when he's here that I don't like to send him away."
               Gay found every thing about the house as charming as her girlish recollections of it had been. The rooms were wainscoted and ceiled after a by-gone fashion, with quaint corner cupboards of no imaginable use, and most of the furniture nearly as old as New Amsterdam. It had come down to Mrs. Ross from her Knickerbocker forefathers in a state of preservation unusual in this utilitarian country, where instances are not uncommon of such family relies being disposed of for the express purpose of buying modern sofas; where more than one set of plate, with its crests and signs of noble lineage, has been ruthlessly doomed to the smelting-pot, to reappear modernized and vulgarized to please the eyes of some doll of a woman, or of some wooden-souled republican proud to show how utterly unworthy he was of the ancestors who hundreds of years before had made famous the name which he delighted in denuding of the last trace of dignity.
               After their early tea, while Mrs. Ross was engaged on inspection duty about her domains, Gay wandered out through the orchard, followed the course of the brook up to the very summit of the hill, and stood looking down on the beautiful panorama spread out beneath, heightened into new loveliness by the glory of the sunset that was blazing in its fullest splendor. There was no sound to break the stillness, save the distant lowing of the cattle pacing homeward along the road below, and the chime of bells in the village, faint and soft as the music one hears in a dream. Gay stood there, and for a while the feeling of peace was complete; until the very remembrance that it had come upon her brought back thoughts of the rush and excitement of the world she had left, and that deeper cause of impatience and unrest which had for weeks been her companion, and perhaps never could wholly be thrown aside.
               The mobile face grew cold and stern with resolve or softened into weariness and regret, according as her mood changed beneath those varied thoughts; so far away from the spell of Noel Seaton's influence she was safe to permit herself to think of him at his best, and be touched at the idea that, fickle and wayward as people deemed him, he clung fast through his vagaries to the love which she had sought to convince him was only a passing impulse. Gay knew him very thoroughly, that is as women know men; but she clothed even his follies or vices with that æsthetic light in which they conceal the weaknesses of those beloved—certainly a merciful provision of Providence in favor of the coarser portion of humanity.
               In certain moods, Gay liked to forget every doubt which kept her aloof from him, and dream her dreams of what the future might have in store. She allowed such fancies to have their way in her solitude, though she knew that later she should berate herself soundly for indulging in any romantic folly—but it was very pleasant to be weak and silly, as it so often is to the wisest of us.
               Alan Prescott was out on the hills too that evening, for he was as capable of admiring and loving Nature, as though he had written volumes of Spenserian verse about her or daubed acres of canvas with feeble imitations of her charms, instead of being an active man of business with no distaste to its restraints; not that any such feeling would have made him give it up, because he believed that every body ought to have occupation.
               He came round the brow of the hill and saw Miss Van Kortland standing there. He had not seen her since they met in the South during her residence with her uncle, and not having known her well, he hesitated to intrude himself on her remembrance. But Gay looked up and recognized him at once. She had always thought of him kindly, for he had been an old friend of the man to whom she was formerly engaged, and chanced to be on the spot when her poor romance came to a conclusion so disastrous and unexpected. He had been very good to her and kept her by his wise counsels from giving way to useless regret or uncalled-for remorse, and though Gay had not a good memory for injuries, she never forgot the least token of sympathy or regard, proud and self-reliant as her acquaintances believed her.
               She came towards him, holding out her hand, and saying with one of her bright smiles,
               "How do you do, Mr. Prescott? Were you a little in doubt whether it might be me or a ghost?"
               "You don't look a bit ghostly," he answered, pressing her hand with more cordiality than was habitual with him. "I did not know that you would remember me."
               "Such folly, just like a man! But how does it happen that I find you in this impossible place?"
               "I have been trying to bury my wits in a coal mine," he said.
               "To be sure! Mrs. Ross mentioned your name as one of the members of the great coal company—how stupid of me not to have had any associations with it."
               "Scarcely to be wondered at, Miss Van Kortland; it is so long since we met," he said.
               
               "Ages," returned she sadly; "it seems a thousand years at least—well, I am glad of it. You were very good to me in those days, Mr. Prescott. I have never forgotten it; most men would have blamed and hated me outright."
               "Not with any shadow of justice," he said. "I felt the deepest sympathy for the trouble that poor fellow brought on you, and was only afraid that in the morbid state of mind in which it naturally left you, you would yield to it till you would never recover from its effects."
               "I think it would have been so, except for your advice," she replied; "but you made me see plainly that even if I had been to blame, I had no right to waste my life in unavailing remorse."
               "You were not to blame," he persisted.
               "I believe not—I trust not—except in being weak; though to this day I have dark seasons when I feel a wicked monster," she added, trying to smile.
               "You must not give way to them any more than you would to the mental depression that comes from illness," he said.
               "Thank you, that sounds like you."
               "Such trouble is only to be remembered as we do the dead," he went on; "it is not to be allowed to interfere with one's after-life. As none of your friends North knew of your engagement, of course you have never been troubled by hearing the matter talked of."
               "No; but that often makes me feel as if I were a woman in a novel, going about with a dismal secret haunting me."
               "All wrong feelings, Miss Van Kortland! If that poor fellow could come back he would be the first to beg you not to add to his sense of error by making him feel he had wrecked your life."
               "You were born to be a consoler," she said gratefully. "Just these words do me so much good—I needed them! Well, let the past and its dead hopes and sorrows rest."
               "Let all its dead rest in God's hands," replied Prescott, as if finishing her sentence. "So you have come here for a little quiet, after your 
                     briliant
                     brilliant
                   winter; you see I have heard of it though I was very little in town—all your triumphs, I mean."
               "Now you are going to be satirical."
               "Indeed I am not. There must be idle people, and what is called society; it is well to have a few women such as you, to leaven the heavy lump."
               "I would make you my best courtesy, only it would be a failure in a short walking-dress. But you must have some reason besides business, for burying yourself here."
               "You know I never was an idle man."
               "That is not reason enough, there is some other. You look as unmoved as a sphynx; but I warn you I shall find it out! Well, I promise in advance to be your friend, if I can serve you."
               "That's very good of you; I'll remember that if there is any need," he said laughing. "But talking of the world, I had a letter this morning from one of the men who are considered so successful in it; I dare say you know him."
               "He has a name, I suppose?"
               "Oh, yes—Noel Seaton; are you acquainted with him?"
               "Very well," Gay answered, and tried to add some commonplaces, but felt that her manner was not quite natural, and stopped.
               "We may see him here before long," Prescott went on. "He owns some land that we want to buy, and talks of coming on."
               Gay grew somewhat preoccupied and absent after that, and Prescott observing it, said a few parting words and left her. She ran the risk of meeting Seaton after all her care, Gay thought. It seemed too much like the work of fate to be agreeable to her, particularly at this moment when her conversation with Prescott had roused so many sad recollections of her girlish engagement, and brought up with new force such warnings for the future.
               As Prescott reached the foot of the hill, he turned and looked back. Miss Van Kortland was still standing on the summit, clearly defined against the background of sky, motionless as a monumental figure set up over some solitary grave.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               LIFE IN THE OLD FARMHOUSE.
               THE next day was rainy, and the day after Mrs. Dane was not well, so that, on one pretext or another, the week was nearly out before Margaret took any notice of Miss Van Kortland's arrival; the more patiently submitting to these delays, because, almost unacknowledged to herself, she had conceived an idea that she should not get on with the lady; in fact, prepared for a little attempt at patronage and graces generally, and equally prepared to resist both.
               At last even her stepmother urged her not to defer a first visit any longer; so Margaret set off one afternoon, choosing her newest walking-dress, as was proper and right; rebellious against the fate which compelled her to encase her pretty hands in the ill-made gloves that Upsden shops furnished, and feeling still further repelled from Miss Van Kortland when she recollected what stores of perfectly-fitting French rat-skins—there is no good trying to say kid any longer—that favored young woman would be certain to have among her possessions.
               As Margaret approached the house, Gay was on the porch playing with a great dog, regardless of the injury he was doing her white dress with his enormous paws, looking so graceful and unlike any woman she had ever seen, that Margaret almost forgot her preconceived opinions at the first glance.
               "Down, Punch, down, you bad doggie!" ordered Miss Van Kortland. "I am so glad to see you, Miss Dane—I am sure it is Miss Dane. I began to think you did not mean to come at all, and was meditating some excuse for invading your hermitage."
               She came forward with both hands extended in her pretty way, and established Margaret in one of the root chairs with a friendliness that would have set the shyest person at case.
               "It has not exactly been my fault that I did not come before," Margaret said.
               "Yes, I know; your stepmother has poor health, Mrs. Ross tells me; certainly a great misfortune for herself and you too."
               Margaret liked her at once, for the name she employed in mentioning Mrs. Dane. She was fond of her, and had always called her mother, but she chafed against hearing any body else speak of her as such; having, like most orphans, made an ideal seraph, with a crown on her head, of the parent whom she scarcely remembered.
               "And as I am unpoetically healthy myself, I am afraid I am not so considerate as I ought to be," she said.
               "Oh, Mrs. Ross holds you up as a model; indeed, I think myself very good-natured not to hate you outright, she has given such a long list of your perfections."
               "Please don't," Margaret urged; "for I think I shall like you."
               "Upon your word? Acknowledge, though, that you had made up your mind to detest me cordially."
               "Why should you think that?" asked Margaret laughing, but coloring too at the discernment of the remark.
               "Because I know the pleasant habit of my sex, you see. But I think you will like me; they say I first as outrageously with women as I do with men; rather in my favor, is it not?"
               "Yes, indeed: and not like girls generally; at least, such as I have known."
               "Ah, my dear, I am such a very old girl, remember—so very near the feline stage."
               "I don't know; I am sure you look young enough."
               "I am almost twenty-five, and I have been on the boards so long that most people are ready to swear I am double that."
               "But then every body knows it is your own fault that you are not married; you have had admiration enough to satisfy six women."
               "As if any woman was ever satisfied, though she may become satiated. But I promise not to bore you with the list of my adorers, and I'll not even boast of the size of my waist."
               "I dare say you could not remember half your victims, and the waist is too small to speak of."
               "Very neatly done—compliment the first. I might return it, only plenty of men have said it to you already."
               "I have led rather a quiet life—I might say a horribly dull one, ever since we came here, and I had only a single season of gayety before that—before we left Boston, I mean."
               "Oh dear! I beg your pardon, but you know to us Knickerbockers Boston is the epitome of all dullness."
               "It was very pleasant to me; I was quite young, and able to enjoy the least thing so much."
               "I have almost forgotten how it seems; I am old, you see. Nonsense; that's only talk! I enjoy oceans of things, and I mean to enjoy my stay here hugely. You'll help me, won't you?"
               "Of course I will, if I can."
               "I fancy we shall get on nicely. There's one man to quarrel over—Mr. Prescott; I know him slightly already—but I promise not to poach on your preserves."
               "Indeed, you are quite welcome to him," said Margaret.
               "What, don't you like him?"
               "I don't know him very well yet. No; I believe I don't like him—he seems to feel so deadly superior."
               "A mistake, I am sure. Oh, be careful; beginning with a little aversion is very dangerous."
               "Not in this case, I think."
               "One never can tell," laughed Gay, but fearful of annoying her new acquaintance she did not pursue her raillery, though her quick fancy jumped at once to a fitting conclusion for a romance. "He must be quite useful to you, living in the house, and you must appear an angel to him in this wilderness."
               "We get acquainted very slowly; somehow I quarrel with him. You see our first meeting was very awkward, and I am convinced he treasures it up against me."
               "Do tell me—unless you'd rather not."
               "I don't mind, though the joke is against myself—of course I wouldn't have my mother or any body here know."
               She related the incident of dressing in boy's clothes, and her ignominious intrusion, feet foremost, into Mr. Prescott's presence, with much spirit, and they both laughed so heartily that their merriment brought out Mrs. Ross.
               "I thought there was a whole aviary of young parrots here," said she. "How do you do, Margaret? So you and Gay have made acquaintance without my help. Well, go on and prosper, for I know you'll like each other."
               "We have both found that out already," said Gay; "haven't we, Miss Dane?"
               "Then hurry past the Missing stage," returned Mrs. Ross, as Margaret cordially agreed with Gay's remark.
               "The sooner the better, I think myself," said Gay. "We know we must drop that formality in the course of a week, so why not begin at once?"
               "With all my heart," said Margaret, "but mine is such a long name that it is too much for a small mouth."
               "But it has so many pretty diminutives—only I am sick of them all; and as for Daisy, the novels have rendered that an abomination. Mayn't I call you Pearl?"
               "Yes; my father used to call me so. I never would let any body else, but you may."
               
               "Pearl," said Mrs. Ross contemptuously. "Call her Peg—that's much more sensible."
               "I don't wish to hang my hat on her," retorted Gay.
               "At least you might ask her to take her hat off and to stay to tea," said their hostess. "That she must do, any way."
               Margaret demurred, but they both insisted, and Gay snatched off her hat without hesitation and proclaimed her their lawful prisoner.
               "Your mother can flirt with Mr. Prescott," said Mrs. Ross.
               "She'll be too busy fretting because he doesn't eat, or thinking of some delicacy for him, to miss you."
               "They get on wonderfully well," Margaret said. "Mamma is so nervous that I did not expect it."
               "She knows my advice," said Mrs. Ross, getting somewhat excited, as she always did on that subject. "Pails and pails of cold water, instead of dosing herself with pin-heads as she does."
               "Pin-heads?" repeated Gay in amazement.
               "Well, sugar-pills; it's all the same. She lives on them, and her dry toast, and her hot milk and water—cat-lap the whole of it," asserted Mrs. Ross. "But, talking of names, think of being christened by an old heathen name like Clytemnestra."
               "I think it's delightful," said Gay; "I shall call you so."
               "At your peril! The worst of it is, I write such a shocking hand that the name looks like Contingency or Cotemporary, or any thing else except what it is; and once I wrote a letter to a relative and he thought it was an anonymous epistle signed Chemistry—a fact, I assure you."
               She left the girls to themselves for awhile in order to superintend the concoction of some of the wonderful eatables for which her table was famous, and they fell upon books and authors, and magnetism and travels and music and transcendentalism, after the habit of this generation, and got on wonderfully. At length they heard Mrs. Ross call them from the back porch, and went through the hall to join her for a walk they had agreed upon.
               "Come this way," said she, "I've got another of my curiosities here, and you must see her, Gay."
               They followed her down the garden-path to an empty space where a huge kettle was boiling over a fire, and a tiny woman in short petticoats was busy stirring a stick round and round in the contents of the caldron, making a very respectable witch, as she stood, for some unknown reason, in a position where the smoke puffed directly in her face.
               "How does the soap get on, Lucy?" asked Mrs. Ross.
               "Dear soul, how you froighted me!" exclaimed the little woman, springing into the air, as if she meant to soar off on the paddle for a broomstick, at this disturbance of her incantations.
               "It's your conscience, Lucy. But how's the soap?"
               "Praise the Lord, my conscience's easy—so's the soap—it's a doin' beautiful; more's the mercy, and for these, and all others make us duly thankful."
               "I have brought Miss Van Kortland out to see you," pursued Mrs. Ross, "you and your soap."
               "How do you do, Miss Van Lander; how do you do, dear soul?" cried the little woman, stretching out the paddle as if she thought she was offering her hand. "And how is such health as you find, Miss Margaret?"
               "Are you well, Lucy?" Margaret asked.
               "I am—for these and all others! I had a fit two weeks ago come to-morrow, and lay with my head in the ashes for two long hours, but I'm better now, against I have another."
               "Lucy is famous for soap-making," said Mrs. Ross; "there's nobody can equal her."
               "Harriet Lucy Kenwyn Fendower Sowder," said the little woman, with the greatest rapidity, motioning at Gay with the paddle, as she mentioned each name. "Fendower Sowder he were called, and since he died, I lived with my brother; but he married a year ago, poor soul, and never gave me up two woollen blankets and a skillet that belonged to me—for these and all others make us duly thankful."
               "He ought to be ashamed of himself," said Mrs. Ross.
               "Amen to that," cried Lucy heartily. "But there's a great deal to be thankful for—my hair falls out, but I loves my Saviour."
               Ludicrous as the connection was, the poor creature was so thoroughly in earnest that they could not venture to laugh.
               "Lucy is a very good churchwoman, Gay," Mrs. Ross hastened to remark.
               "I've been with the Baptistries," said Lucy, "I've been with the Prisbiters, but I've settled down among the Pristicals, and I'm most at home of all, there's such a deal of talking back in the way of amens, and the young parson is such a lamb of grace, he is, dear so-ul."
               She had a way of lingering on those favorite words to which no writing of them can do justice; one would have supposed they contained at least, a dozen letters each.
               "And you've come to stay a piece, Miss Vanland?" asked Lucy. "Will she be as fond of me, Mrs. Rossy, as you be?"
               "I have no doubt of it, Lucy."
               Lucy now came out of the smoke, dried her eyes on her apron, and said,
               "The tears is so healin'—that's why I stands there—for these and all others!" Then she began to inspect Gay's attire, and, looking at a little white jacket she had on, said meditatively, "Them there basses is very pretty—I wonder I haven't got none. I had more things when Fendower Sowder was alive—I'm Harriet Lucy Kenwyn—I used to go out monthlyin' for I had my health more, though now my hair falls out and I loves my Saviour. Fendower Sowder, he never liked it, but drink was uppermost, dear soul, sometimes, and monthlyin' it was. I've knowed heaps and heaps of ladies and no two alike—for these and all others! There was my sister, she had ten and no stoppages—I can't abide the stoppages myself, though little Mrs. 'Urst, she had one and then no more, which isn't nature truly—dear soul, amen."
               "I should think that soap must be boiled nearly enough," suggested Mrs. Ross, by way of changing the current of her thoughts.
               "It doesn't thimble yet, and thimble it must," said Lucy, "and once bein' in a fit I tumbled in it and was dazy-'eaded for a long week after, but when my hair began to fall I then began to love—Dear soul, stand aback for dread of spatterings."
               As Lucy appeared ready to burst into another of her lengthy and inconsequent discourses, they thought it wise to go on their way, she looking over her shoulder after them to call out as politely as if she were inviting them into a house,
               "You'll come again, perhaps, and that my hope it is, and named Harriet Lucy Kenwyn Fendower Sowder, he," with great emphasis on the pronoun, as if she had no intention of stopping there; then, with a wave of her long paddle, she retreated into the thickest of the smoke and resumed her operations, muttering and chanting under her breath as if she were Hecate stirring some deadly compound in the huge caldron.
               Mrs. Ross's artfulness led them down through the wood till they came out on a back road which wound further up among the hills, for she knew that Mr. Prescott had ridden that way to inspect a new shaft the company had lately dug, and she fully intended to capture him on his return, which must be near at hand, and take him home with her to entertain her guests.
               She was rewarded by seeing him approach, and to Gay's amusement and Margaret's annoyance, she called without the slightest compunction of conscience,
               "Stop, stop: These young women insisted on my coming out to waylay you."
               Prescott reined in Sir Rohan, who did not approve of being so suddenly cheeked in his homeward career, and said as he lifted his hat,
               "Is it my money or my purse, Lady Claude?"
               "Neither," replied Mrs. Ross; "they insist on my taking you prisoner—now yield gracefully, like a sensible man."
               "We are victims as well as yourself, Mr. Prescott," added Gay, observing that Margaret looked almost vexed. "This female highwayman deluded us here without our having the slightest idea we should meet you."
               "But you don't mean to let him off," urged Mrs. Ross.
               "Not I," said Gay; "we may as well have his lordship for supper, now we have found him."
               "I am afraid I should prove a tough morsel," said Prescott.
               "Then we'll take you for a table ornament, I am sure you will answer admirably."
               laughed she. "What a beautiful horse, Mr. Prescott."
               "Yes—excuse me, please stand back a little. Sir Rohan has one vice—he does not like women."
               Margaret gave a little scornful laugh of incredulity.
               "Mr. Prescott imagines the sympathy between himself and his horse very complete," said she.
               He bestowed one of his aggravatingly courteous bows upon her and continued, addressing Miss Van Kortland,
               "I have tried in vain to cure him of his ill-temper. Miss Dane expressed a wish to ride him, and poor Jupe the yellow boy has had at least a score of tumbles trying to mount him with a blanket for a riding-skirt. I have lately got another horse here, but she has not found leisure to try him yet."
               "How provoking," said Gay, while Margaret looked a little conscience-stricken at her own petulant speech.
               "There is no accustoming Sir Rohan to the blanket," pursued Mr. Prescott. "I have done circus on him myself; he recognizes my voice, and makes no effort to throw me, but he bites at the blanket, and persistently stands on his hind feet and kicks with his fore legs in a way that would qualify him for Dan Rice's show."
               "Come, come," said Mrs. Ross; "it is nearly time for tea."
               "I will ride down to the house and get rid of some of this dust," Mr. Prescott said.
               "Perhaps you would have the kindness to say to my mother that Mrs. Ross has kept me," Margaret observed rather loftily, by way of avenging herself for having felt penitent.
               He favored her with another of his annihilating salutes, and Gay, glancing from one to the other, was a little puzzled by their evident inability to keep the peace, and was so occupied wondering about it, that she walked back to the house in silence, while Mr. Prescott rode on to Crosslands, and Margaret followed Mrs. Ross in Gay's wake, and made slight answer to the encomiums which the voluble widow bestowed on the departed horseman.
               Soon after they reached the house Mr. Prescott arrived, and they had a very pleasant evening. As Gay had that charming faculty of making people appear at their best, Margaret was surprised to find how agreeable Mr. Prescott could be, and appearing her natural self almost for the first time in his society, made him forget every thing except her present sweetness and vivacity.
               Mrs. Ross had an old piano, with a good deal of music still left in it, which she had found somebody to "tinker," to use her own expression, before Gay's arrival; so Gay did brilliant execution thereupon, and sang to them in her rich contralto voice, and finally persuaded Margaret to join her; and Mr. Prescott having a special weakness for a soprano, was in ecstasies with Miss Dane's silvery notes.
               
               Altogether, the high tea was a success, and as Margaret and her cavalier walked home, they found so much to say in praise of Miss Van Kortland, that they reached the house without a single word of disagreement, and Margaret had a quiet night after—Mrs. Dane having supped so copiously on sugar-pills that she did not get out of bed once to glide about the upper rooms in the ghostly promenade wherewith she frequently tried her daughter's patience.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THE FOUR MEET.
               GAY had been nearly a fortnight at Orchard Hill when she learned that an arrival was shortly looked for by her friends, and though she was annoyed, she could not help being amused at this overturn of all her wise plans, and wondering a little still if it were Fate who insisted on bringing the encounter about.
               Noel Seaton found the trip he had undertaken with a party of friends quite unendurable, and the men themselves less companionable than a troop of cassowaries, so he took advantage of a second letter from Mr. Prescott to make urgent business a plea for getting away from his tormentors with all speed.
               He reached Upsden in the night, and the next morning was too lazy to get up early, and so missed Mr. Prescott, who had ridden out to the new shaft again. But Seaton, having a little business at Orchard Hill, of which his uncle's death had left him the owner, decided to find his way thither, in utter ignorance of the surprise that awaited him at the old house.
               The farm which Mrs. Ross rented made a portion of the track of land the company wished to purchase of him, and that lady having become attached to her home from long association, as one does to a place where one has known one's serenest joys and one's deepest griefs, had indited a letter to Seaton in her own peculiar hieroglyphics, setting forth her desire to buy the surface for fifty acres. She stated that it would not disturb his bargain with the company, as she had arranged with Mr. Prescott that his miners should force their drifts as far under the hill as they felt disposed, not having any desire, she said, to meddle with the bowels of the earth herself, and being more than satisfied with that latter gentleman's proposals of remuneration for such privileges.
               Seaton set off up the road. Having visited the place in his boyhood, he thought that he might turn into the woods and take a by-path which he remembered to have traversed on unlawful expeditions after fruit and squirrels. He missed his way, as people usually do in this world, but the wood in which he found himself was so pleasant he did not care for that. The sun streamed in among the boughs of the maple-trees, deepening their emerald tints to fuller beauty; the velvet moss was brightened by tiny yellow and white flowers scattered over it; here and there were openings into the deeper recesses of the grove, arched on either side by trees bordered with lancet-leaved vines, and the voice of an unseen brook made itself audible in the stillness like a silver-tongued bell, calling invisible worshippers to pass through the sun-tinged aisles into the dim inner chapels of Nature's cathedral.
               Seaton enjoyed it thoroughly, and did not mar his dreamy pleasure by struggling after a poem, as people cursed with the faculty of composition so often do in such scenes, and the presentiment he had that he had got out of his course was an additional satisfaction to his ill-regulated mind, which was fonder of devious ways than it ought to have been. He did not even blame the innkeeper who had aided his memory by explicit directions as to the turns he was to make, and the spot where he would find the laurel thicket, by which he must leave the grove, cross the strawberry-field, and so reach the orchard.
               Suddenly Seaton came out on the brow of the hill far above his destination, and the wood ended in a row of solemn pines which stood up in stately procession, and there was the beautiful valley spread out beneath with the lazy river winding capriciously through its midst, tiny hamlets scattered here and there like flocks of tired birds, the whole guarded on either side by rocky hills, which miles and miles beyond towered into two twin sentinels of mountains and shut in the picturesque view.
               Then down through the orchard laden with immature fruit, gathering new life in the sun and growing slowly toward perfection, and then the old farm-house appeared, with its quaint chimneys, its long verandas, and narrow windows all wonderfully clothed and embroidered with trailing vines. The swallows flew in and out of the chinks in the roof, and a strange sense of quiet made itself felt to the fancy of the impressionable young man, as if he had unexpectedly come upon some enchanted dwelling hidden there in the stillness.
               A change so complete that it seemed to Seaton he must be leagues away from the noise and dust of the ill-built mining village where he had passed the previous night, and he stopped to draw a long breath of relief and to smile approvingly at the picture before him, fastidious wretch that he was, as though it had been devised for his special benefit.
               A new object became visible to his eyes—a young woman, who immediately made the principal feature in the picture, sitting on the steps with a background of flowering vines about her, which caused her to look, in her motionless attitude, like some quaint pre-Raphaelite sketch.
               He stood and watched her with just the same feelings with which he might have regarded a carefully executed bit by Millais, until he perceived that she had become conscious of his approach, and seemed about to rise, then controlled the shy impulse and sat still. Seaton walked ed leisurely up to the steps of the veranda, and while he was lifting his hat and uttering the inquiry which accounted for his appearance, his quick eyes made a rapid study of the fair, quiet face, with such capabilities of restlessness in it, and, being skilled in women's faces, knew that it would repay for future and more ample investigation.
               "I believe Mrs. Ross lives here—can I see her?" he asked, while he was thinking the thought I have set down.
               "Yes," was the answer, which seemed to apply to both questions. "I will call her."
               The young lady rose and went to the open door, through which Seaton could look into a broad hall extending the length of the house, with other open doors on either side, from one of which, in obedience to the summons she received, appeared a tall woman who walked out on the veranda at once, trailing several yards of some sort of sewing material after her, quite regardless of the odd effect it had. The young lady stood in the outer doorway, and watched both of them, as Mrs. Ross moved towards her guest and held out her hand, saying,
               "How do you do, sir?—I am sure you are Noel Seaton, though I haven't seen you since you were a boy out here, with your father, and a very bad boy you were. How do you do again? I'm glad to see you."
               "Thank you," replied Seaton, laughing. Allow me to assure you that I am greatly improved since the days you speak of, unless your account is a slander."
               "I do slander people sometimes," said Mrs. Ross, "but you were just about as bad as they make them, and the provoking part of it was, that one couldn't help liking you."
               "I hope you will be in the same predicament now," said Seaton coolly.
               "I'm likely to do that when I know you've come with the intention of selling the old place, and turning me out of house and home—though I doubt if I shall go. But I am really glad to see you."
               She shook hands with him again, then became aware that the Maltese kitten had suddenly made a dash at the end of the strip of muslin she held in her hand, and that the young lady in the doorway was trying to gather up the tangled lengths.
               "Seat!" said she. "That's not for you. Margaret—I'm much obliged—it's kitty—O, I must introduce you to her—Miss Dane, this is Mr. Seaton—I mean the young lady, sir, not the eat, though I've got things a little mixed."
               They all laughed, and Margaret, having succeeded in winding the muslin into a ball, drove kitty frantic by holding it just out of her reach, while Mrs. Ross and her visitor talked.
               "You are going to stay awhile with us, Mr. Seaton, of course, now you have actually come."
               "I may remain several weeks in the neighborhood. I am rather an idle man, and it does not matter much where I stay."
               "I should think it did matter, just for that reason," returned Mrs. Ross. "Were you never taught that 'Satan finds some mischief still for idle hands to do?' I shall have to hunt up a copy of Dr. Watts for your benefit."
               "I am sure I should be much obliged to Satan or any body else who found me occupation," said Seaton.
               "O yes; we've heard idle people say such things before; but it's of no use trying to delude Clytemnestra with such talk. No wonder you stare—Clytemnestra's my name: I like to say it to people to see them look astonished. You may laugh, I know you want to;" and she set him the example with such heartiness that Seaton could not resist joining her, being much given to cachinnatory exercises, for all he wrote poetry and was terribly blasé—I use that word because it ought to be made English.
               Margaret had disappeared, and Seaton being curious to know more about her, began,
               "Your relative—"
               "Which she is not," interrupted Mrs. Ross; "she's my neighbor and a charming girl, and that's better. But I believe I have a surprise for you."
               "Doubt if there's such a sensation left in the world," said Seaton lazily.
               "Oh, you are not half so dead-and-alive as you fancy," exclaimed Mrs. Ross, and hearing steps in the hall, she added, "One, two, presto, change!" and whirling Seaton round, left him gazing straight before him, utterly confounded, for in the doorway stood Gay Van Kortland, wearing her most mischievous smile.
               "Don't stare so," said she laughing; "I'm not a ghost, really I am not."
               With some inarticulate expression of delight, Seaton darted forward and seized both her hands, while Mrs. Ross looked on, satisfied with the success of her manœuvre, and Margaret watched the meeting from the obscurity of the entrance-hall.
               "In the name of all that is mysterious, how did you find your way here?"
               "I came at Clytemnestra's bidding," she said; "but it is odd that neither of us ever happened to mention the place, since we both knew it."
               "It wasn't called Upsden when I was here," Seaton said; "so if you spoke of it by that name, I did not connect it with any spot I had seen. I can not congratulate myself enough on having attended to a business engagement, for once."
               "I hope you girls will keep him, now he has come," said Mrs. Ross; "young men are as scarce as partridges in this region."
               "I am not sure," replied Gay; "Margaret, where are you?" and as Miss Dane appeared, she added, "shall we good-naturedly allow this idlest of men to stay in our vicinity?"
               "If you can certify to his being orderly and well-conducted," Margaret answered laughing.
               "I assure you, Miss Dane, I am a model," said Seaton.
               "Then you're no fit companion for them," exclaimed Mrs. Ross; "for they are neither orderly or well-conducted."
               "Traitress!" cried both girls; and then they all indulged in a great deal of nonsense and numerous smart speeches, such as amuse one to hear, but are very dull when set down in hideous black and white.
               "You will stay here in the old den, won't you?" urged Mrs. Ross at length, not able long to forget her hospitable instincts; "Dan Simmons can limp down after your pocket-comb and night-cap."
               "Many thanks, but I'll not put Dan to that trouble, nor expose my poverty in the way of midnight coifs, which is much more poetical than your coarse word."
               "It sounds like Boston talk," said Mrs. Ross; "and I am a true Middle States woman, and hate Boston. But seriously, do have your things sent up and stay here; you shall have two or three tumble-down old rooms to yourself, and rove about spouting poetry as much as you like."
               She continued urging him with much warmth, and Seaton was sorely tempted to yield; but fearing that the proposition might not be altogether acceptable to Gay, he refused, I fancy not so much from a desire to act unselfishly, as because he was afraid she might be cross. He saw the good effects of his refusal in an added graciousness on her part, and decided to establish himself at a comfortable-looking inn he had noticed, sufficiently in the outskirts of the town to be tolerably free from noise and coal-dust.
               But he dawdled away the rest of the afternoon there, and to Margaret, after her long seclusion, it was like living in a book to listen to the animated talk between Gay and Seaton, and a satisfaction to find that she had not rusted enough to be ill at ease in the rattling, brilliant conversation which is the habit of the age; possessing so much sparkle, that it seems worth more than it is; with a dash of exaggeration and irreverence which makes it captivating, because if one stops to think, it appears a little improper.
               Margaret's peep into what is called the world had been so brief, that it was natural she should be quite dazed by a man so interesting as Noel Seaton, and his great personal beauty—a wonderful gift, however much we may try to undervalue it—added to the charm.
               It was nearly evening when Mr. Prescott rode up to the house on his way home from the Gorge, as the site of the new shaft was always called, and found the whole party seated on the porch. As he had already a slight acquaintance with Seaton, the meeting between the two men was free from that stiffness whereby lookers-on are usually aggravated when a couple of male bipeds are introduced and compelled to do civility in the presence of women.
               "I came to bring you an apology and your letters, Miss Van Kortland," Prescott said.
               "I feel in no need of an apology, and I hate letters," replied she; "I prefer to think that, being tired of your own company, you wished to enjoy the pleasure of our society for a while."
               "But I have quite a package for you, letters and magazines," he answered, taking a roll wrapped in a newspaper from his coat-pocket. "Jupe brought them up to the Gorge along with mine, I suppose thinking it too much trouble to leave them here as I bade him."
               "Thank you; they are in time enough," Gay said, dropping the bundle in her lap without taking the trouble to undo it.
               "I can't imitate such magnificent nonchalance," exclaimed Margaret. "I am always crazy for letters; haven't you any for me, Mr. Prescott?"
               "One, and two for Mrs. Dane," he replied, giving them to her.
               Noel Seaton, who always noticed the slightest thing, and drew rapid conclusions therefrom, observed the indifferent manner in which Margaret addressed the new-comer, and was glad of it—not for any reason that he could have given, because he was prepossessed in Prescott's favor, and had not bestowed much thought on the young lady beyond thinking her almost as original in her way as Gay herself, but Prescott was a man, and Seaton liked to see his brethren treated with a certain show of carelessness when he was near.
               Mrs. Ross, as usual, insisted on giving way to her agreeable mania of making every body who came to her house eat good things, and would not hear of either of the men leaving until they had done so. Margaret had been captured early that morning by Gay herself, to whom, like most people, Mrs. Dane could not easily refuse any request.
               Prescott went off to wash his hands and make himself, as he said, presentable, and Margaret was called away to some mysterious consultation with Mrs. Ross on matters connected with the forthcoming entertainment, so that Gay and Seaton were left alone for a few moments.
               "I can't realize it yet," he said; "I feel as if I mast be dreaming, and dare not shut my eyes for fear you should vanish."
               "I am tolerably substantial," she answered. "But it is an odd chance, our meeting in this out-of-the-world spot."
               "Acknowledge that it looks a little like fatality," pleaded he.
               "I never saw Fatality, so I can't tell how she looks," returned provoking Gay. "Did you know I was here?"
               "Had no idea of it. I called at the house once, and found the Prophetess and two of her crones holding carnival over somebody's-character, but not a word would she tell me as to your whereabouts, and I would not gratify her enough to show that I was vexed."
               "Amiable creature! I dare say you found some way of avenging yourself."
               "Yes; I scratched the three in turn as sharply as if I had been an old cat too. But do say that you are glad to see me."
               "I believe I am, actually."
               "And you missed me?"
               "Well, that would be a doubtful compliment; I am used to you, and one does miss what one's used to, even if it be neuralgia."
               "May I stay some time, now I have come?"
               "Really, your hotel-keeper will have most to say about that; pay your bills and be proper-behaved, and I dare say he'll not drive you out."
               "I believe that means you want me to stay."
               "I believe so—I haven't thought. Yes—on the whole! You'll have occupation, for Margaret Dane is a study, and, I think, too wise to be hurt by your nonsense."
               "Do you mean me to flirt with her?"
               "I give you my royal permission."
               "You feel so sure of your empire that—"
               "There, there; that sounds well, but it means nothing."
               He looked exceedingly vexed, and she was inclined to laugh, but, remembering how short a time they had been together, decided to avoid a quarrel by saying pleasant things that would restore his equanimity. But, as she often said, they seemed doomed to quarrel, for before the others returned, a new subject of dissension had arisen, and on this second occasion Gay made no effort to avert the storm.
               The roll of magazines ill-naturedly falling from her lap was the cause. Gay felt confident that some invisible imp pushed them off. Several letters flew hither and thither as if they had wings. Seaton set out in pursuit, and finally succeeded in capturing them.
               "One—two—three," he counted, handing them to her separately. "Here is the Prophetess's writing; I sympathize with you! Four—bless me, you have as much correspondence as a Congressman! Oh, I know this monogram," he added rather wisely.
               "Stand and deliver," returned Gay. "Whose is it, pray, Mr. Impertinence?"
               "Probably you know as well as I do," said he stiffly, giving her the epistle and throwing in an angry glance.
               Gay looked at the blue letters fancifully stamped on the back of the envelope, and recognized them too. She knew at once that Athenäis's friend Crœsus had at last dared the worst, and made by letter the proposal which she had artfully warded off while they were together at the Thornes'. But she was too thorough a lady to betray the poor man's secret, even to appease Seaton, and foolishly tried to get out of the matter by telling an absurd fib.
               "Evidently from some importunate tradesman," said she, holding up the letter so that he could see the careless, ill-written inscription.
               "Do you think nobody is to be in debt but yourself?"
               "Tradesmen usually write on English paper, and indulge in mediæval monograms," returned Seaton, now really vexed.
               "I am glad to have my opinion confirmed," said Gay, mischievously.
               "If any such person has been troubling you," retorted he, "you will now have an opportunity of relieving yourself by taking Crœsus, for this letter is from him."
               "He has not absolutely asked me; besides, the six months are not up. Before that time I may be in a Sisterhood; I have serious intentions that way."
               "I may be in a lunatic asylum," said he.
               "I should think it probable," she replied, coolly. "But let me see what Athenäis says. How furious she will be when she finds you are here; positively, I have not the courage to tell her."
               "Hadn't you better read the letter from your importunate tradesman?" he could not resist saying, vexed that she would never be frank with him as to her intentions where other men were concerned, though he would have despised her heartily if she had betrayed their secrets.
               She was vexed in her turn, and made a pretense of being more annoyed than she really was, in order to end the subject then and there.
               "I am sure I had," she said, coldly; "and as I shall not be in a mood for society after, I will bid you good-bye at once."
               She walked into the house before he could speak a word of remonstrance, and did not appear again until the party was assembled at the tea-table. Seaton, fearing that she did not mean to return, had been properly miserable, and was glad to make amends for his misconduct by offering no further allusion to the letter; which was exactly the result artful Gay had intended to produce.
               She had read the epistle, and verified her suspicion; Crœsus had passed the Rubicon with the boldness of Cæsar, and, though she was sorry for his disappointment, it was a relief to be able to end the matter, and make it useless for the Prophetess to form further plots on his account.
               Gay was in her brightest mood for a time, just to hide the nervousness which Seaton's arrival caused; but when she tried to sing for them later in the evening, her voice was so tremulous and weak, that she retreated from the piano in disgust, refusing to make another attempt.
               "I'd rather have no voice, than one that can't be depended on," said she, petulantly. "Come and sing 'Break, break,' Margaret."
               Having forced her friend to take her place at the instrument, she retired to a window, so angry at not possessing more control over her feelings, that she sat there, silent and forbidding as a shadow of her usual self, until she saw Seaton watching her, then she came out of her dark corner, and was gayer than ever.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE TINY WOMAN'S MISHAP.
               THE days that followed Seaton's arrival were very pleasant to the little party of young people who had been thrown together so unexpectedly— by a mere chance, as we are so much given to saying, with the unconscious infidelity which seems natural to us all, forgetting that the commonest incident, in the commonest life, is ordered and arranged.
               There were excursions to places of interest, long walks and rides, sails on the river, and busy idleness generally. Mrs. Dane was indulging in a season of better health than usual, and was less exacting where Margaret was concerned. Occasionally, Gay was interrupted, or intruded upon by some of the people who considered themselves the magnates of the town, and felt it a solemn duty to call upon her as a stranger of consequence. But though the visits were a bore at the time, the rehearsal thereof, and the remarkable attempts at conversation, afforded them all a great deal of amusement. There was a woman who called, and indulged Gay with a long account of her sister's first child, which she termed "an exuberant babe," in contradistinction to her own husband, whom she mentioned as an "adult," to the huge delight of Seaton, who chanced to be in the room. The next day the sister appeared, and detailed the illness and death of another babe, and was unable to understand how it could have taken its departure, since, though only a few months old at the time of its mournful taking off, it had swallowed eleven doses of calomel, not to mention any quantity of medicines equally mild and healthful.
               Then there were youthful females who wanted patterns of her clothes; and religious people of a restless turn of mind who desired to be certain that she was sufficiently anxious about the state of her soul; and elderly spinsters, who, in the purity of their virginal fancies, thought it very strange that she should have strayed out to that lonely spot, and came up to look at her to be certain she had no improper reason therefor, and went away so profoundly thankful there did not seem to be any, that their piety and their wisdom was an edifying sight.
               There were a few men who took the liberty to come, and were horribly ill at ease when they got there, and very anxious to get away, and having exhausted their courage in the effort of coming had none left wherewith to depart, and sat struggling after broken ends of conversation, looking so unutterably wretched that Gay pitied them, and wondered, as any body might, why they voluntarily incurred such torture. There were the spouses of rival doctors, and it was delicious to hear them talk about each other's husbands, and to see the faces with which they hoped those miscreants were only ignorant, and not intentionally wicked in dealing murder about wholesale. And the Methodist minister came and groaned at her, and said that the Lord abhorred curls, which made Gay marvel why he so frequently put them on people's heads. The Presbyterian parson called and informed her that men and women were not born full statured; they grew after their birth. Then discovering that she was a Churchwoman, and so high in her notions that she affected crosses and symbols, they gave her up in despair, and shook their heads when she was mentioned, and alluded to Seaton, in their prayer-meetings, as the very personage mentioned in the Bible as possessing the propensities of a lion, and warning the lambs of their flocks against his wiles, though all the pretty girls having deserted to St. Jude's chapel on the advent of a handsome, unmarried clergyman, there did not seem any body left to whom the admonitions could apply.
               Gay, being unused to the oddities of a country town, had infinite amusement out of them all; and the world she had left seemed very far off, from whence Athenäis's letters came occasionally, filled with complaints of Gay's desertion and scraps of gossip, and were unpleasant reminders that this season of quiet could not last; that sooner or later she must go back to the restlessness and weariness of her more familiar life.
               "I wonder why?" asked Seaton, when she had one day been saying something of the sort rather dolefully. "I feel as if I could stay here forever and enjoy every moment of the time."
               "If you found you were obliged to stay, even a year, you would be utterly wretched in three days," said she.
               "Are you judging me by yourself?"
               "I don't know; I can't pretend to understand myself or to know what I want."
               "That I believe," returned Seaton. "I am sure—"
               "Ah, there comes Margaret through the orchard, and Mrs. Gallagher with her, so your impertinences will have to remain unsaid. I fancy Aunt Hilda's visit must be for your special benefit, so mind you are overpoweringly civil. You remember her—the odd old woman we met in the road the other day."
               Then Mrs. Gallagher's voice rose in the hall, in voluble greeting to Mrs. Ross.
               "I overtook Miss Margaret a coming here," she said, "and we've had a heap of talk. Where's that picturfulest of creatures, Lady Gay; she said I might call her that, and she looks like a countess if ever a woman did. I've brought her some strawberries, and even my patch never grew finer. But of all the men I ever see, or ever expect to, never did I see such a jewel as that young Seaton; and there's a touch of wickedness in that melancholic, lazy way of his, that's inexpressibly soothing to the female mind."
               Apparently, Mrs. Ross interrupted her with some warning that the young gentleman was near, for she cackled, and added in a shrill whisper that could be heard farther than her usual conversational voice,
               "The dear sus! you don't say! Wal I'll go right in and make my curchy, as we used to say when we were children, and tell him. Here she opened the door, and stood courtesying on the threshold, squinting up her eyes and waving her basket. "I'm took aback as never was, but being of a romantical turn of mind, which has been my bane, I sort of enjoy my own confusion, because somehow it's like a play."
               "How do you do, Mrs. Gallagher?" called Gay. "Come in, come in; we are very glad to see you."
               "You picturful thing, in your green dress that makes you look more like a pictur! I could cat you this minute, I could, you look so toothsome."
               "And don't I, too, Mrs. Gallagher?" demanded Seaton, rising to shake hands with her.
               "Bless my soul! you're kissable to that extent," cried Aunt Hilda, "that I don't know what liberty I might be drawed on to."
               "Oh, Mrs. Gallagher, and my blushes!" said Seaton.
               "Go 'long," said Aunt Hilda, laughing immensely, "I expect you're an awful bad one, or you wouldn't have such a taking way with the young women—would he, my Lady Gay?"
               "Don't ask her," returned Seaton; "she's so obdurate—"
               "There, there!" interrupted Aunt Hilda. "A nod's as good as a wink to a blind horse—excusing vulgarity. But where's Miss Margaret? Oh, there she is. That's right, girls, kiss each other—law! ain't it just like seeing two rosebuds laid together—hey, Mr. Seaton?"
               But Seaton was speaking with Margaret. Mrs. Gallagher allowed a few words to be interchanged among the three young people, then she plunged into a fresh cascade of talk.
               "Now look at them strawberries—finer never growed—grew, I should say, Mr. Seaton, but a body gets ungrammatical ways, and somehow it amuses folks, so I don't mind. Do you know, sir, I think it would do me a sight of good to teach a grammar-school, when I'm a little down and have a touch of the aguy."
               "I haven't a doubt of it," replied he.
               "You're pokin' fun, but I mean it. Now, you see, there's a great difference in people. We're every one of us here of the poetical temperament, we be, if I am an ugly old woman, with a wart on my nose—did you ever notice my wart, Mr. Seaton? I'm proud of it—I am indeed; it's not ornamental, but I'm used to it—it's warming like—a sort of sign manual—Hilda Gallagher, her mark! Mr. Seaton, you're a man of mark—what's your opinion of the classics?"
               "Oh," said Seaton doubtfully, "I think they're a good institution."
               "You've said it!" cried Aunt Hilda triumphantly. "Jamdudum splendet focus."
               "Et tibi munda supellex," returned Seaton, thinking to please her by continuing the quotation, which he knew was her grandest display of artillery.
               But Aunt Hilda's face lengthened perceptibly; she wanted admiration instead of a learned response, and from that time, though she admired Seaton greatly, she had certain suspicions in regard to him which she never could silence. Seaton saw that he had blundered, and hastened to make amends for his error by telling her an amusing story, and she soon recovered her spirits.
               "You all sit up here," said she, "like the gods on—what was that mountain? It wasn't Ararat, because that's in the Bible—but that's the way you sit, and it's improving to the mind and a consolation to the spirits, after leaguing with ordinary people, as a body must. My Lady Gay, you're a growin' picturful every minute! I don't think I can live another breath unless you let me kiss the tip of your left ear; and the queen of pearls, too, that's more silent this morning than I could wish to see her."
               Seaton bent his violet eyes full on Margaret's face, as Aunt Hilda spoke, with a searching glance, from which she shrunk a little, and said, laughing,
               "You are too close an observer, Aunt Hilda, to be safe; but I was only silent because I was a little tired with my walk."
               "Observing I may be, but safe—law! my dear, banks and iron chests ain't safer than yours truly, Hilda Gallagher; and when I say that, I remember a volentun I got onct when I was a girl. The fellow was dreadfully put to it for his poetry, and all the rhyme he could get to my name was— 
                     
                        "'Oh, cruel Hilda,
                        At once so frozen, and so milda.'
                     
                   How mad he was when I repeated it to a lot of my mates, and accused him of saying I was mildewed. But what on earth's become of Miss Ross—my Clytemnestry. There's a name, Mr. Seaton, that's as classical as Jamdudum itself. I must go and find her, and get these strawberries emptied. I wish you'd please to come along, my queen of pearls, for I want to say a little speech to you—saving your presences, you two."
               Margaret followed Mrs. Gallagher into the hall, but it seemed the good woman only thought she was out of spirits, and wished to whisper a few soothing words.
               "Mebby the lady-mother's a little struck down," said she, "but don't mind it, I've been so a heap of times; plenty of valerian and some poetry will bring her round. My dear, that Mr. Seaton's a picturful man, I admire him awfully; but I'll tell you what—Mr. Prescott's the real jewel! He's more certain-like; story-writers are apt to be flighty. I've a touch of the disposition myself, and I know. How the Prescott chap took the jamdudum! And this one knows the classics, too, I can see that; but he's more feather-headed, wants to display a leetle—though he's beautiful, my dear. Statiary never made a lovelier nose, and look at the head on him—bless you, what a forrard!" meaning forehead—"it spreads out like a map, with bumps at the temples—real seething volcanos of poetry, my blessed. But where's Miss Ross? Oh, Clytemnestry, my dear!"
               Mrs. Gallagher elevated her voice and started down the hall at a rapid pace, and, not seeing very distinctly, she ran full tilt against Harriet Lucy Kenwyn, who was on her knees scrubbing the floor, with her back towards Mrs. Gallagher, so much engaged with her work and the hymn she was crooning that she had not heard that lady's approach. Away went Harriet Lucy, and away went the pail, deluging the part of the floor she had just dried, and Aunt Hilda herself only escaped a tumble by performing a pirouette which exhibited the very tops of her speckled stockings.
               "Why, get out! 'seat!" shrieked Aunt Hilda, who was nervous, and had been nearly frightened out of her senses. "Why what on earth be you?—what are you doing here?"
               "Ou, ou, ou! Oi, oi, oi!" moaned Harriet Lucy, as if she were attempting the lamentation of a Greek chorus, while she lay flat on her back and thrust her arms and legs straight into the air! "On, ou, oi, oi!"
               "Why, git up!" pursued Aunt Hilda, waxing a little indignant, and forgetting that she was the cause of the mishap. "Why, you scared me out of a year's growth—I wonder my wart didn't fall off! Land's sake! what are you sprawlin' about on the floor like a grampus for? Get up, I say, and tell who you be, and how you come here, and all about yourself! It's a mercy the strawberries wasn't spilt—picked 'em myself off the best spot on my patch."
               By this time the tiny woman had rolled over and struggled on her feet, her clothes dabbled with water, her thin hair hanging in a long wisp at the back of her head; and when Mrs. Gallagher repeated her inquiries, she gasped out,
               "Oi, oi! it's all your fault! You've no call to trample the breath out of my carcass. I'm Harriet Lucy Kenwyn Fendower Sowder; he wouldn't have let me be treated this sort, even if he'd had a drop to take."
               "Bless my soul, it's old Lucy!" murmured Aunt Hilda under her breath, and ready to retreat at once, for Lucy had an invincible dislike to her.
               "I telled you who it was," whimpered the tiny woman; "Harriet Lucy Kenwyn—as for old, there's a many to beat me there, and you've lived years enough not to go grampusin' through a hall, upsettin' me in my dooties when I'm thinkin' no harm but cleanin' the floor, as I agreed, and thrumming a bit of a hymn! It's cruel of you, when my hair falls out, and I had a fit last week come to-morrow—oi, oi!"
               "Mercy sakes, don't!" pleaded Aunt Hilda. "I didn't mean to hurt you—I didn't see you."
               "You ought to see," squeaked Lucy an octave higher. "I'm Harriet Lucy Kenwyn Fendower Sowder, and Miss Rossy she seed me last night, and said would I come up to-day and do the extra cleaning. Dear soul, I will, says I, and thought no harm; and here I was, a-scrubbin' on my two knees, and thinkin' it sounded like Amen—for these and all others—and along you grampus, and turn me up and the pail—oi, oi!"
               "Land's end!" cried Aunt Hilda in despair. "Do be still! I'd ruther scrub the floor myself than hear so much about it."
               "You wouldn't," shrieked Lucy, "clear of that by many a rod! Scrub you wouldn't! You're a lazy old 'ooman, and you've no call to go disturbin' them that's willin' to earn their brows by sweat, and loves the Lord when their hair falls out."
               By this time Gay and Seaton were at the parlor-door, and one or two women appeared from the kitchen, but the combatants paid no attention to any body's presence; for though Aunt Hilda was quite alive to the undignified appearance she made, for the life of her she could not consent to leave Lucy so entirely mistress of the field.
               "Ain't you ashamed!" exclaimed she. "Why, you might be a bald baby, by the way you take on."
               "Bald I may be, but Chrissen too," sobbed Lucy, "and that's a deal more than some could say as never darkens church doors once in a twelvemonth."
               "I'm at Baptist meeting regular, and you'd know it if you were ever where you ought to be," retorted Aunt Hilda.
               "The Lord forbid—for these and all others, make us duly thankful! I had a fit last week and my hair falls out, but I'm not blinded to that extent; you'll find me among the Pristicals Sabba day after Sabba day, and saying my amenes till I lift myself off the floor. You've no call to sprawl me flat, and walk over me, and turn me up."
               "I didn't!" broke in Aunt Hilda.
               "You did! And the floore's a mortal slop, and I'd just dried it beautiful, and was a saying amen for thankfulness, and going to summonses Miss Rossy, who's neater than wax, dear soul, and along you come and sprawl me o-over and turn me u-up, and the floore's spilte, and loike enough a mischief done to me, and next week maybe I'd be in a fit, and you to thank, with your grampusing and your sprawlings and your t-turnings u-up."
               "I never see the beat!" exclaimed Aunt Hilda, becoming conscious of the witnesses of the scene and asking only to get out of the way; but Harriet Lucy clung to her dress, and sobbed and wept and performed an insane dance, while her moans grew louder with each leap.
               "You turned me u-up! If you'd done the monthlyin' I have, you'd know that no matter what a female's sitivation is, no sprawlin' and grampusin' of that sort can fail to be dangersome and—"
               "Why, stop!" broke in Aunt Hilda, in an unearthly whisper like a high wind; the overstrained idea of delicacy which she possessed in common with so many of her countrywomen, being greatly shocked by the little English body's unvarnished exposition of facts. "Don't you see there's a gentleman listening?"
               "And let it be a warning to him," howled Lucy, "if ever he marries and is a family man, to guard against grampusins and sprawlins, or he'll be the father of silent babbies, as was Fendower Sowder's brother, he, which his wife was to that degree frighted by a big red bull, and she six mouths gone; that twins it was, and no blessing ever more unexpected; and both of 'em silent babbies, and one marked with a bull's horn roight across the left cheek so natral that you might have a'most been hooked by it."
               "The woman's a lunatic!" groaned Aunt Hilda, making frantic gestures as if tempted to strangle her, while Seaton and Margaret laughed till they cried, and Gay was fairly shrieking with merriment.
               "I wish I had a muzzle or a sheet or any thing to throw over your head, you crazy Britisher!" pursued Aunt Hilda, thoroughly amazed by what she considered revelations of the most horrible and improper description.
               "I'm not a mad calf to be muzzled—oi, oi!" howled Lucy. "Ain't you satisfied yet, sinful soul? You've hauled me and sprawled me and turned me up—"
               "O the dear sus! Massy sakes a live! can't nobody stop that creature's tongue?" moaned Aunt Hilda.
               "And pretty stoppages there might have been if there'd been cause," retorted Lucy, "and how could you tell, you grampuser, you! It's the Lord's mercy childers wasn't bestowed on you—for these and all other, etcetra!—you at your age not to know—with a wart on your nose as big as a pea."
               "Oh come now, I want you to stop that!" exclaimed Aunt Hilda, who could bear a great deal, but could not endure to hear her pet facial ornament thus slightingly spoken of.
               "I'm Harriet Lucy Kenwyn Fendower Sowder, he, a lone soul with my own brother married, and his wife this minute laid out on my bed with her youngest by her, which a week old it is and hair so red you might light a candle at it, and my two blankets kivering her, and my skillet bihn' pap for that blessed babe, which nurse it she can't, owing to being a watery thing, with me stamination whatever, all thanks to her being, like yourself, a sprawler and a grampuser and a turner up—oi, oi, oi! Oi, oi, oi!"
               "Shut up!" shouted Aunt Hilda, driven to the verge of distraction. "Shut right up, or if there's a lunatic asylum in the State I'll have you in it before night!"
               "She thraytens me," sobbed Lucy; "she thraytens me! I'm Harriet Lucy Kenwyn—Fendower's, he's dead and my own brother's married, poor soul, and kept my blankets, and my hair falls out—she thraytens me!" prolonging the syllables of the verb she pronounced according to rules of her own, till her voice went up and down like some infernal chant. "Leave me go, 'ooman, leave me go!"
               "I ain't stopping you—dear knows, I don't want to, you—you unclassical thing! You're hanging on to my dress fit to tear it into tatters—why, go 'long! for shame!"
               "I've no call for shame—I'm Harriet Lucy Kenwyn, and the worstet enemy couldn't speak against me, not my brother's wife herself, poor soul, and well she mayn't, for though its sometimes known that seven months will do it, there's ever room for miscalling by them that has evil in their hearts, and I'm thankful that it was going on two years before I felt the slightest, as my neighbors could certify if you'd write across seas to them who knows."
               "Let go my dress!" pleaded Aunt Hilda, "that's all I want—let go! I've said nothing against your character—it's your tongue I object to, but law! you was born a Britisher and know no better."
               "I was the eldest of nine," returned Lucy with great energy, "and hard-working people's own, and twins three separate times, but not a word ever against me, as Fendower Sowder he could tell—but dead he is and can not speak—and I'm alone in stranger lands and I can't bear it—I can't bear it!" she continued, changing her singsong whine to a shriek. "My hair falls out, but I loves—I loves and goes among the Pristicals and I'm dazy 'caded with the talk, and it's not till next week come to-morrow the fit is due."
               Fortunately at that moment Mrs. Ross appeared on the stairs, having been roused from some distant part of the upper regions by the noise, and she succeeded in leading Lucy away to the kitchen. It was a difficult task, however. Lucy danced about till her wisp of hair shook like a Chinaman's tail, and she rolled up her eyes, threatening a fit—started off—would rush back for her pail—drop it—flourish her scrubbing-brushes about, and do insanity generally.
               "A touch at the floore, dear so-ul—on'y one! Mrs. Rossy dear, don't blame me, I like to do my work well! It's all along of her grampusin' and her sprawlin', and her turnin' me up—oi, oi, oi!"
               "Come out and rest, Lucy, and get a cup of tea," urged Mrs. Ross. "The floor looks very nicely."
               "Do it, dear soul? I'll come—just a dab here—for tea's a blessing, and make us duly thankful—amen! And don't forget, you Gallaghing female, what a deal of harm if you was to happen into places such as I've monthlyed in many a time and done nowt but good—what might come of your grampus tricks and your t-turn u-ups."
               She was so overcome by the repetition of those words that she began to sob again, but Mrs. Ross persuaded her to vacate the hall, and she went out wiping her eyes with one end of a scrubbing brush, and carrying the pail in front of her as if to catch her tears.
               Aunt Hilda was so confused and disturbed by the whole scene that she was not equal to making the slightest effort to recover herself, but, taking a very hurried leave of the young people, started off at a tremendous pace down the hill, as if afraid that Harriet Lucy might follow and overwhelm her with a new volume of improper revelations.
               Since this is not a foreign book, it is probable that the astounding modesty of certain of my countrymen will be shocked by the details I have given of the tiny woman's talk, so I am devoutly thankful that the conflict ended where it did.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               UNDERGROUND EXPERIENCES.
               MR. PRESCOTT came up the steps of the veranda while Seaton and the two young ladies were still laughing over the recent conflict, and Mrs. Ross, less fortunate than they', was occupied with Lucy in the retiracy of the kitchen. Lucy was wavering between hysterics and downright madness, and was so possessed with the idea that she had received a fatal bruise in some portion of her frame which she could not well bring to bear within her own line of vision, that she was with difficulty kept from undressing herself for some of the women to make an inspection.
               "I'm hurt, Mrs. Rossy dear, I make no doubt! That it's on'y myself I'm carrying about is a mercy—for these and all others! I think I'd better go home, for I'm dazy 'eaded and not fit to earn my bit of wage to-day."
               "Just go up into the room where you sleep sometimes and lie down," Mrs. Ross said kindly. "You had better not try to walk home yet."
               "I will," returned Lucy eagerly, "and glad, for there's a looker-glass there and I'll just whip my clothes off and see with my own eyes what that grampusin' turner-up has done to me."
               She sat off with speed, and apparently the result of her inspection was more satisfactory than she anticipated, for after a little the maids heard her singing a hymn with remarkable quavers and repeating a prayer for thankfulness before she lay down, in which thanksgiving she enumerated, with a distinctness that would have made Aunt Hilda faint, the precise injuries which she feared having received and which she was so grateful to have escaped.
               "What is the matter with Mrs. Gallagher?" Prescott asked. "I met her rushing down the hill at a tremendous pace, and she was in a state of such excitement that she scarcely spoke."
               They made him laugh by a description of the conflict between her and Harriet Lucy, and he enjoyed it as we all do other people's miseries when they assume ludicrous shapes, whether we be poets or philanthropists.
               "I began to think you had forgotten we had set to-day to visit the mine," Prescott said when the general composure was restored.
               "No," Seaton replied, "we are only waiting for the carriage. I ordered one to come up, as I thought the walk and the fatigue of poking about in that cavern of yours would be rather too much for these indefatigable young women."
               "The carriage is waiting at the gate," Prescott said; "it drove up as I reached here. I suppose the man thought he would save his horses the additional pull up the orchard."
               At that moment Dan Simmons appeared at the door, having espied the carriage from the shady spot where he had chosen to lie down for a little rest after the task appointed him that morning, which he had not begun, of gathering up the fallen branches and dead twigs from the apple-trees, which might have a picturesque effect, but were not in accordance with Mrs. Ross's ideas of neatness.
               "There's a char'ot waitin' for ye, down yon," said Dan, addressing the party generally. "The man's a cussin' and a swearin' over the pull up the hill, and I heerd him, as I laid under a tree conversin' a little with Alzady Mari."
               "You had better do your work and converse with Alzady Mari later," observed Mrs. Ross, who had joined the group after seeing Lucy hasten with improved spirits to astonish the mirror; "much better, Mr. Dan."
               "Beggin' your parding, mum, no," replied Dan, who always carefully left the g off the end of words where it rightly belonged, and laboriously added it to those where it had no business. "I hadn't better do no sich thing. When sperits want to convarse, they must be allowed to chuse their own timeses and seasonses. Alzady Mari comes frum a long distance, and can't be contraried by puttins off or puttins on."
               "Then I think she is very indiscreet to disturb you at your work," returned his mistress.
               "No-y, no-y," growled Dan. "Mussy me! don't you know wimings is onreasonable critturs? and 'taint likely gittin' shet of the flesh kin change 'em all to onct. Leave Alzady Mari alone, and don't contrairy her; she was a warnin' of me agin drink, she was."
               It was a pity that she had not done so earlier in the day, as it was evident that Dan had been indulging rather ly in his potations before she remembered his need.
               "I'll git them limbs picked up derights," continued he, with a solemn shake of his head; "the livin' must bury the dead—that's scripter and no denial possible."
               "Be good enough to make precept and example agree in your case."
               "I'm a precept and a 'zample myself," said Dan; "I'm a warnin', or wuz, to all young men like thesen; but see the change sence Alzady Mari descended on her angel windgeons to bear me company in this howlin' waste."
               "Now, Dan, be off with yourself," said his mistress severely, though she had great difficulty not to laugh; her sense of the humorous being so strong that it frequently interfered with her reproofs, unless, indeed, her temper was roused, when, to use Dan's expression, it behooved the "whole tribe to stand from under" until the storm had subsided. "Either do that work, or don't let me see you about here after today."
               "Mussy me! I'll dew it—dew it stret up to the handle," grumbled Dan; "you shouldn't ort to come down heavy on a fellar fur listinen' to the woice of his spiritooal guide, you shouldn't ort, indeed. I'm off; I'm hard at it; and let these young genelmen," added Dan, growing more hazy in his speech and more undecided on his legs, "take a warnin' frum me, and not git to go to sich a pass, where not havin' no Alzady Mari—though not to 'front the young wimming by sayin' no other name wouldn't answer—they'd go down, down, and—and upset their bilin'," added Dan hastily, after seeking in vain among his tumbled intellects for a more effective peroration to his speech.
               He removed the straw wreck which he wore on his head—it would have been a hollow mockery to call it a hat, as it lacked a brim and a thatch to the crown—and performed a sweeping salute to the company, nearly upsetting himself in the effort. But he managed to get back to a tolerably erect position without a tumble, favored the party with a severely virtuous glance, as if challenging them to show the slightest consciousness of his mishap, and went off, muttering,
               "I'm driv, driv, driv, from the time I git out of bed till I git into it, and by a woming, too, and all night Alzady Mari sets on my pillar and lectures at me! Gaul darn it all to smash, if it ain't more'n a chap bargains fur, and I am a goin' to hunt up a sitivation where the capting don't wear peccidotes."
               Then he halted at a little distance, and wavered to and fro as he called out, "I'm a goin' at it, Miss Ross, pell-he-y, mell-he-y—n'p and t'ck, Miss Ross, I be—trust old Dan," and finally disappeared down the slope.
               "You are going with us, Mrs. Ross?" Prescott asked.
               "No, indeed; I've no fancy for getting underground before my time. Girls, you'll ruin every thing you have on, you know."
               "Oh, we have these water proof cloaks to cover us up," Gay said.
               "And we keep a clean car for visitors," Prescott added; "you had better go, Mrs. Ross."
               "I'll go as far as Crosslands, and sit with Mrs. Dane," she answered; "where's my hat? I had it a minute ago." There was always a hunt for wearing apparel when she was going out, and, as usual, the hat, after a long search, was found in the most unlikely place possible; that chancing in this instance to be in kitty's house under the stairs, kitty having apparently mistaken it for a bird, owing to a feather which Gay had tastefully arranged about it only the day before, which had suffered severely under pussy's investigations.
               "Never mind," said Mrs. Ross, not in the least annoyed; "it serves me right for letting Gay make a peacock of me at my age; I'll wear it by way of mortification to the flesh."
               "It has a disreputable twist to it, that is absolutely fascinating," Seaton declared.
               "Then I'll wear it as it is, just to shock all Upsden," she vowed, and she did for the next fortnight, in spite of the opposition the two girls made. "Now let's be off. No dawdling; come, young people."
               They left Mrs. Ross at Crosslands, receiving a great many absurd parting injunctions from her in regard to their conduct while deprived of her guardianship.
               "Above all, don't get killed, as poor Job Southwick did the other day. What fun I had at his funeral! his wife thought nobody could console her but me. I never laughed, even when his fat grandmother sat down in a rickety cane-bottomed chair and it gave way under her, and she skipped up and pinched a little boy, and said hush! as if it had been his fault. Job's sister-in-law said they were sorry to miss the loss of his death—I gave way then."
               She had a quaint manner of saying things which made them irresistibly amusing, even if the matter did not amount to much, and her quick assumption of the lachrymose visage and voice of the sympathizing relative were laughable beyond the power of words to describe.
               The young people were very merry, though Margaret was more silent than usual, and Seaton somewhat fitful, warning any body who knew him well thereby that he was on the verge of giving way to one of his "moods," when he was either irritable or sullen, as is the habit of the poetic temperament. But Mr. Prescott was in much higher spirits than ordinary, and shook off his dignity and gravity completely, and Gay was in one of her reckless states of mind, when she said all sorts of brilliant, heedless things, just to keep herself from thought. In the effort she was making she did not notice that Margaret seemed a little dreamy and abstracted, but Mr. Prescott saw it, for he always noticed nowadays the least change in her manner, and, almost unconsciously to himself, had reached that stage of feeling when it was of consequence to him.
               Noel Seaton had passed almost a fortnight in their society, and those bright summer days had been perilously sweet to Margaret.
               The man had a strange fascination for her from the first. His brilliant conversation, his variable moods, that rare personal beauty which, argue as we may against the reasonableness of the fact, possesses a subtle spell over us all, united to produce this influence upon her; and added to them was the vein of sadness which pervaded the musical poems he occasionally indited for magazines that came within her reach, which sometimes looked like the shadow of a restless spirit out of his eyes, and softened his scornful mouth into a melancholy that seemed to tell of some mournful history buried in the past, some great hope lost, some fearful struggle lived through, wherein faith and dreams and much which makes youth worth possessing, had all gone down together.
               That was very pretty and romantic, and young people like to think such things of men who can write lovely verses, and sing them in an exquisite tenor voice, but it was no more true in Noel Seaton's case than it is with most persons of that peculiar temperament which we call the poetic. He had plenty of follies and sins to repent of, if repentance had not been with him, as it too often is with such natures, a mere spasmodic emotion, fierce and brief as a summer thunder-tempest, not leaving so much as a recollection to serve for a warning when the next temptation came. In mind and body he had been a fiery, passionate-hearted man at an age when the interests of a schoolboy ought to have contented him. He had been so much loved that it appeared right and natural some woman should lavish devotion upon him always; but, no matter how far the impulse of the moment might have led him, until he met Gay Van Kortland he knew that no real emotion of love had ever stirred his heart. He was a very singular compound; with such direct contrarieties in his nature that it was a wonder they held together. So old and worn in certain sides of his mind, with such odd capabilities of understanding himself and others, yet, in many ways so impulsive, that he was as easily carried away as a boy. There was just the same peculiarity in his voice; usually it was a soft, almost thin tenor; let him be feeling deeply or reading aloud, and it settled into deep, musical chest tones that were a full, rich bass. The delicate white hand, that looked as fine as a woman's until one noticed that the fingers did not taper in the least, was strong and unyielding as an iron palm in a velvet glove, and the graceful, almost femininely perfect frame, with its slow, indolent movements, was capable of supporting fatigues that a person with twice his appearance of strength could not have endured.
               This was the man who came with the glamor of his wonderful eyes, and the melody of his voice, with his golden fancies, his beautiful sophistries, which deceived him as much as others, straight into the loneliness of Margaret Dane's life, and bewitched her with his spells. She did not love him; instinctively she felt, though she did not comprehend, much that was true concerning him; but she was fascinated nevertheless. It was like the charm there is for us in those tropical flowers that are so noxious in their gorgeous beauty; the almost irresistible desire, when shining white poison is within our reach, to taste it. Not that Margaret was aware of this; she was asleep, dreaming, floating softly on through the charmed light of those summer days; lulled into deeper security by the idea that he was secretly engaged to her new friend.
               "The mouth of the infernal regions," Prescott said, as the carriage stopped near the entrance to the black cavern, and the driver announced that he could go no farther.
               "I really feel quite like the young gentleman in some Latin book, who went down to that unpleasant place which we never mention by name. Though, after all, I suppose most young gentlemen do go there, don't they, Mr. Seaton?" asked Gay.
               "And will, while Providence is indiscreet enough to bring so many women into the world," returned he, with that irreverence which is so common a habit of the age nobody thinks about it. "But the person you speak of is the only one I ever heard mentioned who came back—no wonder he didn't stay, however, for he found his wife there."
               "Metaphorically we turn our backs on you, don't we, Margaret?" cried Gay.
               "I would, only what he says is so nice and wicked," replied Margaret, heedlessly.
               Prescott frowned; it was a style of conversation peculiarly unpleasant to him, and he had grown to care very much when Margaret made such speeches.
               "We will leave the ladies in the carriage for a moment, Mr. Seaton," he said. "There are over-alls and loose coats provided in the weigh-master's office; we had better put them or; your dashing suit would not be improved."
               They went away to equip themselves, while Gay and Margaret wrapped their ugly waterproof cloaks over their short walking-dresses and sat prepared for the worst. Presently the two men appeared, Seaton looking very picturesque in a loose suit of some coarse cotton material of a vivid blue, with a velvet cap innocent of a front-piece set on his curls, while Mr. Prescott, with his full beard and a long stick, rather did the brigand in top-boots and an old velveteen shooting-coat.
               "If we could only have the group photographed," Gay said, as they stood about, laughing and talking, while they waited for some loaded trucks to get out of the way in order that their car might be put on the track.
               "The best of it is, Prescott has lost his deadly respectable air, and looks quite an abandoned character," added Seaton, who was always free and easy with that gentleman, though he met with a certain degree of ceremony in return.
               "The deadly respectable is too deeply seated," muttered Margaret under her breath; but Seaton caught the words and smiled. The very best and most magnanimous of us do like to hear another man disparaged by a woman.
               This was a drift-mine, so there was none of that horrible sensation of being dropped down an immeasurable distance into the bowels of the earth, which one has in descending into a pit. The ear was clean, and Mr. Prescott's thoughtfulness had provided cushions and blankets, so that they were as comfortable as could be wished. The horses were attached, the lamps lighted, and away they rolled, driven by a small boy so covered with coal-black that he looked like a pet imp sent out by Pluto to conduct them to his dominions.
               "Isn't it charming!" cried Gay, as they entered the mouth of the cavern and felt the first rush of cold air, strongly impregnated with sulphur, as if an immense number of hard-boiled eggs had been newly broken in his majesty's kitchen.
               "Delightful!" returned Margaret, and, inwardly felt very nervous, and set the expedition down as Prescott's fault, pleasantly forgetful of the fact that it was Seaton who had inspired Gay with the fancy, and that Mr. Prescott's share had been limited to the commonplace portion of making the trip as easy as circumstances would permit.
               Very soon the wooden roof was left behind, and the darkness became impenetrable, save as the flickering lamps east a narrow reflection on the walls and roof of slate. The trickling of water could be heard from some rivulet that filtered through the rocks; the small charioteer whistled unconcernedly—being the son of foreigners, born on American soil, of course he could not neglect so charming an opportunity of asserting his independence and disregard of his superiors; then suddenly the quiet was broken by a sound like the distant boom of thunder, which made Margaret jump and caused Gay to exclaim,
               "Pluto is firing a salute in honor of our arrival! O Mr. Seaton, how grateful we all ought to be to you for letting us come in the society of his favorite child."
               "It was only the noise of blasting," Mr. Prescott explained. "There is not the slightest danger, Miss Dane."
               "I never supposed there was," returned she, but her voice was a little irritable through the indifference she tried to assume.
               "For my part," said Seaton, candidly, "I consider this sort of thing a duty, but I confess I prefer the upper air."
               "My dear friend," replied Gay, "with your conscience, who can doubt that fact."
               "After all, you compliment me," said he, good-humoredly; "if I was so very bad, my conscience would be callous."
               "That man always finds an answer," exclaimed Gay. "Listen; there's the cannon again. I don't choose to believe in blasting, Mr. Prescott, or any such vulgar thing. We are entering Hades, and presently we shall come to Charon and his boat."
               "There ain't no water and no boat," the small imp paused in his whistling to observe, and then burst into a louder and more careful rendering of "Old Dan Tucker," in order to prove that though he was willing to aid their ignorance by his wisdom, he really did not and could not intend to neglect his musical education on their account.
               "They have opened a new approach," said Gay, "so that if any modern wants to do an epic he can have an original description to give. Hark, Pearl, there's Cerberus barking."
               "It's old Pat Owens a-settin' by the switch on a powder-kag a-smoking his pipe and coughing," muttered the imp impatiently.
               They looked, and by the light of the lamps descried a great sombre giant in the gloom, who smoked tranquilly, and did not even deign them a glance.
               "He's ben out to the magazine fur a kag of powder and is a settin' down to rest," explained the imp.
               "Is there powder in it?" asked Margaret in horror.
               "In course there is; empty kags ain't no good as ever I heerd on," replied the imp, serenely contemptuous, and straightway executing a marvellous trill.
               But his dignity received a shock. Unseen by the ladies, Prescott dealt him a gentle tap on the back with his stick as a reminder that he was making too unrestrained use of his rights as a freeman who was privileged to wrap himself in the folds of the star-spangled banner and die any death he saw fit. The trill ended in a gasp of indignation, but the small boy was silenced, and consoled himself by muttering such tremendous oaths under his breath, that it was a wonder they did not stick in his throat.
               They went in nearly a mile, the latter portion of the journey down a slope so steep that Margaret fully expected the ear to upset. Here they got out, and, guided by a couple of miners, visited the drifts that branched off from the main road, where the dusky workmen were drilling holes in the shining rock or loading the great lumps of coal, torn out by recent blastings, into the trucks. Prescott had provided some Roman candles, and set them off to show the roof, and it was a weird sight enough as, in succession, the white, blue, and red lights flashed up to the rocky ceiling and illuminated the strange scene for an instant.
               They soon had enough of it, however, and were seated in the car once more, toiling slowly up the steep ascent. The small imp, still smarting under a sense of the indignity lately received, had uncoupled the horses and attached them to the other end of the car for the return journey. This was done by means of a hook in the harness which slipped into an iron loop in the woodwork and needed to be shoved firmly into place. The youthful inhabitant of Hades in his preoccupation paid little attention to his task, and the car was so seldom used that the loop did not readily admit the hook.
               They were nearly at the summit of the ascent; the boy was lashing the horses and making a frightful din, when, without warning, there was a creak and a whir, the couplings parted, out went the imp, holding fast to the lines, and down, down rolled the car with the rapidity of lightning.
               Neither of the women shrieked or uttered a sound; Seaton instinctively caught Gay's hand in the darkness, for the sudden wind had extinguished the lamps; while Prescott leaned over the side and tried to thrust his stick between the spokes of a wheel, hoping to check their speed slightly by this impromptu brake. But the stout wood quivered and snapped instantly, with a report like a pistol. Down, down, through the impenetrable darkness; a sudden lurch; Prescott knew that a switch had been left open, and they had slid off the main track on a side road leading to some of the chambers. Down, down—faster, faster—no word spoken beyond a broken attempt at reassurance from Prescott, drowned by the noise of the wheels. Then a sudden gleam of the miners' lamps, showing a group crouched in a hollow of the rock, a cry of warning and terror as the car flew past. The vehicle stopped suddenly against some obstruction; a flash of light followed, a report loud and stunning as thunder, and the great fragments of coal dislodged from their bed by the explosion of the powder rolled, with a deafening noise, directly down towards the ill-fated party huddled together in the car.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE EVENING AFTER.
               As the echoes reverberated through the narrow archways, the miners hurried out of their place of concealment and ran towards the ear, which they could scarcely distinguish at first through the cloud of white smoke that eddied about it.
               As they hurried up, holding out their lamps to make the inmates of the vehicle visible to their sight, grown accustomed to the gloom, and crying eagerly to know if any body was hurt, Prescott answered calmly,
               "I can't tell yet; hold the lights more this way."
               "Miss Van Kortland—Gay!" called Seaton; then even in his bewilderment recollecting himself, he added, "Miss Dane! Do speak, somebody—are you hurt?"
               "Not a bit," answered Gay's voice, as the flash of the lamps revealed the two girls crouched close together with their faces hidden. "We are frightened to death, but we shall come to life presently, shan't we, Margaret?"
               "Y-yes," Margaret said, rather gaspingly, but with Seaton's assistance she stood upright, and managed to conduct herself very creditably.
               They discovered, when they had all got out on the ground, that beyond being stunned by the noise, none of them were hurt, though their risk had been extreme, and one immense block of coal had shattered the side of the car.
               "Phery leetle mucher more," said an old Welsh miner, shaking his head, "and all phe could have said would pe, Cot have mercy on your souls!"
               "Oh, be asy," whispered an Irish brother at his elbow; "shure, the leddies is kilt aready wid froight, do ye want to murther them inthirely wid yer blaging?"
               The girls both laughed a little nervously, but were altogether so courageous and composed that Seaton and Prescott were delighted, and the miners burst into a loud chorus of cheers in honor of their safety and their bravery, till the echoes grew so threatening again, that Margaret clutched Gay's hand, and Gay herself rather expected the whole roof to fall.
               "Go up, some of you, and look for Peter Howith," said Prescott; "he was pulled out of the car, and may be severely hurt."
               "Bedad, beggin' yer pardon, sir," said Paddy, "but the divil 'ill take care of his own—thrust that bye—though it's not yer leddyships nade take that same to yersels, fur the blissed saints has been about too, that's clair, and nobody but a haythen wud deny it."
               "Happen she co a lettle furder," said the Welshman, pointing to the fragment of coal; "te saints might kit a mighty pad pruise savin' she's, I'm thinking."
               Paddy railed at him for a pagan; and while Prescott was making arrangements for their getting out of the cavern, Seaton stood congratulating the two girls on their safety, and admiring the fortitude with which they had repressed the slightest shriek.
               "It ought to go down in history as an unparalleled instance," said he, in higher spirits than ever from the passing excitement.
               "I wanted to save my breath as long as I could," said Gay, while Margaret did not think it necessary to volunteer the information that she had been so near fainting herself, that she could not have cried out if she had wished.
               "Well, Prescott," called Seaton with characteristic impatience and dependence on somebody else's taking trouble off his hands, "are we going to spend the rest of the day in this black gulf?"
               "We are ready to start as soon as the men get that heap of coal out of the way," replied he. "Ladies, you will have to walk back, I fear; one of the car wheels is broken."
               It was a mode of return they greatly preferred, remembering the ascent that was to be made; so after resting a few moments more, they started in procession, headed by a party of miners to light the way; Gay having hold of Mr. Prescott's arm, and Seaton supporting Margaret with a carefulness which, feeling nervous and weak, touched her exceedingly. Two of the miners kept by their side up the road; and as Gay and her companion were considerably in advance, Seaton reassured and comforted her in a voice that sounded sweeter in Margaret Dane's car than any human tones had ever done.
               They came upon the son of Erebus at the top of the slope, sitting on the ground smoking a pipe, and listening with great composure to the revilings of the men who had gone in search of him; but when he became aware of Prescott's approach, he deemed it wise to start off at a rapid pace in pursuit of the horses, which had made directly for the mouth of the mine.
               It was a strange walk, an odd out-of-the-way experience generally, and it seemed still stranger to Margaret, with that handsome man bending his head towards her, while he talked the rambling, imaginative nonsense suggested by the incident, which sounded to Margaret like a poem, and indeed was, according to the rules of a good deal of modern poetry, since it was made up of simile and glitter, with very little that was solid for a foundation.
               They were out in the blessed daylight at last, their eyes dazzled by the sun for a little, so that, as Gay said, they blinked like a procession of frightened owls. They went into the weigh-master's office to be dusted and set to rights, and Gay and Seaton were wasting time in nonsense and laughter, having, like many of us of this generation, got so much in the habit of jesting upon all subjects and at all seasons, that they would have made bon mots on the way to the scaffold. But Mr. Prescott noticed that Margaret looked pale, and ordered them off to the carriage without scruple, while their remarks on their late escape were enough to have made their grandmothers—they having belonged to a strait-laced era, as far as words went—turn over with horror in their graves.
               "Nobody must mention this adventure to my mother," Margaret said, when they had driven off; "or I shall never be allowed to stir farther than the length of her apron-string."
               "She is in such poor health that very slight things trouble her," said Mr. Prescott, and his tone was so grave that they all laughed immoderately, and Margaret, fancying that he meant to reprove her, was delighted when Seaton improvised a new verse for the Nonsense-book, on the subject of Mrs. Dane's anxieties.
               
                  
                     There was an old lady—a Dane—
                     Who suffered such trouble and pain
                     In rearing a beautiful daughter,
                     That unlimited strong tea
                     Was drunk fiercely by she,
                     And cheered her as little as water.
                  
               
               Gay was somewhat afraid, on Margaret's account, of Mr. Prescott's being vexed, never having relinquished her projected romance for them; but she could not resist giving way to the amusement of the moment, so she made another verse, depicting him urging the anxious mother to try more tea, and finally drinking it up himself, being a prudent man, lest it should be wasted.
               But Mr. Prescott was not vexed with Margaret; he saw her faults plainly enough; too plainly, perhaps; he was still at times haunted by the recollection of the missing package, though he had settled on a theory which exonerated her, and his thoughts certainly dwelt upon her quite as much as was consistent with any thing like proper attention where his duties were concerned.
               In truth, he was getting in love with her—under protest, as very often men do who reach thirty without indulging in that blissful folly; but he could not displace her from the position of importance she had taken up in his daily life. He began to realize it himself, prompted thereto by a vague jealousy of Seaton, though he would have scorned to believe that his heart could harbor the ignoble passion. Her image haunted him as he bent over daybooks and ledgers; the return home was always pleasant, even if he knew they should probably quarrel before tea was over; existence itself appeared fresher, as if he had suddenly turned back in his waning youth and taken it up where boyhood ended, at which period he had been graver and more burdened with cares than was well. His fancy seemed quickened into new play; books of poetry possessed a deeper meaning; his very blood coursed more quickly through his veins, and his days were fuller of interest; his duties ennobled, and his pleasures increased.
               But he did not admit to his reason that he was growing to love her; he treated himself with a sort of womanly reticence in the matter, and, like Agrippa, put off serious consideration "until a more convenient season."
               Margaret was looking her fairest and brightest to-day, with a delicate pink bloom in her cheeks, a deeper coloring in her eyes, a certain excitability of manner that she seemed almost to have borrowed from Gay, and sat prettily enough on her. Prescott saw it, and was a little tantalized thereby; but he forgot that when she waxed very sweet towards him, womanlike, because Gay and Seaton neglected her somewhat during their strife in the notable occupation of making nonsense-verses.
               Noel Seaton saw the new light and loveliness also, and he was too well versed in women's mysteries, had made too many hearts ache, not to be able to understand the cause, though he was singularly free from the fatuity which men who have met with less success so often have. He did not think much about it, only vaguely, swearing to himself that for once he would keep a close rein on his impulsive tongue and fancy; the creature's peace should never be disturbed by a word of tenderness from his lips—forgetting what a trick his eyes had of doing mischief by looking so much more devotion at numberless women in turn, than their owner had ever felt for the whole list put together.
               Seaton and Gay, it had been arranged, were to spend the evening at Crosslands, and when they reached the house, the girls disappeared to change their dresses—Gay's usual thoughtfulness, where personal appearance was concerned, having caused her to send over a basket of wearing apparel in advance. Short walking-dresses were all very well if a woman possessed such perfect ankles as Gay owned, but she had no idea of looking like an overgrown schoolgirl in the house by dispensing with her trains, which, long as they were, she managed with a grace that it is given to few women to acquire.
               Prescott permitted Seaton to share the conveniences of his toilet apparatus, so the two men smoked a pipe of consolation during their bachelor retiracy, and congratulated each other on the fact that the whole thing was safely over. They got on very well, for Seaton could make himself agreeable to men if he saw fit, and somehow he liked Prescott, though they were so utterly dissimilar as to possess scarcely a taste in common, save in the way of books. Prescott's early life, as soon as college days were over, had been devoted to business, and though he speedily became a rich man he had never grown idle; even his travels had usually some financial purpose as an ostensible object, and owing to certain peculiarities of mind, his record was singularly free from vices which, called by fine names, are pleasant while the flush of newness is upon them, but leave dark spots on the calendars of the past not by any means agreeable to contemplate. Seaton, with his odd faculty of going deep into every body's mysteries, discovered this—he could not have told how—and rather admired the man therefor, as he saw that it proceeded from an effort to live up to a certain ideal and not from frigidity of temperament, upon which so many people build a cool edifice of virtue, and look down on frailer mortals from its height with serene scorn of errors which they have escaped merely from being too cold-blooded to feel temptation.
               "This valley certainly is a very lovely sort of Areadia," Seaton said, as he lounged at the open window which commanded a view down the river.
               "In spite of the vulgar traces of business and toil?" returned Prescott, with a certain accent of satire, from behind clouds of fragrant blue smoke.
               "I like those! other people's industry is good to see; and when I watch them I feel as content as if I had done a day's hard work myself, and really fancy that I have."
               Prescott laughed outright at the absurd reasoning, but Seaton held fast to his proposition and elaborated it in his quaint way; was amusing and sentimental, misanthropic and shrewd and worldly, each in turn; and so interesting in all, that Prescott wondered at the curious charm there was about him, and thought what a pity so many admirable faculties should be frittered in the mere whims which could serve as slaughterers of time.
               Seaton's business was over; the company had purchased his coal lands, Mrs. Ross had become the possessor of Orchard Hill, and Seaton declared that the whole transaction was the most delightful mystery to him, though he felt poorer, because it had a rich sound to talk about one's lands, if one never gained so much as the price of a cabbage from them. At the same time, it was comfortable to feel like a nouveau riche in the possession of bank accounts, and he used to ask if they did not perceive a certain shoddy air about him, as if he had lately taken an order for furnishing army-overcoats, or found some other means of defrauding that amiable and gullible individual familiarly known as Uncle Sam.
               But he told Gay he really meant to be economical even to miserliness, to teach himself good habits. In the next breath he would ask what she thought of his buying Jem Crisswell's fast yacht—Jem was hard up and it would be a relief to him; then argue to prove that a yacht really was a saving of money, because, from being a heavy expense, it would make a fellow cautions in other matters; a mode of reasoning which caused Gay to cover him with as much opprobrium as if she had been a female Peabody or Vanderbilt in a financial way; though adding up her dressmaker's accounts was a task that taxed her mathematical powers to their utmost limit, I am happy to say.
               "I suppose it was hard work for you to learn to go straight," said Seaton lazily, apropos to nothing but some stray thought, though with a certain seriousness which took away all possibility of offense.
               "I suppose it was," returned Prescott, rather amused than otherwise by the other's coolness, as most people stood a little in awe of his dignified demeanor.
               "Yet you do," pursued Seaton, blowing away the wreaths of smoke from his head to take a clearer view of his companion. "You really count the cost before you rush into temptation, and mean to be a regular old Spartan to yourself."
               "I mean to have as little as possible to regret when I look back over my life," said Prescott.
               "Though there's a certain spice about remorse, after all—that is, where it is confined to the wasting of your own life."
               "I don't see it," replied Prescott; "besides, a man can't harm himself without injuring others."
               "That sounds philosophical—I can't follow you. What a fine thing a great effort must be—only such an awful bore! It's nicer to dream about it and fancy you are always on the verge of making one."
               "And go to the devil meanwhile," retorted Prescott bluntly.
               "Well, yes, I suppose so," answered Seaton with a reflective candor that was irresistible. "Do you think he is glad to see a fellow? Did it ever occur to you what would become of the sinners, if that much-abused individual should be seized with qualms, and take to the penitent dodge?"
               It was a theological possibility, Prescott said, that never had occurred to him.
               "I believe the two people I envy most are Cæsar Borgia, and that fellow that stood forty years on a pillar—St. Simeon Stylites, wasn't it? Must be so jolly to know how had or how good one is capable of being."
               "Do you ever think seriously?" asked Prescott.
               "Very seldom; I don't know how to go to work."
               "But you ought to know whether you mean to make your talents really of service in your day and generation."
               "Ought I? It's so odd that I don't, and one's days slip by so fast; there'll so soon be another generation here to do the noble things. It must be rather nice to own three or four babies, and indulge in plans for them—only they'd be sure to squall just as one was in the prettiest part, and there's a prejudice against smothering them."
               He had taken a pencil and note-book from his pocket while he talked, and made a hasty but clever sketch of Prescott's head.
               "There you are, old fellow," said he, holding it out, "and a deuced fine head you've got—must be lots in it."
               Even in that slight effort he displayed such ability that Prescott could not resist saying,
               "You would do a great deal more if you could not do so many things well. Why not stick either to your pencil or your pen?"
               "I'll tell you something confidentially," said Seaton, laughing gayly as a child. "I show for a good deal more than I am worth; I can make all sorts of fine beginnings, but there isn't stamina enough for the working out of the conceptions."
               "That is because you have no application, and don't concentrate your faculties on any one—"
               "Don't, please; that's too wise! What's the good? One wants an object—I've no object; if I had, I dare say I should get very tired of it. I've often thought I'd like to cut the world, and turn missionary, say in the Feejee Islands. But I dare say when I saw those old fellows nibbling with such relish at some of my brethren, I should be tempted into tasting—novelty is so inviting! It would be all over with me then, and I should neglect their souls and feed with them on—how does the song go?" and he finished by humming, 
                     
                        "'On a baked missionary,
                        Served with boy-baby sauce,
                        And he gobbled him up
                        And felt no remorse.'"
                     
                  
               
               They went down stairs where they were presently joined by Gay and Margaret, who had been sitting with Mrs. Dane. That lady was poorly and her room was hot, so Margaret threw open a window and leaned out, and Gay joined her, leaving Mrs. Dane seated in her easy-chair. Presently they heard a subdued voice from a closet, saying mildly,
               "Please to shut the window when you are ready to come away."
               They looked back—Mrs. Dane had disappeared. They found her ensconced on a stool in the closet with the door almost shut, and her petticoats tucked carefully about her feet, for she happened to be in one of her moods of thinking fresh air dangerous—perhaps the next day she would have every window stretched, even if a north-east gale were blowing.
               Yet when she could be persuaded out of her castle of refuge, and grew interested about a book of which she was talking to Gay, it was a pleasure to hear her, and Gay forgot the meekly complaining voice, and acknowledged to herself there was a great deal more in the little woman than one would imagine. She could scarcely have seemed fonder of Margaret if she had been her own child. Having missed that sweetest and crowning glory of a woman's life—maternity—all that yearning need for little children which ought to be in the heart of every true woman who loves her husband, had settled about his child. I said, and repeat, that the need ought to be in the heart of every true wife, though modern education, and the disgusting, unnatural, and abominably wicked ideas grown prevalent through the slothful desire for case and the mad thirst for excitement and riches with which this generation has cursed itself, leaves few enough such to be found. It had been strong in Mrs. Dane's nature, and centred about the child whom she loved because it was a part of the man who held the inmost pulses of her heart in his keeping, and cherished the priceless treasure so carefully; for, poor, weak, faulty as she might be to others, he loved her, and by that divine influence saw her soul as the angels saw it. God be praised that there is such love, in spite of the coarse herd's coarse unbelief!
               Then the two girls went down stairs to the relief of the masculines, who had, however, got on very well during their absence, and that too without "talking horse," which, according to feminine story-writers, is the unfailing subject between male bipeds deprived of female society, in which dictum they display the same remarkable wisdom that they usually do in their anatomization of masculine characteristics and temptations.
               They had a pleasant evening, though Seaton, being a little annoyed with Gay for her persistent keeping him to the terms of friendship on which he had been allowed to remain in her society, had begun from sheer recklessness to make more frequent than was good, his pretty, half-finished speeches that hinted so much and expressed so little in Margaret's car, and to dazzle her sight with the dreamy, passionate glances that had kindled hopes in the hearts of so many women, only to die out in the cold ashes of regret beneath their tears.
               He began to be interested in her as he would have been in a new poem, and unfortunately there was enough about her that was peculiar and original to leave him eager to understand her more completely—a psychological research worth making as regarded his story-writing faculty, but likely to prove as painful to her as the skill with which a surgeon might dissect a living bird, in order to see exactly how the heart and arteries performed their work.
               Gay and Seaton walked back to the hill through the moonlight, which had become glorious again, talking and laughing in their, usual careless fashion when both felt they should be on specially dangerous ground if they allowed the slightest approach to seriousness to check their badinage.
               As they were passing through the orchard, they were startled by sounds of distress proceeding from the garden back of the house.
               "What can be the matter?" exclaimed Gay in alarm, as they both paused an instant, then hurried on.
               "Hark!" said Seaton, "I hear Mrs. Ross laughing; there can't be any thing wrong."
               The nearer they got the louder sounded the moans, mingled with prayers and fragments of weakly uttered songs in Dan Simmons's voice, mingled with Mrs. Ross's laughter and angry commands.
               "I tell you to get out of that, Dan, this instant!"
               "C-can't!" bawled Dan. "Oh! I'm a drownding, I'm a drownding! Oh, Alzady Mari! Alzady Mari! you said I would, and now I be! Have a leetle massy on your poor widder of a husband, and give him a hist in his misfortins."
               They hurried round the house, down the garden path, and saw Mrs. Ross convulsed with laughter, bending over the immense kettle, as large and nearly as deep as a hogshead, in which Harriet Lucy made soap; and a few steps further brought them near enough to descry the unfortunate Dan Simmons at the bottom, unable to get on his legs, and making such a commotion in the water which had been left in it, that he nearly strangled himself each time he opened his mouth.
               "He has come home drunk," explained Mrs. Ross, as well as she could speak, "and fallen into the kettle. I got him out once, but he staggered round it and fell in the other side, and he's fully persuaded that he is drowning in the brook."
               "Is that Alzady Mari a speakin'?" croaked Dan; "oh, my precious spousy, you can't mean to let me go a drippin' to perdition this way! On'y raise yer spiritooal-arms and help me out, and I'll git up a camp meetin' this very minit."
               "Alzady Mari won't come," said Mrs. Ross; "she's disgusted with you. Now try to stand up, you great goose."
               "I've laid in the water till my legs is ch-chilled," said Dan; "I-I've ben here a week; I b-begin to think I'm a m-marmaid."
               "Perhaps I can upset the kettle," suggested Seaton.
               "Don't touch it," returned Mrs. Ross; "it is too black and dirty. Now, Dan, hold up your hands and we'll help you out."
               A fresh contortion on Dan's part sent the water bubbling into his mouth, and made him cough like a grampus.
               "Wh-who's a speakin'?" spluttered he; "Miss Rossy, be that you?"
               "Yes, and if you don't get up I'll let you drown."
               "Is Alzady Mari there?" he asked.
               "No, nor likely to come to you, after your disobeying her."
               "Oh mussy, mussy! oh, my Alzady Mari!" moaned Dan. "I'm a drowndin'; I'm a drowndin'! Say a prayer, somebody—do! 'Now I lay me down to sleep'—oh, I wisht I'd staid to hum—oh, I never won't no more! Sing a hymn! Oh, Alzady Mari; she's a warmin' the w-water—it grows so comforble—'s-slike a baptis-tism; oh, I'm a 'pentin' of my sins, and g-goin' to git religion; f-feel it goin' a-all over me like hot shot. Oh, glory, glory!" and he yelled till Ponto barked like mad, and Seaton and the ladies laughed till they cried.
               Fresh movements from Dan's legs and arms, and his mouth got full of water, and he shrieked,
               "D-don't baptism me so hard—y-you'll wash away my 'ligion a l-long with my s-sins. Oh, Alzady Mari—Alzady Mari! She's a w-warmin' the w-water—I'm so comforble! Oh, sing a hymn!" And to a howling Methodist strain he began to chant some words which seemed to be a corruption of the well-known bacchanalian melody, "Coca chelnnck, chelaly," which he had perhaps heard that night at the tavern.
               "Stop, Dan!" ordered his mistress.
               "Oh, cocoa n-nut chunks—c-chunks—choke a young lady," crooned Dan. "C-coco n-nut chunks—"
               "Dan, if you don't stop I'll hold your head under the water," cried Seaton, breaking in on his strain.
               "More woices!" sobbed Dan, beginning to weep suddenly. "Be they b-bad sperits, Alzady Mari? Don't let 'em tetch me; they'll drownd me and r-run off with my 'ligion. It's beautiful thing, 'ligion! Oh, coco not chunks—c-chunks—choke a young lady! Amen—g-go on, brother!"
               He had raised himself on his elbows, slipped, and went face downwards with a splash that fairly stunned him.
               "Do help him out," pleaded Gay; "he'll suffocate."
               So Seaton lifted him up and tried to make him hold to the sides of the kettle with his hands; and a very doleful object he was in the moonlight, his clothes drenched, his hair dripping with water, and he shivering and shaking now that the last plunge had slightly sobered him.
               "W-who be you?" groaned Dan. "T-thought I was a camp m-meetiner! Derned if 'taint that b-blasted old k-kittle," continued he, kicking his foot against the side till the metal rang. "Is that Alzady Mari?" he asked, catching sight of Gay. "N-no—y-yes—s-seems to be t-twenty f-four Alzady M-Maris at least! Oh, I ain't goin' to do so n-no more—I ain't indeed! B-bring me a t-temperance p-pledge—I'll t-take it, pen and ink and p-paper, too—oh, mussy, mussy!"
               "Now, Dan," said Mrs. Ross, "we've had enough of this."
               "Miss Rossy—be it you?" he asked, tremulously, beginning to get a realizing sense of his condition and afraid for the consequences, "Oh, don't turn me off—don't! I'm a deformed sinner—I be indeed. I'll n-never do so no more—I'm deformed from this time—I'm s-straighter 'n a-hic-nymn-book—I be, indeed."
               "We'll talk about that to-morrow, Dan," replied his mistress. "My patience is worn out, and I think I shall let you go to destruction in your own way.'
               "Oh, don't—please don't—oh, mussy, mussy!" sobbed Dan, clapping his hands in an ecstasy of penitence, and, losing his hold of the kettle, was only saved by Seaton's grasp from another fall. "Oh, Lord!" he shrieked. "W-what ketched a h-holt of me? Oh, Miss Rossy, 'twan't the old P-pelter himself, wuz it? Don't let him kerry me off—hang on—hang on—oh, mussy, mussy!"
               "It's Mr. Seaton, Dan," said Gay, compassionately. "Oh, please don't be rough with him;" for Seaton was shaking him so violently, that it was no wonder he thought his master had caught him at last.
               "T-that's right; speak up fur me!" whimpered Dan, trying to hold his head still in a vain effort to fix her with his eye. "Is that Alzady Mari, a-all in w-white? On'y there's so many on 'em—b-be you m-multiplied Alzady Mari? Oh, hist me up—hist me up—don't let the old P-pelter have me!"
               "Shut up, Dan! Don't you know me?" asked Seaton, giving him another vigorous shake to jog his memory.
               "It's Mr. Seaton, Dan," added Gay; "he wants to help you."
               "I d-don't know no M-Mr. S-sit down," bawled Dan. "I k-know you, Alzady Mari, on'y you're m-multiplied. Oh, hist me out—hist me out!" and he began to kick and send the water in a shower over his head, which seemed to change the current of thought in his poor addled brain, and to restore the idea that he was a subject of interest at a camp-meeting, for he chanted in a sharp falsetto, "W-water—'gineration water—Oh, I'm a-goin' to glory—w-won't you come with me? Oh, Alzady M-Mari, so fair, so m-multiplied, won't you come along with me?"
               Without wasting more words, Seaton seized him by the shoulders and pulled him out on the ground, where he lay stretched, not making the slightest effort to move.
               "Get up, Dan!" commanded Seaton.
               "I-I've had a fall," he moaned; "I've f-fell th-three thousand miles and b-broke every bone in my body; but I d-don't mind—I-I've been in the waters of 'gineration—I'm deformed! Oh, Alzady Mari, ain't this a b-blessed time? A-ain't y's g-glad to welcome your p-poor widow among—among the—the—mulgenated," bringing the remarkable word out with great energy, it seeming to be a happy mingling of the two expressions that had so powerfully struck his fancy.
               "Now, Dan, if you don't want to be thrashed, get up," said Seaton.
               "We can't leave you here or you'll get your death."
               "I a-ain't afraid no m-more," shouted Dan, exultantly. "I'm deformed—old P-pelter's driv off—Alzady Mari's here, and I'm multi-multiple-genated! There she are—twenty-four of her this blessed minit, and I'm b-baptisized! Oh, Miss Rossy, Miss Rossy, g-git me a night-g-gown or sumpthin' w-white, fur"—here he broke into song—"I'm a g-goin' into glory—w-won't you go along with me?"
               Finally Seaton managed to drag him along to a wood-shed, and deposited him on a heap of straw that, lay there, and Mrs. Ross brought an old blanket from the house to throw over him.
               "He'll do well enough," Seaton said, in answer to Gay's fear that he might receive some injury from the exposure. "No danger of him, is there, Dan?"
               Dan, who had been so engaged in petitions for a night-gown or some other white article of raiment, during the whole process of getting him into the shed, that he seemed perfectly indifferent to the bumps he got along the ground, now waxed patriotic and exclaimed,
               "L-long wave the b-bar stangled s-spanner and the s-sun of the f-free! F-fellar c-cit'zens, th-this g-great day fur our k-kentry—oh, m' Alzay-y M'ri!"
               The voice which had begun so energetically, died away in a whisper without warning; and the next sound from Dan was a prolonged snore, and they left him to his slumbers without further delay.
               In the morning, a miserable and penitent spectacle was Dan; but though Mrs. Ross kept him in an agony of suspense for several days, she did not turn him off the place, feeling as unwilling to leave the poor cracked-witted fellow to his own devices as if he had been a homeless animal that could find no shelter.
               Of course, neither of the three felt in the least inclined for sleep after their adventure with Dan, so they sat on the veranda in the moonlight, and Mrs. Ross told them odd stories out of her own life or observation, while Seaton watched Gay's pale face, glorified as faces are by the moonbeams till they seem to bear a resemblance to the faces we shall see on the unseen shorn, and the love that was a more potent influence in his life than she dreamed or even he fairly comprehended, surged and flowed in his passionate heart like the waves of a troubled sea.
               Could it have been trusted? If she had fearlessly laid her hand in his, and gone with him into that new world which love brings, would the spell have been powerful enough to keep him always moving towards the light? Often Agatha Van Kortland asked herself that question in the months which followed, and never once attempted to smooth away her share in the wrong, and make her account clear to her own soul. But it was a difficult question to answer, and she was so strangely held apart from him—not only by her own distrust of herself and him, but by the dark shadow which lay between her and the hope of peace in his love. She might have lessened her own power of doing harm by sending him away, but she was weak there; so they drifted on through the summer days, and from his restlessness and anxiety, the craving for excitement and the habit of yielding to each passing impulse grew always stronger in Seaton's mind; more dangerous now than in his early youth, because he was reaching the age when habits, from being silken fetters, change slowly into iron bands that in time dwarf the soul's development too utterly for any hope of release.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               A FORTUNATE DISAPPOINTMENT.
               A WEEK went by, and one day Margaret found herself thrown on her own society in an unexpected manner, and her loneliness was the more complete from the pleasant gayeties and companionship of the little past she and her new friends shared in common.
               Early that morning, an acquaintance who lived in the county-town, some seven or eight miles distant, had sent a carriage for Mrs. Dane which had absolutely carried her off in triumph to spend the long summer day, as much excited about the matter as if she had been starting on an exploration voyage to the North Pole, which indeed a stranger might have supposed to be the case, from the number of cloaks, shawls, and wraps of all sorts that Margaret had to hunt up for her to take.
               Mr. Prescott had eaten an early breakfast before the two ladies were up, and left a message with Jupe, saying that he must go up to the Gorge and should not be back till evening. So when, with as many last adjurations for the general conduct of the household as if she did not expect to return under eighteen months, Mrs. Dane departed, Margaret decided to send a note to Gay, begging for her company. But while she was writing, up drove a carriage with that young lady in it, and Mrs. Ross and Seaton into the bargain, and they all explained at once that they had come to carry her off, not only for that day, but night also, and would hear of no refusal.
               "We are going up to the Falls," Mrs. Ross said; "I promised old Mrs. Carson we would come—it's the loveliest place—"
               "And I'm to get a sketch for a tremendous picture," interrupted Seaton.
               "And we're to stop for Mr. Prescott on the way," added Gay. "I can persuade the mother—where is she?"
               Then Margaret, feeling as any of us would under like circumstances, that Fate was a fiendish old hag and had played her a very shabby trick, was forced to explain that her mother was absent for the day, and that to allow her to return and find her offspring gone would be an act of cruelty in her eyes as great as that of much-abused Queen Mary signing the death-warrant of that fair young female unpleasantly addicted to mathematics, the Lady Jane Grey.
               A chorus of expostulations and entreaties from the three assailed her, but Margaret, though sorely tempted, held firmly to her decision. It was a horrible sacrifice—for the petty sacrifices are just what we find so unendurable. It certainly was absurd of Mrs. Dane, but it was equally true that if she came home and found Margaret gone, though glad to have her amused, she would not sleep a wink all night from not having been prepared for the crisis; and Nora and Jupe would be roused at intervals of ten minutes from twelve o'clock to day-break to scent out fire, or attack imaginary robbers, or ward off some other of the myriad dangers which would surround her nervous fancy in the solitude. After that she would inevitably be ill, as she was after any excitement—in downright earnest, too—with neuralgia flying about her frame and threatening to settle at her heart, and Margaret would have to undergo the confinement of nursing her and qualms of remorse in addition, so it was better to bear the present disappointment with patience and resignation than undergo the painful discipline with which she must atone for the day's pleasure.
               Seaton, man-like, was simply outrageous, and Mrs. Ross was nearly as bad, and asserted that it was nothing but incessant doses of the "pinheads" that made Mrs. Dane so fanciful; but Gay knew better, and, sorry as she was, would not urge Margaret further.
               "If we could only put off the expedition," she proposed, but that was impossible, because they had sent word they would be there to dinner, and it would be a downright rudeness, of which even Hottentots could not be guilty, to fail. "We might at least leave you Mr. Prescott," she added, whereupon Seaton looked, as any masculine would have done, as though that would be such very slight consolation it really was not worth mentioning.
               "Mr. Prescott is good three miles off—up at the Gorge," Margaret explained. "He has to make out the accounts and pay off the men he has at work there."
               "What a blunder we have made of it, to be sure," said Mrs. Ross; "but we had no time to send over, and never dreamed but that you could both go."
               Since it was to be, and Margaret and Prescott were to remain at home, Seaton thought he could have arranged matters very comfortably if the law of the land and the restraints of civilization generally had not prevented his putting Mrs. Ross's head under the carriage-wheel and driving off with Gay for a whole morning's tête-à-tête. But that was impossible, so with much mourning and regret the three drove away, and Margaret stood watching them, looking so fair and melancholy in her simple white draperies that Seaton, with his usual inconsistency, could not forget what a charming picture she made, notwithstanding the fact that he had Gay's face opposite him. He had been overfed with the sugar-plums of life, till he felt aggrieved at the slightest sweet being left out, whether he eared for it particularly or not.
               Margaret had a long day of dreaming—more unquiet revery than had disturbed her during all those weeks. She pictured to herself Seaton out by the beautiful fall making his sketch and Gay keeping him company, and she turned with a vague impatience from the idea, which deepened to a slow pain that ached at her heart for hours, as she wondered if some day she was to stand and watch them pass out of her life never to return, as she had watched them go to-day—together.
               So far from asking herself why the reflection caused her to shiver as if the bright morning had suddenly turned dark and chill, she got away from the thought, and went to work at her music, taking refuge in the panacea of a "hard practice." It was a failure, though, as far as any real work was concerned; her fingers would only stray into the melodies which she had heard Seaton sing; the house seemed dolefully empty and dismal; and though she was seldom at a loss for occupation when she had her piano and books at hand, she discovered that for this day there was no music or meaning in either, as Milton himself must have done at certain seasons.
               A very long, tiresome day. Margaret reviled herself for being such an empty-headed goose that she was completely dependent on other people for her amusement; but she knew that was not what ailed her, though she would admit no other thought as a reason for the uneasy melancholy which kept her wandering about the house and grounds, or intruded itself between her and any occupation that she attempted.
               Towards evening there came a message from Mr. Prescott by one of the men—he had not yet finished his accounts so as to begin the task of "paying off," and must remain till the next day in consequence. Destiny evidently had decided that she should be left utterly to herself, for after the night closed in, a telegram arrived to announce that Mrs. Dane would not return until the next afternoon, and Margaret felt it was the drop too much in her cup, to know that she might have taken her day's pleasure without scruple.
               Of course there were a number of young ladies in the village who would have been delighted, any one of them, to bear her company; but Margaret did not feel equal to a discussion on dress and had no desire to hear about their latest conquests, so she preferred her solitude, peopled as it was with nameless thoughts that caused her such new, odd thrills of pain.
               It was a long, dull evening, almost as long as the day had been. Margaret sat at her piano again and played snatches of familiar melodies, but so sadly that they sounded like the ghosts of the original strains, and saddened her the more. She was unusually sleepless, and late in the evening went out and walked upon the veranda, wondering what Gay and Seaton were doing, if they had remembered her, and feeling a dissatisfaction at the idea of their discussing her, which was as vague and nameless as her other pangs had been.
               She sat down at last on a low seat near the end of the side porch, where the vines grew so thickly that even in the day-time any person passing would have failed to discover her. As she sat there she heard footsteps on the grass, and was starting up in alarm, when the sound of whispered voices made her sink back on the bench and her heart throbbed into her throat with a sudden fear.
               "I told you 'twant no good stopping here," one voice said; "there ain't nothing to be found out."
               "It was on the way, anyhow," answered a tone somewhat deeper and more gruff. "You're sure he didn't slip off without your seeing him, and come home?"
               "He went a horseback, and there's only one road, I tell you. He's there fast enough, and the money's there too, for he hain't begun paying out. You don't think I fiddled round there today for nothing, do ye?"
               "And there's nobody there besides, but a man and boy?"
               "Jis so—a tendin' the ingine. I tell you we can do it as easy as not. The office they've built has got a cellar under it, and there's stairs lead right into the room where he'll sleep, and they ain't got no locks on the doors as yit."
               Margaret never stirred—scarcely breathed in her agonized intensity of listening. She forgot the first personal fear which had made her tremble, in the deeper alarm the words caused. They were talking again: she understood plainly enough what their plan was—to rob Mr. Prescott, who had a considerable sum of money with him; perhaps to take his life, if he made any opposition. Without moving from her seat, she peeped through the vines and saw them; two stalwart, hardy ruffians whose faces she did not recognize, but in that mining district all sorts of tramps appeared and disappeared without attracting attention.
               The whispered consultation went on for some moments longer; finally the first speaker seemed impatiently to move off, saying.
               "I'll try it by myself if you'm afraid—try it I will, for it's as easy done as pulling out your pipe."
               "I'm along with you, ain't I? You're sich a one for polysyllables and hearin' your own voice—ain't I along?"
               "Come on, then, and if that mighty gentleman tries to make a fracas, why there'll be one less o' the big 'ristocratical Company in the mornin' than what there is now."
               Margaret listened to their retreating tread with the horrible feeling of oppression and inability to move which haunts one in a nightmare. When the faint sound of their steps on the grass had ceased, she started up, with only a single distinct thought in her mind—Mr. Prescott was in danger; the next news she heard might be the tidings of his brutal murder, unless she could save him—but how? Her very helplessness brought back the nightmare dread, till she could scarcely stand.
               It was hopeless to rouse Jupe; he would only run off and hide himself at the first word of explanation. There was nobody near to carry a syllable of warning, and it must reach Prescott before those men could get to the Gorge.
               Inaction was driving her almost mad; she rushed down the steps and was half across the lawn before she could collect her senses enough to stop and remember that she was only wasting time in this folly. As she paused, the neighing of a horse from the stable struck her car—it was Sir Rohan's impatient signal. Mr. Prescott had ridden his new horse that morning, and there Sir Rohan was in his stall, and she more desperate than ever from the recollection that it was a physical impossibility to make use of the only means of assistance placed within her reach.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               SIR ROHAN TAMED.
               MARGARET stood for some seconds utterly stunned by the idea of her own helplessness; then the nervous horror rushed back, and with it a keener feeling of desperation, a maddening consciousness that each moment thus wasted perilled a human life. Her entire loneliness—the thought that there was no creature to be reached who could offer the slightest counsel or afford the relief there would have been in any human companionship at a moment like that, increased her trouble.
               Without realizing what she did, she ran through the entrance-hall and down a back passage that led to the chambers over the kitchen where the two women slept, with Jupe making sounds like a half suffocated alligator, in a nook still further on. She called their names wildly before her reason came back. The sound of her own voice gave her a little control over her senses again, and she stood mute, afraid that her summons might have roused them, and that the pair would rush down to overwhelm her completely by a burst of Hibernian keening, interspersed, on the autocratic Nora's part, by a general scold—her habit when any thing alarming occurred; followed by a vigorous attack upon Jupe, which would only render him a helpless, howling idiot for the time, and cause so much delay that assistance to the doomed man would be rendered out of the question.
               But the women slept that peaceful, heavy slumber which is the special blessing of the poor and laboring, and after listening for an instant, while she wondered at her own folly, Margaret walked back through the hall and found herself on the veranda once more. Again Sir Rohan whinnied sharply, almost like a moan of pain; it brought the quick rush of thought that comes at such crises, over which the mind is as powerless to exercise control as in a dream. Through the hurry and trouble of her senses came recollections of stories she had read, where dumb animals, as if warned by a power extraneous to their brute instinct, uttered dismal cries of distress when some beloved master was in danger afar off, of which even the human beings to whom he was dear had no premonition granted; and it seemed to her that the gallant horse was thus troubled, and trying to rouse assistance for the kind friend whom Sir. Rohan, fierce and untameable as he was where others were concerned, would follow at any time with the docility of a dog.
               In the same instant—for every possible fancy or remembrance crowded into her mind as it does with a drowning person—came the thought of her first meeting with Mr. Prescott, when she unceremoniously appeared before him in her theatrical Claude Melnotte blouse, and was outraged and indignant to read in his face a horror and disgust of her unwomanly prank. Even at that terrible moment it made the blood tingle angrily in her checks, as it always did when she recalled his grave disapproval, dashed with a certain commiserating scorn; but the memory was gone in a flash, to be recalled later as one of those providential inspirations by which we are often helped in our sorest need; lost, like every other emotion, in the triumphant gladness of the assurance which warned her chilled limbs into new vigor.
               She could save him—the way was clear now, she could save him! Only a person who has felt that a human life depended on his exertions, and sees the way mercifully opened, without warning, through the mists that wrap the senses, can form any conception of the joy and thankfulness with which Margaret repeated those words, till they sounded like an audible promise, uttered by a higher agency that had taken possession of her faculties.
               She could save him—save him! Sir Rohan always evinced pleasure at her voice, and when she was dressed in that boyish costume he would offer no opposition to her riding him. She knew the shortest bridle-path through the woods, a path with which the robbers were not acquainted, because the one who seemed to take the lead had said they must follow the wagon-road; and by this route she could gain the Gorge in advance, although so much time had been wasted in her bewilderment—in truth, only a few moments, though it seemed an eternity to Margaret, groping about for some ray of hope, like a drowning wretch struggling to touch a stray spar that he knows is within his reach, if his eyes, blinded by the rush of the cruel waters, could only fix upon it.
               She was neither weak nor afraid now; no thought of self left; only quivering from head to foot with eagerness, and not able to move half fast enough in her wild rush back to the house. She was in her room—the shutters were open and the moonlight streamed in, making every object as clearly discernible as if it had been day. With a strength that was increased tenfold, Margaret dragged out from a closet the heavy box which contained the dress she had hidden in her hour of bitter rage and humiliation, and with fingers that burned to the very tips in the physical reaction which 
                     foled
                     followed
                   that mental relief, she rapidly threw off her woman's attire and arrayed herself in the costume she had so hated during the past weeks, all the while uttering half unconscious prayers of gratitude for the impulse which had prevented her destroying it as she had intended.
               Quick—quick—how slow she was! should she never be ready? Quick! Sir Rohan, neighing again from his stall, seemed to reproach her for her dilatoriness—to remind her that every second counted for more than whole years might do at any other crisis of her life. She was dressed—she was hurrying down the stairs—turning towards the outer door, before she recollected that the stable was locked. The key was always deposited by Jupe in a special nook in the dining-room closet, along with the keys of all the domestic offices, according to Mrs. Dane's edict. She never failed some time in the night to descend from her chamber, in order to satisfy herself they were there, if she had forgotten to look for them before retiring; and as Jupe had more than once been roused, imbecile and howling, from his dreams, to hunt up such keys as fell to his charge, even he, the most heedless of all the heedless mulatto race, had learned wisdom and caution in the one particular.
               Margaret found the treasure. She seemed to move now as if she had wings, but the confusion and bewilderment were gone, and in the midst of her haste she forgot nothing. She noiselessly bolted the doors of the principal entrance, slipped out at a side passage, locking it behind her and putting the key in her pocket, as she ran with the swiftness of a wild animal towards the stable, from whence sounded Sir Rohan's voice anew, but this time eager and rejoicing, as if he heard her tread, and, comprehending the errand on which she was bent, sought to animate her courage by his sympathy.
               The door swung open easily, and Margaret entered the stable, Sir Rohan turning his head at the sound, but standing motionless as if to show her that she need have no fear. The harness-room beyond had gratings instead of shutters to the windows, and she could see a saddle and bridle hanging within reach. She felt no lack of strength—she might have been lifting her daintiest work-basket, for any difficulty she found. She was back by Sir Rohan's side: the moonbeams shone full into the place, and revealed his great eyes fastened upon her, while he evinced his recognition of her voice and his content thereat by another short neigh.
               As she had formerly been in the habit of riding much alone, her father had wisely made her learn to adjust every portion of the saddle accoutrements, that she might know how to remedy any undoing of carelessly buckled straps when she chanced to be out of the reach of masculine assistance, and the lesson did her good service now.
               She was ready. There was no leisure to think that Sir Rohan might rebel at the last moment; if there had been, the belief, strong in her mind as it is in my own, that the beautiful creature had some dim perception of the need there was of his earnest co-operation in her work, would have prevented her feeling the slightest fear. She led him forth into the yard to the great block—he stood motionless as a horse cut out of black marble—untroubled by the obnoxious draperies which caused him to hate female equestrians, and still answering her repetition of his name with unabated good humor. Another instant and she was in the saddle, and with one signal to Sir Rohan, that was like a supplication in its thrilling force, the horse bounded away at a keen run.
               Away—away down the hill—the corner into the mountain road turned—away, away, as if the good steed fully understood his part in the midnight errand, and meant to do his duty well. Away through the moonlight—every sign of human habitation left behind, and the foremost trees of the nearing wood beckoning her on with their leafy hands. Away up the narrow bridle-path which in the first arches of the forest led off from the main road, so vine-hidden and secret that few even of the villagers knew where it diverged; on, on—up, up—with the track growing steeper—the moon-beams quivering down through the interlacing boughs, which stirred with a low murmur in the breeze, like spirit-voices of encouragement and consolation.
               On dashed the good horse, never erring in the blind path which he had frequently travelled during the past weeks, never faltering or stumbling—on, on—while the leaf-tones whispered louder, and the brook along which the course now led repeated their song of encouragement, and bade her hasten—hasten to her journey's end. Onward—upward—no stop—no stay! Margaret's long hair, loosened by some obstructing branch, streamed over her shoulders like a dusky veil; her features were set and fixed; her eyes gleamed with a radiance that tried vainly to pierce the mystery of gloom and forest, and reach the goal she sought; her hands grasped the bridle firm and true, as if they had been the mailed hands of a maiden knight, riding forth on his first brave errand in behalf of innocence and the Holy Grail.
               "On, Sir Rohan, on! It is for his life—for his life—on, on!" Margaret heard herself crying, as if in answer to the voices that called her in the wind and the waters. "We will save him—on, on!"
               And the wind and the brook seemed to repeat, "You will save him—on, on!" And Sir Rohan, excited still more by her eager voice, plunged forward with such speed that trees and rocks fled wildly back in the moonlight, but carried her so easily and well that not the slightest physical discomfort troubled her mental exaltation. Steeper and steeper the path grew, as they penetrated farther into the wood; but there was blood in Sir Rohan's veins that had coursed across the great deserts under burning Arabian suns, and he knew neither impatience nor fatigue. More sombre and gloomy waxed the road under the boughs of the giant pines, louder chanted the brook, but now with a certain warning in its voice, and in the distance on either side great silvery white birch trunks showed like phantom forms that had come to urge her forward.
               "On, Sir Rohan, on! For his life—for his life! If we should be too late—on, on!" moaned Margaret afresh, and the pine-trees and the leaping brook moaned back, "For his life! If you should be too late—on, on!"
               They were coming out from amidst the density of the wood; the path widened; the rocks towered into a wall right and left; afar on the top Margaret could see the stately pines, that seemed dashing along to keep her company in that mad chase; and still above, the moon and stars, which hurried in advance to guard her way. They were in the Gorge—they were nearing the goal. Through the stillness Margaret heard the slow dull sob of the engine, like the ceaseless complaining of an imprisoned monster, caught and chained by human force to perform its purgatorial task of pumping water from the newly opened shaft—sob, sob, in a measured tone; and as Sir Rohan with every stride bore her nearer and nearer, the sound appeared to gain an exulting strength, as if the iron Caliban understood the danger that menaced its human tyrant, and was panting for the echo of his death-cry to usher in its freedom.
               "Hurry, Rohan—hurry—a little father—only a little! For his life—for his life!" shrieked Margaret.
               But now the voice of the iron monster drowned the answer of the torrent, and clouds of smoke from the tall chimneys spread their mist over the upper sky. Margaret's breath was gone in that last frenzied wail; there was a horrible constriction in her throat; a wild flutter at her heart—fiery specks danced before her eyes; the sobs of the iron Caliban grew into howls of defiance, and her reeling brain comprehended only that she was riding a fearful race against Death, and that the grim tyrant was straining all his remorseless strength to win.
               Out into the charred and blackened open, where trees and shrubs and grass had been rooted up and withered by an unmerciful fire, to leave the plain clear for human labors. There was the brick prison in which the iron demon was confined; back of it, the new wooden building where slept the man whose life she had come to save. For the first time she looked about; no sign of any human being near; she was long in advance of the approaching murderers. The sickening horror passed; her senses could act again; every nerve was strung to its extremest tension, till there was no consciousness of physical exhaustion.
               She reined Sir Rohan up to a couple of trees that by some chance had been left at the side of the engine-house, slipped out of the saddle, and fastened his halter about one of the slender trunks. She had visited the place before—remembered there was a side door by which she could enter the office and run no risk of being discovered by the two laborers that slept in the engine-house. Her hand was on the knob of the door; it turned in her grasp; she heard a sudden start; the sound of slippered feet, and a quick voice, as the roused sleeper sprang from the sofa where he had been lying, and called,
               "Who's there!"
               "Quick!" she answered, in a tone that smote like a shriek on her agonized ear, though it was little more than a sharp, hurried whisper. "Don't speak aloud; they may be here already—quick, quick!"
               Prescott recognized the voice in spite of its altered tone, and his first thought was that he must be mad or dreaming, and he pulled the door quickly open, while Margaret instinctively tottered into the darkness of the room that he might not observe her appearance.
               "Who is it? Am I crazy or asleep?" exclaimed Prescott. "It's not you; it can't be you; Miss Dane—Margaret!"
               "Yes; hush! speak low! They may be here; your pistols. O, be quick!"
               "In God's name, what is the matter?" he returned, in a voice sharp and unnatural as her own, from a sudden fear that some great and incomprehensible calamity had befallen the household to bring her thither at a time like that.
               "Nothing—nothing," she replied feebly, groping about in the darkness for a seat as her strength for the first time began to fail. "You are safe—safe!"
               "Who is safe?" he repeated, not catching the words distinctly. "Is your mother ill—dead?—what is it?"
               "Safe!" was all Margaret could repeat as she staggered blindly against the wall, with a prayer of thankfulness going up from her heart, such as the exigencies of her girlish life had never prompted before. But she could think still; she must explain—there was not time for tears or trembling. "I overheard them talk; there was no one but me to come."
               "Who was there? Why were you forced to come?"
               "O, what a fool I am!" she groaned. And every moment is so precious—lock the door!"
               As the quickest means of subduing her agitation he obeyed her imperative summons; and, while he was repeating questions, sought for and found his coat, put it on, and began hunting in the pockets for his match-safe, too thoroughly master of himself not to be sensible and collected even then.
               "You are safe now," he said, kindly. "What is it; what has happened?"
               "It is you," she answered, with one dry, choking sob. "They were coming to rob you: murder you if you resisted; I heard them talk: I got here first; I—O, no! don't light a lamp; don't," she cried, with a sudden agony of shame in her voice as she heard him strike a match on the tin box. The lucifer had only smouldered, and he crushed it under his slipper and stood quite still, bewildered and stunned, trying to make out her figure in the curtained gloom.
               "To murder me?" he repeated wonderingly. "And you came; you have saved me?"
               "Yes; yes. Oh thank God! thank God!"
               "Try to tell me clearly—let me know exactly what to do," he continued, in a voice so quiet that it was inexpressibly reassuring. "I can't see you—why may I not light the lamp? I had been lying on the lounge, and dropped asleep."
               "No Tamp—I don't want a lamp. Pash a chair this way—let me sit down—I can tell you—I'll not be foolish! Wait a moment—only a moment—I shall be able then."
               He felt about for a chair, and, directed by the sound of her voice, set it within her reach, saying ing only in the same calm tone, "Rest a little; there is no hurry."
               "There is—there is; they may be here any minute."
               "Let them come—the door is locked; besides, I have two loaded revolvers here—there is no danger. Tell me what you saw and heard."
               Margaret told her story collectedly enough, repeating the conversation of the two men, but ending her recital with that.
               "And you came yourself—but how, how?" he asked, in a sudden wonder that absorbed all other reflections for an instant.
               "I rode; Sir Rohan was in the stable; he was so gentle—I do believe he understood."
               "You rode Sir Rohan!" he repeated, absolutely dazed with astonishment.
               "Yes—yes—he came like the wind! He knew, I am sure he knew! You are safe—safe! O, Mr. Prescott, thank God—thank God!"
               "I do thank God," he answered with the same calmness, but there ran a thrill through his voice which showed how heartfelt the words were. "And you—what shall I say—how—"
               "Nothing, nothing," she interrupted; "say nothing! Don't lose time—call the man—there is one?"
               "Yes, a man and a boy—there's no danger for any body besides the thieves, if they come."
               "They will—they will! Don't waste a second—wake them—get every thing prepared—quick—quick!" whispered Margaret's agonized voice through the gloom.
               "You saved me!" he repeated again and again. "You came all this way—in the night—on that horse—and I owe, perhaps, my life to you. O, you brave, brave woman!"
               "Don't thank me—it was not I—I couldn't have done it; something kept pushing me on. O, go, go! I am frightened now—I shall die here if you don't wake them."
               He yielded without a word to her passionate exclamation, and, always quick to decide and act, by the time he had got into the engine-house and roused the two sleepers there he had his plan all arranged; while Margaret sat alone in the dark—sat trembling at every sound, unable yet to realize that her fearful suspense was over, her work successfully done.
               The ruffians intending to enter by the cellar under the office, the means for entrapping them were simple enough. The door to the cave opened outward; it would be very easy for any body secreted close by to shut it after them and press the hook into its hasp, and they would be helpless prisoners, as the vault was empty, with brick walls and a brick ceiling, having been intended as a depository for safety-fuse and other articles that required to be kept perfectly dry.
               Mr. Prescott was not a man to allow any body to incur danger on his account, while be remained idle. As soon as the quick-witted Cornish father and son had been informed of what had happened, he stepped back into the office, and said to Margaret, in tones that had a certain elation in them from the expected excitement,
               "Sit here and be perfectly tranquil; there is nothing to fear. The door into the cellar is barred; the boy will stand by this door into the engine-house, so that you may not be left alone. You are not afraid now?"
               "I think not—I don't know—it's no matter. But what are you going to do?"
               "John and I will shut the cellar-door on them, and have them like rats in a trap," he replied coolly.
               "But if they see you—"
               "They will not; besides, we are both armed. I assure you there is nothing to fear; only we must all be perfectly quiet until they are safely caged. You'll not be afraid?"
               "No, no; I am safe enough shut up here," she answered almost impatiently.
               But she trembled for his safety—perhaps only as she might for any human being, out of her great womanly tenderness; still, it was very sweet to know that she cared.
               "And we shall be safe enough too," he answered; "I am going now. Shall I light the lamp? The shutters are closed; they can't see the light."
               "No; I don't want it," she replied; and for the first time there flashed a reason for her refusal across his mind, and in his penitence for the arrogant contempt he had once presumed to show in his face at a bit of girlish folly, he would willingly have given the robbers a shot at him to prove his contrition.
               "I am going now," he said brokenly. "I wish—would you let me shake your hand?"
               She murmured something; he groped towards the chair where she sat, for, even with his eyes grown accustomed to the darkness, he could not discern her figure, and at last succeeded in touching the cold fingers she extended.
               "The hand of the woman that has saved my life," he said, holding it reverently in his own. "God bless you, Miss Dane!"
               He left the room without another word, and Margaret sat listening with strained attention, while the mammoth of a boy, keeping guard at the entrance to the engine-house, thumped a huge club softly on the floor, and uttered a gigantic snort by way of assuring her of his presence, not venturing to break the embargo which his master had laid upon him as regarded speech.
               Prescott and his burly Cornishman crept out to their place of concealment, and they had not waited long when the giant nudged his companion's elbow and whispered,
               "They be coomin'—hear till 'em."
               The two ruffians halted at the back of the office to hold a brief consultation, and Prescott, able to see them distinctly from his place of concealment, recognized the face of the smaller man; he had been hanging about the engine-house house early in the day, on pretence of wanting work.
               Margaret in her dark corner could catch no sound, and suffered more than if she had been outside where she could have watched what went on, for each instant she expected to hear a pistol-shot and the groans of a wounded man—perhaps Mr. Prescott or his companion; as likely them as the others; any way, now she had time to remember that the robbers were men too, and she felt shocked with herself for being certain that she should be very sorry for them if they were hurt or killed.
               On the two wretches crept; opened the cellar door cautiously, which, swinging towards the corner of the house, afforded every possible advantage to the pair concealed behind it.
               "Got the lantern ready?" Prescott heard one of them whisper, and his companion's answer—
               "Yes; I'll light it inside."
               The foremost moved softly down the stone steps—the other followed. Up sprang the Cornish giant and slammed the heavy door behind them with a wild shout of triumph, while Mr. Prescott drove the hook into its place.
               Margaret heard the crash, the curses and trampling to and fro of the men who so unexpectedly found themselves prisoners, while the barring that went on without warned them how hopeless any effort to escape in that direction would be. After a brief pause, there was a rush towards the stairs that led into the room where Margaret was seated; a trial of the door, which was responded to by the mammoth boy pounding on it significantly with his club, then a sullen silence.
               Presently Mr. Prescott knocked at the outer door of the office, and called on the boy to open it. As the youth stumbled about in frantic haste, Margaret recollected that this was the only moment for escape left her. When Mr. Prescott and the Cornish giant stepped on the threshold, she hurried towards the engine-house, and by the light of the lanterns always burning there at night, found her way out at the side of the building where she had left Sir Rohan.
               It was only the work of an instant to loosen the halter and spring on his back, with the aid of a friendly bench that gave her footing; and away she rode, never once looking behind or able to think of any thing but her insane desire to avoid Mr. Prescott's observation. Without any guidance on her part, Sir Rohan took the open road and bore her as gallantly down it as he had travelled along the hill path; slackening his speed somewhat in perfect understanding that the imminent need of haste was over, and pausing to treat himself to a long drink when they crossed the brook.
               There was no distinct thought in Margaret's mind; no consciousness that she had performed a heroic action—only a deep thankfulness, such as she had never felt in all her life, that she had been permitted to accomplish her work; and a certain softened, kindly feeling toward the man whom she had saved, such as had never come during the pleasant intercourse of the past weeks, to obliterate the mortification caused by their first interview.
               She was at home. Anxious that nothing of her share in the transaction should be known to the household, she fastened Sir Rohan in his stall, hung up the saddle and bridle in their place, and made her way into the house.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               AN INTERRUPTED INTERVIEW.
               IT was not until she reached her room that Margaret discovered how utterly prostrated she was. She had no strength left to throw off her clothes, but locking the door that Nora might not surprise her by a morning visit on some matter she deemed of importance, Margaret dropped on her bed, and lay there with the moonlight falling softly upon her recumbent form, looking like some mediæval princess with a lion heart hidden beneath her delicate frame, at rest after having followed a stately Launcelot, unaware of her presence, out into the thickest of the danger and the fray.
               When Prescott discovered that Margaret had gone, he was seriously uneasy at the thought of her taking that solitary ride a second time alone, and ordered the boy to saddle his horse that he might follow. But it was impossible for him to start at once; he must wait to make arrangements in regard to the two prisoners, and thought it well to have the boy rouse some laborers who lived in a shanty not far off, in case he and his father should need assistance, if the caged pair had pluck enough to make some desperate effort at escape. When the men arrived and every thing was settled to his satisfaction, he rode away in hot haste, but failed to overtake Margaret. He got into the stable with a key that he carried and found Sir Rohan safe in his stall. He fastened Prairie Bird in his rightful place near, leaving the two animals to talk over the late adventure at their leisure, if Sir Rohan ever condescended to hold conversation with the new comer, which appeared doubtful, as he had manifested any thing but a Christian spirit toward him from the day of his arrival, having knocked off all the loose boards he could with his hoofs, in a vain effort to leave their iron mark somewhere on the carcass of the innocent stranger.
               Prescott retired to his own room, but sleep never came near his eyelids during the whole night. It was not that he was excited by his late escape—he would have gone through a score of such scenes without a pulse being more than animated; he was thinking of the bravery of that fair, slight girl who had dared fatigue and peril in his behalf. Prescott's life had been singularly free from those passing dreams and fancies which are of such frequent occurrence in the records of most young men. To him, love in its mystery appeared a thing too sacred to waste in the flirtations and brief insanities by which others deaden their sensibilities until, when the real affection that comes to all in its time, does arrive, it loses half its beauty and freshness from being only a more passionate repetition of sentiments they have courted and played at, times without number.
               His absurd first meeting with Margaret Dane—the dreadful suspicions which were forced upon his mind immediately after—all combined with her cold, constrained manner, to keep him aloof from her for some time. But the arrival of Miss Van Kortland and Seaton had urged them into an acquaintance, and day by day, as he learned to know Margaret, his utter misconception of her character became apparent to him, and the black doubt that had troubled his mind seemed more and more like a hideous dream which, whether any explanation ever came to him or not, must be forgotten.
               Gradually deeper feelings had stolen in, unacknowledged to himself at first, struggled against to a certain extent from that very fear of trifling with the holiest and deepest emotions of his nature. When they increased in strength until he saw plainly that this girl had become to him what no other woman ever could, there was nothing in her manner to make the slightest hope possible, accustomed as he was to underrate his success with women in a way not at all common to his kind.
               But he sat in his chamber that night and dreamed like the veriest romantic school-boy, staid and grave as he looked, and would not allow a single fear to disturb the pleasant vision. When morning came he went down stairs, resolutely putting his fancies aside, but conscious that if his dream of that night was never fulfilled, life for him would miss the fullness of conscious, no matter how many compensations were offered.
               But he might as well have staid up in the woods, as far as his seeing Margaret was concerned, for she did not appear. Nora, who was excessively indignant at his venturing to return home in the night after having sent word that he should not be back, took it upon herself to sweep the lower rooms before she prepared breakfast, and snubbed him severely when he presumed to ask for her young mistress.
               "She'll not be down the morn," said Nora, "she's fallin' wid shlape, and no wonder, whin a dacent house is roused at all hours wid heavy boots scirupin' in as if a grog-house it was instid of a lone widdy's, wid the masther not here to put a shtop to sich tantrums—the heavens be his bed this day!"
               "Did I disturb you, Nora?" asked Prescott, too much accustomed to her freedom of speech to be offended.
               "I'm not shpakin' of mesilf," returned she loftily, sweeping away with fresh energy; "I'm not wan to make complaints, but Miss Maggaret's not that shtrong to bear wid skylarkin' about that breaks her nadeful rest."
               "Is she ill?" Prescott asked anxiously.
               "Shure she's slapin' like a babe, God bliss her!" spoke up the other handmaid, who had just come into the hall in search of Nora. "Why wouldn't she?"
               Nora turned upon her at once, in her dignity as the head of the domestic staff.
               "Miss Maguire," said she with great emphasis and an elaborate politeness that was edifying, "av ye'd have the gudness to attind to them petatys I left ye to pale, ye'd do me a favor, barrin avidin' puttin' yersel forrads in a manner that's not becomin' to your years, nor yer sax, nor yit yer facoolties, which, Miss Maguire, is more limited than I could wish, wid me a brakin' my harrut over the blunders ye make wid the laste thing in the way of cookery I inthrust to ye."
               "I'm sure I meant no harrum," returned Miss Maguire, very red in the face and ready to weep, being sensitive and so constantly nagged by the relentless Nora that her feelings, as she often expressed it, were raw from daybreak till sunset. "I ownly meant to remaruk that the gintleman couldn't have distorbed Miss Maggaret, for he came so quiet I didn't feel him going up stairs."
               "As if ye'd fale any thing after yer head touched the pillow," retorted Nora, "whin it's well knowd we might all be burnt in our beds afoore ye'd lift an eye-winker."
               "Indade, thin," cried the other, plucking up a spirit, "ye've no call to misname me befoore the masther."
               "I'm much obleeged for yer advoice, I'm sure," responded Nora with the same lofty courtesy. "Miss Maguire, av ye've finished yer remaruk, pr'aps ye'd have the goodness to stip into the kitchen and attind to yer dooties or I'll know the rayson," she continued, shaking the broom-handle with sudden fury, "ye lazy, thrampery, black-hearted Irish Prodestant, ye!"
               At that crowning insult Miss Maguire burst into loud and frantic lamentations, but fled before the broom-handle which the tyrannical Nora waved menacingly in the air. When she had disappeared, Nora turned to Mr. Prescott, and executing a grand salute, said as apologetically as if she were always the most amiable of women and a model of respectfulness,
               "Ye'll excuse her, I hope, sir; she's not here long and she's harrd larnt—I'm obleeged to be very furrum wid her, and me harrut's quite bruk wid her thricks and her tantrums."
               "I am sure she has an example of order and ability in you," Prescott said, beginning to perceive that if he wanted breakfast that morning he had better propitiate Nora.
               "It's loike yer honor to say it," exclaimed Nora, permitting a smile to soften the rigid corners of her mouth. "But I'd betther see to the coffee, for that odmahoun 'll ownly rooinate it and I dare say ye're in haste to get off."
               "I am indeed, Nora. But you are sure Miss Dane is not ill?"
               "Not a bit," she replied, much mollified by his anxiety. "Don't moind me when I shpake sharp loike—the cares of the house is a great thrial! I dare say she niver heerd ye come in. Whin the coffee's cooked I'll stip up."
               "Do, Nora, and say I wanted especially to know."
               She nodded intelligently and ran away, and soon summoned him to a repast that was perfect as all Nora's culinary efforts were, though she usually roused a hurricane before her genius would condescend to become practical. While Prescott was eating his breakfast, Nora entered the room and ruthlessly ordered Miss Maguire out; a double insult, because she was in her place; but little eared Nora for that, and Miss Maguire, seeing her familiar demon blazing in her eyes rather more fiercely than usual, was fain to retreat without a murmur.
               "Miss Maggaret's compliments," said Nora, in a low, mysterious voice, holding up a cautioning finger, as if they were surrounded by spies, and she uttering a secret which would peril her neck if overheard, "Miss Maggaret's compliments and ye'd excuse her not comin' down as she's late up, havin' a taste of a headache, but very well otherwise. She was particlar about the message, sir, and I sint that hilpless eraytchure out, for her head's like a sieve, and what she knows ivery gossipin' Prodesdant Orange girrl—praise the Virgin there's few—in the village knows."
               Nora winked and blinked, shook her finger afresh, and, highly delighted at considering herself in the secrets of the young people, crept out of the room on tip-toe, and opened the door so suddenly that it came in contact with Miss Maguire's head as that young female tried to start away.
               "Listhenin'!" exclaimed Nora with withering scorn. "O, the maneness of these black-hearted Prodestant greenhorns, born in a petaty garden that's got the rot, and fed on the skimmins of oat-male that the pigs has lift! Ye're an honor to your kintry—in lavin'it. I make no doubt yer father was an informer and yer mother no betther—"
               The rest was lost in the distance as she followed rapidly towards the kitchen, in which sanctuary the luckless Miss Maguire had taken refuge. She spent a weary day of it with Nora, who kept her scrubbing floors till her knees ached, and recited at intervals a catalogue of her crimes and misdemeanors from the hour she entered the house until now, which racked the heart of the sensitive maiden and caused her to plead with loud outcries for a little mercy; but Nora was in a mood to enact the character of Justice, and Miss Maguire's prayers and protestations fell upon deaf ears.
               Prescott had to ride into the town in search of a warrant, and the requisite officers for the arrest of his prisoners, then he returned to the Gorge. The caged thieves finding that their effort to turn like rats in a corner was a failure, yielded themselves, and before noon were on their way to the jail in the county-town for trial.
               Prescott was very busy all that day, but the instant he could leave he started homeward, unable to be at ease on Margaret's account, after her great excitement and fatigue. Jupe was lounging about the gates as he rode up, so Prescott dismounted, ordered him to lead the horse to the stables, and ran along the winding path to the house. So it was that he came upon Margaret before she saw him, walking feebly up and down the veranda, looking so pale and worn that his conscience smote him terribly. She turned at the sound of his voice, and held out her hand with the friendliest greeting and sweetest smile he had ever received from her.
               "I began to wish you would come back," she said. "Mamma is not home yet, and I am a little silly and fanciful to-day."
               "How pale you look! how weak you are!" he exclaimed. "You must not try to walk."
               "I had been in bed till very late, and thought it might do me good," she said, "but I believe I have walked enough."
               He brought an easy-chair out of the parlor and made her sit down, pushing a stool forward for her feet—so fearful that she was not comfortable that she began to laugh.
               "Don't make me fancy I am ill," she said; "I am only tired—more the excitement than any thing else, I think."
               He stood looking down into her pale, weary face, his usually grave countenance troubled and changed with emotion.
               "What am I to say to you; how am I to thank you?" he began, but she interrupted him eagerly,
               "You are to say nothing—you are here and safe—that is quite enough."
               "Do you know that you saved my life last night, Miss Dane?" he asked in a low voice.
               "Perhaps you would have heard them—dreadful things don't happen to people one knows," she answered hurriedly, unwilling, she could not have told why, that he should feel so strongly on the subject.
               "Do you think it necessary to underrate your heroism from a fear that I may be mean enough to be troubled by the obligation?" he asked quickly.
               "I believe I never thought about there being any thing heroic in the matter; if so, Sir Rohan deserves the credit—he did the work."
               "No woman ever did a braver deed," he answered, with a certain exultation in his voice which surprised her, and made her anxious to keep away from the serious side of the subject.
               "You see I did ride the indomitable Sir Rohan, after all," she said laughing; then her cheeks grew pink as she remembered their first meeting, and she looked to see if any sign of disapproval came into his face at the recollection; but she only met the earnest gray eyes fixed with a proud thoughtfulness on her.
               "Don't you think you sometimes do me a little injustice?" he answered somewhat jesuitically, replying to her blush.
               "Don't you think you have sometimes judged me a little harshly?" she asked, imitating his tone, but not unwilling now to speak of the matter which had always remained a sore spot in her mind, and feeling that she should be able to recover from the last tinge of restraint in his society if that old score were settled.
               "If I ever did," he replied, meaning more by his words than she could know," I am so bitterly punished for my impertinence and presumption, that perhaps you could pardon me."
               She was touched by the humility with which he spoke, and held out her hand frankly, saying,
               "Then I will forget your look of horror, and you shall forget my madcap freak; it was not like me indeed, and I would rather tell you how it happened."
               So she related the incident, and they could both laugh now. Then he thought, if that other mystery might be cleared up; he put the idea out of his mind, and reproached himself for its intrusion.
               "It only shows what a deep meaning there is in the slightest events of our lives," he said. "If what we should have called chance had not made you take the part you did in those school-girl histrionics, you would have been powerless, last night, and I should be—who knows where?"
               "Don't think so seriously about it," she urged; "you will make me quite nervous every time you go up to that wild place."
               Some unwise question as to whether she would really care, was on his lips, but he cheeked it.
               "We'll not think about it," he said, "but you will let me remember that you were permitted to save me."
               "It would frighten my mother so," she went on, "and every body would talk so much about it—do forget it altogether."
               "That makes a mystery between you and me," he answered, in a tone so different from his usual voice, that he feared she would suspect the secret with which he had no mind to trouble her then, so he added more gayly: "I'll not tell if I can help it; but your mother shall not be alarmed, or you teased by praises."
               "Thank you," she said wearily.
               "Are you wise to sit up?" he asked anxiously.
               "Oh, there is nothing the matter! If mamma came home and found me in bed, she would make me swallow the whole contents of her dreadful homœopathic box, and have three doctors called into the bargain. But I suppose you want your tea, or dinner; let us hope Nora has condescended to get it for you, since you have had none."
               "I am not hungry; we will wait for Mrs. Dane, Sit still, please; if I trouble you I will go away."
               "Not a bit, but I am very stupid and lazy."
               "Those are not just the words I should have used," he said, looking at her, and thinking how day by day new charms in her face had grown perceptible to him, until now it seemed the loveliest that his eyes ever rested on. Be quiet; rest; you have need."
               "Sir Rohan was not hurt in any way, I hope?"
               "Not he, Jupe came to me this morning in great distress of mind, impressed with the belief that the horse had been ridden by witches in the night."
               They both laughed, but Margaret began to shudder.
               "Oh, it was dreadful!" she murmured, closing her eyes. "I thought I should never be ready—never get off."
               "And I think, and am proud to think, of all you did for me. You saved my life; let me say the words once more, for they are very sweet to me."
               She said something faintly, in disparagement of so strong a statement, but he hurried on more earnestly,
               "All my life long that memory will be the dearest that my heart can carry with it; I beg you to believe that. Believe, too, that no woman was ever more deeply honored than I honor you. I am cold and shy perhaps, but never think I can cease to be glad—how glad you will never know—that I owe this debt to you; and remember that now, to-morrow, years hence, I would at any moment give my right hand to serve you; not in payment of the debt—it is impossible to pay that, and I am proud to be your debtor if payment were in my power—but to show my gratitude."
               He had not meant to say so much or to say it in that voice of deep emotion, but he could not check himself; it was a slight relief to the secret which panted in his heart for utterance like a living thing.
               It was not a perception of the truth that startled Margaret, but a vague trouble made her shrink under his eyes; and as the sound of wheels struck upon her ear at the instant, she called out with an incomprehensible sensation of relief, repeating the words with unfitting energy,
               "My mother has come! my mother has come!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE QUIET INVADED.
               MRS. DANE occupied the attention of the whole household for the rest of the evening, sorely disturbed by fears that she might at any moment discover she had done herself some irreparable injury by her journey, full of wonder at her own prowess, as minute in her descriptions of every thing connected with her expedition as if returned in safety from that trip to the North Pole, on which, as before remarked, she might have been supposed starting when she left, and she was as exultant as though she had discovered the apocryphal North-West passage and a whole continent beyond, and set the question at rest forever.
               
               The black god Jupiter, who looked so much like a heathen idol that if he had been in Hindostan devout pagans would certainly have taken him for one of their hideous wooden images wakened into life by their prayers, was in a state of excitement which proved fatal in its consequences to every thing he touched. He upset buckets of water, fed the house-dog with oats and the chickens with bones, stumbled against the kitchen furniture, and finally drew Nora's fiercest wrath upon his head by overturning himself and a pail of milk, dragging a clothes-horse with him in his fall, and lying there in helpless wretchedness, while the infuriated Nora beat him with a shovel, and Miss Maguire did painful hysterics in the corner, in imitation of her betters.
               Jupe was so fully impressed with an idea the witches had ridden Sir Rohan, that he believed himself haunted, and expected at any moment to be pinioned and carried off by a legion of spectres. The nearer bed-time it got, the more frightened he grew, and the more horrible lies he told, alarming Miss Maguire as much as he did himself by the recital, until she was convinced that she had heard strange noises during the previous night, and screeched like a cat-owl on the slightest provocation.
               Between the pair, Nora was driven into one of her most appalling rages, and showered torrents of invective upon their heads; winding up by boxing Miss Maguire's ears, attacking Jupe with the poker to drive him off to bed, and settling in his mind that she was the queen of witches herself. He managed to infect Miss Maguire with his fears, and all night long, in their respective chambers, the pair gurgled and moaned and howled in dreadful nightmares; and Nora at intervals rushed from one room to the other, arrayed in a short yellow flannel petticoat, and beat upon their heads with the bottom of a brass candlestick, and invented so many new expressions of scorn and passion, that, if she had been inclined to literary pursuits, and could have spelled the remarkable polysyllables, she might have composed a dictionary as large as Webster's Unabridged.
               From that time forth, Jupe and Miss Maguire added this dread to the deep hatred which had already existed in their minds against the despotic ruler of the kitchen, and held long conversations at every convenient opportunity concerning her diabolical powers, and ascribed every mishap that befell them, or any body or thing in the house, to her influence. Nora overheard one of their whispered talks and was mightily elated thereat, and employed their fears to bring them under more abject sway, till at last they would tremble if she held up her finger; and walking in an eccentric circle about the table, mattering inaudibly, would cause them both to flee, as from the presence of the fiend.
               "It's a beautiful remedy," Nora confided to Miss Dane; "I get more worruk out of thim in an hour, than I could in a wake; and it's a savin' in broomsticks too, for, bedad, I had to break a fresh one ivry two days over that yellow divil's head; and now, av I just lift my hand, and say, awful-like, gorryomander, or some other word wid no manin', he'll skip like the king of fleas."
               The party from Orchard Hill returned that evening, and Gay sent a little note over, asking Margaret and Mr. Prescott to come and be told how much they missed them both during that pleasant excursion; but of course Margaret could not leave her mother, and Prescott was in no mood for society.
               It was just as well that they stayed at home. Gay had scribbled her invitation as soon as they reached the house; before the answer arrived, she read the letters which had come during her absence, and was past being civil to any body. The first she opened were of no more consequence than most people's letters are, but she reached one from Athenäis Schuyler, which she had reserved for the last, saying to Seaton as she opened it,
               "Here's a volume from the Prophetess."
               "Read me bits of it," he urged; "her epistles are always marvellous."
               Gay began to read. He saw a flush come over her face; she glanced angrily down the page, crumpled the letter in her hands as if she would have torn it, then recollecting herself, attempted to laugh.
               "Don't ill-treat the sybilline leaves," said Seaton.
               "She is evidently more prophetic than usual," returned Gay; "I'll leave her warnings till bed-time, for I own she does make me too ill-natured to be endurable."
               She read the letter later, while Seaton was smoking on the lawn, and found enough in the rambling production to justify her first feeling of anger. Athenäis had learned from Crœsus of his failure; she had heard, too, that Seaton was in the valley; but that was not all, nor the worst—she was about to descend upon them in the fullness of her might.
               "I shall come," she wrote; "I shall do my duty by the daughter of my dead relative, little as you deserve such a sacrifice at my hands. I have loved you, Agatha; I am of a sensitive nature, and the ties of kindred are beautiful as the gardens of Babylon in my eyes; and though you have wounded me in the deepest springs of being, I shall not leave you to follow unwarned the dangerous path upon which you seem determined to tread."
               "You do not want me—unnatural girl! The roses of sentiment never hung their verdure about your icy heart; but I shall come. You know what I leave, how I relinquish society—and never in all my career of adoration have I met with such regal triumphs as of late—for your sake willing to bury myself in that desert of Sahara in the pursuit of duty. You will say to your Mrs. Moss or Floss, or whatever the odious creature's common name may be, that she must receive me. I require little for my comfort; I must even deprive myself of Felicie's assistance—but I shall do it. If the hardships ruin my health, never strong at the best, I shall die with the watchword of my life upon my lips—duty, duty, and what your conscience will be, Agatha Van Kortland, I tremble to think.
               "You have refused Mr. Morrison after encouraging him as you did—wicked, cold-hearted girl! More than that, Noel Seaton is near you—ay, shudder at the discovery of your treachery—you see I know all—all, Agatha! It is vain to seek long to deceive my penetration, which at times is startling even to myself, it seems so like the spirit of prophecy. Another victim added to your list of broken hearts—(I have them, but not willingly)—and you now, against all my expostulations, allowing that dissipated Seaton near you—but that is not the worst.
               "What mystery overhangs you, Agatha! Twice a stranger has presented himself at the house during my absence to ask questions concerning you—a wild, haggard man, who alarmed the faithful woman in charge, who laughed sardonically as he stood peering about the entrance-hall. Whence comes he? what connection can he have with your life? By what right do mysterious strangers intrude into the sanctuary of my dwelling to fright my adherents by glances of menace, while they make incomprehensible interrogatories in regard to you? You who are linked to me by ties of blood—the noble blood that coursed in knightly veins across seas, and which might inspire you with a pride that should keep your life as much aloof from such contamination as if you trod the royal palaces of Damascus, where I have not the least doubt our ancestors ruled; for a most charming old gentleman, whom I met at Saratoga, assured me it could be proved that the prefix of Van to our family name was originally an Eastern sign of royalty, and that ages since, perhaps at the building of the tower of Babel, they wandered to European shores.
               "Think of it, Agatha! Semiramis herself may have been your ancestress—with what delight I shall see the opera! Sardanapalus may have held his golden goblet, foaming with purple wine, in a hand shaped like mine—you know how peculiar my hand is! I am sure it accounts for the mysterious inspirations I have had from a child; and who knows—I have been reading a strange French book, in which the sublime old doctrine of the transmigration of souls is so beautifully renewed—who knows, I say, the spirit of Boadicea (though it may not be she I mean—I think she belonged to another family) may animate the Roman sternness with which I ever unfalteringly tread the path of duty and clasp its breastplate about my heart. Be warned, Agatha, be worthy! Write the name of Artaxerxes on your soul, and be true to your lofty lineage, that rolls like a gorgeous thunder tempest down the mighty pyramid of the overhanging Past."
               Nearly a score of lavender-tinted pages, crossed and recrossed with violet ink, of similar rebukes, metaphorical confusions, and nonsense generally, and Gay was more annoyed and puzzled than her cousin's epistles often left her. She was sorry that poor Crœsus's secret was in Athenäis's hands, for she knew the story of his disappointment would be told far and near, and probably he would blame her for having exposed it. Who or what the mysterious stranger could be she had no idea—probably somebody's foreign servant; but she was too well acquainted with the Prophetess not to be certain that she would relate some marvellous tale to Mrs. Hylaper and the rest of the tabbies, which would afford them food for gossip during the next winter. Still she could not help laughing—except at the thought of Athenäis's arrival; that was no laughing matter, and must be prevented if possible, so she went down stairs to tell her friends what awaited them, and consult upon some means of warding off the infliction.
               "I am sure you went away to read the Prophetess's letter by yourself," Seaton said, as she appeared. "She wrote something that vexed you more than her letters usually do—she always has rather a rasping effect upon one, I think."
               "She has distinguished herself this time," Gay answered. "She means to come here."
               "Come here!" repeated Seaton in horror.
               "Yes," said Gay; "at once. I don't know what to do or say, Mrs. Ross—come she will. If I were you, I would tell her flatly that I did not take lodgers, and could not receive her."
               "Nonsense!" replied the cheerful Clytemnestra. "Let her come! I shall not be a bit afraid of her; she'll be great fun, from your description of her. There are rooms enough she can have, and there's generally something eatable on the table."
               "Very well; it is not my fault, you remember," said Gay.
               "I never heard any thing so utterly horrible in my life," exclaimed Seaton. "For heaven's sake, Clytemnestra, send her word you'll see her—blessed, before you'll take her on any terms."
               But Clytemnestra rather enjoyed his discomfiture, and looked forward to watching Athenäis's airs and graces with extreme amusement.
               "Can't be uncivil or inhospitable," said she; "besides, the lady's one of Gay's relations. Love me, love my cousins!"
               "I wish there was no such word." exclaimed Gay, petulantly. "Well, there's one comfort; Athenäis will be perfectly wretched in this quiet place."
               "If my best wishes and efforts can help to make her so, she shall," said Seaton with virtuous determination. "Can't we get her into a coal-pit and lose her?"
               "Don't be selfish," cried Mrs. Ross, highly amused at their annoyance. "How she will nag you, Mr. Seaton—it will be like a hair shirt to your nerves! And how shocked she will be at every thing, from Dan Simmons down—I am sure I shall enjoy it immensely."
               "She doesn't know the Prophetess, Miss Van Kortland," said Noel.
               
               There was still the hope that Athenäis, the most changeable of women, might have altered her mind before her letter was fairly out of the house, and concluded to inflict her presence in some other quarter. But Gay would have had less hope of that if she had known how sorely Athenäis missed her daily and hourly. It was not altogether owing to the overflowing wealth of affection which the fair Prophetess announced was in her breast for such happy objects as succeeded in winning her regard, but, in truth, Athenäis found the watering-places very dull without Gay. Athenäis had once been a beauty and a reigning belle, and had grown so accustomed to feeding on adulation, that she starved on the meagre diet of attention which falls to the lot of women who have no attraction but their beauty, after that charm has faded. When Athenäis found herself past forty and very fat, she felt that Providence has been cruel to her in not making the wheels at time stand still, and giving her sufficient  resolution to ever-come her weakness for delicate suppers and courage to essay thoroughly the benefits of Mr. Banting's wonderful system.
               But while Gay was with her she suffered much less from the decadence of her empire. Men worshipped Gay, and were always about her in such swarms that Athenäis came in for a fair show of devotion, and was able to delude herself into the belief that it was on her own account; even to fancy sometimes that her young relative was jealous of her success. It made the solitary summer very doleful to her, for as soon as it was discovered that Miss Van Kortland was not in her company and not likely to appear, all the men whom she would have cared to attract neglected her as ruthlessly as they did any of the other elderly cats who exhibited their backs and bosoms in Saratoga ball-rooms, and were not of sufficient importance as givers of dinners or balls to make their favorable verdict of much consequence.
               Athenäis found herself reduced to the society of bald-headed men, and she liked young ones; or more wretched purgatory yet, to the society of mottled dowagers; and if Athenäis was compelled to submit to feminine company, she longed for girls who would talk about their love affairs and affect a decent amount of faith in her own personal accounts of triumphs won in the past or still shedding their lustre about her way. She departed from Saratoga in haste and disgust and went off to Newport, only to find herself more neglected, and not able to blind her eyes to the fact that to appear in a bathing-dress had become out of the question—for her, who formerly had been compared in that attire to Venus rising from the waves, and a great many other mythical and improper persons.
               She fled back to town, but town was empty, it being scarcely the first of September yet; and Athenäis would certainly have gone mad in her despair or fallen away to a skeleton, if the old Gorgon that watched the house had not told her of the mysterious man who had been twice to try and find out something in regard to Miss Van Kortland's whereabouts. The very same day she learned that Seaton was in the neighborhood with Gay. Feeling herself duped and ill-treated in every direction, she wrote her overwhelming epistle to her relative, and never wavered in her determination of following it, as she was confident that those two young people by whom she considered herself so deeply injured, would be certain to have some pleasant excitement going on all the while, however retired the place might be.
               The next day but one, Athenäis drove up to Orchard Hill, having arrived by the afternoon train, and as the day was hot and Athenäis tired and cross, she managed to burst into a flood of tears as Gay came out on the veranda to meet her. She looked broader and thicker than ever in a short dress and round hat; in fact, so much resembling Brobdignag dressed up for a school-girl, that Mrs. Ross, watching her through the blinds, was greatly amused.
               "O, you cruel, c-ru-el girl!" sobbed Athenäis; "how could you desert me? how could you make me so anxious?"
               "But you are here, so you need not be anxious any longer," returned Gay, unwinding the huge arms from her neck, which gave her a sense of suffocation not agreeable on a warm day. "The driver is waiting to be paid—business first, always, my dear."
               "Where's my portemonnaie?" moaned Athenäis. "Lost, I dare say—no, here it is! I wonder I ever got here alive—what I have suffered! The trunks are coming—the man could not bring them on the carriage, he said."
               "Trunks!" repeated Gay.
               "You didn't expect me to come without any clothes to wear?" exclaimed Athenäis, sharply. "O, there's the wagon—let me see if the trunks are all safe. Yes, there's the canvas-covered one, and the black one, and the russet-colored—but the hat-box—oh, where is the hat-box? ah, I see it! And the champagne basket with a few trifles in I thought I might bring to keep from starvation."
               All the articles she had enumerated proved to be in the wagon, and several boxes besides, and as each of the trunks was like an ark, the hauling them down was a work of time. So Gay led her into the house, and as soon as they reached the room where Mrs. Ross was waiting, Athenäis flung her arms about Gay's neck again, and, like Isaac, wept aloud.
               "C-ru-el girl!" she repeated. "Ah, my dear, my foolish, foolish, sensitive heart—I could not live without you longer! Say you are glad to see me—say it, or I shall fall senseless at your feet!"
               "You smother me so I can't say any thing," replied Gay, struggling out of her embrace. "There, sit down and rest; you must be fired. Athenäis, here is Mrs. Ross. Mrs. Schuyler, Nestra."
               "Oh, oh," sobbed Athenäis. "How do you do. I'm very glad, I'm sure—acquaintance—but I am so overcome—you'll excuse me, good Mrs. Floss—Moss—I beg pardon."
               "How do you do, Mrs. Schooley," returned Clytemnestra. "I'm very glad to see you, and will try to make you comfortable while you stay with us."
               "Schuyler is my name," exclaimed the over-blown beauty in horror; "Athenäis Van Kortland Schuyler."
               "And mine is Ross," replied her hostess, "so we'll each try to remember, hereafter;" and in her soul, though she was an idiot, Athenäis felt that she should be forced to restrain her insolence within the bounds of decency.
               She sat down languidly in a chair and fanned herself, saying,
               "I suppose my cousin made arrangements for my staying in your house for a time, Mrs.—Ross?"
               "She told me that you had written you were coming to visit her, Mrs.—Schuyler," replied Clytemnestra.
               "And—and—really, Gay, it is very c-ru-el of you not to assist me!"
               "What do you want done?" asked Gay.
               "About the—the—return—the emolument—the terms—"
               "Ah," interrupted Mrs. Ross, "I understand. I am very happy to see you; I hope you will stay as long as you find it convenient; but I do not take lodgers, Mrs. Schuyler; please don't mention that matter again."
               In her secret, sensitive heart, Athenäis was delighted, for she was terribly miserly in spite of her extravagance, but she felt it necessary to make some feeble expostulation, which was disregarded by both her hearers.
               "They have carried your trunks up stairs," Mrs. Ross said; "shall we show you your rooms? Gay told me you were coming without your maid, so I have procured a girl who I hope will be able to do tolerably well for you."
               "Such kindness, such attention, my dear lady!" exclaimed Athenäis, putting her hand-kerchief to her eyes. "Ah, Mrs. Ross, you are all soul—I see it in your face. I am so much obliged—I could not venture to bring Felicie—she would have rebelled! But you will find me no trouble; I believe fully in that lovely line of Pope's—'Man wants but little here below."
               "He wisely says nothing about women, though," returned Mrs. Ross.
               "Such spirits!" said Athenäis, with an affected little laugh. "Gay told me how quaint and original you were—I was quite dying to make your acquaintance—and to be received in this delightfully hospitable way—really, I can not express my thanks."
               "We'll take them for granted, as we have to most people's religion," said Mrs. Ross. "This way—odd old barrack, isn't it?"
               Athenäis was in ecstasies with the house and its owner, and praised her apartment greatly—asking for another easy-chair, a footstool, more vases to hold flowers, and extra blankets, before she had been in the room ten minutes; and Mrs. Ross, making a sign to Gay to restrain the anger visible in her face, promised that every thing Mrs. Schuyler could desire should be provided.
               "You dear, dear creature—really I must kiss you—I must indeed," cried Athenäis, skipping up with a girlish laugh to bestow the salute over which Mrs. Ross made a wry face as if it had been physic. "We shall be like sisters—I see the likeness at a glance."
               Mrs. Ross looked at Athenäis and at herself, as if wondering where the resemblance between them began, with a gravity that made Gay turn away her head.
               "Sisters in our souls," pursued Athenäis.
               "O yes, in our souls, to be sure," repeated Mrs. Ross, in the tone of one astonished at her own stupidity. "Now you and Gay would like to talk; I'll go and send Elfreda to you—that is the name of your handmaiden."
               "Elfreda—how sweetly, sweetly pastoral!" cried Athenäis. "I dote on pretty names. Dear Mrs. Ross, I am like a child in my enthusiasm and my impulsiveness; I may as well admit it, for you would find me out—ask Gay, Gay knows. Ah, c-ru-el girl, to leave me pining like the last rose of summer!"
               That was a metaphor so unlucky that Mrs. Ross vanished with the rapidity of a ghost, and went down stairs laughing to herself, satisfied that the Prophetess would afford her amusement enough to compensate for any trouble she might cause.
               The moment the door closed behind their hostess, Athenäis burst into voluble praises of her worth, having, from the circumstances of her reception, received one of her favorable impressions, which were usually as short-lived as they were violent, for the fair Prophetess had a wonderful faculty of discovering the faults her acquaintances possessed. She had no bitterness on account of it—no, no, heaven forbid! she pitied them sincerely, but she could not be blind; her sensitive nature, alas, was gifted with a penetration that made her see the painful truth in spite of all her efforts to shut her eyes. But just now she beheld every thing of the brightest rose-color where Mrs. Ross was concerned, and respected her the more, after the habit of tyrants, because she felt that no insolence would be tolerated.
               "What a delightful creature!" exclaimed Athenäis; "so quaint, so näive, so original, and yet a lady, my dear—good old blood in her veins, I am sure."
               "Mrs. Ross is the kindest woman I ever knew," replied Gay rather shortly, for she found it difficult to bear with her relative's affectations and gushing enthusiasm just then. "I am glad that you appreciate her; you seemed in your letter to mistake her position, I thought."
               "All your fault," returned Athenäis with her girlish giggle, which was more distasteful to Gay than her sharpest notes of complaint; "you are so horribly reticent and secretive, and never tell me who people are."
               "Perhaps you are somewhat forgetful occasionally," said Gay; and the ominous calmness of her voice brought a shower of apologies from Athenäis, who was anxious to keep the peace, and a little afraid that Gay might resent her coming.
               "I have no doubt, dearest—indeed, I know it is so; I am the most forgetful, heedless creature on earth. But you know my heart—that is always in the right place, always overflowing with love and—and all the sentiments of poetry, for you, Gay."
               She fondled Gay's hand, but though Gay submitted to the caress she was more unresponsive than Athenäis could have wished in her present gushing mood.
               "Dear girl," she said, "how well you are looking—positively handsome; oh, retirement and nature and all their train are so elevating to the soul! But don't be cold to me—don't make me fear that you are sorry I have come! I did so pine for you—absolutely I could neither eat nor sleep—I am so very, very fond of you, Gay."
               "And I hope you will enjoy a visit here—for a little time," replied the immovable Gay, ignoring the tender part of her speech. "It is exceedingly quiet, but you will be made comfortable, and I dare say a little rest will be good for you."
               "I long for it," cried Athenäis, "am dying for it! Of course I shall be comfortable—I am so fond of nature and—and—all her train," she added hurriedly, after hunting about for a fresh simile, which, declining to be caught, obliged her to employ her overtaxed expression of all work. "I have so few wants—you know I am easier pleased than any creature living; now, you, Gay, nearly perfect as you are, dear, are a little difficult, but I am always content—always! My stately papa used to remark it of me when I was a child; so different, he said, from my brothers and sisters. 'Athenäis,' he used to say, 'is like an angel—not only in her complexion, but in her entire freedom from poor human nature's wants.' His very expression, my dear—it is so sweet to remember it."
               Gay had no reply to make; she was busy wondering whether Athenäis's folly really increased, like her affectations, with her size, or whether it was only because they had been separated for a time that she seemed a more hopeless idiot than ever.
               "And that delightful creature, Noel Seaton, is here," pursued the Prophetess with her assumption of the playfulness of sixteen; "dear, dangerous darling that he is!"
               "Mr. Seaton is staying in the village," Gay answered, quietly.
               "And you never wrote me that he was here, wicked one!" said Athenäis. "But I find out your pretty secrets—a little bird whispers them to me—my loving solicitude is not to be deceived."
               "I had no wish to deceive you, pray believe," said Gay indignantly. "I did not mention the fact in my letters because I knew you would burst into one of your tirades, which I have so often told you are perfectly uncalled for."
               "I am sure of it, dear—entirely convinced! He is the most fascinating of men, but so unsettled—like a bee, you know, that roves from bud to flower—it would be so unwise in a worldly point of view—"
               "Yes, I know; you have told me that a great many times."
               "Don't be sharp with me, Gay—remember my sensitive nature! My dear love, if I have ever been anxious, surely you can excuse it, knowing as you do that it springs out of my tenderness for you."
               "But when I tell you it is uncalled for!"
               "Certainly, certainly—and, I say that I am convinced—oh, settled, as it were, upon a rock, Gay, for you are so firm! But I have been anxious—I shall not deny it; all my foolish sensitiveness, no doubt; but, my love, I did not make my fine-strung nature any more than I made my complexion."
               Athenäis seldom got through more than three consecutive sentences without presenting her complexion for observation, and it really was marvellous still; so out of keeping with her ponderous weight, that it struck one with surprise, as it might to see a flounder with blue eyes, or a turbot with a baby's skin.
               "I was so alarmed when Mrs. Totten told me about that mysterious stranger who called twice to ask for you!"
               "What was there so peculiar about him?" asked Gay, doing a little pretense of interest. She had arrived at a solution of the mystery through Seaton's assistance, but felt inclined to punish Athenäis for her impertinence. "You seemed in a dreadful state of excitement over him; what was there so remarkable about the man?"
               "Every thing, my dear! From Totten's description, he must have looked like a cross between a Mexican bandit and Lester Wallack in the Stranger—so pale, so haggard, with eyes that fairly burned what they looked upon."
               "The Gorgon must have grown poetical, if that was her description," returned Gay scornfully.
               "I did not say that it was her language," retorted Athenäis, less sweetly; "it is not to be expected that I could repeat the common words of common creatures."
               "Very well, put it in hexameters if you like; but tell me who he was and what he wanted."
               "My dear, I know no more than if he were the shade of Julius Cæsar. He gave no name; his voice was hollow and savage; he frowned blackly at poor Totten, and seemed to threaten her with his glance, when she told him that she could not say where you were."
               "She did say that?"
               "Yes, I had bidden her, for fear you should be bored by people," replied Athenäis with some hesitation, for she knew that Gay would understand stand her prohibition had been intended for Seaton's benefit.
               "Then he went off?" Gay asked, busying herself with the alteration of a vase of flowers to hide the laughter which she could not longer restrain.
               "Yes; but he came the second time, and was more awful and mysterious than ever. Totten threatened him with the police if he did not keep away."
               "Totten was very courageous and thoughtful," returned Gay, serious as a picture of meditation. "Dear me! Näis, I wonder you were not afraid to leave your house again, after an adventure so dark and inexplicable."
               "How wicked of you to frighten me, Gay, when you know how nervous I am—how far from strong! Now I shall not be able to sleep, for fancying that the house is in flames and poor Totten murdered."
               "I think you may trust to the watchman, my dear, and if I were you, I would not make myself absurd by talking any more about the matter."
               Athenäis dropped the subject, partly because she was afraid of making Gay angry, partly because she was struck by a new thought of interest; and the story would keep till some time when there was a chance of annoying Gay by its mention—punishing her for some evil conduct, Athenäis would have said—for she was in the habit, like most people, of putting her ill-nature down to the score of duty and making a merit of it.
               "Why doesn't that girl come to unlock my boxes?" said she. And Gay—it means nothing, that delightfully bad Seaton's being here? Frankness, now—you know my motto."
               "He came on business and did not dream of seeing me, I do assure you. Let me set your mind at rest, and remember this is final—I do not choose ever to hear the subject mentioned again;" and Gay stood before her companion looking rather pale and stern, and her voice had a cold, measured tone, which struck strangely even upon Athenäis's heedless ears. "I do not mean to marry Mr. Seaton; I never shall marry him; we are friends—no more. I will not permit my friendship for him to be made a source of annoyance, recollect that."
               "Yes, yes," replied Athenäis, nervously. "You are always the wisest, the most prudent girl! He is a lovely creature; but, Gay, you must have millions—millions! O my dear, the colonel has purchased old Mrs. Forrest's house and is transforming it into a perfect palace."
               "Elfreda is coming," said Gay; "get your things unpacked and rest; I will send you up some luncheon."
               She went out of the room, meeting Elfreda in the passage armed with a tray of eatables, and turned towards her own chamber, not feeling equal to more of Athenäis's society at this time. A message came that Mr. Scaton was below, but she heard Athenäis descend at the moment, and maliciously left him to her tender mercies till the tea-bell rang.
               Athenäis, in an India muslin dress over blue silk, with no waist to mention and not even a suspicion of sleeves, was a sight to make a man wonder. By way of preserving the elegant simplicity on which she prided herself in the country, she wore natural flowers in her hair, and Seaton mentally compared her to an enormous white fungus, on the top of which some blossoms had accidentally taken root.
               Athenäis was in her highest spirits, and did sixteen with all her might for the envy of Margaret, who had come up, and to subjugate Mr. Prescott who accompanied her; but he was too much preoccupied to derive the amusement which the others did from the Prophetess's girlish chatter and affectations.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE RED NOTE-BOOK.
               WHILE Mr. Prescott had been sitting alone in his private office that afternoon, one of the clerks came in to say that Mrs. Gallagher wished to speak with him for a moment, if he was at leisure.
               "Jest a minit, you picturful cretur," called Aunt Hilda, through the half open door; "I wouldn't interrupt your financiering for the world, you may depend."
               "Come in, Mrs. Gallagher; I am glad to see you," said Prescott, rising to receive her, and offering her a chair, with a courtesy which the shrewd old woman thoroughly appreciated.
               "Abelard Straight couldn't have done it in that style—no, not if I had been a duchess," said she, in a meditative tone, quite unconscious that she was speaking aloud.
               "I haven't seen you for some days," pursued Prescott; "you look in an admirable state of preservation."
               "I am salubrious," replied Aunt Hilda, "balmy's the word, I think—leaving out the tobacco. I run in yesterday—no, the day afore, but they said you were up to the Gorge—and they tried to rob you. Oh, the wretches in this world!"
               "But they did not succeed; never mind that."
               "I do mind it," returned Aunt Hilda, "and powerful glad I am, for you're one of my favorights"—the only mode of spelling which will serve as a guide to the pronunciation of that word among the Pennamites. "But that ain't what brought me, though I'd have come for joy indeed; but I've got something on my mind."
               Aunt Hilda pointed one finger mysteriously at him, and laid her right hand on her stomach—from habit—not because she intended to imply that there was a weight in that direction.
               "Can I do any thing for you?" Prescott asked. "You know I shall be willing and glad."
               
               "I do," said she; "you've a heart of gold—you wouldn't try to run a Presbyterian fence acrost the end of a lone woman's patch, as time and agin I've said. But this is what it is; I kind o' want advice, and you can give it like a copy-book."
               "Well?" asked Prescott, as she stopped and felt the end of her nose to be certain that her pet decoration was safe, blinking her eyes, and shaking her head wisely.
               "Yes," said Aunt Hilda. "You see I wouldn't trouble them dear creturs—picturs both on 'em in their separate ways—up at your house, for nothin'; so I says to myself I'd bring it right straight to you, because it would only sort of harry up their feelings to be reminded of all their griefs! Such a jewel as he was, name and all!—Arthur Delancy Dane—poetry, ain't it?"
               "You have something to say in reference to my old friend?" Prescott asked, in surprise.
               "That's it! Bless me, I hain't told, after all; I'm such a blunderhead! You see it ain't perhaps of importance, what I've found, but I thought you'd better have it, 'cause the sight of his writin' would only be a fresh grief like, and you may take my word I didn't read only just to see if it couldn't go for fire-lighters."
               "You have in some way found some writing of Mr. Dane's?" he asked.
               "Right in the tail-pocket; a little book, you know. You see I've ben a gettin' ready to make a rag carpet, and I was saying to Miss Dane the other day, I'd a'most woollen stuff enough for the filling, and she says—the thoughtful cretur—to Margaret to go into a closet and hunt up some old clothes of Mr. Dane's. 'They're no use now,' says she, so patient like, 'and if they can be of any good to you, Aunt Hilda, why take them and welcome!' So Margaret pulled down the things and I rolled them up in a bundle—broadcloth makes such a pretty carpet—and home I went. It was early this week I got at 'em to cut 'em up, and right in the pocket of an old swallow-tailed cont I come on this book."
               She took from her satchel a small package carefully folded in brown paper and laid it on the table.
               "There it is," said she, "and as for readin' of it reg'lar I haint, and nobody but a banker could make out all the figgers; but as it was private memorandums, why you'll know if they're any good, or can just be burnt without disturbing them sweet souls."
               "I am very much obliged to you," returned Prescott warmly; "you have acted with your usual kindness and good sense."
               "Sir to you," cried Aunt Hilda with delight. "Jamdudum splendet focus, for you're a gentleman and a scholar, and I've no doubt poetry would have come as easy to you as figgers, if you'd turned your mind to it."
               Prescott undid the package, glanced over the leaves of the little worn morocco book, and shrewd Aunt Hilda saw his face change slightly, but she rubbed her nose and took no notice.
               "Only old business notes and references; no need to trouble Mrs. Dane with it," he said, laying the volume on the table.
               "Good," said Aunt Hilda, "you're the judge, and competent you are! My mind's at rest; don't even understand what I read; and if I had, I know how to hold my tongue."
               "I am sure of that, Mrs. Gallagher."
               "And I love that picturful cretur of a Margaret! A jewel? why she's a gem, and her price is above rubies. I've been afeared there was a leetle sumthin' on Miss Dane's mind more'n affliction even, but mebby it's only her nerves; it ain't money, I guess, for I know she's comfortable herself, and jist after Mr. Dane died, they got a package by express one day when I was there."
               "Indeed!" exclaimed Mr. Prescott, while a sudden light broke over his face.
               "Yes; Miss Dane she was a lying on the sofia, so Margaret signed the receipt. I see the packet opened, and there was five hundred dollars in it, good greenbacks, and a letter from Miss Dane's cousin, explaining the interest on her stocks was more than usual, and glad I was."
               "This was soon after Mr. Dane's death?" inquired Prescott, trying to speak calmly.
               "Very soon—why, I know; it was my birthday—the 20th of March, to be sure."
               The very date that had been on the receipt-book of the Express Company followed by Margaret's signature. There was no other money receipt after Mr. Dane's death, and though he had long since been certain that her part in the matter could be explained, there was a great gladness in his heart.
               "Wal," Aunt Hilda was saying, "I must go hum. Some of these days I'm going to have you all up to my patch to tea—Miss Van Kortland and all—there's a di'mond! And that lovely fellar, Mr. Seaton—he's a fine mind as for talent, but not a bit steady; he always makes me think of that line in the Bible—'Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel!' But good-bye, and thank you! This here, whatever it may be, is of no consequence, and it's between you and me, so no more."
               She pointed to the wart on her nose as if it had been a seal of silence, and took her leave. Prescott took up the little book again, read the scattered pages of writing, sometimes a sort of journal; looked narrowly at the lines of figures, and laying the volume aside, walked slowly up and down the room with a thoughtful air. But his mind soon wandered from its grave preoccupation to Margaret; his features softened and grew bright. Cool, practical man as he was in the ordinary habits of life, he paced back and forth in the dingy office, dreaming his pleasant dream, as completely absorbed therein as if he had been the most visionary-minded enthusiast that ever refused to employ his reason.
               Before he left the room he locked the morrocco-bound book in the most secret drawer of his desk, and then departed, leaving business and its cares behind him, with a satisfaction which had grown upon him of late. Finding that Margaret was ready to go up to the Hill he asked permission to accompany her, for though not in a mood to talk much, it was a great happiness to rest in her society, to look at her, to hear her voice; to be a dreaming goose, as is so delightful after youth has almost gone out, and one has feared that one is never to know the charming madness which ought at some season to gild the commonest life with royal glory.
               They were sent for hastily before the evening was at an end; Mrs. Dane had been taken suddenly ill and Nora dispatched Jupiter to summon them. That heathen god, having been frightened out of what disordered sense he ever possessed by seeing his mistress faint away, rushed up to Orchard Hill, and startled the company by appearing at one of the parlor windows and howling,
               "She's a dyin'—a dyin'! Why don't you done gone come home stret, Miss Maggy, when she's got the collywobbles in her pandenoodle, and that ole witch Nora's a pourin' winegar down her back?"
               Prescott caught him and tried to shake a coherent explanation out of him, but Jupe only bawled the louder,
               "Clean gone in a white faint; collywobbles in her pandenoodle, and ole Nora pourin' winegar down her back!"
               They all consoled Margaret with the idea that it was only one of her stepmother's nervous attacks, and Mrs. Ross accompanied her home in case her assistance should be needed. Margaret was not usually alarmed by Mrs. Dane's illnesses; but she had a strange dread now, for the poor lady had been greatly excited all day. A discussion had occurred between Margaret and herself that morning in regard to a letter, in which Mrs. Dane displayed a wild excitement so unlike her, that Margaret was almost afraid for her reason, and after there followed the dreadful palpitations of the heart which occasionally distressed her.
               When they reached the house Margaret left her companions down stairs and ran up to her mother's room, where she lay on her bed white as the counterpane that covered her, with Nora bathing her forehead and trying to quiet her. At the sound of Margaret's step she started up, crying,
               "Go away, Nora, go away! Quick, Margaret—I must tell you—come here quick!"
               Nora had the good sense to obey without a word, and closing the door behind her, left the pair alone.
               "Mother, what is the matter?" exclaimed Margaret. "Are you in such pain—so much worse?"
               "I am in pain—great pain—here!" laying her hand on her heart. "I never felt to before, and I believe that I am dying; so I must tell you—I must—I never meant to."
               "Tell me what, mother?" asked Margaret, bewildered.
               "About the money—your three thousand dollars; you must give it—you must take it—"
               She struggled violently to finish her sentence, but her laboring breath ended in painful gasps, and Margaret, now so thoroughly alarmed that she was almost as pale as the suffering woman, tried to quiet her with gentle words, and hopelessly ruined any number of the tiny bottles in the homœopathie box, in her efforts to find some of the preparations her mother was in the habit of taking for nervous attacks.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE PACKET RESTORED.
               IT was many moments before Mrs. Dane could speak, or sit up, or lie back on the pillows, or do any thing but stare with her strained eyes and gasp for breath in that convulsion which was like the throes preceding a difficult death.
               Margaret spoke soothingly to her and did her best to be brave and composed; though she had never seen an attack so severe as this, and it was evident that the trouble of mind which the poor woman endured made her bodily pain greater.
               "Don't talk to me about resting," she cried out brokenly, as soon as she could speak. "I couldn't rest in my grave if this was not settled."
               "What, mother? What do you mean?" demanded Margaret, almost inclined to believe that her wits were wandering. "Try and lie still first—let me send for the doctor."
               "I can't lie still! Nora has sent for him. Let me tell you—no medicine could do me any good while I have the dread of dying with this secret untold."
               "Secret, mother?" Margaret repeated.
               "Yes, child—yes! O, shut the door—lock it—don't let any body come to listen—Margaret, Margaret!"
               She flung up her hands in a more terrible paroxysm, the white puny fingers interlaced themselves about some carved ornaments on the headboard and fairly wrenched them off, but the strong determination to tell her story kept her senses from wandering even then.
               "What secret, mother?" questioned Margaret, coming back to the bed. "Whose secret?"
               "His—your father's, your father's;" and she smothered her face in the bed-clothes to drown the sharp cry in which she was conscious the words were uttered; then, exhausted by the effort, she lay back, panting more painfully for breath.
               Margaret drew the sheet away from her head, took the two icy hands in hers, and held them tenderly.
               "Hold them," moaned Mrs. Dane, "hold them fast! Be good to me, Margaret—be patient—I need it."
               "I will! There, I am sitting on the bed close by you; tell me now—what secret about my father?"
               
               "I never meant to have told you; I wouldn't now, but you must give your money—you must; I could neither die nor live unless it were given back."
               "Given back?" said Margaret. "Why, it is my money—my share of Uncle Graham's estate."
               The letter had reached them only that morning from some member of her own mother's family, informing Margaret that her uncle was dead, and that a portion of three thousand dollars had fallen to her and would be paid to her order without delay. As soon as she read it, Mrs. Dane had begun vaguely to tell Margaret that there was a use for it—she must give it up; and it was her incoherence and violence which had startled the girl, while it roused her indignation, and she bad left the room.
               "It is mine, mother," she said; "why should I give it up to people who are all rich and whom I scarcely know?"
               "Not to them—can't you understand? O, if I need not tell you—it isn't my fault! Arthur, Arthur, you won't blame me! You see me—you know that I want to do right," moaned the poor woman, writhing on the bed in increasing torture.
               "I know it too, mother," said Margaret, "only I am all in the dark—I can't think what you mean."
               "Wait—I'll try to tell you clearly. But don't blame me—I don't deserve it; but better that than that you should dare to blame him;" she added, while her voice changed from its shrill weakness to a sterner tone. "Never blame him!"
               "My father? Am I likely to do that?"
               "No, no—you loved him! I loved him too, Margaret—O, you never knew how much! I'm a poor, weak, complaining creature, but I loved him, and I would suffer eternal torture—yes, I would—rather than permit the least stain to rest on his memory."
               "There could be none—not a shadow," exclaimed Margaret in her youthful pride. "You must be out of your mind, mother—"
               "Hush," broke in Mrs. Dane, in a whisper so agonized that it stopped her suddenly, there was such dread in it—such confirmation of the possibility which she had just denied with true filial faith and devotion.
               "Mother!" was all she could utter, in a tone that was strained and unnatural as the voice that had cheeked her. "Mother!"
               "You don't know what men have to endure—how they are tempted," Mrs. Dane continued, holding fast to Margaret's hands, which had grown as icy as hers. "So troubled about us—loving us so—and he speculated. Once or twice he used the company's money, and paid it back—but this time the speculation failed."
               "Go on," whispered Margaret, as her mother paused and turned away her head; "tell me the rest."
               "He had been ailing, don't you know? then that telegram came—he couldn't pay back the three thousand dollars he had meant to keep only a few days. The shock—you know—brought on that fit. Don't you remember how during those three days he used to be trying to tell us something?"
               "Yes—don't, don't!"
               "The night before he died he told me—I was his wife—he wanted you never to know it! If Mr. Prescott found it out I was to say it must be lost, and pay it out of my funds in time—at least that was what I meant to do. I only begged him not to be troubled—it should all be set right—and now I have told you. O, I'm afraid I am wicked!"
               "No, mother, no!" exclaimed Margaret, clasping her in her arms with a stronger feeling of tenderness than she had ever felt for her in all the years they had been together. "God bless you, mother—you're a good, brave woman! We'll pay it—don't shake so—don't be frightened."
               "If you could have seen his grief—his horror—so upright as he had always been! He was nearly distracted with the need of the money—and that came. He only wanted it for three days—he was certain of being able to pay it back."
               She uttered those explanations with a piteous attempt at rapidity, as if seeking to soften the heart of her husband's child.
               "Don't I know, mother? I understand? A legion of angels couldn't make me think ill of my father."
               "Yes, thank God! And I've done right in telling you?"
               "Yes, mother! But has not Mr. Prescott missed the money?"
               "O, at once; he spoke to me that night when I fainted. The next day he came and said I was not to be troubled—he presumed he was mistaken or he had settled it. I was only too glad to let the matter rest till I could pay it little by little."
               "He did not suspect?"
               "No, he thought it had come after Arthur's death. Maybe he thought we had lost it; yes, I am sure he did."
               "But not the truth, he never suspected that?"
               "Never!"
               "I will write to-night—do you hear, mother?" for the poor woman was writhing in fresh torture. "I will get it in large bills—I will put it in one of the express papers and give it to Mr. Prescott. He will think I have just found it. I will speak no lie, but I need not tell him."
               "And it's settled—settled! O, thank God! You don't know how I have suffered, Margaret; it's that has made me so much worse. I fancied Mr. Prescott blamed you, thought you had been careless, and I dared not speak."
               "Poor little mother!" Margaret said gently.
               "I think I could die in peace now—I should not be afraid to meet Arthur."
               "You will be better by morning. The doctor will soon be here; he can give you something to relieve you."
               "I don't know. I couldn't die till I told you this. I—I—"
               She could not finish; it seemed that her last strength had gone with the utterance of her secret. The spasm of pain became more acute—her eyes were set—her breath a horrible groan at intervals.
               Margaret ran to the door and called loudly for Mrs. Ross and Nora, and the three worked over the prostrate body till the doctor arrived, and grave enough he looked. Mrs. Dane was very near the shadow of the dark valley that night, but when morning came, though greatly exhausted, she was free from pain and out of danger.
               As the opiates she had taken began to make their effect felt, she asked them to leave her alone for a little with Margaret, and when the door was closed, she said faintly,
               "I told every thing?"
               "Every thing! Be at rest, mother."
               "Yes, I can now! If I should die, Margaret, remember that I loved you. I know I have been unreasonable and a sad trial, but I loved you, and most of all—I loved him."
               "I know that, mother, and I am sorry that I have so often been thoughtless and impatient."
               "That was natural! A good child, my Margaret—dearer always than my own flesh and blood because you belong to him—don't you know?"
               "Yes, mother," Margaret said, leaning down to kiss her forehead with an outburst of penitent affection such as she had never felt for her in her whole life. "Now try to sleep; the doctor says that if you can rest you will soon be up again."
               "Perhaps—he can't tell," returned she impatiently, for she had, like so many confirmed invalids, an aversion to being told that she was better—not heroic, not in keeping with the pure, ennobling feelings dominant in her heart; but human nature is made up of inconsistencies, and the chains of habit are not easily broken, even if one be capable of self-sacrifice and heroism. Then the smile of relief came softly back to her mouth again, and her voice lost its petulant tone as she added, "But you go and lie down too, Pearl—if I am to get well you must not be ill."
               "There is no danger of that," Margaret replied, smoothing the pillows and putting a handkerchief within her mother's reach. Mrs. Dane always went to sleep with a pocket-handkerchief in her hand, and held fast to it as if it had been a plank to keep her from drowning, and rather prided herself on having the nightmare, if in slumber her fingers relaxed their grasp and lost the treasure. Indeed, at the best of times the visitations of the balmy restorer were somewhat tumultuous matters, and, reversing the natural order, she seemed drowsiest when awake, and most acutely alive when asleep. To watch her preparations for bed, sick or well, had always been a trying thing to Margaret. After she had enveloped herself in a wadded flannel night-gown that might have served for an Esquimaux's great-coat, and tied a speckled handkerchief like a reminiscence of scarlet rash over her ears, the suspected robber had to be searched for in closets, under the bed, and in work-boxes, if she happened to be uncommonly fidgety. Then fire had to be scented—unpleasant odors detected—pastilles burned, and Margaret more aggravated by mild little apologies offered in the midst of querulous complaints.
               But she was too ill this time for such performances; it would have been a relief to Margaret to see her worry skillfully an imperceptible wrinkle in the sheet, or batter the pillow as though it were her mortal enemy, or complain, as she often did, that there was a lump in the bottom mattress—as sensitive as if she had been a lineal descendant of the princess, in the fairy-tale, who felt a pea through sixteen feather beds.
               Very absurd such performances sound in the recital, and very tiresome they are to witness; but if those of us, who are healthy and strong, could comprehend a tithe of the martyrdom suffered by a nervous patient, we might be more charitable. It is not easy to lie still when one feels a nest of ants in the knees, a butterfly buzzing in the left ear, followed by the beating of a drum when the insect stops for an instant's rest; with a back that seems to have three spinal columns all aching at once, and nerves and muscles appear twisted in knots and trying to loosen themselves, wriggling like a heap of angle-worms with needlepoints in their tails. But Mrs. Dane was past such troubles, and she needed to get a stronger hold on life than she had at present before she would be enough out of danger to feel them.
               "Good-bye, Margaret—kiss me once;" and as Margaret bent over her she added, "I have so wanted to ask you, when you looked like him."
               Margaret had always been kind and respectful to her, but demonstrations of affection were rare between them, and now Margaret felt a pang of reproach at the humble entreaty.
               "We shall not misunderstand each other so much hereafter," she said gently.
               "I'll try not to be fretful, Margaret—you'll know I try."
               She had to ask once more if all was clear about the secret she had revealed—to hear another assurance from Margaret that she did not blame her—before she could let her go, and try to obtain the repose which she so much required. Mrs. Ross with her usual kindness intended to spend the day, and sent Margaret off to her room, for she had not slept the whole night. But before she could lie down, she was obliged to write her letter, requesting the relative who acted as the executor of her dead uncle, to send on at once the portion due her, directing the check to be made out in the name of a friend in the county town, so that no suspicion might be aroused in Mr. Prescott's mind.
               A couple of days passed before Mrs. Dane was quite herself again; less nervous and excitable citable than she had been since her husband's death, from the relief of sharing the secret which had haunted her night and day. Mrs. Ross and Aunt Hilda devoted themselves to her in turn, and as she was as unwilling as they, that Margaret should remain shut up in the house and lose the little amusements that Gay and Seaton were constantly devising, the girl found herself able more and more to forget the shock which her stepmother's revelation had caused her.
               She could not reason about the matter; she could only feel that her father had not meant to do any thing wrong; and where this disclosure weakened the monument of pride and devotion to his memory, she wreathed it so abundantly with sympathy and pity that the flaw was completely hidden. The trouble, however, made her more constrained with Mr. Prescott, but though he saw it, and was pained thereby, he was so unvaryingly gentle and kind, that she could not dislike him, as with the charming inconsistency of human nature she would have found it a relief to do.
               Before the week was over, a letter reached her from the executor containing the check, and a drive to Barry, which Seaton proposed one day when Mr. Prescott was unable to accompany them, gave her an opportunity to obtain the money.
               That very night Margaret hunted in the piles of brown papers which Mrs. Dane always preserved, as she did strings and stray hooks and buttons and corkscrews and chisels, and every thing else dilapidated and useless, as if she had been an old raven, and found among the rubbish one of the envelopes in which the treasurer of the company had sent a package of money to her father.
               Margaret made up her packet, and the next morning, as Prescott was leaving the house, she went down into the hall, carrying the, to her, priceless treasure, since it was able to do so good a work, and called to him. He came back, holding out his hand, asking eagerly after her health, his whole face aglow with such pleasure at the sight of her, that the last trace of misplaced resentment yielded, and she felt how unjust and mean it was.
               "Mr. Prescott," she said rapidly, coloring a little, but too much relieved to feel any painful confusion, "there was a package of money missing when you came here—"
               "It is of no consequence," he interrupted. "I suppose your mother has told you; I was cruel to trouble her for a moment."
               "You were right," Margaret answered; "you must have thought me very careless or—" she was going to add, "very wicked," but even in that indirect way she could not reflect upon her father's memory.
               "I had ceased to think about it, believe me," he said.
               "But I have brought it to you," she went on, handing him the package, and trying to smile and speak jestingly. "Take back all your animadversions against feminine heedlessness—we don't lose things; we only put them away so carefully that we forget all about them, and can't find them when they are wanted. Three thousand dollars, you told my mother?"
               Mr. Prescott bowed, looking at her with a pride and admiration to which she was blind.
               "Please see if the amount is correct," she said.
               He broke the seals of the envelope, undid it, and counted the money without a word of expostulation.
               "Quite right,—thank you."
               She must say something; she could not tell a lie; but she must make a last effort to be certain that no shadow of reproach rested on the memory of her dead.
               "I am glad; it might have been the means of your blaming my father for some carelessness."
               "I loved your father," was all the answer he made, but there was such warmth in the simple words that the last ice of Margaret's pride melted. She held out her hand in silence, let him press it between his with a passion of which she did not dream the motive, and returned to her mother's room.
               Prescott went his way; the perusal of the manuscript-book made him certain that this restitution was a sacrifice on her part, for he had heard of her uncle's death, and his heart throbbed with proud exultation at this proof of her nobility and worth.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               THE ANGRY PROPHETESS.
               FOR more than a week Mrs. Schuyler remained in her state of ecstasy over the seclusion of what she termed their "Happy Valley"—an unprecedented period for her changeable nature to approve of any place or any set of people. Every thing and every body was perfection, as she loudly declared numberless times each day; not that she was ever exactly satisfied, in spite of her declarations; but she found no fault in a martyr spirit, so Gay was content, and her own beautiful unconsciousness that she complained in the very midst of her commendation, was amusing to witness. If Seaton proposed a drive in a particular direction, she was invariably enchanted, and in the next breath added, "But the mountain road would be better—oh decidedly! I have such an eye for the picturesque—it needs me to teach you." At the dinner-table she would rave over the delicate dishes Mrs. Ross and her handmaidens prepared with the skill of so many Soyers, but never failed to say, "A little more cayenne would have made it perfect," or, "You should have had a brown sauce to this," or some other little invidious remark to prove her own superiority. Very often Mrs. Ross, for the satisfaction of having a laugh, would consult her in the preparation ration of some dish, and Athenäis always forgot it had been seasoned according to her wishes, and said, "Delightful, dear Mrs. Ross, but you ought to have left out the curry." It was the same with every thing, and one day when she had insisted on going out to drive, though every body assured her it would rain, she nearly lost her temper in the shower which overtook them, and said mournfully, "Ah, Gay, if you would ever take my advice! I told you we should be caught in a storm—heedless, headstrong girl!"
               But the whole party were more amused than annoyed by her peculiarities, and Prescott and Seaton quite sacrificed themselves in order to allow her to consider herself the principal object of interest to them both. In secret she rather suspected Prescott of a real tendresse, and nearly caused Mrs. Ross to expire by confiding to her the fact that she feared she should be the means of giving him a heart-ache.
               "It is ever so," she said sorrowfully, with a coquettish shake of her head, "and I am not a flirt! Ah, why, why, must I carry havoc and desolation to so many noble hearts!"
               She proceeded to give Clytemnestra a lengthy account of all her supposed conquests that summer, and enjoyed her pensively-delivered falsehoods hugely; believed in them, too, as firmly as she believed that she was not in the least changed from the sylph-like beauty she had been at eighteen, in spite of the mountain of flesh that regarded her from the mirror, and the fact that the jewelled armlets which had clasped easily just below her shoulders at that age, could not be induced to meet about her wrists now.
               She appeared in at least six different costumes daily, and there was not an inch of skin on poor Elfreda's thumbs and forefingers, from constant hooking of dresses that fitted like a vice; but the girl was a patient creature, and so overcome by the magnificence, of Athenäis's wardrobe, that she never dreamed of complaining, being learned in the wonderful romances of cheap weeklies, and feeling that she was living a chapter of one in her present experience.
               Athenäis was convinced that the more girlish her attire, the more youthful her form looked, so she wore sheer muslins and waists à l'enfant, and displayed the full breadth of her shoulders freely, and so much of her bust added, that Seaton irreverently remarked to Prescott that she always reminded him of a new conception of Niobe—Niobe in the flush of triumph, with all her nineteen children babes at once, and she prepared to afford nourishment for the whole crowd, as easily as an ordinary woman could for one small infant with an indifferent appetite.
               Pleasant, pleasant days those were; days to be remembered by the whole party; whether to be marked with a white stone of rejoicing, or a funeral cross wreathed with faded garlands, time alone could tell. Gay put by her anxieties resolutely, determined to enjoy the present moment, and Seaton, as usual, flung himself recklessly into the excitement of the time, and never thought at all. Prescott was not a man to lose sight of reason, even in the height of the fever that was upon him; he could not help fearing that Margaret had scarcely learned to regard him as a friend, and he dreaded, too, the influence of Seaton's presence.
               And Margaret—ah, Margaret could not have told what she felt or thought. Day by day the dreamy passion of Seaton's eyes east a deeper glamour over her soul; day by day the possibility of reflection grew weaker, and she floated passively on, giving no name to her feelings, never trying to analyze them, restless as a bird out of his presence, enchained and fascinated by his low tones and magical smiles. He never made love to her—never said a word that could startle her into a guilty thought of treachery towards Gay, though she would have had only her suspicious to cause it. There had been no approach to tender confidences between the girls; they were too refined not to hold such weaknesses of their sex in abhorrence, and Margaret was puzzled by Gay's frank manner, like the rest of the world, and at last almost ready to rest upon the belief that the two were only friends.
               The proceedings of the whole party were considered positively shocking by the potentates of the village whom they snubbed, and a sister of Aunt Hilda's enemy, Mr. Straight, strong in virtue as became a Presbyterian, shook her head over the walks and drives, the picnics, the boating-excursions, and held up her religious hands in horror when Gay and Seaton rode past her windows, running a race, as regardless of her distress as they had been of her strenuous efforts to make their acquaintance. Aunt Hilda used to hear all the gossip, and come up to amuse them by repeating it, vastly proud of being cordially received when her mighty neighbors were coolly ignored, and adoring the whole set, finding a great deal to say in praise of Athenäis's wardrobe, if she could not blind her shrewd senses where the creature's follies were concerned.
               To Margaret's annoyance, and every body else's admiration, through Aunt Hilda the story of the aid she had rendered Mr. Prescott on that dreadful night became known. The Cornish giant told it to Aunt Hilda, for she knew every body, high and low, and she was not likely to keep secret an act of such heroism on the part of her favorite. Of course Mr. Prescott was only too glad to be relieved from his promise of silence, though no allusion that could disturb Margaret was made, and he offered no explanation when Gay triumphed over him because a woman had succeeded in riding the redoubtable Sir Rohan. So Margaret found herself made a heroine of, and had to submit to Athenäis's ponderous embrace and poetical raptures.
               "A second Joan of Arc!" cried she. "You brave, brave girl! Mr. Seaton, if you have the soul of a poet, describe that midnight ride in fitting verse."
               
               But Seaton had no mind to do any thing of the sort, and was quite sulky towards Prescott for several days, though he gave Margaret her full meed of admiration; only looking so sad all the while, that she could not fail to understand he meant her to see that he was wretched because he had not had the happiness of being the man whom she had saved.
               "It is like a novel," exclaimed Athenäis, "only more thrilling and beautiful. How could you have the nerve?—you must be made of iron," and she shivered, to signify that she was personally composed of the finest porcelain, and must evidently have been destroyed by any such Amazonian undertaking. "You dear, brave creature, with your blonde hair—at least it is almost—I declare it is not more than four shades darker than mine, which is said to be golden—I am sure I don't know. So daring—so bold! A horse as horribly wicked as Sir Rohan! O, it was beautiful—not a bit like a woman—oh, not a bit."
               So, planting a sting in the midst of her compliments—from obtuseness, however, not ill-nature—the Prophetess folded her in another embrace, and sank back in her chair with delightful feminine weakness, and begged Mr. Prescott to give her a glass of water, she was so fragile, so easily overcome.
               "The worst thing about her," Gay said afterwards to Margaret, "is that she means well, and I hate well-meaning people worse than I do a fiend incarnate. They always say the most vexations things, and are so horribly impertinent in their interest in you, that I feel as if I could—"
               "Break their backs and stick forks in their eyes," added Mrs. Ross, as Gay paused for a comparison energetic enough to suit the occasion.
               "Thank you," said Gay, "that's delicious! Thank heaven, I never mean well—never did, never will, and if I ever catch myself at it I'll try Clytemnestra's punishment on myself. O. dear, 'Näis doesn't say a word about going; I thought she would have been disgusted in two days."
               "Let her alone," said Mrs. Ross; "think as the man did about his wife beating him—it amuses her and doesn't hurt you. She's a new study of character to me; I shall be able to amuse my boys by mimicking her during vacation. You don't mind having your relations laughed at, Gay?"
               "Not a bit, you goose! O, if she only would consent to see herself as she is, and behave with the decorum proper to a fat woman."
               "Bless you! she doesn't know she's fat. The best thing was poor Elfreda's saying the other day, after she'd torn her thumb-nail off with Mrs. Schuyler's hooks and eyes. 'Isn't she grandiose!' for Elfreda thinks she's like some woman in a novel, and is delighted to run her poor little legs off for her."
               But there was one person who did not share in the devoted Elfreda's enthusiasm and was not to be dazzled by the Prophetess's magnificence—indeed, she only considered it an added enormity—and that was Harriet Lucy Kenwyn, Lucy had conceived a mortal aversion to Athenäis the moment she set eyes on her, and compared her to all sorts of male and female characters held up for opprobrium in the Old Testament. Poor Lucy's addled brains seemed of late in a more disordered condition than ever from the effects of a cruel wound she had received in her affections. A hideous old Welshman, who enjoyed the reputation of having beaten two wives to death, discovered that Lucy had inherited the sum of fifty dollars from across seas, and he paid her such rigorous court that she yielded to his blandishments, intrusted her money to him for safe keeping, and one Tuesday morning sat in her cabin arrayed in a new checkered dress and a miraculous pink sun-bonnet, waiting for old Griffiths to lead her to the altar. But the perfidious Griffiths did not appear, though Lucy sat like patience on a monument till the sun set; nor was he to be found when search was made, or the money either.
               Between her trouble at the loss of her inheritance and her despair at losing her lover, Lucy mooned about disconsolate indeed, and though she could not be called insane, had a very decided twist in her intellects. She went to church more violently than ever, and discomfited the young priest and the congregation by repeating his part of the service after him in an audible tone, and shouting amen at the top of her voice in places where no amen was; and once when he was discoursing in his sermon upon the sweetness of the Divine love, Harriet Lucy created a great sensation by starting up in her seat and calling aloud, as she clapped her hands to attract attention,
               "It's so—you're right, de-ar so-ul—I've felt it! For these and all other, etcetera—amen."
               Then she burst into a copious flood of tears, and had to be led out by the cross old sexton, who reviled her greatly and even seemed inclined to strangle her when she refused to be silenced, winding up his wrathful expostulations with the unvarying remark with which he ended all speeches, "my wife Mrs. Jordan says so"—a peculiarity rendered the more amusing from the fact that he had once been in the habit of bestowing personal flagellation upon that female, and had only discovered her virtues and quoted her as authority on all occasions, after a bevy of women in his neighborhood had interrupted him one day when he was busy making new and strange phrenological developments on her head, and had given him so thorough a castigation that he was lame for a week.
               Lucy was frequently at Orchard Hill; she would work there diligently when she could be kept quiet in no other place, and Mrs. Ross could not bear to refuse her employment. Seaton had made up the money to her, but it was deposited in Mrs. Ross's hands, to be used as that lady thought best. It was rather unfortunate nate than otherwise that Lucy was deprived of that source of tribulation, for now her whole thoughts centered upon her false lover.
               One unfortunate day she had been sent to Mrs. Schuyler's chamber to rub the woodwork, for she was neat and dainty to an extreme in her operations, and it so happened that Athenäis went up stairs while Lucy was still there. Athenäis opened the door suddenly, almost overturning Lucy, who was on her knees behind it, and Lucy jumped into the air like a galvanized frog, and screamed, and Athenäis screamed in answer, and each was furious with the other as the cause of her fright.
               "You dreadful creature!" exclaimed Athenäis, sinking into a chair. "What are you doing here?"
               "Doing my business," returned Lucy. "What do you come froighting a decent 'ooman for?"
               "Didn't I tell you the other day I desired you not to come in here on any pretense?" demanded Athenäis loftily.
               "No tence about it," cried Lucy. "Miss Rossy she," with an emphatic pause on the word, "ordered me to clean you up, and I'm doing it. Let me alone—why, let me alone, I say!"
               "Hush!" said Athenäis, "You drive me distracted with your noise."
               "Oh, you!" retorted Lucy with supreme contempt. "If you'd had your money stoled, and your lovyier stoled, you might talk about going stracted, I should think."
               "There, there, don't be tiresome—go away!"
               "Bean't I a cleaning the floore, and Miss Rossy, she ordered me to do it, and I will! O, ain't you ashamed of yourself, big so-ul, coming in to froight a lone 'ooman at her work, and you that would make a rigiment of me, and me with my 'heritance stoled and my lovyier stoled, and got a pain in my head, back, stomach, and bowels, and don't feel well myself."
               "Finish your work, then, and don't make so much noise," ordered Athenäis disdainfully.
               "It's you that's doing it," retorted Lucy in a voice that waxed louder; "it's you come a jumping at me like a whale, when I was down on my knees singing a bit of a hymn, as I scrubbed. I ain't to be jumped upon, and I ain't to be banged, if my lovyier is stoled, and I'll tell good Mr. Satan, as made my money up—the Lord bless 'im, de-ar so-ul—for these and all other, etcetera, amen."
               "Why, what do they mean by exposing me to the insolence of a creature like this?" cried Athenäis, indignantly apostrophizing the furniture. "Am I to endure it? have they no pity on my nerves?"
               "Oh, nerves!" snapped Lucy scornfully.
               "Woman, how dare you? do you know who I am?"
               "Better'n some as you fool with your tricks," retorted Lucy in an awful whisper. "I knows you well—don't provoke me till I give it its rightful name."
               "What on earth does the creature mean?" exclaimed Athenäis, growing alarmed at Lucy's looks, and remembering that she was said not to be straight in her mind. "You are—"
               "Harriet Lucy Kenwyn Fendower Sowder, he!" exclaimed Lucy, throwing back her head, shutting her eyes, and emitting the volley of names in a howl. "That's who I be, take it how you will," pursued she with great satisfaction, in a milder tone.
               "I don't want you in here any longer," said Athenäis, divided between anger and fear, for Lucy had shut the door. "Take your buckets and go."
               "I'll go when my work is done, and not till then," replied Lucy doggedly; if Miss Rossy she, complains about the time I take, I'll tell her it was all your doings, as scairt me till my hair is like to fall out worse nor love has made it—amen!"
               Down she plumped upon her knees, which creaked under her, and resumed her scrubbing, oblivious of Athenäis's presence, and solacing herself with a couplet from some old Wesleyan hymn, droned in a voice like that of an insane bumble-bee. The very fact of her returning quietly to her duties caused Athenäis to forget her fears, and brought her anger, at this disregard of her august commands, uppermost.
               "I told you to go!" she exclaimed. 
                     
                        "O Heaven is a blessid place,
                        So let us jine the up'ard race,"
                     
                   chanted Lucy with great fervor, breaking off unexpectedly to cry "Amen," with such emphasis that Athenäis started.
               "I tell you to go out!" she cried, now growing furious. "I will see what Mrs. Ross means by allowing me to he insulted by any crazy tramp that she chooses to encourage about her."
               "A 'ouse I 'ave—a honest name as well," Lucy cried, half singing still. "It's you that tramp—tramp—and tramping towards perdition—yes, you be."
               "Did one ever hear the like!" almost shrieked Athenäis. "Shut up in a room with a dreadful woman who pretends to be mad that she may insult me."
               "I doan't," said Lucy, beginning to whimper. "I'm dazy 'eaded at times, and it makes me queer, and I've a pain besides in my back, stomach, and bowels, as you might have if you'd had your lovyier stoled, but you've no call to throw it up to me."
               "You silly thing!" said Athenäis, unable to forego the pleasure of lecturing, even if it were only a poor body with cracked wits; "you might have known the man would serve you as he did—what else could you expect—letting him have your money in that utterly idiotic way."
               "You've no call to go misnaming of me," retorted Lucy; "I'm a honest 'ooman—don't you do it no more!"
               In general, she was the best-natured creature in the world, and reproofs or expostulations, instead of rousing her to anger, only caused her to shed tears copiously; but her dislike of the Prophetess was so excessive, that it overcame the natural softness of her disposition and enraged her greatly. She wrung the cloths fiercely with which she had been wiping the woodwork, spattering the drops of water far and near without scruple, and dropped the scrubbing-brush into the pail with a warning splash.
               "You careless creature; see how you are wetting the carpet!" cried Athenäis; "you are not fit to be trusted—an idiot asylum would be the proper place for you."
               Lucy sprang to her feet as suddenly as if a torpedo had exploded under her knees, and confronted her tormentor with her watery blue eyes flashing, and the wisp of hair, which always broke loose at every opportunity, flapping up and down her back from the force with which she clapped her skinny hands together.
               "It's a other sort of 'sylum as 'ood do for you," she said, in a voice that shook with passion, "and so I tell you fair. My blood's up now, and I ain't to be jumped on and grampused no more. It's been on my mind to 'spose you for a good while, and now I mean to do it, for there's times for justices and marcises, and so the Good Book says—amen!"
               She struck her hands together again, almost under Athenäis's nose, and that stately lady retreated before the wildness of her aspect and the mystery of her words.
               "There, there," said she, faintly; "go now, my good creature—you're not well enough to work."
               "It's all your fault," retorted Lucy, with her fury in no degree softened. "I had a fit on the twenty-fifth, and no mortial wonder if I follered it up now, along with your jumpings and your tantrums, and your 'sailings of a honest 'ooman. But justice is your due, and so I tells you you're found out—found out," repeated Lucy, pointing a bony finger at her enemy.
               "Found out?" exclaimed Athenäis in wondering fright.
               "Your bold face don't 'pose on me," pursued Lucy, skipping into the air as if commencing a Pawnee war-dance; "and so I tells you fair! I've seen too many on 'em not to know."
               She shook her finger, danced about, and kept between Athenäis and the door, so that her victim could not escape.
               "Let me pass," moaned Athenäis; "I'll have you shut up in a mad-house—I'll—"
               "Hoot, hoot!" interrupted Lucy. "You're found out—I've seed it, and I'll tell—I'll t-e-ell! You've drove me past my patience, and I'll tell."
               "Tell what, you horrible bedlamite?"
               Lucy stopped in her dance, thrust her head forward, and still pointing her finger at Athenäis, as if it were a dagger with which she intended presently to transfix her, continued in an unearthly whisper like a shrill wind the warning she had contemplated for days,
               "It's twins at least, and mebby triplets—oh, you improper old 'ooman—I wonder ye could manage it at your age! What a 'xample you are with your curls and your furbelows, and so much room for wickedness in you, and every inch filled up."
               "Woman, do you know who I am?" Athenäis fairly shrieked in her fury.
               "I do, and well," said Lucy, nodding her head with great emphasis. "You're the scarlet 'ooman as is writ about in the Book of Speculations, a-sitting on seven hills, and none too much room—your 'orns rearing with guiltiness, and your eyes enticing of sinners. I'm not to be desaved—I've monthlied and I know; and I'd make bowld to guess your times and seasons, if you dare, and I warn you not to look to me for a cover to your 'orribleness and your sins, for not a finger will I lift, being joined to the Pristicals, and my hair fallin' out like rain for love—amen!"
               She had spoken so rapidly that there had been no possibility of interrupting her; her whisper had risen to a howl before she concluded, which startled Mrs. Ross, who happened to be passing through the hall. She entered the room hurriedly, and called,
               "Why, Lucy, what on earth's this?"
               "You may well ask," shrieked Athenäis, almost foaming at the mouth with rage, and on the verge of hysterics from fear. "You shut me up with a mad woman. Take her-away—she'll murder me—take her away."
               "Come, Lucy," said Mrs. Ross, not pausing to inquire into the cause of the scene; "come away at once."
               Lucy yielded passively to the grasp of her hand, but moved backwards towards the door, still shaking her head at Athenäis, and muttering,
               "It's truth I've telled her, as well she knows! Scarlet 'ooman; scarlet 'ooman—curls and 'orns and all!"
               Mrs. Ross gently pushed her into the passage, and followed her out, closing the door behind them.
               "What do you mean, Lucy—what have you been saying?" she asked.
               "Truth," replied Lucy, beginning to sob; "I always do—amen! I telled her what ailed her, as she knows."
               "There's nothing ails her, you crazy goose—she's well enough."
               "She'll be worse afore she's better," cried Lucy savagely, wiping her eyes on her apron. "and so I tell you. I 'aven't monthlied off and on for nothing, and no pullin' of cusset-strings can change things to eyes as knows."
               A perception of the idea that had taken possession of her mind struck Mrs. Ross, and she nearly smothered herself with her handkerchief to restrain her laughter, lest her guest should hear.
               "Go. down stairs," said she. "Don't say another word."
               "I'll speak as I'm warned," cried Lucy. "Its true I'm telling, and don't you be a cover for sin, Miss Rossy."
               "Hush, or I'll not allow you in the house."
               "I'll not stay—I'll never set foot in it while that scarlet 'ooman's here. O, Miss Rossy, don't give in to wickedness—drive her out—stone her to death as the Scriptur bids, for I can take my affidavy and sign it with my name, Harriet Lucy Kenwyn Fendower Sowder—he!"
               Mrs. Ross got her down stairs, and tried to clear away the hallucination of her brain, but nothing could alter her opinion; however she promised to be silent, and started home, refusing to stay in the house an instant longer.
               Mrs. Ross went up stairs and essayed the task of soothing Athenäis—a difficult matter, though Lucy talked so rapidly that she had not half understood her threats and revelations. But Athenäis was of a suspicious nature, and inclined to think that there had been a concerted plan to insult her, and she wept bitterly. Finally, she exonerated Mrs. Ross, and settled down into a plaintive state of mind. In some way it was Gay's fault—every thing always was Gay's fault sooner or later; if Gay did not leave her alone, such dreadful scenes would not happen; she was a cruel, heartless, ungrateful girl, after all Athenäis's kindness.
               She was in a difficult mood all the rest of the day, though she dressed herself elaborately—perhaps undressed herself would be the more correct word—and went down stairs. But she was unusually sensitive, and before the evening ended, managed to burst into a flood of tears over some innocent jest of Gay's. She must and would have sympathy, and she fastened on Seaton, though he was not in the least ceremonious in his efforts to shake her off, and with a brutality which she felt she never could forgive, at last said, bluntly,
               "That cold chicken-pie at supper has disagreed with you; one always is morbidly sensitive during an attack of dyspepsia."
               This remark was made on the veranda whither he had retreated when she began her sobbing operations in the parlor, to which haven of refuge she pursued him, after flinging a few choice flowers of rhetoric at Gay's head.
               "You're a savage, Noel Seaton," retorted she, "and I'll leave this odious place to-morrow morning and never speak to one of you again."
               Seaton bowed in submission to her painful threat, making no effort to induce her to change her determination.
               "That ungrateful Agatha," whimpered Athenäis, "after all my love for her—after absolutely wringing my heart to lavish its tenderest affections upon her."
               Seaton bowed again and smiled.
               "O, you may smile," cried she, more angry than ever, "but I know what you hope and what you mean."
               "Then you know more than I do," returned Seaton politely.
               His calmness enraged Athenäis to an extent which caused her to forget her promise to Gay, and indeed her own desire, in cooler moments, not to have any person so nearly connected with herself exposed to unpleasant suspicions.
               "You may let her play with you if you like," exclaimed she, "and wait for the end! You're a pair of the most ungrateful vipers that ever a confiding creature nursed in her heart."
               "Yes," Seaton assented, and longed to hint that as the heart aforesaid must possess capabilities for holding a whole family of that species of reptile, she could not be much incommoded by a single pair, but held his peace.
               "You may sneer—you may pretend not to care," continued Athenäis, enraged beyond the verge of prudence by his manner; "but ask her who that haggard fiend of a man was that came twice to my house to inquire after her—ask her that."
               Seaton interrupted her with a hearty burst of laughter which nearly made her break a blood-vessel, but her wrath changed to fear when she heard his merriment echoed in Gay's voice from the door, and that young lady added,
               "That he may do so with greater freedom, Mrs. Schuyler, have the goodness to go up stairs."
               "Only let me first set your mind at rest," added Seaton. "The haggard fiend was the Italian porter at my hotel—I sent him up to find out where Miss Van Kortland had gone."
               "I don't believe it," exclaimed Athenäis vindictively.
               "It is a pity to destroy your romance and deprive your kind expose of its point," said Gay contemptuously; "but the play is played out—you really would be better off in bed, 'Näis."
               With loud sobs and incoherent exclamations, Athenäis rushed past them into the house and took refuge in her own chamber, her wrath lost in her fear of Gay's displeasure.
               "What an immense idiot that woman is!" said Seaton.
               "Yes," returned Gay, rather crossly, "but if you had not permitted her to discuss my shortcomings, you would not have received her confidence."
               "But she began so ferociously—"
               "And you really thought you might hear something to gratify the bad temper you have been in all the evening?"
               "Now, Gay, that is too hard on me!"
               But Gay was in a mood not usual with her—inclined to pity herself and not him. She had been taking herself to task for the folly of the past weeks, and was ready to be hard and stern because she discovered that so far from having kept to her wise resolutions, Seaton's tenderness and affection grew sweeter daily, and lessened the strength of all her old reasons for fearing it.
               They managed to get up one of their frequent quarrels before they parted. Seaton said scores of bitter things that he did not mean, and finally was hurried by his penitence into fresh protestations of his affection, which were so untimely, considering Gay's humor, that she was able to be harsher than she would have found easy at a cooler moment.
               "I'm a fool!" he exclaimed hotly, rushing into a passion at once. "You need not be alarmed—I'll not trouble you with such conversation versation again; it was only a relapse into an old insanity! Good-night."
               He went off in a towering rage, and Gay stood looking after him through the misty moonlight.
               "Better for both if he would stay away," she thought. "I am tired—I wish I was dead."
               The weak, impious prayer that so often rises in our hearts during their undisciplined youth; it rushed unguardedly to Gay's lips, for she was not given to such folly. She heard Mrs. Ross call, and went back to the parlor. Life would be long enough and hold lonely hours enough for reflection—she need not add to her fears of the future by willfully seeking solitude.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               ATHENÄIS'S REMORSE.
               THE next morning Athenäis lay in bed and sent down word by her patient slave Elfreda that she was not to be disturbed, as she was suffering tortures from migraine. Elfreda twisted the word into "my grin" and announced it as such to Gay and Mrs. Ross, staring at them with open mouth in her wonder what the mysterious disease might be, which certainly had no effect on the Prophetess's appearance or appetite. The truth was, the lady thought it best to avoid Gay until she might have forgotten her anger; besides, she always liked an excuse for lying in bed.
               Seaton appeared at the house in the course of the morning and puzzled Gay as he had done scores of times, by his apparent forgetfulness of any serious thought there might ever have been in common between them. He was in one of his gayest, most inconsequent moods, full of brilliant talk and reckless spirits, which irritated her as sorely as a show of anger or trouble would have done.
               He came to propose an expedition to Council Bluff—one of the twin cliffs that guarded the head of the valley on either side the river—and had received favorable answers from Miss Dane and Prescott to his messages requesting them to join the party. But Mrs. Ross thought it would be unkind to the Prophetess, or at least not quite civil, to go without her, therefore it was decided to put off the excursion until the next day. So that afternoon the four young people went to sail on the river, and stopped on a beautiful island in the shadow of the cliffs, to wander about; and Seaton, perhaps hoping to annoy Gay, devoted himself to Margaret, talking a great deal of pretty trash that had better have been left unsaid, and finally getting in earnest for the time, after a habit he had, a habit which made his genius for flirtation so dangerous.
               When they met on the shore again, Prescott saw the new color on Margaret's checks, the soft light in her eyes, and his heart went down, down, with a sickening throb of fear and doubt lest his beautiful dream might die out in chill regret, till it seemed to him that the blackest disappointment could not be so hard to bear as that suspense.
               In Gay's mind no jealous thought intruded—she was too proud, too much accustomed to supremacy for that; besides, she had woven a romance for Margaret and Prescott, and clung to it with feminine persistency. If she had remembered that what was only acting a little play to Seaton, might be reality to Margaret, probably, woman-like, she would have been somewhat harsh in her judgment of her sister, and inclined to think that she had brought trouble on herself, since during the first days of Seaton's sojourn, Margaret's manner showed plainly enough that she regarded him as her friend's special property.
               Once in the boat again, with a sudden wind that blew from each point of the compass in turn, and made the guiding of the little craft a troublesome affair, Seaton, without warning, fell into a silent mood, from that into a contradictory one, and ended by nearly swamping the boat through his careless management of the sail; but even then, Gay preserved her equanimity and would neither be frightened nor satirical.
               When they reached Orchard Hill, they found Athenäis awaiting them, in a dress of fresh gorgeousness, and a very bad temper. She was impertinently patronizing to Margaret, rude to Seaton, and refused to speak to Gay, though she talked at her incessantly. Gay had made a mistake in not reviling her stoutly—she had decided that her cousin was only too glad to let the matter drop into oblivion, and was arrogant thereupon, like any coward. There was nobody whom she retained in her favor but Prescott, and him she victimised to a fearful extent, forcing him to give her his arm for a promenade on the veranda, and being tender and girlish and coquettish and thoughtless and naïve, in a way that made his blood run cold; till he felt as if he was in the clutches of an overgrown walrus with a mermaid's face.
               She informed them all twenty times that she intended to leave the next day—would make feints of going to order Elfreda to pack her boxes; but at last allowed Mrs. Ross to persuade her to remain, and then whispered to Prescott that since he desired it so much she would be of the party to Council Bluff, and Prescott's face at that declaration was a sight to behold.
               "Do you hear, Gay?" asked she, addressing her cousin for the first time. "I have decided not to go to-morrow."
               "I did not know you thought of it," Gay replied, indifferently.
               "O, I did not suppose that I was of the slightest consequence," quavered Athenäis; "not the slightest."
               Gay was deaf to the assertion, Seaton smiled provokingly, and Mrs. Ross, liking to tease them both, thought she might as well humor the Prophetess in her efforts to be ridiculous.
               "You know we could not get on without you, Countess," said she—a pet name by which Athenäis was fond of being called. "I am ogress of this castle and can't allow my captives to escape."
               "Ah, Mrs. Ross," sighed Athenäis, bestowing a languishing glance on Prescott, "it is sweet to meet here and there, a soul in this dreary world, which is not utterly seared and made hollow by the rust of selfishness. But I wish I were more selfish—I wish I were not so sensitive—I should not so often be wounded to the heart's core by those who owe me duty and affection."
               Gay was stone deaf still, and Seaton looked as if he were just ready to whistle.
               "Yet no," pursued Athenäis; "the heart's emotions are their own reward, in spite of the serpent's fangs! I would not change—I would not be ice—no, no."
               "Unless in July," said Mrs. Ross; then hoping to make a diversion, she added, "that reminds me I have some frozen custard."
               So the delicious compound was brought, but Athenäis refused to partake; was at last persuaded; then consumed three platefulls, and laid several huge slices of jelly-cake on the top of it to keep it warm. But the refreshment seemed to have struck an added chill to her injured feelings; her views of life grew more Lugubrious, and she drew the most harrowing pictures of the wrongs her sensitive nature was constantly suffering at the hands of those from whom she deserved tenderness and sympathy.
               "It was ever thus from childhood's hour," murmured, Athenäis, elevating her eyes to the ceiling in a way that had been effective twenty years before, but was now too suggestive of the struggles for breath of an animal oppressed by its own fat, to be agreeable.
               "Did you ever indulge in rearing a dear gazelle?" inquired Seaton, in the most interested manner.
               Athenäis overlooked him and his frivolity with magnificent disdain, slowly allowing her eyes to regain a more natural position in their orbits, and fixing them on Prescott with the languishing look which she fancied had worked such havoc in his heart.
               "I used to think it was the unquiet portion of early girlhood, this sensitive nature," she said; "but alas! I am thirty now—thirty, and the armor this false world forces one to wear hurts my breast as cruelly as it did then. Yes, thirty," she repeated, as if Prescott had disputed the statement, at the same time favoring him with a smile which she firmly believed made her look about seventeen.
               This was a courageous stroke considering that at least two of the group knew she was forty-three, and she knew that they did. Mrs. Ross, having the onerous duties of hostess upon her, felt that something must be said, as Athenäis had paused, evidently to hear wonder and admiration expressed, and those two brutes of men were obstinately silent.
               "Few women would be so honest, Countess," said she; "but then, with your looks, you can afford to be brave." Then catching the expression of disgust in Prescott's face, she wickedly added, "Admit, Mr. Prescott, that you are astonished to hear the Countess is thirty years of age."
               "I am," he answered jesuitically, but accompanying the words with a bow to Athenäis that mollified her considerably.
               "Why should I blush to own it?" she asked, with her girlish giggle. "I am thirty."
               "The most charming period of a woman's life," said Seaton.
               Athenäis was not to be appeased by any such polite mockery from his lips, and she said with what she considered extreme severity,
               "I am glad you think so," emphasizing the pronoun, and glancing savagely at Gay, as much as to intimate that the ungrateful girl had reached that age too.
               Margaret had said nothing, being in no mood to help on Athenäis's folly, as Athenäis had ruthlessly snubbed her early in the evening. So now the candid creature turned towards Miss Dane, and observed sweetly, "Do you know, dear, I think if you wore your hair off your forehead, you would look more youthful."
               "O, Margaret is a little younger than I am," Gay could not resist saying; "she is not quite thirty yet," and the two girls laughed in spite of their efforts to be grave and ladylike.
               Athenäis swelled with rage and answered crushingly, "I said nothing about your age, Gay; I never tell other people's secrets."
               Gay gave her a look which reminded her of the previous night, and she colored scarlet, rose from her chair, shook out her voluminous draperies, and begged Prescott for the favor of his arm once more, as she must take "a last, last peep at that belated moon."
               She was inspired to do this by a sudden fancy that Margaret was jealous of Prescott's attentions to her, and she leaned heavily against him, and dragged him up and down on the veranda, quoting poetry, and enjoying her figment of a flirtation immensely. Her satisfaction was crowned by Margaret's making a move to go home. The Prophetess was convinced that she had wrung her heart with the most fearful pangs; and it was beautiful to see the way in which she held out her hand to Prescott, that had been a model for a sculptor before it was so disfigured with fat, and said,
               "Yes, you may kiss the diamond on the third finger," as if he had any idea of so doing. "Don't ask me who has the right to kiss the others—oh, you naughty man, you were just going to! I shall not tell all my little secrets—indeed I shall not."
               When she was alone with Mrs. Ross—for Gay, as soon as the guests departed, retreated to her room in disgust—Athenäis said meditatively,
               "Do you know I am almost sorry I allowed you to persuade me to remain this week."
               "Sorry to hear that," replied her hostess; "I hope you are not tired of us yet."
               
               "No, no; you are goodness itself—you understand and appreciate me. "But," and she shook her head in pensive thought, "I ought to have gone away—I ought indeed."
               "Why, you have nothing to call you to town, have you?"
               "Nothing; but I ought to have gone; it would have been wiser—better—yes, kinder on my part."
               It was evident that she desired to be questioned, and Clytemnestra, who never neglected an opportunity of amusing herself, was ready to gratify her wish.
               "What do you mean?" she asked. "How better and kinder?"
               "Have you not noticed? I am so glad—so very glad!" exclaimed Athenäis in a disappointed tone. "His manner was so very particular to-night that I was fearful you would."
               "O, you mean that!" returned Clytemnestra emphatically, as utterly in the dark as to the woman's meaning as if she had been shut up in one of the pyramids, and were expected to decipher the hieroglyphics without the aid of a candle.
               "Yes—then you had remarked it?"
               "My dear Countess, I am not a bat!" cried Clytemnestra indignantly, shaking with inward laughter.
               "I had better go—much better," continued Athenäis. "Ah me! you can not dream what my sensitive nature endures from being forced to blight the buds of hope in so many hearts wherever I turn."
               "But must you in this case?" asked her companion, comprehending the drift of the Prophetess's words, but not certain which of the two men she believed to have fallen her victim. "Must you really in this case?"
               "I must—I must," moaned Athenäis, wringing her hands and doing remorseful despair; enjoying her little play and believing in it too, though she knew it had no foundation in fact; but still able to delude herself, just as she did when she contemplated her gigantic image in the glass, and was persuaded that she appeared the same graceful, slender girl she had been twenty years before.
               "But you must not blame yourself," urged Clytemnestra, enjoying the farce greatly, and taking special note of every movement for future repetition. "You can not help men's falling in love with you."
               "No—no; and yet I always reproach myself. In this case I am the more grieved, because I fear her heart is tortured by it."
               "Her heart?" repeated Clytemnestra wonderingly, feeling as if a light had been brought into the pyramid for an instant and then extinguished to make it darker than before.
               "O yes, I am sure she is troubled—it sent a new pang to my bosom!—I would not have come between her and her hopes for the world! You know that—say you believe that!"
               "O, I am sure you would not," unblushingly asserted Clytemnestra, quite insane to get the right key to the mystery, lest she should say something out of place.
               "I knew you would do me justice," replied Athenäis in a trembling voice. "I shall go away with an ache at my heart, for her and for him; for of course it is madness on his part."
               "Madness," repeated Clytemnestra.
               "He is wealthy, I believe; but good gracious! if I were to wed—which Heaven forbid—I have a right to look for position, yes, title; though no ambition of that sort would weigh with me. But my heart is buried in the grave—ah me!"
               Clytemnestra felt that she could not live another instant, unless she learned which of the two young men Athenäis believed to have been so fatally wounded by her charms, but, afraid of offending the heroine by any question which should betray dullness on her own part, she asked.
               "You think Gay knows?" which might apply in either case.
               "Selfish creature!" cried Athenäis. "She never notices any thing—she would pretend not to believe it. But I saw Margaret grow pale, then red; my dear friend, she loves Prescott, and he—ah, the folly of men!—must fix his eyes upon the moon, instead of being content with the pretty star"—Athenäis was going to say "at his feet," but perceiving the fault in her metaphor, only sighed aloud.
               It was Mr. Prescott, then; that was rather more delicious than if she had selected Seaton for her imaginary victim, because Prescott would be annoyed thereby, and the other would only have seen the absurd side of the insanity, and not been in the least troubled by any body's laughter.
               Clytemnestra immediately got up the best imitation of a sigh that she could muster, by way of response, and said,
               "Now you must not take it to heart; really, you must not, or you'll find it affect your spirits and your—your-appetite;" she could not keep herself from adding that, though she was somewhat doubtful how it might be received, but Athenäis's answer removed her fear and roused her enjoyment to its height.
               "It has—it does," she said; "have you not observed how pensive I have been for several days past? As for appetite—I eat almost nothing, as a rule—living on poesy like a wood-thrush, as a silly man said of me at Saratoga—but really, since I have begun to reproach myself, my soul has absolutely recoiled from earthly needs."
               Clytemnestra remembered the tray she had that morning prepared for Elfreda to take up stairs; the eggs—hot rolls—cutlets—marmalade—buttered toast; she remembered that tray coming down bare to the plates, and the dinner that had followed it; the manner in which Athenäis feasted on eel-stew at supper-time; the frozen sea of custard she had emptied into herself, dotted with numberless islands of jelly-cake—it was more than she could hear with composure.
               "You must have noticed that my appetite is gone—quite gone," said Athenäis, laying her hand on her bosom as if she felt there the aching void which some poet describes. "Have you not?"
               "I am so much occupied, you know," stammered Clytemnestra, really not equal to a lie of such magnitude as the occasion demanded.
               But Athenäis was too much delighted with her ready sympathy in that little romance she had woven to be severe, and she talked a great deal of poetry, finally diverging to a lengthy account of the havoc she had worked that summer in the breasts of several youths, and apparently ready to carry her reminiscences into the remote past, and reveal her life-history for her listener's benefit; but Clytemnestra felt that there were limits to human endurance, and besides, she wanted to keep the present episode clear in her mind that she might regale her young friends with it. She pleaded fatigue and got away, leaving Athenäis at her chamber-door, though the fair creature announced that she had no expectation of sleeping—she should sit and watch the moon. Half-an-hour after, Mrs. Ross passing through the hall, heard her loudly breathing the dulcet melodies which fat people do in their slumbers; and indulged in another hearty laugh in her solitude.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               THE END OF THE ROMANCE.
               THE next morning Athenäis tried every method of which she was mistress to goad Gay into a quarrel, and though her mental capacities were somewhat limited in other respects, she was very skillful in the art of tormenting. She was uncomfortable because Gay treated her with cool, indifferent politeness, and if she could only make a scene, she might be able to weep and bemoan herself, until she could soften the obdurate young woman into being as kind and patient as usual. She was more convinced than ever that Prescott was in love with her; by an inexplicable ingenuity she twisted the revelations she had made Mrs. Ross into an unsought-for avowal on that lady's part, and she was dying to confide in Gay, and to say that she had not suspected it until that clear-sighted Clytemnestra opened her eyes.
               But Gay afforded her no opportunity; she would not be irritated into answering sharply, though Athenäis raked up every disagreeable subject she could think of, and finally became so enraged at Gay's cool impassibility that she went into a violent fit of the sulks, and announced that she should not join the party to the Bluff—she was not wanted, and she would not intrude herself. It was new to her to be told that there was ever a time when she was not welcome, but if her own cousin, the girl whom she had worshipped, could show her so plainly that she was in the way, why she had better get to bed and die of a broken heart as soon as possible.
               She made her arrangements to go, notwithstanding, and when Seaton and Gay were ready to start, she came down stairs with her hat on, and told Mrs. Ross that though far from well, she could not permit her dear hostess to take a solitary drive—she would accompany her.
               "That's right," said Mrs. Ross; "the air will do you good."
               "Nothing will do me any good," replied she, with a reproachful glance at Gay, who, already in the saddle, was too much occupied in adjusting her gloves to heed.
               "Here comes Dan with my old chariot—don't it look like Pharaoh's?" said Mrs. Ross. "Now, Mr. Seaton, mount your horse, and you and Gay get on, if you please."
               Athenäis would have liked to do a little nervousness about trusting herself to Mrs. Ross's ability as charioteer, but that lady hurried her into the wagon and off they drove. Margaret and Mr. Prescott rode down to the gates as they reached Crosslands, and Athenäis consoled herself by thinking that the young man looked melancholy—probably because he had to ride with Margaret, instead of accompanying herself; and she fancied that Miss Dane appeared triumphant in the possession of her cavalier, which Athenäis decided was an impertinence, and must be properly punished before the day was over.
               It was about three miles to the foot of the Bluff, and a charming road, leading along the bank of the river part of the way, which might have been a human being, from its inability to know its own mind and the unexpected twists and turns it made. Gay managed that the equestrians should keep together, as she had no desire to be alone with Seaton, and he humored her wish with a sense of injury upon him that he would not allow to find vent in complaint.
               There was a road led up the back of the mountain through the woods: a broken, uncomfortable affair, but safe enough, and Mrs. Ross being well acquainted with it, piloted the party in her Pharaoh chariot, while Athenäis did frightened moans and signs of distress, in a very girlish and affecting way. At last she would not be content till Mr. Prescott rode by the side of the carriage, and made her feel, as she said, "delightfully secure, because he looked so brave and strong."
               "For," pursued Athenäis, "I am not strong-minded; I make no pretense. Perhaps it is a fault, but I can not control my sensitive nature. Forgive me dear, kind friend," and she bestowed a languishing glance upon Prescott the martyr, which caused the false Clytemnestra secretly to dance her feet about in the bottom of the wagon with immense delight.
               Up they went; up, up, winding towards the summit of the mountain; occasionally catching glimpses of the valley far below, then shut in among the gloom of the pines and hemlocks, whose solemn whispers seemed telling of the days when the red man had roved undisturbed beneath them, and the wild deer had made his covert within their shade.
               They reached the top at last, and Athenäis, with considerable difficulty, was assisted to earth and left to cool upon a rock, while Prescott, in obedience to Mrs. Ross's orders, hunted in the recesses of the wagon for a capacious luncheon-basket, that looked as if it might have held almost as many good things as the fair Prophetess herself.
               They passed through the grove and came out upon the open space where the grass sparsely covered the plateau of rock, and there, hundreds of feet below the mighty precipice on which they stood, spread the beautiful valley wrapped in its golden mantle of autumn haze, and away back of it mountain peaks, misty and blue in the distance, on which the pearly canopy of the heavens appeared to rest. Sturdy juniper bushes clung to the top of the cliff; farther down grew crooked pines and spruce-trees; great masses of trailing vines hid the bleakness of the rocks, and the rush of a mountain torrent sent up its perpetual hymn.
               With the exception of the restless Athenäis, the whole party were genuine lovers of nature, but she did the ecstatics for them all and talked a great deal of jargon about effects, and picturesque bits, and chiaro-oscuro, and luminousness, and Childe Harold, and all the other talk with which some idiot is sure to be at hand to afflict one in the midst of such scenes. Then she began to feel an aching void in her enthusiastic interior and said that Gay was hungry—she saw it in her eyes, and begged that luncheon might be eaten at once; though, for her own part, she could stay there a week and never be reminded that she had a body tacked to her soaring soul. So the luncheon was spread upon an accommodating rock and devoured in the midst of great merriment, and much solicitude for Gay lest she should not have enough to eat; while Athenäis in blissful unconsciousness that she was herself being quizzed, made a waste-basket of her stomach to hold so many diverse comestibles, from cold pate to fiery-hearted pickles, washed down with soda-water and sherry, that it would have given any sympathetic person dyspepsia to watch her proceedings.
               After the meal was concluded, Seaton wandered off to smoke his cigar, because Athenäis suddenly discovered that it disagreed with her, and the other ladies accompanied him, so she was left alone with Prescott, whom she detained in conversation; and he, having been thoroughly disgusted with her affectations the first time they met, felt about as amiably disposed as if the owner of a menagerie had forced him to keep a boa-constrictor company while the reptile sunned itself after dinner.
               Mrs. Ross captured Gay to repeat Athenäis's confidence of the previous night, there having been no fit opportunity for telling the story that morning, and Margaret and Seaton were left alone, seated at the foot of a great pine-tree, sufficiently near the edge of the precipice to have afforded Athenäis a fine occasion for shrieks, if she had only seen them.
               Their talk strayed from the scenery to books which its loveliness suggested, to the odd metaphysical subjects which the young people of this generation are so fond of discussing in a superficial way; to Emerson and Kant, to Verdi's music and the personality of the devil, to magnetic attractions and subtle repulsions, and a great many other matters that are much safer let alone. Concerning all of them Seaton could talk in a brilliant, original fashion, and it was new to Margaret—in keeping with her thoughts—like the conversation in novels—but new to have any man able to converse so, and strangely bewitching on that very account.
               And Seaton was angry with Gay, reckless and impulsive, and it interested him to make the creature's face glow or turn pale, her eyes flash with enthusiasm or grow misty with emotion at will. It was like studying a beautiful picture, or trying the chords of some exquisite melody, and he had never in all his life refused himself any pleasure, no matter what the after-pain to another might be.
               "This is the sort of day that stands alone in one's life," he said suddenly, after a brief pause; "that in all coming time separates itself from common memories. If one could only put it into words or prison the subtle essence of it on canvas, what a poem or painting one could make!"
               "I wish you would make a sketch," Margaret said rather quickly, for his eyes had spoken much more eagerly than his lips.
               "I am too lazy—besides I could not. I shall remember it all—will you forget?"
               "It is very beautiful," she answered.
               "But every thing connected with the place: our conversation—it is not often two people meet who can talk as we have been doing—will you forget?"
               She felt the color come into her cheeks, but she would not yield to her emotion; she thought vaguely that it was cruel of him to try her like this, and she replied quietly,
               "Every thing connected with these past weeks has been delightful to me; my life was very dull before you all came."
               He admired her courage, though he was a little vexed that he had not been able to move her more perceptibly.
               "I am sick to death of the old conventionalities," he exclaimed, leaning his handsome head against the trunk of the pine-tree and looking down into her face. "Heigho! I believe it would be the greatest favor any body could do me to give me a push over the edge here. I wonder if you would ever remember to miss me? I should come back to see—you think it would not be proper and lady-like to tell me?"
               "I don't think any thing of the sort! I hate proper things," returned she, thinking of tiresome books, and precepts, and her stepmother's lectures, and the ghost of Miss Honeyman, and not at all intending to make a "fast" speech, to use the detestable phrase of the day.
               "I am so glad," he replied, laughing softly, and his laugh was the pleasantest sound one could hear, ringing and free as that of a boy. "I'm said to be very improper, so you need not hate me! But I wish I were good—O, you women don't know—you can only blame us; you don't know how hard we struggle sometimes."
               "We can pity though," Margaret said, feeling that any wickedness of his must be very fascinating, and that it must have been forced upon him by the exigencies of life—that strange life of a man which was so far off, and so theoretical to her girlish sense.
               "I believe I could bear it from you," he said softly, "but—"
               He hesitated, and she looked at him inquiringly.
               "I don't know why I hesitated—certainly I may say it—but you are the only human being I ever saw whose pity would be endurable. Are you angry?"
               She shook her head; the clear eyes grew so beautifully soft, and he was a man and a poet, and liked little excitements, never recollecting, honorable as he was in other ways, how mean such trilling must always be—recollecting nothing but that he was moody and out of sorts, and wanted to be amused.
               "Are you tired of all my nonsensical talk?" he asked, laughing again.
               "Not absolutely reduced to a state of coma—whatever that may be—from fatigue."
               "O, you got that out of a book, I know."
               "I did, and I've not the slightest idea what it means, and wouldn't have for the world, but it sounds delightfully vague and overpowering."
               "Now you are teasing, and I was in a mood for being doleful and talking truth."
               "Must that necessarily be doleful?"
               "I am afraid so—in my case."
               Her eyes asked him why, though she did not speak.
               "I can see the question plainly enough," he said, looking full at her with his wistful, melancholy gaze; "but you would not care to have it answered—at least you would not care for the truth—you would not care," and he repeated the words so mournfully, in his strangely musical voice, that she was moved, till she could have cried out that she cared for every thing concerning him—every thing; but was so strong in her womanly reticence that not even her face revealed a feeling which she would afterwards have cause to regret.
               He was about to speak again—some insanity born out of the idleness and sweetness of the moment—but at that instant a voice feminine rose in a succession of piercing shrieks from the summit of the ledge.
               "It's the Prophetess," said Seaton lazily, but in an accent of profound contempt, while Margaret started up in alarm; "only the Prophetess airing her lungs."
               "But there must be something horrible the matter—listen!" cried Margaret, as another volley of shrieks rolled towards them. "Do come, Mr. Seaton."
               "Certainly—to please you," said he, rising and following her. "But don't be frightened; I'd stake my life there's nothing wrong; she is probably disgusted at not attracting the general attention every moment, and wants to avenge the injury."
               Athenäis had enthroned herself upon her shawls, and fancied she was looking like Semiramis or Helen, or some other historical or mythical beauty, and forced Prescott to assume a position at her feet.
               "Sit there," said she, with a gesture of her hand which in the days of its perfection had been a graceful wave, like a lily bending on its stem or any thing pretty you please, but now was a dab at him with a white, over-stuffed pincushion. "Sit there, and let us taste the full beauty of the scene. Is it not lovely? How it lifts one's soul into the blue other, and makes one long for wings—doesn't it quite make one long for wings, you silent, prosaic creature?"
               Prescott in the depths of his heart repeated the wish of the Psalmist, only he would have asked for stronger pinions than those of a dove, that he might get hopelessly out of the overgrown sylphid's reach.
               "There's a fearful fascination about the place," said Athenäis; "it makes one long to plunge over the abyss and free the soul from its shackles, and pierce the mysteries that shut us in—don't you feel it too?"
               "I can't say that I do," replied Prescott unsympathizingly.
               "O, O," squeaked Athenäis; "don't sit so near the verge—you'll frighten me to death,"
               As he was at least fifteen feet from the edge of the precipice, Prescott did not think it necessary to soothe her youthful alarm by any assurance of his safety.
               "It makes one think so much of Byron, dear Byron," said Athenäis. "Ah, how a woman could have loved that man!"
               "Rather an uncomfortable business, judging from the fate of those who did," said Prescott.
               "The natural jealousy of your sex! Can't you recall that verse from Childe Harold? it is so applicable to this entrancing spot. 'To stand and muse'—I can't remember it! Stupid man," making another dab at him with the fat pincushion; "why so dull of recollection?"
               Prescott remembered the verse perfectly, but the tortures of the rack could not have forced him to repeat it for her edification; be civil he would, but spout poetry to an overgrown sylph of forty-three—never!
               "I wish Mr. Seaton would ride back to the village and get a copy of Childe Harold," said Athenäis quite seriously; "but he's a selfish fellow—never thinks of any one but himself. A man should be the soul of chivalry, ever ready to ride forth, like the knights of old, in the service of fair ladies."
               "Shall I go?" asked Prescott, wildly catching at that means of escape.
               "No, no; the willingness, the desire are enough! Ah, you are a perfect Sir—Sir—what was the name of that noble creature King Arthur was so fond of? Launcelot, to be sure."
               "Queen Guinevere was fonder, I believe," said Prescott.
               "You dreadful man!" cried Athenäis, putting the two fat pincushions before her face; "I'll not stay alone with you if you talk like that."
               Prescott felt convinced that five minutes more of this would make a hopeless imbecile of him for the rest of his life, and in his heart he reviled the others in a way which must have made his guardian angel's hair stand on end, for having left him to the clutches of that great moon-faced dragon, as he styled her in his wicked thoughts.
               "You are pensive to-day," Athenäis said, when he relapsed into a silence which he seemed to have no intention of breaking.
               "Am I?" he asked coolly.
               She thought that he was trying to hide his emotion, and pleased her fancy greatly by picturing him in frightful agony from his effort to keep back the secret which she was convinced kept struggling to his lips. Perhaps it would be better to let him speak; to soothe his pain, even while she assured him of the hopelessness of his case; and though she knew the whole matter was a delusion, she believed in her lie firmly and was much excited.
               "But you men," pursued Athenäis with what she considered profound artfulness, "have so many things to occupy your minds—your business cares, and all those financial schemes that are so odious to the poetical soul."
               "I was not thinking of my business," Prescott said, simply because he had reached that stage of irritation where human nature must contradict as a slight relief, and he would have combatted stoutly any proposition she could have made.
               Athenäis felt that answer to be a dangerous one; he did not mean to control his feelings; she was in a great flutter.
               "Then I can't pretend to say of what you are thinking," exclaimed she with the girlish giggle and the peculiar arch smile which she believed made her look sixteen; "I can not imagine, and I do not suppose you would tell me if I asked."
               "Why not?" demanded Prescott, the demon of contradiction still possessing him.
               "Do you wish to tell me?" she questioned, in what she intended for a faltering whisper, but which was rather too wheezy, owing to the quantity of solids and fluids with which she had oppressed her internal organs; "would it be a relief to tell me?"
               Prescott had a mind to disregard his contradictory devil and reply in the affirmative, and astonish her by revealing his actual thoughts concerning her monstrous absurdity and selfishness.
               "Perhaps I could divine them," she said, when he did not speak—silent, as she believed, from emotion; "perchance; we women have strange intuitions; but I fear I ought not—I must not!"
               "Why not?" asked Prescott, partly from wonder, partly impelled by his familiar.
               "Ah, question me no more, no more," said she with a shake of her head and its waterfall, which made him think of a walrus preparing to plunge into the sea; "I must be blind—you must allow me to be; it is wisest—best."
               Prescott was reduced to a state of stupid astonishment, and he could only stare at her with a stony imbecility.
               "Do not regard me with that look of pain," murmured she, still too short of breath to suit the poetical needs of the occasion; "mine is a woman's nature—more cruelly sensitive than often falls even to my sex. Let me be blind! I entreat you, I conjure you, say no more; let me be blind!"
               Prescott could only stare at her in the same helpless way, feebly wondering if she had gone mad, but rejecting the idea, because even in the dazed condition of his wits he recollected that she had not brains enough to serve as capital for getting up the malady.
               "I have been afraid of this," continued Athenäis, affecting herself by her histrionics till she was ready to weep; "I have prayed that I might be in error, but I can be blind no longer—it would be foolish, unwomanly on my part. There is one whom it troubles, too—oh, my dear friend, trust me, her heart has gone out towards you."
               Prescott understood enough to know that she was alluding to Margaret Dane, and rushed from imbecility into fury.
               "I've not the slightest idea of your meaning, madam," said he haughtily.
               Athenäis thought he was in a rage because she had intimated that he might win the humble flower though the moon he craved was out of reach.
               "Perhaps forgetfulness would come," sighed she, "perhaps repose! Ah, try any means; be happy, or I shall never know another instant's peace—never."
               "You are very good to take so much interest in my welfare," returned Prescott stiffly, "but I am still in the dark."
               "The cloud will pass," exclaimed Athenäis, supposing that he referred to his sufferings, or making herself believe that she did; "be firm, be courageous; the night will pass, the day will dawn. Promise me, O promise me, that you will make the effort?"
               "What effort, in the name of goodness?" gasped he.
               "Hush, hush! Be calm—I am so sensitive—so excitable. Pray leave me; consider this subject at an end forever! it must never be renewed—never! I pity you—sympathize with you; but alas, mine is an obdurate heart, long since laid in a silent tomb—ask me no more, no more!"
               "Will you have the kindness, madam, to explain what all this means?" he inquired bluntly, feeling in a hot rage and dreadfully ashamed of being so with the ridiculous creature.
               Heavens! was he going mad? Ought she to scream? How wild he looked! how horribly delightful and dangerous it all was!
               "Mr. Prescott, be calm—only be calm! Be content with my sympathy, my friendship—I can give no more."
               He started up as if a bee had stung him.
               "Good God!" cried he. "One would suppose I had been asking for your affection—"
               "I do not blame you," she interrupted. "I can not—in the grave—a buried heart—but pity—friendship!"
               Her face was hidden in her hands, and she uttered the words in broken gasps.
               "I think," said Prescott coldly, "we had better find our friends. As I do not choose to suppose you insane or myself an idiot?—he had come very near reversing the epithets—"I will not pursue this absurd conversation."
               Athenäis had been thoroughly absorbed in her acting, and his words brought her back to reality with a shock. There was nothing for it but hysterics—no other way out. Fate favored her in the shape of a fat black beetle that came to sun himself on the rock, and forthwith Athenäis burst into thrilling shrieks which brought all four of the wanderers in haste to the spot.
               Athenäis was writhing on the shawls—Prescott standing aloof with folded arms and utter disgust on his countenance.
               "What is the matter?" screamed every body at once.
               "Hysterics," said Prescott brutally, and never budged an inch
               "Take it off;" moaned Athenäis. "The monster—the beast—I shall die! I have always been thus from a child! Afraid—O, take it off—take it off!"
               Margaret hunted for the monster; Gay shook her suffering relative with more vigor than affection; Mrs. Ross, wearing a face like an amused sphynx, slapped her hands, and Seaton smoked tranquilly at a distance.
               "Is it gone—quite gone?" shrieked Athenäis; then swooned for the space of a second, opened her eyes, looked wildly about, and finally asked in a zephyr-like whisper—"What is it? Have I been ill?"
               People familiar with hysterics are aware that when, on recovery from the legitimate swoon, the patient asks that question, the crisis is past. They administered sherry, put her in the carriage, and Mrs. Ross drove her home. But Athenäis was in a horrible rage now, and she made the most frightful scene with Gay after they reached the house, because Gay would not consent to send a favorable answer to a letter they found from some relative asking her to join a meeting of the clans at his mansion.
               That was a fine excuse for a hasty departure, and a good reason for a quarrel with Gay, and Athenäis had her boxes packed and departed the next morning, to every body's relief, but she upbraided Gay to the last.
               "Wicked, unnatural girl!" cried she; "turning aloof from your kindred—your natural friends! Go your way—I am done—I east you off, and forever."
               Gay was not greatly affected; she had heard the same denunciations many times, and knew that in less than a week Athenäis would besiege her with affectionate entreaties, imploring her company.
               "Farewell," sobbed the modern Cassandra, as she embraced her hostess, "farewell! You have been like a sister to me—twin sister of my soul—I adore you! Would that I could beg the favor of a visit from you next winter, but you know how incommodious our town houses are; never any bed-rooms—such a bore."
               "But perhaps you will come out here again," Mrs. Ross said, as soon as she could get her breath after that elephantine hug.
               "Certainly; you may expect me next summer; don't doubt me—I shall not fail to come."
               "That's right," said good-natured Clytemnestra.
               "Adieu, Agatha," continued the Prophetess coldly. "Of course you will send some excuse to our relative for refusing to meet your family, your natural friends—for I have none to give."
               "Oyes," replied Gay, with a cheerfulness that was wormwood to the injured Athenäis; "don't trouble yourself."
               The carriage drove away, and when it disappeared, Gay could breathe freely once more; for though Prescott of course did not expose her folly, Gay felt certain from her confidences to Mrs. Ross, that Athenäis had in some way where he was concerned been guilty of the crowning folly of her life.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               AT TAMARACK LAKE.
               A FEW days after the departure of the Prophetess, it was decided by the whole party to carry into execution a plan which had been discussed before her arrival, and relinquished during her stay among them, because it was tacitly agreed that having her for a companion would effectually destroy all the pleasure of the trip.
               They were to spend a few days at Tamarack Lake, a lovely sheet of water, oddly enough perched on the very top of the mountains some fifteen miles west of the valley, in the most impossible spot that a lake full eighteen miles in circumference could have chosen to establish itself.
               Gay and Prescott, between them, persuaded Mrs. Dane to be of the expedition; and though Margaret was somewhat doubtful of the result, she conducted herself with great good sense, and was not a bit of a nuisance from the time they started. They set out early one bright morning, in a great roomy covered vehicle, crossed the river, and drove several miles through the winding valley, past a little village that seemed enjoying a Rip Van Winkle sleep in the midst of embowering trees, past quaint old farm-houses and cultivated fields, with the river gleaming on the left hand, and all about in the distance the mountains lifting their heads misty and blue in the haze of the late summer. Near the end of the valley they turned off into a road which led up among the hills, in passable order at that season of the year, though even then a ride over it might have been warranted a better cure for dyspepsia than all the drugs and nostrums in the pharmacopœia.
               They stopped to rest at an old Dutch tavern, during the heat of the day, so that it was almost sunset when they came in sight of the lake, surrounded by a primeval forest, and looked down upon a single break in the great trees, where the long, rambling hotel stood close to the water's edge.
               The place was a favorite resort for sportsmen. Occasionally people from town strayed thither during the summer months, but in winter, the house was left as solitary as a ruined castle on the Apennines, save when a heavy fall of snow brought up some adventurous sledging-party from the valley.
               Prescott had sent word to the innkeeper that they were coming, and the sound of the carriage-wheels brought him out on the piazza with melancholy ejaculations of delight, for such of the company as he knew, uttered in sepulchral whispers that might have made one think there was a funeral in the house, and the new arrivals were the nearest relatives of the deceased.
               He was so round and fat that his stomach looked like an overstuffed dumpling, with his waistcoat for a crust, and his mouth was drawn down at the corners in a plaintive way, which contrasted oddly with the fun that twinkled in his eyes.
               "I'm glad to see you, Mr. Prescott, sir," said he in a wheezy whisper, "and all the party, known or unbeknown; to such as be, you sense we'll do our little do, and them that ain't we'll prove the case if efforts may."
               He helped them to alight, and called, in precisely the same dismal voice, to somebody inside the house.
               "Tom Puterbaugh, you cussed fool, come out and take these hosses, do, and try and arn your salt for onct. This way, ladies; it's a poor place, but we do our little do. Company's scarce with us, but there's fish and venison, and a hearty welcome for one and all. My Lady Ross, I hope you're able to hold your own? You know the place of old, and can certify that the will ain't wanting, if so be we fall short."
               "To be sure I can, Mr. Turner. How is your wife?"
               "O, there's nothing the matter with her—there never is," returned he. "Little Davy's no better—gets so all the while. That's my offspring, ma'am"—with a bow to Gay—"poor little hip-complainted creetur—was throwed off a kitching table and ruined for life—yes, indeed. This way, if you please."
               He ushered them into a large parlor, which communicated by double doors with an inner one, and still another was visible in the perspective, for the house had been built some years before, as a speculation—rather a losing one—and was on a scale large enough to have suited a popular watering-place.
               "Your rooms are all ready," continued Turner, "and supper's about so, if so be you can pick a bit in so poor a place. Them that knows will sense we do our little do—and them that don't will kindly excuse deficiencies; for, though I wouldn't mention it except in private, Mrs. Turner's not a self-helpable woman—she's consaty but not self-helpable—and all the care is histed on to me."
               "Luckily you are equal to it, Mr. Turner," said Mrs. Ross.
               "It's not to say but what I am in sperit, my lady," returned he, "but what does the Scriptur say about the flesh being weak, and what with the trial of seeing my poor hip-complainted child suffering like an angel, and every thing on my mind, even to the dinners, I wonder that I bear up as I do."
               "Why, Mr. Turner," laughed Prescott, "you are more of a martyr than usual."
               Turner indulged in a low chuckle, that only a fat man could have performed, and drew down the corners of his mouth into an expression of still deeper patience and suffering.
               "I am like an old Methodist minister that used to come to my father's house when I was a boy," said he, in his most melancholy whisper. "He always would eat green currant-pie in the season, and never failed to have the colic after—begging the ladies' pardon—so one day, my mother says, 'I wonder you don't learn wisdom, brother Shangfelt.' 'Sister Turner,' says he, 'the pie is good, and the colic makes me remember it all the longer.' It's some like that with my grumbling, I expect—it kind of cheers me up to recollect how much I get through with."
               He went out into the hall and could be heard denouncing a luckless chambermaid in the same unearthly whisper, calling down the most fearful anathemas on her soul, because she did not appear to show the ladies to their rooms. The next moment he was at the window to point out his patient-faced little boy, that a woman was holding in her arms on the lawn.
               "There he is," said he, weeping profusely; "look at him—my only offspring—throwed off a kitching table and left hip-complainted so that he'll go limping into heaven. All Mrs. Turner's fault—she's consaty, but not self-helpable. It's a moral to any body jist to look at him, and to remember that sparrows fall to the earth without costing a farthing! Ladies one and all, I hope you'll be tolerably comfortable with us; the air's salubrious, and you shan't be starved. Davy, pet, did his mother throw him off the kitching table?—O dear, O dear!"
               Presently they saw him wadding across the lawn in pursuit of a stray pig, wheezing as if his internal machinery needed lubrication, and treating Tom Puterbaugh to a few choice flowers of rhetoric that were so irresistibly absurd one forgot their outrageous profanity.
               "I think Turner gets more ridiculous every summer," said Mrs. Ross; "he ought to be yoked with Lucy and Dan to make my menagerie complete."
               "Mrs. Dane has borne the long drive better than I expected," Prescott observed to Margaret as he joined her at the window, where she stood looking out.
               But Margaret did not hear; she was gazing across the sunlit water, and recalling some verses Seaton had repeated to her, of his own composition, on a similar scene: musical and sweet, but somewhat morbid and unhealthy, like the poems most young people write and others of their age like to read.
               "I beg your pardon," she said, as she became conscious that Prescott was speaking.
               He began talking of the beauty of the place, and Margaret said, "Yes, it is very lovely; how nice it is that Mr. Seaton thought of our making the expedition."
               Prescott felt this to be rank injustice, as the whole merit of the idea and carrying it out belonged to himself, but he did not turn sulky, as Seaton would probably have done under a similar injury; he was satisfied if Margaret was pleased. Presently Mrs. Turner herself came in—a rather pretty, faded woman, with a worn, tired look and manner, which one could see a reason for, after listening a short time to her spouse's conversation. She took them away to their chambers, which were so comfortable and exquisitely clean that even Mrs. Dane was satisfied, and never once during her stay went about with her nose elevated hunting for a bad smell.
               They remained almost a week there, and the time passed pleasantly enough. The scenery about the lake was lovely in the extreme; a lofty range of mountains towered up at the northern side; the woods were picturesque and extensive, and the party had the house almost entirely to themselves.
               I think Alan Prescott had it in his mind very often, during those idle days, to tell the secret of his heart out to Margaret, but he never did it, and indeed they were seldom alone. That was owing to a quiet arrangement on Gay's part, because she wished to prevent any opportunity for Seaton to talk seriously with her, as her intuitions told her he was eager to do. He saw through her plan at last and was vexed, consoling himself by quiet attentions to Margaret which meant a good deal to her, idle as they were.
               Turner persecuted them all somewhat, in his efforts to be hospitable, but his lachrymose visage and the droll stories he told in his whimpering voice, interrupting himself in the midst of a joke to weep over Davy, were always amusing, and he managed to give them all sorts of good things to eat, at least.
               The young people would have been glad to stay longer, but Mrs. Ross considered it necessary to get back to her farm, and Mrs. Dane began to have visions of her house burned or robbed, so they were obliged to return; and Margaret confided to Gay a wonder if they should ever become so fidgety about duty as they grew older.
               "Not the slightest danger," Gay answered; "the elder generation has exhausted that virtue—we don't even know the meaning of the word."
               "I'm very glad of it," said Margaret, heartily. "I don't know a better patent for making a whole household uncomfortable."
               "They do rather employ it as a thorn for scratching themselves and every body about," Gay assented. "I wish people wouldn't make goodness so very unpleasant—I don't believe it is a bit more acceptable in the sight of the angels."
               "Dear me," returned Margaret, "I dare say the angels get just as tired of it as such ill-regulated minds as ours. I hope it is not wicked, but I often think what a dreadfully stupid place heaven will be if the good people have their way there."
               "I console myself by believing that as there are so many worlds, it is probably only people of similar tastes and sympathies who will have to be together. Now what would really and truly be paradise to an old Puritan, would be purgatory to you and me, so I suppose they will put us among the cheerful folk."
               "But we are to be so changed—"
               "Now you need not finish. I expect to be myself to the end of the chapter; getting rid of this tiresome body isn't going to make so great a change in me that I shall like dullness, else it would not be me, and I insist on my Ich."
               "Do you expect to go to heaven, Gay?"
               "Why, yes, I hope so—somewhere in eternity. I think at first it would be heaven enough to feel that I had an earnest desire to be good, and had more palpable helps than we can expect to receive here, and was not made cross and fretful by a headache or neuralgia, or any of the physical ills that torment us now, and make it so difficult to possess our souls in patience."
               "Old Miss Honeywell used to have a theory that we should all be obliged to learn Hebrew the first thing, because the patriarchs spoke it, and my mother worried me dreadfully to study the language and so save time, but I would not hear of the idea."
               "You see, Miss Honeywell wanted to go to Abraham's house—now, I don't, for I dislike him and all the other patriarchs, except Absalom, and I suppose he wasn't one. I think I shall be fond of Saint Paul, though I doubt if he likes women to this day."
               "People call you a Romanist, Gay."
               "That is because they are as ignorant as stones, my dear. Wherever the Romish church clings to the pure Catholic faith, I certainly have sympathy with it; but the two poles are not further apart, than an understanding churchman and the wretched hash Mariolatry has made of Papacy in our day."
               "I don't think I knew much about the church really, till you gave me those books to read."
               "So few people do—you needn't go far to find people in the church who will accept the proposition that it began with Henry VIII.—in perfect ignorance of history, even. It is shameful that while all sorts of useless ologies are taught in our schools, the history of the church that Christ founded, that has come down to us in an unbroken succession of bishops, plainly to be traced as any other common historical fact, should be left out, and children grow up believing that they have a right to choose among the numberless creeds which misguided men have invented out of their one-sided minds."
               "I never can help laughing when I remember how you shocked those Straight people by refusing to be called a Protestant."
               "Of course I did; I am not a heretic—I belong to the Catholic church; the other word, as applied to the church or any branch of it, is rank nonsense. Indeed, nobody has a right to it but the Lutherans, who got it by the edict of Spires, and I am sure they are welcome to it, just as the Presbyterians would be to the horrible black Geneva gown that has no right near the true altar."
               Just then Mrs. Dane called Margaret, and Gay added laughingly,
               "Luckily my preach is interrupted! But persuade your stepmother not to keep you up stairs all the evening, for there will be a lovely moon presently, and we must have a walk."
               There was no walk, however, for Margaret was obliged to stay with Mrs. Dane till it grew rather late; and before that. Gay had lost all inclination for any body's society. When Margaret obeyed her stepmother's appealing summons, Gay went into the farther parlor and was sitting by a window, looking out over the lake through the twilight, as Seaton and Prescott came up the piazza from a walk, and found her.
               "All alone?" Seaton said. "Why, the place is quiet as a tomb."
               "Miss Dane is up stairs with her stepmother," Gay replied, answering the quick look Prescott cast about rather than Seaton's words. "Mrs. Ross, possessed by her familiar, which always makes her want to do somebody some good, is initiating the landlady into the mysteries of cold-water treatment for that unfortunate little Davy, so I have sat here monarch of all I surveyed."
               "And do still," said Seaton, "since we are both men."
               "Ca va sans dire," laughed Gay; "but you never will cure yourself of the habit of saying those dreadful things."
               "Why, I thought that a very pretty little compliment for the country," returned he.
               "Applicable to the place, because it sounds as if the moss was gathering over your intellects."
               "That can't be," said Seaton; "because Aunt Hilda pronounced me a rolling stone."
               "That man never will be silenced," exclaimed Gay; "he is worse than the old general who did not know when he was beaten."
               "I hope you will bear hard on him," observed Prescott; "he deserves it, for he has been uttering all sorts of heresies."
               "Against women, of course," said Gay; "you see he is young yet."
               A very little badinage, when at his own expense, would make Seaton turn sulky, as is usually the case with people fond of sharpening their wits at the expense of others, but at present he was occupied in wondering why Prescott did not take himself out of the way. Prescott read his thought as easily as if he had been clairvoyant, but had no intention of gratifying the amiable selfishness, since, owing to Margaret's absence, he would be forced to accept solitude in order to allow spoiled Noel his own way.
               "What new heresies has he been advocating, Mr. Prescott?" Gay asked.
               "You can't depend on his accuracy," said Seaton; "I'd rather tell you myself."
               "The court prefers a more disinterested witness," returned Gay. "I choose to hear Mr. Prescott's account."
               From which Prescott perceived that for some reason she would rather he remained, so he settled himself in an easy-chair regardless of Seaton's wishes.
               "I think the basis of his diatribes was, that a woman who is a flirt is more utterly heartless and cold-blooded than a man with similar tendencies."
               "Scores of French novels have preached that before," said Gay. "You must get up something fresher if you wish to be original, Mr. Seaton."
               "I only wished to be truthful," he replied, seating himself at a distant window, and mentally vituperating Prescott for his stupidity in remaining.
               "I think he means to take refuge in ill-nature," said Gay, with her usual fondness for teasing him. "Now what did you do or say, Mr. Prescott, to put him in such a mood?"
               "Not a thing; I did not even contradict him."
               "Ah, that's the trouble then! But come, Mr. Seaton, you have made a sweeping assertion, and assertions prove nothing—being a woman I can speak learnedly on that score. You must point your moral, to have it effective."
               Seaton was inclined to take refuge in silence, or go off and smoke his pipe, to punish Miss Van Kortland for giving Prescott a pretense to stay by offering him a part in the conversation. But he remembered that she was a young woman not easy to punish, and the exile would probably be most dreary to himself, so he decided to remain. He would not even be sulky, because that always amused her; he would talk and make her listen—for he could do that when he tried—and Prescott should be reduced to the unimportant part a second man ought to play in the presence of a woman.
               "I'll tell you a story which will do it better than all my strictures could," he said.
               "But I warn you, a French romance will not be accepted as proof," returned Gay; "will it, Mr. Prescott?"
               "Plain unadulterated fact is the only evidence that will answer," said he.
               "It's not a romance," replied Seaton; "it is a fact that came under my knowledge, and I seldom talk of it because it is painful."
               "Now we shall get at the cause of his being such a misanthrope," Gay said with a rather nervous laugh. "Go on, Mr. Seaton."
               She turned towards the window so that only her profile was visible to the two men in the dim light, looking out across the lake where the moon was rising and casting white gleams over the waters.
               "It was just before I went to Europe, four years ago," Seaton began abruptly. "I had made my arrangements to start the previous autumn, but a friend persuaded me to wait for him until spring. I believe I never was much given to yielding to other people's whims, but I could not refuse Charley Murray any thing—you didn't know him, Miss Van Kortland—he was very little in this country."
               Gay made no answer; she sat quiet, still looking out over the lake.
               "He was the dearest friend I ever had," Seaton went on, gratified by the silence, as any body is when deluded into the weakness of story-telling. "We were schoolmates at Bonn, and after that were at Heidelberg together. I think without exception he was the most brilliant young man I ever knew. Every body prophesied a great future for him, and the very faults which I suppose none of us are free from, he managed to make so charming, that one loved him all the better for possessing them."
               "A paradox rather than an axiom," Prescott muttered in a quiet parenthesis, but Seaton did not choose to hear.
               "Charley had to go down to Cuba about some estate that had been left him there. He was only to stay a few weeks, but he was always the creature of impulse, so I did not wonder much when he failed to appear at the appointed time. I wrote him several letters, but he was a very uncertain correspondent, and it was a good while before I could get any answer to my wonderings and questions."
               "I think Miss Van Kortland is not well," Prescott said softly. "I believe I know the story—excuse me, but wouldn't it be better to leave it for another time."
               "I am quite well," Gay answered out of the shadow. "Please go on, Mr. Seaton—I want to hear it."
               "You know the story, Prescott?" Seaton asked in surprise. "Do you mean the real one, or that which the world believed?"
               "I know the truth," Prescott replied.
               "Then I may tell it as it really was," Seaton said, "since it will be quite safe with Miss Van Kortland."
               "Quite safe," she returned in a low voice.
               "Your voice does sound as if you were not well," he exclaimed anxiously. "Suppose we go and walk."
               "No," Gay replied in the same methodical tone. "The evening is oppressive—I would rather sit still. Let me hear the rest."
               She leaned forward, resting her arms on the window-sill; they could see her profile in the rays of the rising moon; if it had been cut out of marble it could not have looked paler and more quiet.
               "Well, Charley's letter came at last," Seaton continued, "a crazy, incoherent affair, but it afforded ample reason for his stay and his silence. He raved like a Bedlamite over some girl with wonderful hair and eyes. A few weeks after, he wrote again; he was the happiest of men—he was engaged to his idol. There was more incoherency, more blots than in the former epistle—he did not even manage to tell her name."
               Seaton paused, thinking Miss Van Kortland had spoken, but she sat there in the same motionless attitude; this time it was Prescott who urged him almost sharply to continue.
               "It was certain that Charley would not be my companion on the trip, and I must prowl about Europe and go up the Nile alone. I started as early in the spring as was practicable, and when I reached Paris, after a week's stay in England, I found another letter from him awaiting me—the last he would ever write to me or any body."
               "He killed himself," Prescott said in a hard voice, cruelly ruining the point of Seaton's story.
               "It was written an hour before he committed suicide," Seaton added, "and with the letter came news from friends in New York announcing his death. Insane as he was, he could remember to have mercy on his mother and sisters; nobody but myself, as I thought, knew the truth—at least it was given out and generally believed that his death was the result of an accident."
               "Certainly a little reparation on his part," Prescott said.
               "Reparation?" exclaimed Seaton excitedly. "He had been driven mad! That girl proved a fiend, false and cruel as only a heartless woman can be. She fooled him with her coquetries—it seemed that she had no real intention of marrying him, and he discovered it when some richer man came there. He did not tell the story clearly, but I could understand the whole—her conduct had been worse than devilish."
               
               The moon rose higher and east a flood of pallid radiance into the room, resting like a halo on the bands of Gay Van Kortland's hair, showing half her face as she gazed out into the night, but she had not stirred.
               "Are you sure that he did not deceive himself?" Prescott asked. "A jealous man's fancies are not often to be trusted."
               Seaton turned angrily towards him.
               "I have the word of a dying man," he said; "he had been duped, his whole life wrecked by a creature who deserved to be held up to the scorn and loathing of the whole world. She lives with the curse of a dying man upon her head. She should find that I would take the vengeance due her crime into my own hands if I had been able to find her."
               "'Vengeance is mine and I will repay, saith the Lord,'" rang out Prescott's voice with a stern solemnity.
               "I would, at all events, have constituted myself the minister," retorted Seaton bitterly, "in spite of religion or morality. I would most certainly have exposed her for what she was—she should never have had another opportunity of adding to her victims. But he had not so much as told me her name. He asked me to punish her if the possibility ever arrived—but I tried in vain. You say you know the truth—can you tell me her name?"
               "I knew the bare fact," Prescott replied; "I can give you no information in regard to the lady."
               "I wish you could; I wish to Heaven you could!" exclaimed Seaton, in a broken, passionate voice. "I took an oath to punish her, and if it is ever in my power I will keep it! The time will come—I don't know how or when, but I feel sure it will come—and then I swear, as I have sworn before, that those whose esteem she holds dearest shall know her for what she is."
               He stopped and tried to control the passion which shook him from head to foot.
               "That sounds very melodramatic," he said with a little laugh, "but I mean it; I mean every word. That man was the dearest friend I ever had. I will yet stand by his grave and be able to say that I have been faithful to my friendship—that I have redeemed his last request."
               "And do you think, if he hears you now, that your promise can afford him pleasure or help him on towards peace?" Prescott asked.
               "I believe it would be right, at all events," returned he. "Nothing should prevent my keeping my oath—nothing! If it were my own sister—if it were the woman I was to lead to the altar in an hour—I would be true to my word; I would tell the story out in the very church."
               "I am unable to sympathize with such feelings," said Prescott severely. "Some benighted old Roman might have made such a vow a part of his religion, but it is unworthy the light and wisdom of our century."
               "I didn't ask for sympathy," retorted Seaton, still shivering with the excitement any reference to that trouble roused in his mind. "I only said what I would do, and I should not relent. You may have a different creed—you are welcome to it; I am not ashamed of mine and I shall never change."
               Prescott would have answered, but Miss Van Kortland turned slowly from the window, and apparently by chance her eyes rested upon him. He remained silent.
               "I don't believe you blame me," Seaton continued, appealing to her. "At least you will confess that the feeling is natural. You are a woman, good and honest, you can pity that poor boy; that broken, ruined life."
               "I can pity him," she said gently, "but there is one I must pity more."
               "I don't know what you mean."
               "The woman."
               "Pity her—you, of all people—so upright, so clear in your judgment; you could pity one of your own sex who is really a murderess—yes, and a cold, calculating one?"
               "If she was guilty, I pity her. Think of the terrible remorse that must have come when it was too late—gone with her ever since—made life a torment! If she was innocent—"
               "She was not; I deny the possibility," Seaton interrupted.
               "Then I pity her all the more," was her answer.
               "I am not capable of such seraphic sentiments," said Seaton savagely. I believe there are instances where the old Mosaic doctrine of an eye for an eye should hold good to this day."
               "And yet," Prescott rejoined almost in a whisper, "He died to do away with that law."
               "I am not equal to a theological argument," said Seaton with another scornful laugh. "I freely confess that faith is not one of my leading attributes. Theoretically some of the doctrines of the Catholic church may answer, but I don't aspire to saintliness."
               Gay rose from her chair, and gathered a thin shawl she had about her shoulders more closely over them.
               "I shall bid you good-night," she said; "I think we have supped full enough of horrors."
               "It is early yet," pleaded Seaton; "I promise to forget all about these doleful matters."
               She turned in the doorway, and looked back at him. She was pale but very quiet, only Prescott, sitting near where she stood, could see the mark of two deep lines across her forehead—a sure sign, with her, of intense fatigue and pre-occupation.
               "You are quite worn out, Miss Van Kortland," he said, as both men rose from their seats.
               "I beg your pardon for inflicting my history on you," added Seaton penitently; "I don't know how I came to do it."
               "I'm glad you did," she replied with a weary smile; "one always likes to know all about one's acquaintance, and you know a touch of the romantic and horrible has an interest for us women."
               She dropped her fan, and Seaton was springing forward to pick it up, but Prescott was nearest her and anticipated him, and Seaton, in a mood to be vexed at trifles, felt unreasonably enough that he hated the fellow. He was sorry now that he had been led into so passionate an outburst, because he believed it had pained Gay to find him violent and vindictive. It they had been alone he could have explained to her that he was not so on any other subject; softened her judgment by details of his boyish love for his ill-fated friend, and stories of his nobility and impulsive generosity; but there Prescott stood, tall and immovable, and nothing could be said or done beyond the slight relief he found in detesting the man with redoubled energy.
               Miss Van Kortland went up stairs to her own room, and though Margaret and Mrs. Ross saw her passing along the hall, and told her they were going down stairs, she paid no attention and did not again appear that night.
               Officious Turner brought lamps into the parlor, with many ejaculations of distress at finding they had been there so long in the dark.
               "I was tuckered out," he said, "and dropped into a doze in my chair, and that's always the way things go if I hain't my shoulder to the wheel every minute. Can't depend on nobody—these Paddies ought to be strung up like onions, twenty in a bunch, and Miss Turner's no better—she's consaty enough, in all conscience, but not a bit self-helpable—not a bit."
               The two ladies came in, and the lights and the cheerful conversation only increased Seaton's unpleasant feelings, so he took himself out of reach and went off for a solitary row, sitting in the boat in the middle of the lake, and letting it drift where it would, while he smoked innumerable pipes and muttered verses to the moon which had, at least, the merit of being musical, if they were more gloomy and misanthropic than was right.
               The next day the party returned to the valley, and the expedition was generally voted a success, though the mountain air did not appear to have agreed with Miss Van Kortland, for she looked pale, and worn, and sufficiently near her real age to have delighted Athenäis Schuyler had she been by to remark it, and she would have at once pronounced it a judgment on the obstinate girl for being so cruel to a gushing, soulful creature like her dear prophetic self.
               Turner was loud in his lamentations at losing them, and was only partially soothed by a promise from all to come the next season.
               "We can't connt on futurities," moaned Turner: "jist look at poor little hip-complainted Davy—there's a moral for you! When I was looking out to his growing big and strong—all our best plans gits throwed off kitching tables by some keerlessness. It's all very well to smile, Miss Turner," he continued wrathfully to his spouse, who certainly had not been guilty of the indiscretion, "but less consatiness and more self-helpableness would be better, I think."
               He bade each farewell in turn, as mournfully as if he knew they were to be driven to certain destruction, and even Mrs. Dane laughed so much at remembering his oddities that she forgot to be nervous in going down the steep hills, which made the whole party regard Turner in the light of a benefactor.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               HOW THEY PARTED.
               THE morning after their return, Aunt Hilda came up to Orchard Hill to express her delight to Gay and Mrs. Ross at seeing them back in safety.
               "I had a heap of talk, just as I started, with Mr. Seaton," she said; "he reeled it off about the mountains just like poetry, but I was ready for him with Lord Byron, and he appreciated it—picturful creatur and so delightsomely wicked. I see Mr. Prescott prance by on that black horse of his—my dears, that man's as steady and firm as the unrevolving hills."
               "I am inclined to think he is your favorite," Gay said.
               "My Lady Gay, they're so different! I hain't a word to say agin Mr. Seaton, he's the beautifulest creatur I ever set eyes on; but he's of the poetic temperament, and they're never so mountain-like in the way of fixedness as men like Mr. Prescott—I know, because I'm of that order myself, though you wouldn't think it—romantical, I mean, and they're always more volatile and unsartin."
               "I think you are right, Aunt Hilda," Gay said laughing; but the oddly expressed speech went home, and added to the dreary thoughts that had been in her mind all the morning.
               "I stopped at Crosslands," pursued Aunt Hilda. "How I do like that way of giving places a name—it's like a novel! I've ben cogitating on one for my patch; but howsever, I saw the Pearl, and I telled her a little about it."
               "About what?" inquired Mrs. Ross. "Now don't do poetry if you have any news, Aunt Hilda, for you know I can't appreciate it."
               "Law, suz!" cried Aunt Hilda, "I forgot I hadn't said a word about it! I'm getting as forgetful as my grandmother was: she used to hunt for her spectacles, and turn the house over, when she had them on all the while—it sort of goes with the romantical mind. Now I'll warrant you, Lord Noel never knows where he's put a thing, and though order's beautiful and I admire it, somehow a leetle confusion is very soothing to the feelins."
               But Aunt Hilda's mind soon went back to the interesting topic which had afforded her so much food for thought and conversation during the last two days. There had been another passage of arms between herself and her old enemy Abelard Straight, and as Aunt Hilda was generally considered to have been victorious in the encounter, she was in high spirits at the recollection.
               During the strawberry season the Straights had purchased fruit of Aunt Hilda, and the lean man's stomach so particularly delighted in one species of berries which grew in a small bed by themselves, that he made a bargain with Mrs. Gallagher to reserve all which ripened for his use. Aunt Hilda was willing; she always demanded and received several cents more on a quart than any other vender of the luscious fruit, but she found no objection to selling them to her enemy if he was willing to pay her price—a thing he had never done before, but this summer strawberries proved scarce, and he was forced to plead with Aunt Hilda to get them from her. Like most lean men his appetite for delicacies was immense, and it was the only point in which desire ever got the better of his rather noted avarice.
               Matters had gone on smoothly enough; Aunt Hilda carried basket after basket of the red-lipped beauties to her enemy's door, and for the greater part of them received payment on the spot. But two or three times there chanced to be nobody at home but a servant, so that there was a small amount still due Mrs. Gallagher, and she, as was natural, wished to obtain it. But behold, an unexpected difficulty arose; it was averred that Aunt Hilda had made an error in her mental addition, and was charging for several quarts more than had been received. Mrs. Gallagher was positive, but the Straight females were equally so, and as they were supported in the certainty that they could never be mistaken, by the fact that they were Presbyterians and New Englanders to boot, it was not to be expected that they would yield.
               Aunt Hilda called several times, and there was rather sharp skirmishing between the parties; at least three original Straights, own sisters to the lean man (though they had years before exchanged their family name for those of three luckless individuals, who were any thing rather than their lords and masters), assisted the housekeeper of Aunt Hilda's foe in rebutting her charges, and were prepared to be so exact, as good Presbyterians are on all occasions, that they could name not only the number of quarts but of the berries, and relate just how many half-ripe ones had been found in the baskets.
               Aunt Hilda scorned absolutely to do battle with such frail Amazons, and went to the house when the male head himself was at home; but Abelard took refuge in piety and faith in his family's ability to count—told Aunt Hilda how much he had lately given to the Flathead Indians, and how much to help buy missionaries to be eaten up in the cannibal islands. But Aunt Hilda was not to be softened into relinquishing a farthing of her demand, and since she could not get the money due her, she determined to obtain a little public satisfaction, that she might somewhat lessen the account.
               She astonished the pious gentleman one day by entering his place of business—artfully choosing her time when she knew several coal-men from town were there—walked up to him, and said, with profound gravity,
               "Mr. Straight, you said you couldn't afford to pay me for the last six quarts of strawberries 'cause you had ben helping buy a missionary for the cannibals to eat. Now you wanted me to save you all the Hoveys I had, and so I did, except a few that I presarved, 'cause they were so proper fine. But I've ben a-thinking of it over, and what a hard-workin' man you always was from the time you was clerk for old Bunnell, and pleased him so 'cause you picked out the big eggs and sold 'em for two cents more a dozen; and I remembered all your prayin' and exhortin' in the meetins, and how self-sacrificing you'd ben for the sake of the cannibals, and willing to take from your neighbors too by hard bargains, if they was widders and orphans, and I thought it was a pity your children shouldn't have sumpthing sweet all winter, so I brought down this jar of presarves, 'cause you ordered all in the bed, and you can put it in along with them berries you refused to pay me for, and the can and the sugar is nothing extra. I believe in helping the heathens too, and it's a pleasure, though I am a poor woman; but I'd ruther begin nearer home than you do, and so there's the presarves, can and all, and my compliments to you, Mr. Abelard Straight."
               Long as the speech was, Aunt Hilda uttered it so glibly that there was no possibility of interrupting her, set the jar down, and disappeared before the good man could say a word; and the laughter among his companions was so long and loud, that he found no opportunity after her departure to make the affair appear more favorable for himself.
               Aunt Hilda related the story with great glee, and averred that she would have cheerfully, sacrificed double the amount of strawberries for the satisfaction of administering the rebuke.
               When she went home Mrs. Ross walked with her to visit some poor sick person. She was always playing the Good Samaritan towards somebody that needed help and comfort.
               Gay had the rest of the morning to herself, for Seaton had been seized with an industrious fit, and staid in his rooms writing as diligently as if he were a poor devil of a literary man, obliged to do a certain number of pages if he expected any dinner.
               It was a beautiful September day, hazy and soft, and the old farmhouse was so quiet that the buzzing of a great fly on the window-pane sounded like a small trumpet; the robins congregated in flocks in the apple-trees, discussing their southward flight with loud noise and contention, the youngest among them lifting their shrill voices in the argument with as much assurance as if they had made the journey scores of times, and were fully capable of offering any amount of advice to their black-headed elders. Driven out of the sitting-room by the irritating blue-bottle, Gay established herself in the veranda with her writing-desk on her knee, and made preparations for writing at least a dozen letters, and offering amends to her correspondents for her long period of indolence and inattention; but when a couple of hours had gone by, she discovered that she had accomplished nothing, and so put the paper and ink aside in disgust.
               She sat watching the great fleecy white clouds drift slowly across the sky, the lights and shadows chase each other over the valley below, listening absently to the talk of the red-breasted thrushes and the voice of the waterfall, while her lonely thoughts strayed hither and thither, and found no pleasant hope whereon to rest. The summer had gone; the transitory peace was going likewise out of her life, and the future looked bare as an autumn landscape from which the November winds have swept the last leaf. It was not merely a morbid fancy with her; during the long hours of the past night she had made her decision, and saw clearly what was to be done. She must send Noel Seaton from her; the possibility of trusting to his love no longer remained, and they had reached a point where he would not content himself with the semblance of friendship which had so poorly hidden deeper feelings.
               These things sound romantic enough in books, they make very young people yearn vaguely for some poetical trouble; but they are terribly hard and prosaic when they come actually home to our lives, and force the last of our youth out under their weight. She must send him from her, and these quiet weeks had taught her what his presence and his love had grown to her. She attempted no compromise with herself; honestly, and with a cruel disregard of her own suffering, she looked the matter full in the face and did not shrink from the bitter truth. She loved this man with the enthusiasm of a girl, with all the strength of her womanhood added. From that odd faculty so many imaginative people possess, with a certain side of her mind she could regard the whole story as clearly as if it were not her own, but that changed nothing—she loved him. Whatever his faults might be, and she discovered great ones of a kind which she did not suppose existed in his character, she loved him, and her heart was as regardless of every argument that her reason could urge, as if she had been actuated by the willfulness of sixteen while listening to the experience of an older mind.
               She neither wept nor wrung her hands; the worst was yet to come, and she could not waste her strength in doing tragedy now. She had to send from her the only love that would ever be worth acceptance, and after it was wrenched suddenly away, life must go on and the ruins be carefully covered up from every human eye. She could decide upon no course; there might remain a few weeks more of deceitful calm or he might at any moment come to her with fresh pleas and protestations, but whenever uttered they must be the last. Her dream was over; her youth had come to an end in that decision which she forced upon her soul as irrevocable.
               The white clouds floated slowly over the sky, the river gleamed like a silver mist in the distance, the thrushes talked, the song-sparrows trilled their autumn chant, the waterfall laughed and danced, every sight and sound was full of peace and happiness, and there she sat and gazed and heard, as a mournful ghost might stare out of purgatory up into the blue heavens, and catch the rythm of gladness, so near, and yet such hopeless worlds away from its own misery.
               The brightness of sunset flamed into the sky. Mrs. Ross had not yet returned, and, regardless of a summons to tea, Gay passed through the orchard and strayed towards the pine-wood on the summit of the hill. She wanted to get out of the reach of any human being; the gloom and stillness of the grove would be preferable to the glory and light of the dying day. But she was not left long to herself; she saw Noel Seaton come up the ascent, and presently he was by her side, saying with his almost boyish laugh,
               "You see I have found you out! Clytemnestra's handmaidens could only tell me that you had disappeared. The fat one evidently thought you ill or crazy, because you started off just as tea was ready."
               "I knew she wouldn't let me alone, and I didn't want tea," Gay answered.
               "You look as if you were not in a mood to be troubled by any thing or any body sublunary," said he, "but I shall stay, notwithstanding, for I have hardly seen you alone since the Prophetess descended upon us."
               That seemed a long while ago to Gay; those quiet weeks were almost endless to look back upon, and they held such stores of peace and pleasantness which would add to the bitterness of regret during all time to come.
               "I have been very happy here," Noel went on, as he seated himself near her at the foot of a group of gnarled pine-trees, which shivered and complained in the faint breeze with a sorrowful murmur that haunted Gay long after. "Haven't you enjoyed the quiet and the busy idleness?"
               "Yes," she replied indifferently; "it has been agreeable enough—one could always look forward to its coming to an end."
               "You are in a worldly, unsympathetic mood," said he; "please come out of it, and let's be Arcadians, as is proper, considering the place."
               "You see my imagination is not so brilliant as yours."
               "Now you talk as you do when you are vexed. I am sure I am not in fault this time, so don't punish me."
               "Then don't begin to excuse yourself; there is nothing that proves conscious guilt so clearly."
               "I think you were annoyed with me last night," he added; "I always get excited when I recall that old story, and that stupid fellow staid close by, so that I could not excuse myself by telling you all my reasons for loving poor Charley Murray."
               "I was not annoyed with you," she said rather coldly; "but I don't wish to be reminded of that dismal history."
               "We won't talk about it; but you think I am wrong to feel as I do towards that woman?"
               "We need not discuss the matter; you said that your determination was irrevocable, so my opinion could have no effect."
               "Irrevocable," he answered, and she could see his mouth set firm and hard under the drooping mustache. "On any other subject your opinion would have the greatest influence with me, but here nothing can move me."
               She looked silently down through the winding aisles of the wood into the darkness, while the pine-trees moaned more loudly in their dreary complaint.
               "What are you thinking of, Gay?" he asked.
               "Many things—nothing—for there was no distinct thought in my mind; that is always a stupid question."
               "Now be good and forget my doing dramatics last night; it was silly of me to tell the story."
               "It is told and done with."
               "And to be forgotten?"
               She repeated his words, but he remembered after that it was in a tone more like a question than an assurance. He led the conversation away from the subject, hoping to change her mood that he might venture to talk of the wishes which were uppermost in his heart in these days. He thought she had forgotten it at length, for while he talked pleasantly she got back to her usual manner, but it was only that she began to hope he would leave at rest the old matter, which could never again be treated playfully, or warded off with teasing jests.
               "I have been so happy here," he said suddenly; "I can't remember such quiet, golden days during my whole life. Haven't I been tolerably good, Gay? I have not worried you to make up your mind; we have been like two good honest friends."
               He was coming to it after all! Her first impulse was to rise and insist on going to the house, but she cheeked the weakness. Why struggle for an added day or two of that delusive peace, and so leave herself still more poignant memories? Better that it should all end here; she could bear it as well now as ever—let him speak.
               "Won't you own that I have been good?" he urged; "that's downright wicked of you, but it's only another proof of the slight reward virtue gets in this world."
               His playfulness grated harshly on her car, but she answered unconcernedly,
               "It will assist you in making a Diogenes of yourself."
               "I think I might have my reward now," he went on; "before we go away from this quiet place you might tell me that you have put by your old fears; that you can trust me—can believe in my love."
               "That would be carrying Arcadian simplicity too far," she said with a miserable attempt at her old playfulness, which hurt her cruelly, it was so out of place, but she could not help it. She kept telling herself it was as well then to bear her suffering as ever, yet she strove for a moment's respite—one more look at that handsome, eager face, before she saw it change-into the anger and dislike which it must henceforth wear when they chanced to meet.
               "Don't trifle with me, Gay," he said earnestly, "I am not equal to it; only listen, and you shall tease me as much as you please after."
               She repeated the last word to herself, and the moan of the pine-trees seemed to echo it in mockery—he talked of what was to be after, and the end had come.
               "I love you, Gay—you must believe it by this time. I didn't wonder at first that you doubted me, I have been such a changeable, worthless animal; but you know now that this feeling only grows stronger with every day and week. I love you with my whole heart and soul! Gay, speak to me; I have borne my probation patiently. I thought it right, but I have proved to you that it was no fancy, no whim—it is the love of my life; my whole destiny is in your hands."
               "Don't," she said faintly; "I can't hear you talk in this way."
               "You must hear me," he returned; "I can not wait any longer! I must have some sure hope on which to build."
               "I told you long ago this could not be," she answered, with that strong effort to preserve composure which always makes one appear hard and cold; "I have always told you that."
               "But I did not believe it, nor did you," he hurried on. "You do care for me, Gay. I am not a vain idiot, but I know that you care for me. You would not have treated me as you have—put me on such different terms from other men; it was utter folly to call ourselves merely friends. Let the disguise end here, Gay. Tell me that you do care—that you will try to love me!"
               "I can tell you no such thing," she replied, almost harshly.
               He looked at her with a sudden anger paling his face: her eyes did not fall beneath his glance; they were cold and dull with the despair that neither asked nor expected pity.
               "What does this mean?" he asked. "Let us get at the truth, Gay. Are you trifling with me—trying to exert your power to its fullest extent? There is no need: be generous, for I come with my whole heart to ask your love."
               "I have told you over and over that it was useless—hopeless;" for this repetition was all she could utter.
               "Are you mad? Are you the falsest and most perfidious of women?" he exclaimed hotly, then cheeked himself and tried to control his sudden anger.
               "I am whatever you please to think me," she answered.
               "For all these long months I have given you the whole love and devotion of my heart. I have been patient—O, in a way of which a better man might be proud—and you can treat me like this! I can't believe it—I don't."
               She was silent.
               "This has not been mere coquetry," he cried; "there is some reason back; I will know it—I have a right."
               "I told you always that there were many reasons," she said.
               "But not in a way to make me believe it. Great God! this can not be true! You are trying me—you know my jealous, suspicious nature. O, reproach me—be angry with me for having a harsh thought! Gay, speak to me—speak to me!"
               The inexpressible tenderness and pathos of his voice moved her as no anger could have done; her lips quivered, her eyes looked misty and dim, but not a tear fell.
               "I might tell you a lie," she replied slowly, "but I will not. You ask me for an explanation—I have none to give."
               "Are we to part here?" he asked.
               "I suppose so—yes, what else is left?"
               "Gay, Gay, you are driving me mad! Do you know what you are saying, what you are doing?"
               "Yes, I know—there is nothing else to do."
               "I will not believe you are in earnest. I'd rather suffer torture eternally than believe you so false. I tell you I love you—I love you! There is nothing I would not do to prove it, short of falsifying the oath I swore to that dead man; you could ask me nothing, no proof, that I would refuse to give."
               She must bid him go; she must sit there and see him depart, conscious that in all the space between her and the blue heaven which looked so cruel and so far off, there was no relief, no hope of companionship.
               "Speak to me, Gay—end this! Tell me I may love you, or crush my heart utterly."
               His voice seemed to her disordered senses to come up from a distance; hers sounded in her ears like the tones of a stranger as she answered,
               "You must not love me."
               He caught her hands in a spasm of rage; controlled himself sufficiently to let them go, and she heard his voice again:
               "I begin to believe you. I think I understand. You want more wealth than I can offer. You have dallied because such heart as you have had gone out towards me. You mean to sell yourself to some richer man."
               "No, no," she broke in, but stopped quickly, because she remembered that the denial could only lead to fresh questions.
               "You are afraid to own it—I don't wonder! Look here; you shall change your bridal-wreath for a widow's veil before the wedding-ring is warm on your finger."
               "Don't say any more," she said in the same cold, unnatural voice; "you will be sorry to remember that you used threats to a woman. I don't much care what you think of me. I told you long ago I had no faith in any human being—in myself least of all. I did not mean to say that—only this: I can bear to lose your love, but it is hard for me to give up my friend, my kind, patient friend."
               "What is this woman made of?" cried Seaton in angry amazement. "Do you expect me still to be your friend—to forget how you have wrecked my life—put away my own pain lest you should be troubled with transitory regrets?"
               "I suppose you could not," she murmured. "O, I have been very blind! At least, when you are gone, think of me with as little harshness as you can."
               "I have great reason to make the effort, have I not?"
               "No reason—none—but if you could!"
               "Do you think I am more than human. Could any man do less than hate your very memory?"
               "I suppose not," she answered in the same dreary way. "But later—years hence—you may be able to. Perhaps some time you will be glad to have done so—maybe never in this world; but so many things may seem different up yonder, you know."
               She was gazing into the sky towards which she pointed, and the despairing eyes seemed trying to pierce the mysteries of that future life, and find some comfort which this life denied.
               "Gay, what does all this mean?—what am I to think?"
               "Perhaps you will come to hate me—I can't tell. I see now that I have been very wrong, but I have had so little confidence in any love, and I did so want to keep my friend."
               "Gay! Gay!" The heart-breaking entreaty in his voice changed the current of her thoughts. Any thing was better than to see him suffer as he was doing; better that he should loathe and despise her, even that his anger should make him reckless and mad, than that he should endure such pain. She could not live and know that he was bearing this trouble; she must end it by showing him that she was not worth either his love or regret. She was dizzy and faint; not so weak yet but that she could summon the indomitable will which had served her so often—make one more effort to appear the heartless, cruel coquette that the world believed her.
               "I think we have done enough of this," she exclaimed, bursting into a laugh which sounded sweet enough though it seemed to her as if it cut across her very heart-strings. "It is pretty—rather sensational too—but it is past tea-time and we had better go in."
               He stared at her in a stupid wonder. Had he lost his senses, or was she mad herself?
               "Gay," he began hurriedly, "Gay—"
               "Yes," she interrupted, laughing still, while her head reeled and through the mist that gathered about her sight she could only see his troubled face; "I hear—that's the way they do in novels! You play your part in the scene very prettily, but I think it has gone far enough. Why, man, don't stare at me in that dazed fashion—one would really think we had both been in earnest."
               "God help me!" he groaned; "if this be you, I had better have been struck blind and deaf than lived to see this hour."
               Something in her very soul seemed to wrench apart—no way to describe the sensation, only that it was as if she were watching with her bodily eyes her own ghost fall, fall down from a measureless height that had no bottom unless in eternity. Blind and dizzy and well-nigh mad—feeling deserted by humanity and accursed by God; blind and dizzy and faint, but holding fast to her purpose, though life itself appeared ebbing from her—able to execute it still. She must finish her work—it was forced upon her—there was no appeal possible—no hope that any after-time would enable her to make amends. She wanted it finally settled; better the utter desolation of her present than any danger of a renewal of this scene from leaving her work half done. The world was sweeping away into chaos, and her soul sinking further and deeper into the impenetrable darkness, but she held fast to her resolve.
               "In the name of heaven, Gay," she heard him exclaim, "if there is any trace of womanhood about you, speak and end this!"
               "I did speak—I have ended it! Bless me, Mr. Seaton, how very dull you are to-day. I have told you over and over that I liked a history and a mystery—it pleases me—it keeps up the interest to an actress like me."
               He caught her two hands and held them firmly in his own, crying out sternly,
               "Look me in the face; say this over."
               If she had been dead and cold her eyelids could scarcely have been heavier, but she lifted them; looked at him, though his features were indistinct, moving, floating like the reeling landscape beyond.
               "What your purpose may be is not my business; what object you have in breaking with me now and here I do not know or care, but one thing you shall answer me."
               She was so near insane from suffering, that the hysterical laugh with which she replied to his words was terribly natural.
               "Quite right," she said; "we are getting near the place where the chapter ought to break off with, 'to be continued.' But be more quiet—don't hurt my hands, please."
               "I can understand how men have murdered women they loved," he muttered, throwing away her hands and retreating as if from some horrible impulse of passion. "But I want an answer to my one question; I shall never ask you another."
               She laughed out again; she would have cheeked the horrible merriment if she could, but was unable. In another instant she heard his voice again, sharp with passion and suffering,
               "Did you ever care for me? Was there ever any tenderness in your heart for me?"
               "I don't know about owning one! why should you have expected me to be in earnest? It was a fair game between two acknowledged flirts; why do you turn on me now?"
               "Are you in any trouble? Is this acting?"
               "Not a bit; I am telling the truth at last."
               "I feel," said Seaton, drawing his hand across his eyes to clear his sight, "I feel as if this must be a dreadful nightmare. It's not true—it's not true—you are deceiving me!"
               He looked at her standing there cold and immovable, and the fresh weakness died.
               "What an immense fool you must think me!" he said; "I am a little surprised at myself. You see I was silly enough to be in earnest. I should as soon have thought of doubting my faith in the hereafter and in God as you—they are all gone together now. You will excuse me if I have made a scene; it comes hard on a man to wrench all trust in both worlds so suddenly from him."
               Between rage and despair Seaton staggered like a drunken man; she saw him, but bore it for his sake. It saved him from worse suffering, she was conscious of repeating to herself. Then she heard his voice, strained and unnatural, raining cruel words down upon her that stung her tortured heart into fresh vitality.
               "I might curse you," he cried, "I have the right—but we'll not do any more of the sensation novel, Miss Van Kortland. I acknowledge myself defeated. I thank you for the lesson you have given me. The last faith I had in woman goes with it; the rest shall pay for what you have made me suffer. I might tell you that if I go to ruin you are to blame, but I shall never be idiot enough to be ruined by any woman! If I go to the devil, it shall be from sheer wickedness—remember that."
               She saw him—heard him—no power of sight left but for his wild face set in the blackness which wrapped the landscape from her gaze—deafened by the roar and tumult in her ears till she would not have noticed a cannon exploding at her feet—but able to hear his voice still.
               "I do not even say farewell; of course we shall meet and behave like other people. Remember, when in the midst of the world you worship I am most courteous, then I despise you most! Remember, when you are the most courted, the most insolent in the pride of your lying beauty, that I loathe you most—that I am looking straight into your soul and seeing all its vileness, in spite of the show that deceives the fools at your feet."
               The voice ceased—the white face framed in the darkness made by her blinded sight disappeared; it was as if the final ruins of the world had fallen with a great crash and she sat there alone. How long, she did not know; how she got into the house she could not tell; what followed was a blank to her. But hours after, she found herself in her room—on the bed; the evening had come, and two pale stars were looking at her through the parted curtains. Her soul had come back from its trance and life was to go on once more.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               WAKENED AT LAST.
               THE glowing hues of the sunset were fading into the first soft gray twilight as Noel Seaton hurried off, anxious only to escape the sight of the woman who had maddened him, capable of no thought beyond a vague determination to put leagues of land and sea between them for the time to come.
               Gay had been guilty of the mistake we all of us so often make when a great trouble arises; she had committed the sin which we snatch at in our blindness, because we are afraid to tell the truth and trust to God. She had done wrong, hoping that right might come of it. In so doing she had uprooted the last relic of faith in Noel Seaton's soul, and sent him forth utterly reckless and ready to grasp at any mad excitement which promised him forgetfulness. Seaton's life had not been one to make him respect or have confidence in women, but he had believed in Gay; she had held a place apart in his soul, and in time, through his love and confidence in her, a more generous belief in her whole sex would have purified his nature by its influence, as the last wayward follies of youth dropped from him, or were gladly flung aside in the clearer light to which he might have gone forward.
               He had passed the season when there is a certain fascinating interest about wickedness, and to live a Parisian romance seems a beautiful thing to do; he had only needed some strong guiding arm to lead him on towards better things, and trust in her might have enabled him to find that. But he was wholly in the dark now; from long self-indulgence, from habits of skepticism, from all the debasing influences of a worldly life, he was incapable of struggling towards the day through love of the right. He was dashed back upon his miserable fatalist creeds, which were only a form of infidelity; so maddened by those very doubts that for a time, at least, merely for the sake of silencing them, he would take refuge in a course founded upon the wretched maxim of Epicureanism—"Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we must die." If he had thought where he intended to go, it would have been towards the village; but in his haste he followed the opposite direction, and was deep in the wood before he cheeked his speed. He threw himself upon the ground and gave himself a prey to the devils that tore at his heart; in that horrible state of mind which many a man can understand—God help us all!—when it was a satisfaction to admit a belief in some overruling Power that he might upbraid Him; when, if he could have discovered an unpardonable sin, there would have been a fiendish delight in committing it.
               I might employ the most exaggerated language and fail to give you any idea of his sufferings or the feeling they engendered, unless you are able from experience to picture them; and however over-wrought and unnatural my words sounded, they would be faint exponents of his misery.
               He roused himself at last and went away through the darkness of the wood, coming out into the fields back of Crosslands. He had no intention of entering the house, no desire to encounter any one of its occupants; but a path led down through the grounds and he followed it mechanically. He was scarcely conscious that he was near the dwelling until he heard the sound of music; he knew that Margaret was playing softly to herself, as her habit was, when alone in the twilight. He did not think much of her; it was only a desire to make Gay believe that he had gone away quite master of himself, since he could stop anywhere to make his adieus.
               He turned towards the steps, looked across the veranda into the sombre room, and saw Margaret seated at the piano. She was alone; he hurried in through the hall, and startled her by his muffled tread upon the carpet. She rose quickly from the instrument and turned towards him, seeing his face clearly enough to discover its pallor and trouble. She uttered his name; a premonition of some dreadful calamity rushed upon her and took away her strength.
               "Did you think I was a ghost?" he asked with a hollow laugh.
               "I did not hear you come in. Is there any thing the matter, Mr. Seaton?"
               "What an odd question! Why do you ask?"
               "You look so pale, and you came in so hurriedly. You are sure you don't bring any bad news?"
               "I don't suppose you will think it so. Nobody can be expected to but myself."
               "O, what is it? what has happened?"
               "Nothing—nothing! Why you don't mean that you would care, whatever it might be—provided it only concerned me?"
               "I should care very much," she replied, a little hurt by his tone and manner, but too full of womanly sympathy to think of herself.
               "How pretty such words sound," he exclaimed; "well, well, it costs nothing to say them and I suppose it is more polite."
               "You are not quite kind, Mr. Seaton," Margaret said, conscious that her voice trembled; "but I know you do not mean it; something troubles you."
               "I am going away—that's all," he replied abruptly.
               "Going away?" she repeated, and her last strength seemed to leave her as she spoke. She sat down again upon the music-stool and looked at him, her parted lips still framing those cruel words, though they uttered no sound.
               
               "Yes, going away; sounds dolefully always, does it not? The sort of thing that must be said sooner or later, however, in this dull old world; it doesn't mean much in my case, you know."
               "Is not this very sudden?" she asked, as soon as she could speak.
               "O, I am an erratic animal at the best of times. Yes; it is rather sudden though; I am off to-night."
               "But you are coming back?"
               "I am not coming back," he answered sharply.
               There was a silence; Margaret could hear her heart throb painfully; it seemed as if the sound must be audible to him, making full betrayal of her weakness. He did not speak—she must—she could not endure that stillness.
               "We shall miss you," she managed to say.
               "Whom do you mean?"
               "All of us. We have been together so many weeks."
               "Do you generalize in order to escape any personal feeling in the matter?" returned he, with the same sharp laugh.
               He was very cruel to her; she had not deserved it, she said to herself; but she was a woman and must not complain.
               "I shall miss you, like the rest," she said.
               "I am sure it is very good of you to promise so much for yourself and them. O yes; one is always missed for a day."
               He was going—going! Margaret kept repeating the words to herself, and each repetition struck with a deeper chill upon her heart. Her beautiful dream had come to a sudden end—her dream! For the first time she realized that she had been dreaming; knew, too, that her heart had folded itself so closely about the vision, that it bled to have its treasure thus rudely wrenched away.
               "You are going very soon?" she asked, feeling the need of breaking the new silence that was creeping over them.
               "Very soon—at once. Why, there's a train reaches here about nine o'clock. I am going by that."
               "You—you don't mind travelling at night," Margaret heard herself saying, but she was past caring now what nonsense she uttered—anything to serve for conversation, and keep aloof those horrible intervals of stillness in which her heart talked so loudly that she feared lest it should tell her secret for his cars.
               "I don't mind—I beg pardon, I don't believe I know what you said; these hasty departures disorder one's wits, I think. Where am I going? I may stay in town. I may go to Europe—yes, I dare say I shall; that's a very good idea, is it not?"
               "No doubt; men may go where they will," exclaimed Margaret, with a sudden rebellion of spirit against the bondage which hedges in her sex, as many another woman has rebelled in her suffering.
               "And nobody cares—that's the best of it," returned Seaton, talking almost incoherently, like a man affected by stimulants. "What is that old Swedish song? I forget the words; I wish you knew it—you might sing it for me; it is applicable enough;—'Nobody cares—nobody cares'—isn't that the refrain?"
               "I think you know that it would not be true in your case," she said.
               "Every body always has to say that when any body goes away. Who cares? who will miss me? Good-bye, belle Marguerite! You'll shake hands? for the last time, you know."
               He snatched her hand; she would not willingly have given it, for it was icy cold and trembled; but he had it in his own before she could resist, and had prisoned its fellow.
               "Why, how cold they are—poor little hands—dainty little white hands. Are they cruel, like all other women's? How they tremble! Why, one would think you cared! Do you care, Margaret?"
               She could not speak; the touch of his fingers upon her own, the sound of his voice, calling her for the first time by that familiar name, left her speechless.
               "Shall you really miss me?" he repeated. "Say so; don't be cruel to me, Margaret! I am all alone in the world; if I were to be killed tonight there is no one to care unless you would—would you—Margaret? tell me—tell me!"
               With one quick, convulsive sob she drew her hands from his and hid her face upon them, weeping bitterly. In that last moment her secret had been revealed.
               "Margaret, poor little Margaret!" she heard him cry. He was kneeling at her feet, kissing her hands—trying to pull them away from the face that burned with such horrible humiliation. "You do care—you love me a little, Margaret? Not much, but as girls can love! I shouldn't be satisfied with that—I'm not good, with ice in my veins instead of blood! I want to be loved. O, I want to be, heart and soul and body! But then I believe none of you—none of you! See now, you are angry; so little truth makes the best of you angry."
               She had torn her hands from his grasp, and lifted her tear-stained face so that he could see it in the gloom, as well as his aching eyes would permit him to see.
               "Good-bye now, Mr. Seaton," she said bravely. "You have made me cry; you can be sure that I am sorry."
               "I oughtn't to have made you cry," he answered, only dimly comprehending, in the trouble of his brain, that she suffered. "I wouldn't have made you cry for the world! Now you'll not be sorry that I am going. If I were dying, there would be no human being in the world to regret me."
               "That is not true; you know it is not true," she cried, so much moved by the desolation in his voice that she could put aside her own pain to soothe him. "Perhaps you will come back some time and find how much we—we all—have missed you."
               "I shall never come back," he said.
               He struck the blow upon her quivering heart and did not know that he had wounded her. She must end this; she could not bear it any longer; she had exposed herself enough already, though whether he saw her whole weakness she could not tell.
               "The train reaches here before nine, I think," she said; "the time has been changed."
               "And I am detaining you besides! Good-bye, Margaret—kind little Margaret—I believe you are the best and the gentlest woman that ever lived."
               She felt his lips touch her hands once more, heard his retreating step, saw his figure pass like a dark shadow through the doorway and sat there alone, realizing that her beautiful dream had come to an end; destroyed suddenly as some gilded palace in eastern tales by one stroke of an enchanter's wand.
               What had he said to her? Nothing—no hope—no consolation. She had betrayed her secret if he chose to understand; that was the hardest thing to bear. She was wounded to the very core of her woman's pride; she had neither dignity nor self-respect left to uphold her, and if she could have lain down there in the dark and died it would have been cause for rejoicing.
               She heard Mr. Prescott's voice on the lawn whistling to the dog and talking kindly to him according to his habit; she hated the man for being cheerful and at case. She heard her stepmother's tread on the stairs—heard her enter the dining-room and hold a colloquy with the high-priestess, Nora. She could meet nobody just then; she must have her misery to herself.
               But she was scarcely in her room, down upon knees with her head hidden in a cushioned chair and the sobs breaking from her throat like the first gusts which precede a tempest, when she remembered that she must not absent herself to-night of all others; no excuse of illness would serve, lest it should afterwards be connected with Seaton's departure.
               The bell rang; she must go down. She felt dead and cold; it was an effort to move, her limbs were so heavy and dull. If they should suspect! That thought stung her till the blood rushed in a torrent to her cheeks, and with a false strength like that which fever gives, she went her way, to be quiet and smiling, hiding her trouble as only a woman can.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               HOW LIFE WENT ON.
               A VIOLENT autumnal storm that set in the night of Seaton's departure and continued without intermission for three days, as stubbornly as if it never meant to leave off until it had made a deluge, compared to which the one of old times should seem a mere summer shower, afforded Gay and Margaret each an excuse for remaining quiet and undisturbed.
               Mrs. Ross was deep in the mysteries of making her late quinces into marmalade, and had little time to bestow thought on Seaton's abrupt departure; indeed, her good taste kept her from offering any conversation whatever upon the subject, as she shrewdly suspected that some difference between Gay and himself was at the bottom of it; a suspicion which she encouraged, for though she liked them both, she had an idea—probably she could not have told why—that a marriage between them would be exceedingly unwise.
               So Gay fought out her fierce battle in solitude, and a hard fight she had of it; rendered the more unbearable by the reflection that her struggles and rebellion were useless. Seaton was gone—passed from her life, as completely as one dead. No chance meeting in the future could count, any more than to ghosts brought face to face in the world of shadows. And it might have been so different—if Fate had permitted. But it was worse than silly to think of that now—O, it drove her mad to think at all.
               Three dreary days and nights Gay battled with her phantoms and mocked at her heart which ached under the burden of its secret and would not cease its complaints; but she had no mercy.
               "Ache, throb," she would say, as if talking to some weak thing that had an existence apart from herself. "If love and marriage had been possible, wouldn't Noel Seaton have made you ache worse? O what does it matter! I could neither have trusted him or myself; only let me alone—let me alone!"
               On the fourth morning the sun came out, and with it came messengers for Gay. A party of her friends were stopping down in Barry, and sent for her to join them. Refusal being out of the question, off she went in such haste that she only saw Margaret for a moment, on her way to the train. She was in her highest spirits and made Margaret laugh heartily—something which an hour before she had thought impossible.
               "A set of wretches they are to want me," Gay said, utterly regardless that the lady and gentleman who had been deputed to come for her were seated in the carriage. "There's one grand consolation—they are all married men and I can tease their wives frightfully, and O, won't I do it!"
               She talked any quantity of nonsense, and finally allowed the coachman to drive on, never for an instant forgetting her part, and so full of life and good-humor that her companions could not sufficiently congratulate themselves on having obtained possession of her; and all the while she felt, as she said once afterwards, as if she were driving to her own funeral in a shroud made so tight that it hurt her.
               Mr. Prescott had gone to New York for a few days on an affair connected with the company's business. The men were threatening "a strike," and the mine-owners throughout the county insisted upon his holding out firmly against their demands; a thing he was most anxious to do, though, as it might be the means of all labor being suspended for some time at a season when it was most embarrassing and the greatest loss, he could not decide until he had consulted with the President and acting members.
               They were days of pain and bitter mortification to Margaret, so deep that at times the ache at her heart was lost in the humiliation of feeling how utterly she had betrayed herself in that parting interview with Seaton. She did not complain that she had been hardly treated, but life was so empty; the brief summer glory which warmed it into fresh beauty had died but now, leaving it more utterly void of interest than before. Any occupation to distract her mind, however tedious, would have been a relief; but there was nothing save her round of young lady accomplishments, a few poor people to visit, and her stepmother's wants and fancies to be heeded. Margaret was very patient with those now; she reproached herself for having all her life undervalued that friend, and the fortitude she had shown in guarding her dead father's secret was always a source of surprise to Margaret. But the little pale woman was by no means a heroine, though she had done a heroic act; she was often peevish and fretful; garrulous on the subject of her neuralgic pains, and given to small confidences to any body that came in, which drove Margaret nearly frantic. Still the pair got on harmoniously enough, for Mrs. Dane tried not to be troublesome, and, unlike as they were, they loved each other dearly and their common adoration for the dead man always made a meeting-ground of sympathy and interest.
               Dreary days to Margaret and drearier nights, for sleep would not come, and youth and life seemed wearing out in that terrible restlessness which no pen could describe. If she could have kept her thoughts fixed upon the present and its actual pain she would have had enough to endure, but they would rove over the future that looked so bleak and arid, without a green thing to break the waste—no hope springing up in the distance—nothing. Life must go on—youth pass out—no change, no break—till in time she should be old and careworn and alone in the world, without ever having really lived. Why a creature so useless should have been brought into existence was a question over which she vexed herself, as many another solitary woman has done, but there was no answer to be found, and the ache and the restlessness went on as before.
               Nora the despotic, had taken advantage of Mr. Prescott's departure to indulge in a grand renovation of the house, and the ladies were glad as much as possible to confine themselves to their rooms, which Nora condescended to leave undisturbed, though she made fearful havoc everywhere else; pulled up carpets, piled furniture in uncomfortable positions, till it made one's legs ache to see the tables and chairs turned on their bottoms with their limbs thrust plaintively into the air, and there was such a constant dashing of water that it was like living near a small Niagara.
               Nora had impressed Jupe and the sensitive Miss Maguire into the service, had captured Lucy Kenwyn into the bargain, and the life she led those unfortunates during three days would have excited pity in a stone devil, but no pity had Nora. According to the habit of good housekeepers, she was unusually cross at such times, and her voice was to be heard at all hours in denunciations of her trembling slaves, though she did not cease in her own operations to scold; it was only the music by which she accompanied her vigorous labors. Jupe and Miss Maguire thought her a more powerful witch than ever, and she exulted in their added fears. She played more tunes on the miserable yellow boy's head with her knuckles than could have been drummed out of a whole family of hand-organs; upset buckets of hot water on him without mercy when he misunderstood her commands, which he usually did; and as for Miss Maguire, that sensitive creature had her feelings so "harried up," to use her own expression, that all she asked was to die and be done with it.
               "Is it die?" Nora always retorted, when Miss Maguire, overcome by some scathing rebuke, would howl out that prayer and seat herself recklessly in a tab or any other moist place convenient. "O, ye black-hearted Prodestant, where would ye be thin? Git up, git up, ye craythure, it's no time for prayin' whin there's work to the fore."
               Lucy Kenwyn regarded her with great awe and admiration, and was willing to work her hands off without a murmur, because Nora, having a hatred for the male portion of her species, never wearied of listening to the mournful tale of her lost inheritance and perfidious lover.
               "Lit it be a lesson to yez," she would say to Miss Maguire. "O, ye saft-hearted loon wid a head to match! I seed ye a talkin' to Patsey Maloney Sunday night, and yi'd betther look out or ye'll come to grafe—like all the Prodestant girils—it's only the praste can kape the wimin straight—glory be to the saints!"
               "Amen!" shouted Lucy invariably, with great fervor. "So it is; I knows it; and for these and all others, etcetera, amen!"
               "Hear to that, ye craytehure," continued Nora. "Lave yer thricks, Miss, or ye'll make a worse inding nor a hen wid a whistle."
               "Och, lave me in pace, Nora," groaned the victim; "I've no thricks; I'm a dacent giril, as is well known."
               "Kape so, if so you be," was Nora's doubtful answer, "and pay attintion to thim as is able to warrn ye, from knowin' theirselves what timptation is."
               "Do you know what temptation is, Miss Nora?" Jupe ventured to ask on one of these occasions, when Miss Maguire had taken refuge in silent tears. "O do ye now, ole Miss?"
               "Ye yellow divil, I'll be the death of you, I will!" shouted Nora, and Jupe made for the kitchen and Nora after him, and he tumbled over a chair and Nora over him, and happening to have a little tack-hammer in her hand she performed an impromptu crescendo movement on his skull, while Jupe yelled through every note in the gamut; but as she got no opportunity to kick his shins, he was not a bit the worse for serving as a musical instrument of a new and peculiar character.
               Dan Simmons had been sent down to the house on some errand by Mrs. Ross, and entered the kitchen just as Jupe brought the brilliant fugue to an untimely close by escaping from Nora's hands.
               "What a thrashin' machine she'd make!" cried Dan, regarding her with a feeble smile of admiration.
               "An' what may ye want here, Misther Dan?" demanded Nora, turning fiercely upon him.
               "Miss Rossy wants to know how Miss Margaret and the old lady finds themselves, and here's a little matter of a cake she sent."
               "Ye can lave it on the table," said Nora; "Miss Ross is a leddy and her missages is more welcome nor her missenaries. Av ye'd plaze not to stip in that pool ov wather I'd be obleeged to ye, Misther Dan Simmons."
               Dan made his excuses meekly and asked permission to light his pipe at the kitchen fire.
               "Do it," snapped Nora, "and av ye'd think uv the place where ye'll have more fire nor'll da yer pipe-lighting, ye'd be betther off, I'm thinking."
               "Now don't be hard on a chap. Miss Nora," returned Dan, puffing away at his pipe; "don't! Alzady Mari was to see me last night—she was indeed—all in white, and she give me a power of good advice, she did."
               "I hope you'll heed it and mind your ways," retorted Nora.
               "I shill, indeed I shill, Miss Nora; I'm a deformed sinner if ever there was one. Alzady Mari she's a great help to me, a comin' in the stillness of the night, an' I hear her white robe a wavin—"
               "Land's sake!" interrupted Jupe, creeping out from behind a cupboard where he had been listening; "does ye see ghostesses, Dan?"
               Nora made a dash at him and he fled behind the cupboard once more, leaning his head out to hear Dan's response, but with his eye on his tyrant, ready to dodge any missile that she might be impelled to fling at him.
               "Ghostesses?" repeated Dan. "I should think so! I've seed my hull family, off and on, from grandfeyther down, but Alzady Mari's the most constance—Alzady she was my wife and she loved me awful."
               "Do tell us 'bout 'em—do, Dan," urged Jupe, emerging again from his castle of safety, with his eyes like saucers. "Real live ghostesses, Dan—honest Ingin now?"
               "Yes indeedy," replied Dan, and even Nora was so interested that she postponed an attack she had meditated on Jupe's rear and listened eagerly, though she pretended to be busy washing dishes. "But Alzady Mari, she comes the frequentest, a rappin on the head-board, and I say, 'Is that you, Alzady Mari, my little pidgeon-widgeon?' Then she kind o' sighs, like this," and Dan made a noise in his throat like the squeak of a strangled pig. "Then I harf opens my eyeses to see her white gownd; then I turns me over with my face in the pillars and I says, 'Do ye love me still, Alzady Mari?' then she sighs 'yes'"—squeak of strangled pig again.—"Then I says—'yer hain't got no spiritool husband, hev ye, up where ye come frum, Alzady Mari?' Then she shakes the bed to sinnify I'm her lawful yit; then I'm so happy."
               "She don't nebber bring ye noffin good to eat, does she?" demanded Jupe the voracious, with some contempt.
               "No, but she of'en tells me about the beautiful feedin' they hev up yender—apple of Sodom and Abel's offerins and Jew manny and—and—pickles," said Dan, his imagination waxing more and more brilliant from the interest with which his narrative was received.
               "Gor-a-mighty!" cried Jupe. "O, Dan, git her to bring some down in a basket and luff us taste on 'em; now do."
               "Mebby so, sometime," returned Dan. "But I guess she hain't got no basket with a kiver, and Miss Rossy she's so particlar about havin' her things teched that Alzady wouldn't like to borry."
               "I'd like to taste o' them manny apples," sighed Jupe.
               "Allays thinkin' of your inside," exclaimed Nora, setting a plate on the table with great violence. "Now git out of this, ye yaller imp, or I'll do worse nor ghostify ye, I'll bewitch ye—magoon—magoon! Ava—pava—goo!" And she pointed her finger at him, as she uttered the mysterious gibberish which had more than once made the knees of Jupe and Miss Maguire quake under them.
               "O, land's sake, don't, ole Miss!" moaned Jupe. "I'm a gwine; don't yer see me gwinin'? Whar I'll go? O, don't—don't!"
               "Go and bring ten pails of water from the cistern without stopping, or I'll bewitch you," returned the inexorable Nora. "Ain't ye gone, ye straddle-legged divil? Well, then—magoon—magoon! Ava—pava—"
               But Jupe did not wait to hear the concluding burst; he dashed out of the house with his fingers in his ears, and went at his task with so much more energy than prudence, that he nearly fell into the cistern half-a-dozen times.
               "What a buster you be!" exclaimed Dan, regarding Nora with great admiration as he knocked the ashes out of his pipe.
               Nora smiled grimly, but vouchsafed no response.
               "Miss Nory," pursued Dan, "Alzady Mari she was a sayin' to me last night as I ort to have a wife, she bein' on'y spiritool, though my lawful still. "What a comfort you'd be in a house, Miss Nory! how you would turn it upside down and be a blessin' to a feller, wouldn't ye, now?"
               "A pretty chap ye'd be for a woman to take care on," cried Nora, flaming with indignation. Ye drunken, lazy lout—"
               "But I'm deformed now, Miss Nory; I be indeed," interrupted Dan with great humility.
               "Indade ye are, body and soul," returned Nora. "Now have the goodness to take yerself off out o' this afore I make your head acquainted wid my dish-pan. It's divils as comes to tornint ye, ye Prodestant haythen ye, wid yer talk about apples and ghostesses! Why some mornin' there'll be only a foine smell of brimstone left ov ye, and Ould Nick—the saints presarve us—ull carry ye off widout a basket or kiver ayther. Now lave, I warrin ye, for I've no toime to waste wid yer fooleries."
               There was such wrath in her eye and such menace in her gesture that Dan retreated in sore disappointment, for it had been borne in on his mind that Nora would be a fitting person to choose as the successor of his sainted Alzady Maria. Jupe espied him, and called him out to the cistern and persuaded him to tell more wonderful stories, cunningly making him do the work too; till Nora chanced to look out of the window and saw Jupe executing a fandango of delight and surprise, while Dan hauled up the water.
               She dashed out upon them like a whirlwind—drenched Dan with the contents of the bucket; and while he made off, blind with terror and the shower-bath, she dexterously turned the pail over Jupe's head, and sent him sprawling with a vigorous thrust of her foot. Jupe, unable to extricate his head, believed himself smothering under that wooden helmet, and lay on the ground uttering dismal wails that seemed to proceed from a cavern, until Lucy Kenwyn took pity on his misery and came out and rescued him.
               Fortunately that day finished the domestic revolutions, and when Mr. Prescott reached home the next morning, he found the house in a state of such perfection that the genius of order herself, or any other unpleasant-minded old tabby, must have been satisfied. As Prescott was a favorite with Nora, she gave him a breakfast that might have pleased a modern Lucullus; though if he had known what torments had been visited upon Miss Maguire during its preparation, his conscience could not have failed to trouble him while eating it.
               Mrs. Dane forgot her ailments and her aches and came down to receive him with extreme cordiality, and Margaret herself brightened a little when she found him seated at the break-fast table.
               "This really seems like getting home," he said gayly. "How shall I ever be grateful enough for all your goodness to me, Mrs. Dane?" But though he addressed her, his glance wandered towards Margaret.
               "I think the favor is to us, isn't it, Margaret? We should have been so lonely without you; we have found that out since you have been gone these few days."
               "Miss Dane will not acknowledge that I was missed," Prescott said, trying to speak playfully, but making rather a failure of it.
               "Mamma delivered one of Miss Honeyman's lectures last night, that's the reason," returned Margaret, smiling. "I was afraid it would be indecorous if I made the admission."
               "Margaret likes to laugh at my old-maidish ideas," Mrs. Dane said.
               "But I think even the proper Miss Honeyman could not object to her telling a friend that he was regretted a little," returned Prescott.
               "I'll say it low so that her ghost will not hear," said Margaret; "we did miss you dreadfully, and Nora got quite sentimental over it."
               But though she laughed and talked pleasantly, Prescott's observant eyes detected a change in her. The light and color had gone out of her face—the gladness from her smile. She looked now as she did when he first came to the house, before cheerful society, and the amusements suitable to her age, brightened the monotony in which she had lived till her mind was getting in as unhealthy a state as a flower kept in a dark place.
               "You are looking pale," he said; "I am sure you have been staying in the house too much."
               "It has rained incessantly ever since you left," Margaret answered.
               "I have been dull, for Gay Van Kortland has gone to Barry."
               "And Mr. Seaton is gone too," added Mrs. Dane.
               "And Mr. Seaton," repeated Margaret composedly, conscious that Prescott's eyes were fixed upon her. "But I thought he went away before you did."
               "No; the day after," corrected Mrs. Dane, who was frequently annoying from her fearful accuracy in the way of dates.
               "I heard of these changes when I first arrived," Mr. Prescott said. "Dan Simmons was at the station and gave me all the news in parenthesis, while relating his last wonderful vision of Alzady Maria."
               Mrs. Dane was in a conversational mood, and as she spoke in a voice so subdued and slow that it took her a great while to say very little, Margaret was able to be rather silent without attracting attention, which was fortunate, as she had lived too little in the world to acquire Gay Van Kortland's faculty of talking on two different subjects and thinking of a third.
               She left her stepmother relating some long story in regard to a dead and gone relative of Mr. Prescott, a narrative remarkably tedious to her, whatever it might be to that gentleman; though she doubted his having any special interest in the love matters of his maiden aunt, in spite of the deferential air with which he listened, because Margaret recollected having once seen the venerable spinster, and it was impossible to fling a halo of romance about a bony woman with a bass voice and a diabolical squint.
               She was busy over a stand of plants in the sitting-room when Mr. Prescott entered in search of his hat and gloves, which, with true masculine perversity, he had taken great trouble to leave in the particular place where they had the least business.
               "I shall be able to inform you of the state of the roads when I come back," he said; "I think by to-morrow you can have a canter on Prairie Bird, if you feel inclined."
               Margaret felt very indifferent to all the proposals that any body could make, but she saw he meant to be kind and forced herself to answer pleasantly. He stood by her side for a few moments, hat in hand, talking about some new books he had brought her, while she snipped at her plants with a pair of scissors, and replied almost at random.
               "What a sturdy geranium that is," he said; "I think you might give me a leaf of it to make me remember in my dreary old office that there are pleasant things in the world."
               She plucked a little cluster of leaves, and gave them to him with some laughing remark; he answered her with his grave smile and an earnest look which she scarcely heeded at the time. It was long after before Margaret Dane saw those leaves again, withered and discolored, but guarded like some precious treasure, and holding them in her hand, and looking back over all that spread between her and this morning, she recalled his disregarded look, and marvelled with unavailing self-reproach at her own blindness.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               THE "STRIKE."
               WHEN Mr. Prescott came home that night he looked tired and thoughtful, Margaret noticed as she advanced to meet him in the hall; but he replied cheerfully to her questions, and when he came down to tea was rather more talkative than usual, which made her remark that it was an effort.
               Owing to the bad weather, Crosslands had been destitute of callers the whole week, so that neither Margaret nor Mrs. Dane had heard any rumor of the threatened "strike" among the miners; Jupe luckily having been kept so close at home by the tyrannical Nora, that he had found no opportunity to steal down to the village and hear the reports which were only too prevalent there.
               In the dusk of the evening, Aunt Hilda appeared, protected by a lantern and a small boy, whom she had deluded into her service with the promise of strawberries when summer came. The small boy being of an imaginative turn of mind, was able to precipitate his soul into futurity sufficiently to see how glad he should be when the berries ripened, that he had obliged Aunt Hilda; though she nearly drove him frantic on the road by propounding questions in geography which she considered suitable to the juvenile mind, regarding the length of the river Amazon and the height of Popocatapetl—pausing there to require him to spell the beastly word—and otherwise harrowing his spirit by reference to hated school-books, as so many people feel it their duty to do when they have captured an unoffending innocent.
               Aunt Hilda's voice was heard in the hall directing the boy to take refuge in the kitchen, and by all means to be careful of the precious lantern, unless he expected to meet a fate as dismal as that of the careless boy in the picture-book.
               "He that was gored by a—by a—gentleman cow," said Aunt Hilda, for, like so many Americans, she really could not bring herself to mention the male of the bovine species by his rightful name. "So take care of the lantern, Benjamin Franklin, my dear, and remember George Washington and his little hatchet, and the Fourth of July, and all that makes us the sons of the free—yes, and daughters too, in spite of Abelard Straight and them like him, who'd be glad to see women slaves if only they could get into Congress and have their way, which, please goodness, they won't yet awhile, for bribery and corruption don't paramount yet, as well they know to their cost—ugh!"
               Aunt Hilda, having freed her mind and seen the small boy on his way to the kitchen carrying the lantern as carefully as if it had been some animal that might bite, tapped on the parlor door and shuffled into the room, exclaiming,
               "And how do you do, my picturful dears, and how do you do agin? It's a treat to see you all once more; the lady mother declining on her sofia and my beauty pearl with her crocket, and Mr. Prescott just like Minerva, for all the world, with his big book before him—Jamdudum splendet focus—oh, this does me good!"
               Aunt Hilda shook hands with them all, and was so kindly greeted that she was in a state of high delight—bestowed a kiss on the tip of Margaret's left car, and evidently for an instant meditated a similar attack on Mr. Prescott's sinister auricular appendage, but, doubting the propriety, shook his hand a second time instead.
               "You've been missed, sir," said Aunt Hilda, "you have indeed. What with this second deluge and not having my sperits lightened by seein' you prance by on that picturful horse, and nobody near to understand a classic, I've been powerful low; I have indeed. I swan to man—saving your presence," pursued Aunt Hilda, seating herself in an easy chair—"if it hadn't been for an old copy of Lord Byron, and my atlas, and writin' now and then a composition on my slate. I really think I should have took to my bed with the aguy and shook myself to flinders."
               But though Aunt Hilda talked volubly, she did not appear in her usual composed state of mind, and at every convenient opportunity made mysterious signals to Prescott, screwing up her face into all possible shapes and thereby astonishing him greatly, and amusing Margaret when she perceived it. Mrs. Dane presently left the room. She had a habit of being seized with a mania for searching in her bureau drawers or diving into the recesses of great chests at the oddest seasons, and all day her mind had been exercised in regard to an old damask dressing-gown which had belonged to her grandfather, and as she had just recollected the particular box in a closet where she thought she had put it, she could not live another instant without verifying her hope.
               Margaret took that opportunity to steal away for a few moments, that Aunt Hilda might be able to hold the private conference with Mr. Prescott wherewith her soul was evidently encumbered. She did not give Aunt Hilda sufficient time to deliver herself, it appeared, for as Margaret returned, she was saying,
               "They're a bad lot, and there's two or three Britishers among 'em that'll spur 'em on to worse if they can;" then seeing Margaret, she hissed like a penny trumpet, "'Sh! 'sh! Not a word!"
               "Don't be so mysterious, Aunt Hilda," said Margaret laughing, "or you will make me believe something frightful has happened. Is there any trouble with the miners, Mr. Prescott?"
               "None among ours as yet, to signify," he replied. "But they have struck in a body at Irondale, and are threatening to do so here."
               "It's not to be scairt about, my pearly," added Aunt Hilda encouragingly, though in a very tremulous voice.
               "They struck soon after we came here," Margaret said, "but they made no trouble, except the inconvenience it was to the mine-owners. I dare say your men will keep at work, Mr. Prescott."
               "To-morrow, I think, will decide," he answered; "it is as well, Miss Dane, that you should know the truth. The Irondale men threaten to march down the valley and stop all the works; I am in hopes that will make our miners stand by us just from obstinacy."
               "But it may lead to a fight," Margaret said.
               "It may; but in that case there would be nothing to fear, as it would be between themselves, and we can get the military up from Scholtzburg at very short notice, if necessary."
               "His head," cried Aunt Hilda, pointing an admiring finger at the speaker, "is as clear as a bell; things ain't higgledy-piggledy in his mind! when he wants a idee he knows where to lay hands on it! Now if it was Abelard Straight had to be called on suddently for a thought, it would be like hunting in a rag-bag—and him in Congress, which he never will be."
               "I have been thinking, Miss Dane," pursued Prescott, as Aunt Hilda paused to rub the wart on her nose wrathfully, "that as there is so much excitement in the village, it might be well for you and your mother to go down to Barry a few days; she is so very nervous."
               "I don't see the slightest good of it," returned Margaret discontentedly, for she had a mortal horror of the family where her stepmother visited. "There will be no disturbance; besides, we should have to tell mamma the truth to persuade her to go and she would be frightened out of her senses; she would bear real danger much better."
               "I sent word to Mr. Sanderson to-day," said Prescott; "he will drive up to-morrow, and he can persuade Mrs. Dane to go back with him very easily."
               "I shall not go," Margaret replied decidedly, in that mood when it is insufferable to feel that one's affairs are being settled for one, no matter how thoughtfully done.
               "That is for your decision," Prescott said, but shrewd Aunt Hilda noticed that he seemed pleased. "Of course there will be no danger for you here; even at the worst, it would only be the offices about the mines that would be attacked. Besides, we all know how brave you can be at need."
               "I should think we did," cried Aunt Hilda. "Talk about your Joanny of Arc of your Maid of Saragossy; she beats the hull caboodle," and in her delight Aunt Hilda bestowed another kiss on Margaret's left ear.
               "Miss Van Kortland returns to-morrow," Margaret continued; "she will come and stay with me while mamma is gone, or I can go up on the hill. No; we had better stay here, for if there is serious trouble, an empty house would very likely be burned, and at their worst they would not trouble one where there were women."
               "I'll come up and keep you company," said Aunt Hilda; "I shall just die of fright down on my patch; and if there was an army of rioters they wouldn't touch a poor old widow's place. They ain't so bad as Abelard Straight, quite."
               The subject was dismissed with a laugh, for even Prescott entertained no fears of serious difficulty, and Margaret played and sang to them, and forgot them both in remembering the time when she had sung that very melody for Noel Seaton; then stopped abruptly, saying that she was not in voice, and that Mr. Prescott should have one of his favorite Mendelssohn's songs without words instead.
               When Aunt Hilda discovered that she had staid till nearly ten o'clock, and that her small boy had deserted her, leaving the lantern as a gleam of comfort, however, she began to be quite terrified at the idea of returning alone, so Margaret offered her a bed. Mrs. Dane did not appear again; she and Nora had discovered the dressing-gown, and Mrs. Dane sat over it indulging in old memories until she grew sleepy, as one does over the most poignant when the recollections are sufficiently ancient, and then retired. So, being in an excited state of mind, Aunt Hilda staid by the fire and told ghost stories, and recalled bloody histories inherited from her grandmother of the days when the Shawnee Indians swept through the valley with fire and slaughter, and finally had to borrow Prescott's pipe to smoke in the retiracy of her apartment, by way of settling her nerves.
               "For," said Aunt Hilda, "I'm nervy, and I don't deny it. What with my share of troubles, which all must expect, and the dumb aguy to an unlimited extent, I'm nervy, and that's the truth."
               The next morning early, Mr. Sanderson appeared in his rockaway, and insisted upon Mrs. Dane's returning home with him for a visit of several days. A mutual friend had come on from the blessed land of Massachusetts to visit his wife—an old pupil too of the sainted Miss Honeyman—and the pair needed the presence of their former schoolmate, to make a trio of happiness and Bostonian propriety. Margaret was mild but firm in her refusals to join the party, and Mr. Sanderson did not urge the point, as the old maid visitor held Mrs. Dane's stepdaughter in horror, from the fact that in her childish days she had been guilty of drawing a crayon picture of Miss Honeyman and her pet pupil the spinster, wherein they were depicted as frightening two youths by the sight of their nightcaps.
               Mrs. Dane departed, though a battle-frigate might have been got under way with less commotion. She had Nora and Margaret up for consultation, and even Aunt Hilda; she wavered between black alpaca and gray silk, caps with frills and caps with points, till fortunately Gay Van Kortland arrived at the house, having returned the night before, and being called on for an opinion, soon settled the matter by kissing the agitated relict of Arthur Delancy, putting her into an arm-chair, and directing the packing herself.
               But after she was in the carriage, Mrs. Dane kept on delivering directions right and left for the care of the house during her absence, and was so confused in her mind that it was Mr. Sanderson she urged to see that butter was churned that afternoon, and Gay Van Kortland who was to be sure and lock the stable-door at night. While meaning to tell the two girls to be comfortable, she desired Jupe and Miss Maguire to sit in her room, because it was the warmest, and was cut short by the horses starting before she had finished telling Nora what she was to do on the top of the house in case of fire in the kitchen. It sounded like a command to lay old newspapers over the roof, but those left behind decided that could scarcely have been what she meant.
               "And now, my picturful creturs," said Aunt Hilda, "I'll trot off to my patch and see that things are straight and back I'll come—it's much more proper, considering your age and a male bachelor in the house. Bless you, I know you don't mind my comin' and it's an awful treat to me, and indeed I'm a leetle nervy about being alone in the house—you don't mind?"
               They both assured her that she would be very welcome to return, and Aunt Hilda sailed home, making an errand to the houses of several of the Straight faction while in the village, to inform them she was invited to spend a few days at Crosslands as Miss Van Kortland was there! A bit of news which the upright and rigid females tried to receive with contemptuous noses, but failed signally in hiding their envy from clear-sighted Aunt Hilda, who blinked with delight at their discomfiture, and made a laughable description of the same for the amusement of the irreverent young creatures on the hill.
               Mr. Prescott left the house early that morning, and did not return during the whole day. He found that the Irondale rebels, instead of attempting to carry their fellow-laborers in the district below them by force, had sent emissaries to try the effects of persuasion, which proved eminently successful. The workmen of several of the adjacent mines had flung down their tools on the previous evening, and that morning when Mr. Prescott reached the upper office, that is the office near the entrance of the drift, he was visited by a deputation of his head-laborers to know his determination in regard to their demands. Their whole bearing was insolent, and most of them had evidently been drinking. They had brought with them a drunken English collier from Irondale, the head and front of the revolt, who was usually drunk on Saturday, and then did penitence and exhortation in the dissenting chapel of the British colony on Sunday. He pushed his little bullet-headed body among the foremost, and taking the words of the man who had been deputed to speak, out of his mouth, began a threatening oration in an almost incomprehensible dialect, with profanity and prayers so mixed, that the more honestly disposed portion of the little company were disgusted and tried in vain to check his flow of eloquence.
               "Who is this fellow and what does he want here?" was Prescott's first question.
               There were various answers, some not complimentary to the bullet-headed man; amongst which his voice was heard to say,
               "Oim Billy Williams and a sarvant of the Lord, and oim appinted to see that the Lord's poor 'as their rights."
               "At all events you are not a workman of mine," returned Prescott. "Now, my men, if you want to talk to me, you must first put this fellow out; I shall hold no discussion with you in the presence of strangers. I don't bring any aid on my side, and it's not fair that you should."
               There was a tolerably general murmur of approbation among the Welsh and Irish deputies, and in spite of a faint opposition on the part of two or three of his English brethren, the bullet-headed man was ejected from the room, so far forgetting his saintly character as to utter the most horrible oaths and imprecations. "And now, my men," said Prescott, when order was restored, "some one of you speak out clearly and distinctly for the rest. There is no use in having confusion, as I am sure you will agree. Evan Evans, you are a good workman and a sober man—I am sorry to see you with one or two of your present associates; but do you be spokesman."
               The whole party were impressed by his perfect composure and firmness, and after a little whispering among themselves Evans stepped forward, and with more moderation of language than could have been expected, explained the rights they had come to demand. Prescott heard him through with patience, listened to such remarks as two or three of his companions felt called upon to add, then made them a clear, forcible answer, in which he showed them how unreasonable their requirements were at that time.
               The season had been a bad one for mine-owners. Returns from coal sent to market had not yet come in; but the wages of his men, like those of several other companies in the district, had from early spring been kept up at the highest rate, cheerfully done, though in most cases at a heavy loss; and this present conduct was not only ungrateful but unwise, since in the event of their being able to stop the works, they would only leave themselves in unpaid idleness. He made plain to them all the natural arguments bearing upon the case, and finally added,
               "I will make this concession—not in compliance with your demands, because nothing should induce me to recognize demands made in such a spirit—but because I think it right and had made up my mind to it weeks back: If you go quietly on with your work, regardless of the insanity of these fellows, most of whom are only impelled by drunkenness and laziness, I will promise that you shall be protected, and during the whole of next winter every man among you, from head-miners down to rail-boys, shall be kept in employment, instead of the number of men being decreased as has been the usual practice.
               "That is the only proposition I shall make; you can consult with the other men and give me your answer. Let me tell you that riots or disturbances of any sort will only make their consequences most severely felt upon yourselves. Fifteen years ago it might have been possible to force mine-owners into an acceptance of unjust demands; but to-day, with numberless railways to bring us new workmen at a few hours' notice—ay, my boys, and a whole army to protect them if need be—you know as well as I do that any attempt at force can only result in trouble for you. Think better of it, men! You have not found us hard masters since you came to these works—you have had your wages punctually—you have had kindly treatment, some of you for years; and the body of you are men too intelligent and too sensible not to see the folly of your position, if you had not allowed your common-sense to be clouded by the advice of a few demagogues, who in reality only want to screen themselves from justice behind your shoulders."
               The conclave whispered among themselves for a few seconds and then filed out of the room. Prescott sat quietly over his papers while noisy discussions went on under the windows, and after a little, the voice of the bullet-headed man could be heard haranguing the excited crowd. The main body of the miners were Welsh and Englishmen, but the outside laborers were Irish with scarcely an exception, and Prescott felt confident that no coalition of any duration could be formed between such opposing elements.
               Before the middle of the afternoon the more turbulent spirits, aided by the Irondale faction, succeeded in bringing about the desired result. The whole band of workmen entered into the revolt; the few more sensible of them, who would gladly have remained quiet, not being able to resist the pressure brought to bear; and the last pickaxe was thrown down, and a great shout of defiance and exultation that fairly shook the office windows, warned the master that the "strike" had begun.
               Even in the first excitement there could be no real concert of action between the Irish and their neighboring islanders. Most of the miners sallied forth towards the town, while the Hibernians gathered in knots about their cabins, which were near at hand, and it was evident from the added noise that they had got possession of whisky enough to help them rapidly lose such reasoning powers as they possessed.
               Prescott attempted to call a meeting of the neighboring mine-owners; but the greater part, following the dictates of ordinary humanity in cases of emergency, acted like fools; and several of those who had been the most determined, were now inclined to reproach Prescott for having brought the trouble to a climax by his obstinacy. All that was necessary to be done he did himself; telegraphed for a company of soldiers to be sent from Scholtzburg, and left his confreres to squabble among themselves like a flock of angry crows.
               That night passed off quietly enough, as was expected; the men had not sufficiently maddened themselves with liquor to forget the restraints of order and prudence, and beyond a few brawls in the village grog-shops, there was no disturbance. Prescott slept in the office near the mines, with two or three of his clerks to bear him company, and though he had no faith in the opinion prevalent in the town that the miners would go quietly back to work the next day, he apprehended no outbreak of importance.
               The next day came, and every mine was deserted, and the men held a carnival of idleness and intoxication. By noon Prescott was informed that the military he had sent for were near Barry, but he deemed it wiser that they should not be brought on until evening, as it was useless to excite the revolters by any display of force—the only effect it would have at present.
               He had a quiet afternoon at Crosslands and Margaret's society, thanks to the "strike;" utterly disregarding a message sent to him from various of the mine-owners to join them in a dinner at one of the hotels for the purpose of fresh discussion of plans—eating and drinking appearing always to be important aids to the weak where any public matter, from the building of a town-hall to quelling a rebellion, is concerned.
               He was going to sleep at the office again, as he had loads of valuable papers there and the money-safe into the bargain, and it was quite possible that some attempt at theft might be made. He was unwilling to leave the ladies so insufficiently guarded as they were by Jupe and one of his friends, but they were not afraid, and he knew that in all reason there was no cause why they should be.
               "They consider this house my mother's," Margaret said, "and would no more attack it than they would Aunt Hilda's or the church. I am sure they are peaceable enough, poor fellows."
               "Pearl's sympathies are all with the great revolted," added Gay laughingly. "We regard you as a persecutor of the needy and the downtrodden, so go your way—aristo, ra!"
               "Ariosto," repeated Aunt Hilda, misunderstanding a little. "I've heard that name—in the English Reader, I think. Yes, he had beautiful sentiments; he had indeed—a picturful cretur, I've no doubt."
               In the course of the evening Prescott received word that the infantry had arrived and had been quartered in the house at the station, without any body being the wiser, except the old man who guarded the place between the intervals of trains. It was late in the evening before he returned to the office and left the ladies to their seclusion.
               He could hear occasional shouts and sounds of tumult from the village, but no commotion of importance. Late in the afternoon there had been an outbreak between the Welsh and Irish, but the police had quelled that, and the Hibernians had left the town and collected in their hamlet near the mines, and the disturbance was fortunate, as it proved that there would be no fear of union between the parties by which the revolt could hold firm.
               It was deep in the night when Prescott, half dozing upon a lounge, was startled by a sudden gleam of light. His first thought was that the offices were on fire. He ran to a window, threw it up, and looked out. All was quiet around; but in the distance rose the swell of voices, and as he gazed, a clear flame shot like a beacon into the upper sky, and he knew that Crosslands had been attacked.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               THE MIDNIGHT ALARM.
               AUNT HILDA fluttered off to her room like a turbulent magpie soon after Prescott's departure, and the girls having made themselves certain that the whole house was quiet and every mode of ingress fastened, betook themselves to the chamber which they had agreed to share.
               They talked a great deal, but Noel Seaton's name had very little mention; apparently his departure had been a matter of such slight consequence that it was already nearly forgotten. The two enjoyed each other's companionship thoroughly, and there was a sweetness and purity of thought about them both which was agreeable, and not always found by either among female acquaintances of their age, in spite of all the poetry that has been written in regard to early womanhood.
               "I am not in the least sleepy," Gay said, when the hair-brushing process was concluded and they sat over the fire in their dainty white night-wrappers. "I never can be reasonable, even about sleeping. I always want to do it at improper hours."
               "I am hopelessly wide awake too," Margaret answered, but she did not think it necessary to explain that it was a habit which had grown upon her during the past weeks; at first, because it was pleasant to lie and dream vague waking dreams; of late, because sleep refused to come and shut out the vision of the dreary, blank future which haunted her so persistently. Neither of the pair were given to that bad habit of ordinary minds, offering superfluous information in regard to matters purely personal, and airing private afflictions, for the sake of gaining a little wordy sympathy.
               "Suppose I go on with the new novel," Gay said; "did you bring it up stairs?"
               Margaret produced the book.
               "I was sure we should want it," she remarked. "I am curious to know what that young woman means to do."
               "Something foolish, I've no doubt," returned Gay; "she is anxious to do right, and women usually make mistakes then. In her overstrained ideas of duty she'll send this man off, though if she would marry him, it is plain enough that in time she would love him truly."
               "Do you think it right for a girl to marry in that way?"
               "Yes; if the man is a good man, whom she can trust, and her heart has nothing in it beyond a foolish fancy that was never meant to be real."
               Margaret showed no disposition to argue the point, so Gay opened the book, and they were soon deep in the mysteries of their romance. She read on for a long time; twice the little clock on the mantel chimed the hour, but they were both too much absorbed in the volume to notice it. Suddenly, Margaret lifted her hand and exclaimed.
               "Hark! Listen, Gay!"
               Miss Van Kortland did not raise her eyes from her book, and misunderstanding her companion's exclamation, answered carelessly,
               "Yes; how still it is!"
               "But didn't you hear that noise?"
               "No; just your fancy," Gay said, the tones of her own voice having made the sound that Margaret heard inaudible to her cars. "It is as silent as the grave."
               
               She was resuming her book when Margaret started to her feet, saying in a frightened whisper,
               "There, there! Didn't you hear it?"
               Gay sprang up at the same instant, and the two girls stood looking in each other's faces, pale with the thought that flashed simultaneously across their minds.
               "What was it, Gay?" demanded Margaret.
               "Only the wind rising, perhaps! Hush; there it is again."
               It was not the wind; it was the sound of a more ominous tempest coming nearer and nearer; the tread of human beings marching in a large, compact body. For an instant longer the two girls stood motionless, then Gay hurried to a window that commanded the front of the house, and peered cautiously out through the curtains. Margaret heard a smothered exclamation from her lips, and darted forward, whispering,
               "What is it? What do you see?"
               "Look," returned Gay, in the same hushed tone. "Great heaven, the rioters have come!"
               It was true. Looking out through the misty night they could see a company of men marching up the slope and gathering on the lawn; in the weird light made by the belated moon they could even distinguish the ignoble faces, rendered more appalling by drink and evil passions. The rioters had come.
               Margaret's idea that the house would be much more likely to receive an attack if it was supposed that she and her mother had left it, had proved correct. It had been reported to the miners by some of their women that Mrs. Dane and her daughter were gone. About sunset that evening a spy had come up to reconnoitre, and it happened that Margaret was absent with Gay and Aunt Hilda at Orchard Hill, and that the front of the house was closed. None of the servants were at home except Nora, and she, being occupied up in the garret with Lucy Kenwyn, putting old furniture and boxes to rights, had taken the precaution to lock the kitchen doors. The Welshwoman went back to her friends and reported that the story was true;—the ladies had left the dwelling.
               The bullet-headed man conceived the idea that Prescott had moved his money and valuables to the house—somebody had seen a packing-case carried there—and eager to avenge what he considered the insult he had received from that gentleman, he urged the men to attack the mansion that night and make their assault upon it an earnest of what the mine-owners might expect if they persisted in their refusal of the demands of their laborers.
               There the two girls stood and looked down upon the eager faces which took an awful significance in the unearthly light.
               "What shall we do?" whispered Margaret.
               "Perhaps we can wake Aunt Hilda and the servants and get out by the back way," Gay answered. "We must dress ourselves first."
               More quickly, I think, than two young women ever got into their clothes before, the pair attired themselves in silence. The thick curtains shut out the gleam of light from below, and they could hear the murmur of voices and the stealthy tread of feet moving about the lawn.
               "Are you frightened?" Gay asked.
               "Yes—no—I can't tell. Are you?"
               "Frightened!" exclaimed Gay, clenching her two white hands. "At those miserable wretches! It's not us they want to harm; it is Mr. Prescott. O, if we only had some guns, and the other women would not behave like cowards, we'd see if a few of them could not be punished for this insolence."
               They crept out of the chamber into a room across the hall, but as they reached the windows, they saw a squad of men coming round the corner of the house. They had surrounded it.
               "There's no hope," Gay said. "Shall we wake the people? I vow to heaven, if I could get hold of any weapon with death in it, the first man at least that crosses the threshold should pay dear."
               "Wait," returned Margaret, "come back to my room; my father's revolvers are there; powder and shot too."
               They hurried back with the same stealthy tread, and Margaret took a small box from a closet shelf, which contained the pistols and the ammunition.
               "Can you load one?" she asked.
               Gay nodded, and each took a revolver and loaded every barrel.
               "I suppose they're no good, but I feel safer." said Gay. "I wonder what they are doing?"
               Margaret extinguished the lamp and set a screen before the fire, and they stood listening. They could hear steps moving about the veranda, the sound of locks and shutters tried, but they were all securely fastened.
               Presently they heard a voice exclaim.
               "There's nobbut there but that divil Prescott. Burn him oop, lads; burn him loike a rat in his hoel."
               "We'd bring the whole village on us," answered a voice with a strong Welsh accent.
               "That first was Tim Williams the Irondale preacher," whispered Margaret, who was again peering out between the curtains. "I recognize some of the faces. I believe if they knew we were here alone they would go away."
               "They would if they were sober," replied Gay; "but they are all crazy with drink, or that fiend of a preacher couldn't have persuaded them into this."
               "If Jupe could only get out of the house and rouse the village," Margaret said. "The soldiers are there."
               "He'd only stand still and scream, if we woke him," replied Gay; "but we had better rouse the women."
               They ran into Aunt Hilda's room and shook her; Gay prudently holding a hand over her month to repress the first cry, which became a strangled squeak in consequence.
               "Hush, Aunt Hilda," they both whispered. "The rioters have come; get up, get up!"
               Aunt Hilda bounded out of bed in a night-gown so short, and a cap with a ruffle so broad that it seemed originally to have been intended as a flounce to the dress, and howled in a minor key,
               "Lord save us—Lord keep us! A Ingin massa-cry—a Ingin massa-cry!"
               "Don't make a noise!" ordered Gay.
               "I won't, I won't," gasped Aunt Hilda, now wide awake and in full possession of her senses. "Where's my petticoat? O Lord, get my petticoat! Don't be scart, girls; my grandmother lived through a dozen Injin fights. O, the miserable furrin imps—O, where's my shoes?"
               While she hunted for her clothing they ran through the hall to the rooms over the kitchen where the three women slept. Nora had been wakened by the sounds, and was already up and dressed and starting to call the ladies.
               "It's the roit come," she said, with grim composure. "There's hot wather on the kitchen range, and av I don't scald the feathers off a pace of it me name's not Eleanora O'Flaherty."
               The sounds below waxed louder—an effort was being made to force the side door, but it resisted the pressure stoutly.
               "It's barred as well as locked," whispered Nora. "Let 'em kape at it till I give 'em a taste of the wather."
               At that instant the sensitive Maguire wakened, and sitting up in bed began to howl dolefully, but Nora made one spring upon her and mashing a pillow down on her face, muttered,
               "Av ye whimper I'll make an ind of you, ye cowardly Prodestant! The roit has come; at laste ye can kape still. Look at the ladies, wid their pistols as cool as sojers. Lie still, ye fool! the ruit wud no more touch ye than it wud the black cat."
               But Miss Maguire, with the strength of desperation, threw off Nora's hold and bounded out of bed with a yell; the only one she had an opportunity to utter, for Nora seized her by the throat with such energy that the ladies heard a faint gurgle as her breath was thus suddenly cheeked.
               "You'll kill her, Nora," said Margaret.
               "I will av she whimpers," returned Nora. "Shure she's no use in the worruld, and I'll not have her bringing the roit on us wid her shraking."
               Miss Maguire managed to fling her off and darted out of the room, never stopping till she reached the darkest corner of the garret above stairs, where she lay on the floor quite bereft of her senses from terror, and luckily incapable of a movement or a sound.
               By this time another white ghost was in the room, holding fast to Margaret and praying,
               "For these and all others—amen! It's the end of the world; Go-briel has come! Speak a word for me, Miss Mag'ret. I'm a honest 'ooman, Harriet Lucy Kenwyn Fendower Sowder—he. O, it's the end of the world! There's that pitcher of Miss Rossy's I haint took back, but I never meant to steal it. O, speak a word for me to Go-briel afore he blows, Miss Mag'ret; ye've edication and can do it."
               "Whist now," said Nora contemptuously. "We've got the roit and don't want a nise."
               "O, 'ave ye got it bad?" demanded Lucy, apparently thinking that Nora was speaking of some mysterious disease that had attacked her. "But it's the end of the world too, for I heard Go-briel. You'll say a word for me, Miss Mag'ret. I'm a honest 'ooman and a praying one, and my hair falls out for love—amen."
               "It's them miner divils has come, thinking the masther is here," explained Nora. "Kape yer whist now, do, ye poor craytchure."
               "It's the men on a strike!" groaned Lucy. "O, Lord help us! O, I know what that is; I've seed it when I was a gell to hoame."
               "I'll sthrike 'em," cried Nora in a fierce whisper. "Hear till that! they're batin' the doore, the divils! I'm off to the kitchen for a kittle of hot wather. I'll baste a couple on 'em anny how."
               Lucy Kenwyn was down on her knees in the middle of the room praying with great fervor and explaining that she had not meant to steal Miss Rossy's pitcher, and the girls were holding fast to Nora, trying to make her understand that it would be unwise to attack the assailants in the ferocious manner she proposed, when Aunt Hilda entered completely dressed, with her shawl tied in a hard knot behind her back, and a round hat of Margaret's that she had discovered on the bureau set over her night-cap, and a skeleton hoop skirt elaborately displayed above her dress. She looked pale and frightened in the dim light, but behaved with a great deal of fortitude and good sense, notwithstanding.
               "Hear 'em, hear 'em!" she called in a hoarse whisper like an east wind that had caught the asthma. "It's jest like a Ingin massa-cry; jest like it. Land's sake! if we only had a few coats and breeches to button up in, we might scare 'em out ourselves."
               "Lave me git the hot wather," expostulated Nora. "It's no use wakin' them two nagurs for they're as great fools as Honor Maguire! Holt aff me, Miss Mag'ret, till I fetch the big skillet."
               "No, no," ordered both the girls.
               "Amen—amen," chanted poor Harriet Lucy; "for these and all others—my hair falls out—oh, there they be—in our perils and—Miss Rossy knowed I had the pitcher—as we forgive—and I do, though my brother's wife she, kept my two bed blankets—oh, oh!"
               She sprang to her feet with a smothered shriek, startled by a louder noise, mingled with the sound of voices calling for Mr. Prescott.
               "Come with me, Gay," Margaret said, "I'm going to speak to them."
               They went back into their chamber, followed by Aunt Hilda and Nora, while Lucy Kenwyn, now quite driven out of her poor distracted wits, darted down the stairs, and went groping through the kitchen for a candle, praying and crying softly to herself.
               Whether they were frightened neither of the girls could have told by this time; every nerve and fibre was strung to its fullest tension, and made them as incapable of feeling the usual paralyzing effects of fear, as if they had been animated by the animal courage which supported the ancient Amazons.
               Margaret flung back the curtains and opened the window with Gay close by her side, and the pair leaned over the sill. At the sound the window made, the men paused in their talk, and at a signal from their leader, those who had been trying to force an entrance at the side door ceased their work and came softly towards the front of the house.
               At first, in the dim light, the rioters could not well make out the forms partially hidden by the draperies, and Margaret called in a voice that rang firm and true,
               "Evan Evans, what do you want here?"
               She had distinguished the face of the man to whom she spoke, and it was an unconscious master-stroke of policy addressing him by name.
               There was a general murmur, and as the fellow shrunk back a little they heard him say in an agitated voice,
               "It's Miss Dane, sure."
               "Yes, it is I," returned Margaret. "What do you want about our house at this time of night, and why have you brought these men?"
               The man would gladly have retreated out of sight, but some of his companions prevented that, and when Margaret repeated the inquiry, he grumbled,
               "'Deed then, I didn't bring 'em, Miss Dane, they coomed herselves."
               "And why have they come?" demanded Margaret.
               There was a dead silence.
               "Why are you here?" continued she, more firmly. "It is not only you, Evans, that I recognize; there are several other faces familiar to me. I have seen them many a time when I have gone to your houses to carry help to your wives, or sit beside the beds of your sick children. Why are you here in the dead of the night like a band of robbers?"
               "We're no robbers, 'deed, Miss Dane," cried several voices. "You may be sure of that; 'deed we are not."
               "We wouldn't hurt a hair of yer head; 'deed for sure we wouldn't, Miss."
               "Then what do you want? You know how ill my mother has been! You, Owen Griffiths, once when your little boy was ill, my mother had him moved down here, and nursed him, because your shanty was noisy, and he had no mother to care for him. Have you taken this way to thank her for a favor that you made an oath you never should forget?"
               Owen Griffiths, a great iron-colored giant, shambled back in his turn, and made answer in a whimpering voice, ludicrously at variance with his size,
               "For sure, Miss, we thought ye was both gone."
               "But you couldn't have meant to break into our house, in our absence. I'll never believe so bad of any of you as that."
               "Here's the coompany's house," a voice was heard to say.
               "It is our house, Dan Hughes," exclaimed Margaret.
               "Lord save us, she knows us ivery one, sure," muttered the man.
               "A good many of you I know," returned Margaret, following up her advantage; "but you are not the decent, sober men I thought you, or you would not be here. Is there nobody man enough to say what you want? You, Evan Evans, is your little crippled daughter that I nursed last spring ill again, that you come here? You, Morgan Price, do you want Miss Van Kortland to come and sit by your wife that's dying of consumption, as she did day after day this summer? There she is if you need her."
               "Here we both are," exclaimed Gay, in her ringing contralto voice; "two helpless women, roused out of our beds in the middle of the night by a troop of men, almost every one of whom has met with some kindness at our hands. Can't you say what you want? If it is our lives, we will sell them dearly, for we are armed. If it is plunder, the house is well secured, and before you shall enter, we'll set it on fire ourselves in every corner and die in the flames. Now answer."
               Within the chamber there was a noiseless struggle going on; Aunt Hilda holding fast to Nora, who had brought the skillet, and was eager to plunge forward and take an active part in the performance without waste of words.
               The crowd retreated before Gay's eloquence more quickly than they would have done before a volley of musketry, but in the confusion of voices, the drunken preacher from Irondale thrust himself forward, exclaiming,
               "Ye're nobbut 'oomans; we want that divil Prescott and his ill-got gould, an' we'll tak it."
               "This," said Margaret, "is a man that I don't know. I am glad that it was not a familiar voice which told me you had come here for robbery and murder."
               "We didn't! we didn't!" cried the men whom she had before addressed by name. "We don't know what we wanted; more to give the master a scare nor nought else."
               "Fifty men against one!" cried Gay, "you are a brave set! But you must fight out your battle against women, for Mr. Prescott is not here."
               "Then jist say where," growled the preacher, but the other men pushed him back, and threatened him with instant punishment unless he held his peace.
               "Find out where he is," returned Gay; "but I doubt your having courage to attack men."
               "Go home now," added Margaret. "Don't allow yourselves to be led into crime by a miserable creature who only wants to make you as degraded as himself."
               "I'm a sarvint of the Loard," cried the bullet-headed man, but the name he so impiously pronounced ended in a howl, for two of his followers caught him by the throat and choked him unmercifully.
               "'Deed, Miss Dane," called Evans, "we wouldn't hurt ye. Don't be froighted; we're honest men, and on'y wants our rights."
               "Do you think this is the way to get them?" demanded Gay. "Do you suppose your best friends will stand between you and the punishment you deserve?"
               The bullet-headed man tried in vain to make his voice heard, urging that if they did not want to pay dear for their work, they had better burn the mansion and the women and leave no witnesses against them; but he was so rudely assaulted and the men seemed so much inclined to turn the full current of their wrath against him for having led them into such difficulty, that he was only too glad to sneak off round the house to escape.
               At that instant a flame shot up from the back of the dwelling, vivid and bright, illuminating the whole lawn as if it had been day, while a woman's frenzied shrieks rang through the air, growing more distant as the frightened creature fled. It was Lucy Kenwyn's work. She had found a candle on the table; had lighted it and crept out of doors with it in her hand. By the back gate lay a great heap of straw that the careless Jupe had neglected to remove, and as she rushed past it she dropped the smouldering candle-end into the pile and in a second the combustible refuse burst into a tower of flame.
               "They've fired the house, the divils!" cried Nora and bounded away, while Aunt Hilda for the first time began to wring her hands and scream.
               "The sojers is on us!" was the cry among the men, and they commenced to scatter right and left. Gay had run across the hall and restored composure to their little camp by reporting the true state of the case.
               "It will be seen at the office," she said, "there's no danger, for there's not a breath of wind."
               "A real Ingin massa-cry!" moaned Aunt Hilda. "Oh my patch, my patch! they'll never stop now!"
               But the confusion outside was increased. The tread of feet sounded; a wild yell followed; for Prescott, on seeing the flames, rushed to the cabins of the Irish, and told them that the Welshmen had attacked Mrs. Dane's house, and they were only too glad of a fight and the opportunity to vent their wrath against their late confederates.
               Overpowered by numbers, the miners fled in desperation—some through the fields, others down the road, and were made prisoners by the advancing soldiers from the village, who had been roused by Prescott's orders. In a few moments there was no sound but the howls of exultation from the Irish, who cheered for Prescott as lustily as if a few hours before they had not debated among themselves the propriety of attacking him on their own account.
               Then from the back of the house came shrieks and curses, and the crowd rushed to see what was the matter, and there in the kitchen door were Nora and the drunken preacher rolling over and over, and she having pinioned his head and arms in a clothes-basket, was having the battle pretty much her own way, and wreaking on the miserable animal the vengeance which had been burning against his whole company.
               He had discovered the cause of the flames and that the back door was open, and had entered to perform a little private theft, when Nora came into the kitchen just as he stumbled over a chair. She first deluged him with the contents of her skillet, still hot enough to scald severely, then threw the basket over his head, and they rolled about the floor, he uttering shrieks of pain, and she louder cries of wrath and triumph. When she saw Mr. Prescott and his train of her brethren, she rose to her feet, exclaiming,
               "Here he is; I have him—the dirty bla'guard—hang him—drown him—burrn him and be quick!"
               Her compatriots were ready to obey her commands, but Prescott released him and told them that was not the way to treat a prisoner; he must be taken to the lock-up for the rest of the night, and carried before the justice after.
               "I tuk him," cried Nora loudly, "wid my own hands!"
               "And you have done well, Nora," Prescott said. "He is the cause of the whole trouble; the only one that deserves punishment."
               Nora was loudly congratulated by her friends, and received several offers of marriage on the spot, which she treated with consistent disdain.
               By this time the soldiers had arrived, and Prescott told the whole crowd of his followers to go home.
               "Be peaceable," said he, "and to-morrow go to work like sensible men."
               "We will, yer honor, faix we will! Long life to ye, and it's a pleasure to be in a fight wid ye!" and somebody announcing that a fugitive was to be seen skulking through the fields, off the whole body set in hot pursuit.
               And now Jupe and his sable brother having been at last roused by the tumult from their peaceful slumbers, came tumbling down stairs in wild alarm, while Miss Maguire, recovered from her stupor of fear, sat on the garret steps and beat frantically against the wall with a broken chair and howled a dismal refrain to their chorus. But Nora took the settling of the three upon herself and performed her work quickly and thoroughly. She chased the borrowed darkey out of the house with a broomstick, belabored Jupe with the weapon till he was glad to crawl off into the wood-house, and rushing up stairs she hauled Miss Maguire down by the feet, causing that sensitive maiden's head to perform martial music on each step in a way that left her with no breath to expostulate when she reached the bottom.
               Prescott went on through the house to find the ladies, and they met him in the hall, having lighted their lamps and come down, accompanied by Aunt Hilda, who, suddenly becoming conscious of her night-cap and the sort of mail which she had composed of her hoop-skirt, fled incontinently and was seen no more.
               Prescott had heard of their courage from her, and called out,
               "Every thing is over. I congratulate you both on your generalship."
               "Are they gone?" asked Margaret.
               "Every body except two or three soldiers, who will spend the rest of the night in the kitchen; there's no danger."
               Margaret set her lamp down on the table with as much deliberation as if about to make a long speech, and without the slightest warning slid to the floor in a dead faint. Her woman's nerves must have their revenge now.
               Prescott raised her, and, regardless of Gay's presence, uttered mad words that made his secret clear enough to her perceptions at least, calling in the midst of them,
               "She's dead, she's dead!"
               "Only fainted," returned Gay; "lay her on the sofa. Get some water; there's some on the table."
               Prescott, of course, was quite out of his senses, and talked so much nonsense that Gay brought him back to himself by curtly recommending him to hold his tongue. She worked over Margaret till the girl could open her eyes and sit up, and say confusedly,
               "I'm not frightened, but I believe I was a little faint."
               "A little," replied Gay dryly; "now let me try."
               She sat down on the sofa, and went off into hysterical sobs, that drove Prescott more insane than he was before, but Margaret did the Samaritan in her turn, and pretty soon both girls began to laugh in a shrill fashion, and then to cry simultaneously, while Prescott danced about and offered them all sorts of things that were rather useless as restoratives, from a vase of wax flowers to the antimacassars off the chairs.
               "Now," said Gay; "we'll go to bed," and up they got. "When you want another riot, and to kill a few more men, let us know," snapped she, and they both disappeared, leaving him covered with guilty confusion, which deprived him of any hope of sleep whatever.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               MR. PRESCOTT'S RESOLVE.
               THE "strike" was at an end; crushed by the very effort which the few evil-disposed leaders had believed would strengthen it.
               When Prescott appeared at the office the next morning, he found the Irish laborers returned to a man, though no work was going on inside the mines, as the Welshmen, even if disposed, had not ventured to come out of their hiding-places. A great crowd of women soon collected, beseeching Mr. Prescott not to be hard upon their friends, and he at last reassured their fears by informing them that the only arrests he intended to make were already effected—the Irondale preacher and two or three fellows who had been most prominently leagued with him in his undertaking. He took occasion to have the females told that if their husbands kept out of sight for a few days, there would be no search for them, and that, later, if they chose to accept the offer which had been made in the beginning, they would be allowed to resume their labors.
               As for the Emerald Islanders, of course they were more devoted to Prescott than ever, from the fact that there had been a slight disagreement, and as the outside laborers of the other mines had also returned to their duties, there was no further disturbance to be feared.
               Prescott had to appear at the justice's office, in order to have the bullet-headed man and his companions committed, that they might be sent down to Barry and lodged in the county jail to await their trial at the next court. The justice's room was quite full, for a good many of the Irish faction had taken advantage of the days of drinking and idleness to indulge in private feuds among themselves, and there was a great array of bandaged heads and bloody noses, and voices clamorous for warrants against men and women with impossible names. When Prescott went in, the justice was struggling verbally with two women, each of whom was determined to have the other arrested, and the noise they made was appalling; threats of sending them both to the lock-up without further hearing proving of slight avail.
               "Now, Mrs. O'Shaunessey," said the justice, when her foe had been dragged into a corner and made to keep her tongue still by having a policeman's hand held over her mouth, "as you are rather the more sober of the two, tell me the whole story."
               "Sober I am, yer honor, and thank ye kindly, and me worst inimy couldn't say that Judy O'Shaunessey was iver the worse for a dhrop, barrin' it mightu't be on a Christmas or the loike, an' niver quarrelsome at that."
               "Yes, yes; but tell the story direct or I shall not try to hear you. You and Mrs. Burns have had a fight. How did it begin?"
               Mrs. Burns in her corner struggled ineffectually with her guard, but was not allowed to utter a syllable.
               "Yer honor," said Mrs. O'Shaunessey, rising and standing in front of his table, a short, fat woman with only one eye, and a face that bore as many scars as that of an ancient Roman gladiator.
               "Yer honor, is it the fight?"
               "It is; tell all about it as briefly as possible."
               Mrs. O'Shaunessey took up her apron and folded her arms in it as carefully as if she had been wrapping them up to remain at least six months, swiftly disengaging them as soon as the operation was performed, and with a long sniff and a defiant shake of her head at her enemy, began in a shrill falsetto an account of the whole transaction.
               "It's the throuble we had? Thin it's very little I know, yer honor, bein' a dacent woman not used to brawls."
               A sign from the justice admonished her to make haste, and with a deprecatory wave of her apron, she went on rapidly,
               "It's yisterday it was, I'd bin to the market and buyed some fish, and I was a comin' home up Main Street whin I met Mrs. Burns, the dirrty craythur. 'How do ye do, Mrs. O'Shaunessey?' sez she. 'How do you do, Mrs. Burns?' sez I. 'What have ye got in yer basket?' sez she. 'Fish, that I buyed at the market,' sez I. 'What sort?' sez she. 'I don't know,' sez I; 'fish that I buyed at the market.' 'Let me smell till 'em,' sez she. 'Smell,' sez I, uncoverin' the basket so. 'They stink,' sez she. 'You lie,' sez I. 'To hell!' sez she. 'Whoop!' sez I. An' she made at me, an' that's all I know about it," concluded Mrs. O'Shaunessey.
               Amid bursts of laughter from the crowd Mrs. Burns sprang to her feet, and escaping from the policeman, swooped down on her foe afresh, and there was no possibility of hearing a word in the din the two made until they had been carried off, kicking and struggling in the grasp of the officers.
               Prescott completed his business, received congratulations from his honor—a fussy, absurd little man who regarded himself and his office as of the highest importance in the world—on the favorable turn that affairs had taken, and was glad to be through with the business for the present.
               He was thinking much less of matters connected with the late events than as a practical man he ought to have done, but he felt no inclination to reproach himself. He had met the ladies at breakfast, both cheerful, and not in any way suffering from the adventure of the previous night; while Aunt Hilda, arrayed in a more consistent costume than that in which he had last seen her, could not sufficiently extol the bravery of the two girls. Prescott had been greatly annoyed that his own want of foresight had exposed them to any trouble, but indeed he was not in the slightest degree to blame, as they had absolutely refused to listen to his proposal that a couple of soldiers should be sent up early in the evening. Nobody had believed that any approach to a riot would take place, for though strikes were frequent enough, it had been years since the slightest attempt at violence had occurred in the district.
               Gay Van Kortland was the only person who had the least conception of the real state of Mr. Prescott's feelings; but his incoherent exclamations while Margaret was insensible had fully enlightened her, though she looked as innocent as a whole nest of doves that morning, and felt wiser than a colony of serpents.
               Gay was very glad; her only fear was that Margaret would not accept him. During the latter part of Seaton's stay she had begun to dread that Margaret's fancy was dazzled by his brilliancy, but hoped that there had been no serious thought in her friend's mind, and felt confident that a union with Prescott would make her happy. When the two girls were alone that day they went on with their novel, and Gay was able to offer a great deal of sage advice apropos to the conduct of the heroine, but Margaret did not appear in any way to consider it applicable to herself. They were interrupted by visitors, for Aunt Hilda had been down to the village and spread the news of their courageous conduct far and wide, and every body who could claim the least right to call, took that opportunity. Most of the intruders were disgusted to find that Gay and Margaret refused to be considered heroines, and the ladies of the Straight family were greatly shocked by the levity of the two young women.
               "But," said the sister of the Straight on her way home, for she was furious at having been treated by Gay with freezing politeness, "what can you expect? there are people who would dance on the brink of the grave. Miss Van Kortland is no better than a Papist in disguise; I am informed that she actually has a crucifix in her room and a picture of the Virgin, and I fear she is rapidly contaminating Margaret by her example."
               The confidant of her pious fears groaned in response, and the pair talked dolefully about judgments scorned, and the depravity of the world in general, and congratulated themselves on their own goodness, and their particularly fiery belief in regard to the fate of all such benighted creatures as did not follow in the paths trodden by their own immaculate feet, which never stumbled and never wandered into devious ways.
               It was decided that Margaret and Gay should drive down to Barry after dinner to convince Mrs. Dane that they were alive and unharmed, if reports of the adventure had reached her, and they went; but, with the usual delightful inconsistency of human nature, found her, ordinarily the most excitable of females, inclined to take the whole matter coolly and not anxious to bring her visit to a close.
               So the girls returned, glad to escape, and left her to the charming society of the Sandersons and the spinster from Boston, who was the stiffest and most rigid spinster that ever made virtue odious by her appearance, and who regarded Gay as no better than one of the wicked, because she belonged to New York, as was natural and proper for a Boston spinster to do.
               
               If Gay had been filled with the prophetic spirit by which Athenäis Schuyler considered herself inspired, she could not have been more plainly aware of Mr. Prescott's desire to have Margaret to himself for a little while, and with a considerateness which her remarkable relative never would have shown, she determined that he should be gratified.
               She did not annoy Margaret by leaving her to Prescott's society; she was too wise for that. She waited till he was smoking his pipe in the early twilight down by the gate, and Margaret imagined he had gone away on some business. Then Gay was seized with a desire for some article of dress that lay at the bottom of her biggest trunk, which nobody could find but herself, which must be found if she was expected to live to see another dawn. She convinced Margaret that she was too much fatigued to walk to Orchard Hill, and took Aunt Hilda that she might not be in the way, and Aunt Hilda was in an amazing flow of spirits, and gave quotations from Lord Byron and recipes for various sorts of pancakes all in the same breath.
               Mrs. Ross persuaded them to sit a long time, promising to send Dan Simmons back as an escort, Dan having kept sober since his immersion in the soap-kettle. Gay was willing to remain, partly because Mrs. Ross was very amusing, and partly because she felt confident that Prescott would take a proper advantage of their departure, a fact of which she had made him duly aware with a carelessness so charming that a Jesuit would have been deceived into thinking that she meant no more than she said.
               Prescott finished his pipe very slowly after they had passed on their way and left him alone. He had been in a desperate hurry before that, wondering if tiresome people were always to be about—if he was never to have another minute alone with Margaret; but somehow, now that the desired opportunity had arrived, he was in no haste to take advantage of it, and felt much less hopeful and courageous than he had done in the latter part of the night when he took possession of his chamber and wasted the few hours that were left for sleep in silent communion with his own wishes and plans.
               He walked towards the house, and as he reached the veranda, he saw Margaret seated in the little parlor in the twilight. His doubt and hesitation vanished; he gave himself no time to think, but walked straight into the apartment, and startled her by his abrupt entrance—ah, worse than that, made her remember the last time that a hurried step had roused her in that very room, at that very hour—sent her heart throbbing wildly for an instant, then made it sink with the passion of humiliation which tortured her whenever she recalled that scene.
               "I thought you had gone to the village," she said quickly, feeling as if her trouble and shame must be written so legibly on her face that the most careless observer might read, and eager to speak, no matter what she said.
               "No; I have not been."
               "Gay and Aunt Hilda have gone up to the Hill," Margaret said.
               "I saw them; that was the reason I came in. I wanted to speak to you—to speak to you alone."
               She looked up in his face as he stood bending a little towards her—that manly, noble face so shaken out of its ordinary calm—and her womanly intuitions told her at once the errand upon which he had come. She had never thought about him in that way; once or twice of late a suspicion had crossed her mind only to be quickly banished; but now she understood why he had come.
               She looked about as if with a vague hope of release; glanced back at his face and his eager, expectant eyes; then her gaze fell upon the spot where she had been seated when Noel Seaton stood in that room to bid her farewell, and once more the sense of shame burned her heart like a brand of fire, and she would have snatched eagerly at any hope, any thought of interest, which night serve to blot out its remembrance.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               YIELDING TO FATE.
               WHEN Gay and Aunt Hilda returned from their visit the parlor was empty, and while Miss Van Kortland looked through the library and Mrs. Dane's sitting-room for Margaret, Mrs. Gallagher went on towards her chamber.
               "For," she said to Gay, "somehow I feel tuckered out—saving your presence, my dear. I know as well as any body when I use bad English, for I've kept school many a day, and I could take the whole class down in spellin' when I was a girl. So say good-night to picturful Pearl for me, and that lordly Mr. Prescott; now ain't he jest like Hudibras or Sir Charles Grandison, or some of them grandiose chaps in a story-book?"
               Aunt Hilda was a little unfortunate in her comparisons, but her admiration was sincere, and she mounted the stairs talking to herself all the way, jumbling up some lines from the Lay of the Last Minstrel with a recipe for snow-cakes which Mrs. Ross had given her, and which she was anxious to remember.
               The library was deserted and dark and so was the little sitting-room, and as Gay turned back towards the parlor she met Mr. Prescott in the hall. She looked curiously at him and her quick sight detected the change in his face, the softened smile about his mouth, and the eager brightness in his eyes. She entered the parlor and he followed her; she wheeled suddenly round upon him and holding out her hand, said earnestly,
               "I congratulate you; I know I may by your face! I wish you joy with all my heart."
               He seized her two hands and shook them so warmly that he left a clear impress of his seal-ring on her palm, but she did not mind that.
               "Have you seen Margaret? how did you know?"
               "I've seen nobody but yourself," she replied laughing; "your telltale countenance is assurance enough! I know you have succeeded in your wishes, and you are a fortunate man."
               "I am a happy man too," he answered in a deep, satisfied voice that it was a pleasure to hear. "But I did not suppose that I had been carrying any secret about on my face; not that it matters."
               "Nobody has seen it but me," replied Gay; "but you know I shall soon be an elderly cat and I am growing wise. Good gracious, I knew when I carried Aunt Hilda off to-night exactly what would happen. And my little Pearl behaved like a dear sensible girl?"
               "She did not say me nay," returned Prescott, coloring a little, for he had not, as so many men do, worn out all possibility of delicacy by constant rehearsals of such scenes. "I think that was behaving like a dear sensible girl."
               "So do I," said Gay. "But I was afraid you might take her by surprise; she is not one of those detestable women who think that every man who pays her a compliment has fallen a victim to her fascinations."
               "She was surprised," he answered, and his voice grew tremulous with feeling; "too confused and uncertain to talk much or be at home with me. But I think she will care for me, and if it is in my power to make her so, she shall be a happy woman."
               "She will be, Mr. Prescott; I am sure of that! I know what a prize you have won, and I know too that you are worthy of it."
               "She said—Margaret said that I might tell you," he went on, lingering fondly over the name which he had a right now to pronounce aloud; "she wished you to know."
               "She was right to think that any thing which concerned you both so nearly would be of the greatest interest to me."
               "I am sure of that, Miss Van Kortland, and I thank you heartily for your sympathy."
               "And the opportunity I gave you," added Gay, jesting a little as her habit was, from a wish to get away from real emotion.
               "Yes," he said, smiling his slow, grave smile. "I wanted your help too."
               "You will have it, you know. In what way can I serve you?"
               "I want to be married at once."
               "Of course—you unconscionable man."
               "But there are many reasons why it would be better—at least why I am anxious. Mrs. Dane talks of going East to visit her friends this winter; I can't lose Margaret—I can't! In a few weeks I am obliged to make a trip to New York and several other cities—if we could be married and go together—I don't think I am unreasonable to wish it."
               "It would be better every way," Gay answered. "Margaret ought not to be left alone any more in this desolate place, and as for her wintering with those Boston prigs and prigesses, that would kill her outright."
               "You will use your influence? I dread to press the matter too much. I don't want to be selfish."
               "Where is the little girl?"
               "In her room; she left me a great deal sooner than I could bear, but she looked so pale I had not the heart to detain her."
               "I am going too," said Gay. "I promise you that all my influence shall be exercised in your behalf."
               "But I would not have her overpersuaded for the world! Much as I love her—and God knows how strong that love is—I would rather give her up if, when she has time to think, she finds that she has been hasty. There could be no happiness for me unless she is happy."
               "And she will be! Be patient—don't frighten her; be patient even if after your marriage she has odd moods and unsettled ones—they will pass! If your sex only knew what patience and devotion will do!"
               "She shall have both, believe me."
               "I do! Now let me go and find her."
               But Prescott could not spare her yet; it was pleasant to have some one with whom he could talk freely, and, reticent as he usually was, he could not resist showing Gay his whole heart, and she honored him the more.
               "You are a true man," she said earnestly, as she held ont her hand for a last good-night, "true and honest! You deserve to be happy, and you will. God bless you both." When she was half way up the stairs, she looked back at him, and said gayly, "It is useless to recommend you to go to sleep; you'll smoke for an hour yet. Please don't burn us all in our beds, for I mean to have good news for you in the morning if you let me live to tell it."
               Prescott watched her till she disappeared, then went away to his solitary pipe, giving her a little pity out of the tumult of his new happiness, for he was confident that in spite of her brilliant spirits, Gay Van Kortland was not a happy woman, and just now it seemed to him a calamity so horrible for any human being to be without some hope powerful enough to make the whole world glad and bright.
               Gay knocked softly at Margaret's door, and entered. She was sitting near the hearth, and the firelight fell softly over her face and hands as she leaned back in a low easy-chair, too tired even to think connectedly; able only to remember that by her own act she had brought her restless life to anchor, and trying to find repose in that thought.
               "Awake, but dreaming," said Gay softly; "may one come in, enchanted princess?"
               Margaret half rose from her seat, holding out both hands with a faint cry, then settled back in her former attitude, ashamed of having betrayed feeling. But Gay came swiftly towards her, and kneeling by her side, laid the weary head on her shoulder and gathered the cold hands close in her own.
               
               "I know," she whispered; "he has told me, and I am so glad!"
               "Really glad?" Margaret asked, nestling closer to her friend, with a childish need of sympathy and support. You are sure that I have done right; you are sure?"
               "Perfectly sure," returned Gay; "you have won as noble a heart as ever beat. You may be proud and thankful."
               "It is all so strange yet," Margaret said, trying not to breathe quickly, and to keep her fingers from trembling and pinching Gay's nervously; "it's all so new and strange! You'll believe me. I had scarcely imagined that he cared for me until very lately. I did not think about it then."
               "I know; I have seen every thing, you shy bird! But it is all settled now and you will be a very happy little woman."
               "You think I will; you believe it is best?"
               "I do, Margaret! You are startled yet. It's all strange, as you say; but be quiet and don't perplex yourself with thinking, and all your life to come you will be thankful for the blessing of a good man's love. It is not often offered to any woman twice, believe me."
               "Yes; it is for life—for life," Margaret said, in the same anxious voice.
               "And when this doubt and shyness are gone, the peace and rest will be for life—for life," Gay answered. "Oh, my dear, be thankful, and don't frighten yourself because you feel this or don't feel that, or miss something that is in novels or that silly girls have told you about."
               "It does seem right, if it is not unjust to him," Margaret said.
               "Unjust, in giving him the one gift he covets? The man loves you—loves you as a good man can love," she went on quickly, for at her words Margaret had begun to tremble again, "and that is the purest and noblest prize any woman can gain. You don't know how patient he will be; kind and tender as a woman, but so brave and strong—something to lean and rest on always—and, oh Margaret, it is hard to be without that."
               "I know," she answered. "My life has been very dreary; I told him so. Perhaps it was all my fault, but there has been so little in which I could interest myself. I couldn't care for the people about me. I'm not so good as I ought to be, and this has seemed such a lonely, desolate place since my father died—I can't tell you, Gay!"
               "And it would have become more so than ever, dear."
               "Yes; it has been horrible to think of living on and growing old in this monotony; but what could I do?"
               "That is settled for you, Pearl—wisely settled."
               "He tells me that we shall not live here," Margaret went on. "In the spring we can go away—to Europe, the East."
               "And you have always wanted to travel. Life will change so completely—bless me, in a year you'll not know yourself for the same creature."
               "I want to say so many things to you," pursued Margaret, "but I don't know how."
               "I think I understand, Pearl! You are not certain of yourself. You don't know what you feel; you are glad of his love but you shrink a little from the idea of belonging to him! It's not like old girlish dreams and fancies; it seems better than the present solitude of your life, but you are afraid of wronging him."
               "That is it," she answered. "But I have been thinking of what you said last night and to-day, while we were reading."
               She seemed to take it for granted that Gay remembered too, but Gay had no more recollection of it than the man in the moon, but was too anxious to say something else, to state the fact. She had said, "A girl is right to marry a good man, one whom she can trust, if her heart has nothing in it beyond a foolish fancy that was never meant to be real." Gay had spoken the words and forgotten them, as we do so many trivial things which produce a lasting effect, perhaps, upon those about us.
               "I have thought of it so much," Margaret repeated; but Gay was too full of her present advice to ask questions concerning any former utterances of wisdom.
               "I knew you had all these feelings, Daisy dear," she said; "but they will pass, if only you will not be fanciful and fret yourself. The time will come when you can tell him; they will pass very quickly then, for he will be patient; you know he loves you."
               "Yes," she answered; "I believe that. Ah, he talked so gently."
               She stopped, and began to color, and Gay, knowing that she was afraid of having said too much and indelicately betrayed her lover's secrets, got up a new question on the instant.
               "What is Mr. Prescott's Christian name? I have heard it, but I can't remember."
               "Alan," Margaret replied; but she could say it unfalteringly.
               "It's pretty, too; you must call him by it; so shall I. You'll get accustomed to it then, and there's nothing like growing used to things."
               She laughed and made Margaret laugh a little, and went on to paint a future for her in glowing colors—a life guarded and sheltered as only it could be by a husband's love—a life that would lend far from the chill and loneliness of the past—in pleasant scenes—among places and people she had longed to see and know; and it was very attractive to the solitary girl.
               "I've no doubt you'll be dreadfully bothered with me," she went on; "I shall make Master Alan promise that in advance."
               "Will you? O, I shall be so happy, and he will like it; I am sure he will."
               "Naturally, bewitching creature that I am; unless he were a bat or a mole, which, thank heaven, he is not."
               "He admires you so much; we have often talked about you," Margaret said, growing eager now, for she was in that state of mind when the idea of having the support and companionship of her friend made the prospect more bright to her. "You like to travel; you would be glad to go over Europe again."
               "O yes; and I have never been to the East. We'll go to the Holy Land, Madge. Now, if you did not marry, I couldn't see nearly so much of you; you'd be stationary here, and when I wanted to visit you it would be coming directly out of my world, you see."
               Margaret grew absolutely enthusiastic on the subject, so it seemed to Gay a favorable opportunity to introduce the other matter in which she had promised Mr. Prescott her assistance.
               "Your stepmother means to go to Boston this winter," she said; "she told me to-day that horrible old maid had made her promise. She said the old cat's society would be such a benefit to you."
               Margaret groaned at the idea, and Gay groaned in concert.
               "A pretty prospect that would be," continued she; "why, Pearl, you'd be petrified into a geometrical figure before spring."
               "Mamma can't mean it."
               "O yes, she does; it's all settled; I thought I wouldn't distress you to-day by the news, but it makes no difference now."
               "Makes no difference?" repeated Margaret, omitting the adverb.
               "Now," added Gay, supplying the deficiency.
               "Why, I hate Boston; I'd rather be burned alive," exclaimed Margaret, still not catching her friend's meaning.
               "I should think so," replied Gay, with the utmost satisfaction. "Buried in an iceberg into the bargain! To be in the house of that hyena, nagged at and pounced on by her, and your stepmother afraid of offending her, and believing that her word was inspiration—a pretty prospect indeed."
               "Gay, I shall die!" said Margaret with energy.
               "You would if you were obliged to do it," answered Gay with beautiful simplicity. "Luckily there will be no talk about your going now," and this time she emphasized the adverb which had twice failed to perform its mission.
               "Now?" repeated Margaret, staring at her in astonishment.
               "My dear," said Gay sweetly, "I've said it three times already. Of course there can be no question of your going. Mr. Prescott would be an odd sort of lover if he could lose you till spring—and he won't. He's good and kind, but he will insist on his rights, and a very miserable stick he would be if he did not."
               "What do you mean?" asked Margaret, beginning to look frightened. "You don't expect—he wouldn't ask—"
               "I do expect—he will ask," replied Gay, as Margaret's sentence died away unfinished.
               "O Gay, don't be cruel to me!"
               "My darling little Pearl!" said Gay affectionately, resuming the kneeling posture from which she had risen, and putting her arms about Margaret once more. "I wouldn't be cruel to you for the world! Mr. Prescott wants to be married soon, and it is better every way."
               "But not before spring!" pleaded Margaret.
               "Yes, before winter," said that wicked Gay, willfully misunderstanding the word, and so completely taking away Margaret's breath by her grand coup that she could not utter a syllable of expostulation. "It is only because it is so new that it seems dreadful to you. Now, my dear, I am getting to be an old file—excuse the slang phrase, it's so deliciously expressive!—and I assure you that the longer you put it off the more unsettled you will feel, and the more dreadful it will seem."
               "But not before winter; it is October now," gasped Margaret.
               "The sixth," said Gay; "now a month from to-day would give you ample time to get ready—November is a lovely month—Mr. Prescott has to make a journey then—"
               "Gay, Gay!" but Gay was deaf.
               "And I could be here too; I will promise to stay, and I'll see to every thing for you, and it will all be delightful, and you will not be given over to the clutches of that New England griffin."
               "It would be a great comfort to have you with me," Margaret said, not well able to think much, and snatching at the one consoling gleam in the confusion. "But so soon—so soon."
               "My love," said Gay sententiously, "when one has to be eaten by an ogre, what is the good of putting off the evil moment? You are a woman—you have found your special ogre—be crunched with resignation," and Margaret had to laugh at her absurdity, and found no argument to offer in her bewilderment, only a repetition of the piteous cry—
               "So soon—so soon!"
               "Next spring would seem almost as near if that had been set for the time," replied Gay. "My dear little friend, if I were not certain this is for your happiness, I would not urge it. I love you better than I ever loved any other woman, and I am so glad and so thankful to see your life settled. Don't distress yourself with fears that are only a matter of nerves—with doubts at which you will laugh a year after your marriage, but just sit still, and let things take their course."
               "But remember, Gay; it is only a few months since my father's death—"
               "If he sees and loves you still, will it not gladden him to think that his child has found protection in a husband's love? You know that it will."
               "Yes, Gay, yes."
               "The most censorious person would tell you that in this case you ought not to delay from such scruples. We all know how you loved your father, and we honor you for the patience with which you have borne your grief."
               She gratified Margaret by a little praise of her cherished dead, but as soon as possible got her mind away from that view of the subject, and launched forth into new and more overwhelming reasons.
               "The truth is," she said at last, "there are no arguments to offer against Mr. Prescott's wish, and scores to be used on his side."
               "I can't argue; I don't want to. Indeed, Gay, I wish to do what is right and best."
               "I am sure of that. Be at rest, little one; content yourself with thinking every thing will be arranged in the wisest way for your happiness."
               "I shall have to," Margaret said, "for I can't think—I can't think."
               "The first thing," returned Gay, "is to go to bed and to sleep; you are worn out."
               "I am not sleepy."
               "No matter; I'll not have you mooning about the room half the night and getting fancies in your head! Let me undo these braids; I'll be waiting-maid; now sit still."
               She began talking of other things, and succeeded in quieting Margaret so that she went to bed and to sleep. But Gay was wakeful enough for two, and lay there with her eyes wide open, staring at the fire and thinking—thinking. She heard Mr. Prescott ascend the stairs and enter his room; she glanced at Margaret's face softened by the composure of sleep, wondering when such untroubled rest would come to her, shivering as if the chill night-wind that sighed without had blown directly over her couch, as her soul made dismal answer to her self-questionings.
               In the grave; there might be rest and untroubled slumber for her in the grave, but any hope of peace in this world seemed gone forever, and the grave appeared so far off—she was so young and strong—it looked so far off, so far.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               MARRIED AND GONE.
               MARGARET was not well the next morning, and Gay urged her to lie in bed; for quiet was all that she needed. Mr. Prescott's face was an amusing study to Gay when he heard her step on the stairs, and came out into the hall and was told that he could not see his princess. But Gay was good-natured; she took his arm and walked him up and down the veranda and consoled him by the information that he was to have his wish—Margaret would consent.
               "I believe," said Aunt Hilda to him at breakfast, "that the riot did you good; you look as bright as a pictur'-book," whereat Gay laughed so heartily that the good woman was inclined to believe she had perpetrated a witticism without intending it.
               That afternoon Mr. Prescott was rewarded by a sight of Margaret, and even allowed to drive her out, but Gay took care that she should not be disturbed or frightened, and, in the peculiar state of affairs, was a great help to the newly engaged pair.
               What Margaret felt she would have found it difficult to explain; there was no connected thought in her mind. She was worn out by the struggles of the past weeks, and ready to rest for a time in the present that offered one fact to which she could cling—her life was settled. She had no dread of Mr. Prescott; his presence was agreeable to her; she was touched by the evidences of his affection, and the old dream, that had never possessed the least foundation to fasten upon, looked very distant and faint; though it made her cold and sick to recall its memory, and the horrible humiliation in which it had ended.
               The next day but one Mrs. Dane returned, the griffin of a spinster having gone back to the shades of modern Athens to prepare for a winter's visit from her old schoolmate and a winter's pecking and disciplining of Margaret, whom she considered to stand in great need of wholesome reproof and example.
               Gay and Prescott had decided that he had better drive down for Mrs. Dane and have an opportunity of explaining matters before she saw Margaret, as it was possible she might go into one of her nervous fits and need numerous explanations in order to understand. It proved a wise precaution to have taken, for though Prescott broke the news to her very gently and asked her countenance in the most respectful way, she only glared at him rigid with astonishment, evincing no signs of life except by violent clutches of her hands at the reins—an agreeable habit she had when any thing alarmed her.
               But he dexterously kept the lines out of her reach, told the story all over—it was never tiresome to him—and presently she was able to cry a little, which appeared a comfort to her though it alarmed Prescott, and he asked with a crestfallen air if she were disappointed—if she disapproved of him in any way.
               "No, no," she answered, making a final clutch at the reins and then coming to her senses enough to let them alone. "I think you the kindest, the best of men! It is only that I am taken by surprise—my dear Margaret, I am sure she will be happy."
               "I shall try to make her so," Prescott said.
               "I am sure of it—but so sudden—you said in November?"
               "November; you see how much better it is every way; but Margaret will need your encouragement, so you must get used to the idea."
               "O yes—I shall tell her how glad I am. But, dear, dear!" and she clasped her hands in distress at a new thought. "Miss Pitcher expects Margaret to come with me; she had laid out a course of geology for her to study, and there were to be chemical lectures and all sorts of things so improving to a young lady's mind. Miss Pitcher is very intellectual."
               "I think Margaret has studied enough," Prescott answered, feeling that he would like to break the nose off the Pitcher for her diabolical plans.
               "Oh, she's thoroughly educated, I will say that," Mrs. Dane averred; "but constant practice, mental labor, is so necessary," for the good lady had been greatly impressed by the Pitcher's eloquence.
               However, she was easily convinced by the person with whom she chanced to be talking, and before they reached Crosslands Prescott had done his part so well that she was almost as eager as himself for the marriage. He told her that when they returned from Europe he hoped their house would be her home; but though she was pleased at the attention, she already began to have visions of placing herself under the dominion of the Pitcher, and at the bottom of her heart she had always pined for the intellectual atmosphere of Boston. Her income, devoted to her own needs, would make her very well off, as she informed Prescott with a little pardonable pride, and what with pleasure at her own independence, her delight at Margaret's prospect of happiness, and her visions of a residence for the greater portion of each year with the gifted Pitcher—most people would have preferred the Dry Tortugas—she reached Crosslands in high spirits, though more swollen about the eyes, and redder as to her nose from much use of her handkerchief, than was consistent with beauty. She had managed to give her bonnet a twist on one side and her little frizzed curls stood out like miniature ram's horns; and between the natural kindness of her heart, her desire to show her satisfaction to Margaret, and her fears of not behaving with the decorum which might have suited Miss Pitcher, she was somewhat shaky and confused and made them all laugh, though they liked her.
               She tried her hand at a speech in the Pitcherian style, but broke down and sniffed in a manner peculiarly her own; and, finally deciding to put that wonderful and terrible female out of her mind for the present, became natural and at ease, and was as nice as possible, entering into an earnest discussion with Gay in regard to the trousseau, and getting as much excited about it as if the Pitcher, and Modern Athens, and mental acquirements, and other lofty and unpleasant aims, did not exist.
               They told Aunt Hilda too, and she nearly had a fit in her delight, and rushing down stairs to meet Mr. Prescott, carried her long-threatened purpose into execution; she kissed the tip of his left ear so often and so violently that it looked quite red and angry, as an ear well might, though its owner laughed heartily.
               "I'm so glad," cried Aunt Hilda, seizing his hands and working them up and down as if they had been pump-handles and there was nobody but her to pump water enough to put out a large fire; "I'm so glad that I feel as if I was a standin' on my head, though its not decent to say so, and me been a school-teacher. She's a pearl indeed, sir, and a picturful cretur, and she's found a fittin' frame; I can't say more and I can't say less! It's what I've wished for and now it's come! I'm so happy that if Abelard Straight was to try to run a Presbyterian fence right straight acrost my patch where the berries grows the finest, I don't believe I could git a grain of temper up."
               Prescott thanked her for her sympathy and extricated his arms, and Aunt Hilda sank into a chair quite exhausted, but beaming with satisfaction as though she had finally extinguished a flaming house by her unaided exertions.
               "You're made for one another," she continued; "I said it from the first—nobody can deny that. Three times sence I've been in this house I've dreamed of a funeral; onct it was my grandmother, and I was dreadful troubled 'cause she'd got Nora's yaller ironin' blanket for a shroud. Onct it was my blessed sister, who died of dropsy in the head years afore I was born; and last night who should it be but poor dear Mr. Gallagher himself, and they was layin' him out in the pianny cover with your top boots on and no shirt, and a peck of bother I had; and now it's all come true, for three dreams of funerals handrunnin' will bring a weddin' and never fails."
               Aunt Hilda rubbed her nose and shook her head as if she challenged Solomon himself to dispute the statement.
               "It ain't sense," said she; "I don't give in to superstition as a rule, but I ain't goin' to be a stubborn mule against facts, and we all know there's mysteries we ain't allowed to peak into, as Shakspeare himself says somewhere. But glad I am, and would feel repaid if I'd had the nightmare six months steady from dreamin' of corpses. I congratulate you, Mr. Prescott, sir—you're worthy—she's worthy—bless you both, and hurrah for the fourth of July, and down with Abelard Straight and all hypocrites that are no better than Britishers in disguise."
               She clapped her hands, plucked a net Gay had given her from her head and swung it in the air, and stamped her feet, and finally, without the least warning, puckered her face into the most frightful shape and had a good cry, after which, according to the habit of females, from queens down, she felt greatly relieved.
               The days slipped by as rapidly as days in a dream, but to nobody did the time appear so shadowy and unreal as to Margaret herself. All trouble was taken off her hands; Gay superintended the making of her wardrobe, the prettiest dresses to come direct from a modiste in town, and she was left to be quiet and indolent; only Gay was careful that she should not be too much alone and so grow moody and fanciful.
               Strange, unreal days to Margaret! Often in after years she tried to recall them, but there would be nothing distinct in the recollection. Often in the midst of the blackness that lay beyond, which overtook her as suddenly as a thunder tempest does the careless traveller, she tried to live over these events, and see if they portended the gloom which she had been too blind to see—but all in vain.
               Very swiftly they passed—grew into a week—a fortnight—stole farther on till it was within a few days of her marriage morning, and nothing real, nothing tangible yet. Prescott was all kindness and devotion; nobody teased or troubled her; she had not hitherto been unhappy—indeed, when Prescott was beside her, she forgot any haunting restlessness, any unexpressed regret in the charm of his conversation, and the repose that came from the consciousness of his love which was thenceforth to shield her even from herself.
               Suddenly, without a cause, the doubts and troubles woke, and stung her heart with their insidious whisperings. There was no one to whom she could speak—shame itself would have kept her silent. It would be impossible to draw back now, nor was she sure that she would wish to do so if it were in her power. In many ways the life to which she was going forward looked more bright than the existence she must leave behind. She could not have told what she wanted, but something was missing; the old ache in her heart over her perished dream cried out like a ghost haunting the grave where it ought to have lain buried. It was not that she thought of Noel Seaton—his image had been banished—her self-respect would have forced her to do that even had it not been wickedness now to think of him; but something was gone out of her life; something was wanting; some power to enjoy and be interested which had once been hers; some ability to look forward, to hope, to expect—and she was so tired, so tired.
               Gay comprehended more of the state of her mind than any body else, and she was very kind to her, though she felt confident that the restlessness would pass. One night when they were sleeping together Margaret woke with a cry, and lay sobbing like a child.
               "I don't know what is the matter," was all she could say in answer to her friend's inquiries. "But I'm afraid—I'm afraid."
               Gay could only soothe her and be tender and gentle. Nothing could help her but time and the devotion of the man who loved her. All this was no proof to Gay that she did not care for him; she was too well acquainted with the odd corners in the minds of the best and purest of her sex to be surprised, and understanding no more than Margaret herself, only able to sympathize with her undefined dread of her new life, she calmed her with affectionate words and lulled her to rest again.
               Gay was glad to have some subject outside of her own thoughts in which to interest herself, for they were by no means pleasant ones at this period. It was not only that one dismal memory came up more vividly from the distant past, giving her a sense of loneliness and desolation, as if she had been flung by an earthquake into a desert planet—she was accustomed to that feeling. She had lived with that ghost day after day, month after month, and grown familiar with its grim presence, as so many of us do to ghosts as dismal and loathsome—but there was a new cause for suffering.
               She missed Noel Seaton out of her life constantly. She knew, now that they were separated not to be friends any more, that he had been to her what no other man could be, and in falling from her, had left a dark gap which could never be filled. He was gone; he had lost even his respect and faith in her, and through her, in all womankind. He had gone; more reckless and hardened than ever, and in a certain way she must be culpable for future sins which grew out of that unbelief in her sox.
               If she had only told the truth at first—long before—when no possibility of pain to him could have come by the knowledge—if she had only done it! He would have left her, but he would have been sorry; he would not have despised her for her treachery as he did now. But he was gone—never more even to be her friend. Ah, this was hard! There was a harder pang—Gay knew that notwithstanding her resolve, her knowledge that an acceptance of his affection was impossible, her sophistries and her pride, she loved him—she had loved him always, in spite of every thing.
               But she bore her sufferings as she had borne all which had gone before—in silence. Her eyes, perhaps, looked more feverishly bright; the dark lines about them grew deeper; her spirits were more variable—but that was all. She played her part like the admirable actress she had become, and it was only at intervals, in the solitude of her chamber, that she dashed down the mask and struggled and fought and moaned, as more than one of us has done in the mad anguish which, whatever shape it chances to take, is old as human hearts—God help us!
               There would be nothing new in the recital of her sufferings—they are as well consigned to the silence which she maintained. Besides, in spite of old memories and present pains, there was a great deal to be done in the daily life about her just at this time, and Gay wisely took all the care she could upon herself. There is nothing like hard work in cases of mental distress; reading poetry or writing it will not answer—there must be honest labor which shall tire body and mind, and make the sinews ache so dolefully that the nerves have no chance whatever, and certainly preparations for a wedding always afford opportunity ample for any amount of fatigue to a person in search of it.
               Athenäis Schuyler remained sulky and obstinate for some time; but as Gay had predicted, she relented at length, and besieged her with letters, calling her all sorts of affectionate names, and begging her to come home. Athenäis was now established in her house in town, and she drew moving pictures of her loneliness and her desire to have her heart's darling once more by her side. Gay meant to go back after the wedding was over; she must live somewhere, as well have Athenäis for a companion as any body; as well the old tiresome round of dissipation as any thing else—it was all one to Gay now.
               The days went on. Prescott and Gay had exchanged places; he was staying up at Mrs. Ross's house, not so much because, for some unknown known reason, such a proceeding is considered decorous, as because Gay frankly assured him he would be dreadfully in the way. But there did not seem to be much gained so far as getting rid of him was concerned, for he haunted the house as persistently as a phantom or a hill-collector. Man-like, he chafed at the frequent demands latterly made on Margaret's time, and pathetically declared that somebody was always wanting her for something, and that they did nothing but hang bonnets and furbelows on her as if she had been a peg or a block in a milliner's shop.
               Margaret seldom rebelled, no matter what was done with her. Occasionally she would be impatient when there was little reason, and stab people right and left with sharp words, only to weep and call herself a monster of ingratitude-after, but nobody minded; nobody besides Prescott, who thought her dreadfully ill-treated. He was sometimes alarmed and distressed by her growing afraid of him, and uttering incoherent exclamations about its being a mistake; but Gay always appeared and put down the approaching hysterics with a high hand, and Prescott was too deeply lost in his happiness to have any real doubts or fears.
               The morning itself came—the bridal morning. It was all more unreal than ever to Margaret; even the wedding-dress spread out on the bed did not possess the slightest significance. Of course the other women were in a great state of excitement, but Gay ordered them all out of the room, and took the dressing business into her own hands, while Mrs. Dane wandered about the house, put things in place, put them out, cried over poor Mr. Dane, was thankful he was spared the sight of this dreadful day, smiled cheerfully when Prescott came with kindly words, and was altogether showery and indistinct, as might have been expected. She was to remain in the house during their absence; some of the rooms were to be renovated and newly furnished, as Prescott wanted to make the nest as bright as possible for his bird.
               Nora was grand but appalling in a new dress and an awful head gear that she had invented; and what with her dislike of weddings in general, her care for the breakfast, and her admiration of Prescott and Margaret, she was in a terrible state of mind, and visited her distress so heavily upon Miss Maguire and Jupe, that the sensitive maiden had wept herself nearly blind before the hour for the ceremony arrived, and Jupe's shins were greatly enlarged by the pressure of Nora's boot-heels, as he showed to whoever would look. As for the two youths who had appeared to serve as waiters, they attempted to rebel at Nora's tyranny, but she soon reduced them to outward submission, though the shorter of the two was heard to declare that he felt as if he was in a menagerie with all the lions loose.
               There were a few friends invited from Barry—two or three people from the village; but as far as the ceremony was concerned, of course the whole town considered itself at liberty to pour bodily into the church, and did it.
               It was as much like a dream as ever to Margaret as she walked up the aisle on the arm of an uncle who had come to give her away. Never having given her any thing personally, he made all the more importance of the gift he was bestowing on Prescott. Just as unreal while the solemn vows were being pronounced—while leaving the church with the whole village gaping at her, and the cross old sexton thumping people right and left on the head and pretending to mistake them for small boys. The ceremony went off smoothly enough, though the youthful clergyman was terribly confused, besides being stricken in a tender spot, as he had nourished a sentiment for Margaret himself, and opening the prayer-book at the wrong place came near reading the burial service over the pair, but fortunately recovered himself in time and did very nicely. He was given to making blunders, and once baptized a child in the name of the World, the Flesh, and the Devil, and then in his fright dropped the baby and nearly cracked its skull on the stone font—a story which seems incredible, but is true.
               So out of the church and back to the house, and the drive was all a dream too. So was the breakfast after, whereat the uncle made a pompous speech and Mr. Sanderson a moral one, and Mrs. Dane cried, and Nora watched the waiters from the doorway and encouraged them by shakes of her first. Once, stepping back suddenly, she nearly fell over Miss Maguire who was peeping, and without a word dragged that damsel's back hair down and pulled it, causing her to startle the company by a fiendish yell. A moment after, the cry was echoed in a deep bass from the kitchen, for Nora had flown thither, and finding Jupe regaling himself on jelly-cake stolen from the cupboard, she played Erin go Bragh on his shins with a pair of new shoes which she had had heavily nailed for that express purpose, till he leaped like a dervish with pain and rage.
               Aunt Hilda was at the breakfast; Margaret had insisted that she should be made happy by coming, and there she was, in a new brown silk dress, and so impressed by the solemnity of the occasion that she was very silent; only once when she caught Mr. Prescott's eye she could not resist calling out,
               "Jamdudum splendet focus!" as if it had been a pæan of triumph. The moral Mr. Sanderson, knowing the phrase was Latin though he did not know the meaning, took it for granted she was some remarkable and learned woman, and asked for the honor of drinking wine with her, adding,
               "To your health and to the classics," to show his wisdom.
               "The same to you and my thanks," returned Aunt Hilda, highly delighted at the success of her learned display and enjoying the moral man's ignorance. "You're a gentleman and a scholar, and I've no doubt a poet and master of seven languages."
               
               The moral man whispered to Gay, who sat next him, that the old lady appeared eccentric—probably she was very wealthy, and Gay not undeceiving him, he was very deferential to Aunt Hilda.
               The breakfast came to an end; Margaret had been up stairs and had come down in her travelling dress, but it was no more real than before. She bade her mother good-bye; the women kissed her; Prescott hurried her off indignant, of course.
               Out near the carriage was Nora, blubbering like a sea-horse, and by her stood Lucy Kenwyn, with a blue and yellow how on the top of her head and a bag full of old shoes on her arm.
               "The hoight of blessings go with ye both!" cried Nora.
               "Amen—amen!" added Lucy Kenwyn.
               "Come back as bright as ye go, Miss Ma'gret dear."
               "And may your hair never fall out as mine does—for these and all others—amen!" chanted Lucy.
               Off the carriage drove, pursued by winged messengers in the shape of odd slippers and gaiter-boots, that Lucy flung with loud prayers, some of which were considered indecorous by two or three ancient virgins from Barry, for she prayed,
               "A long life and a happy one! As many babbies as ye have fingers and toes, and not a silent one among them!"
               Nora carried her off to the kitchen regions, and the virgins looked as if such talk would have been contaminating, only that they were elevated on heights of purity where they could not be harmed.
               It was all over; the sun shone—the wind sang a merry wedding-hymn and sent the fallen leaves flying about like birds—the little party dispersed—and Margeret was gone; the old life had ended and could never be recalled.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               THE OLD ROUND.
               GAY staid a week at Orchard Hill after Margaret's wedding, and then returned to town. She was not tired of the quiet, she had no craving for the excitement she would find, but the uncertainty in which she was left from Seaton's silence, that seemed more ominous than any upbraiding letters could, made her anxious to get away, though it was evident that she could gain nothing by the step.
               But she acknowledged to herself that she should be more at ease after acquiring intelligence in regard to Noel, for Athenäis had sweetly ignored her mention of him. She did not expect him to meet her on friendly terms. She told herself a hundred times that she expected nothing, wanted nothing. Still, after forcing herself to be quiet during that week, she suddenly began her preparations to depart as though some matter of importance compelled her to hasten, and was all the while utterly disgusted with her own folly.
               Mrs. Ross was doleful enough at losing her, and Aunt Hilda, when she came up to say farewell, lamented as sorely as if she had been a shipwrecked mariner on a desert island forsaken by his sole companion.
               "I hain't no spirits left for nothin'," she averred, "and I declare, I grow more disgrammatic than ever. I don't believe I shall ever have the heart to sing Corporal Casey agin, and as for Latin quotations, if I knowed a bushel basket chuck full, they'd stick in my throat if I tried to say 'em."
               "Never mind, Aunt Hilda," said Gay, "I'll try and come back next summer."
               "You won't," returned she; "I know you won't! For all you're so free and easy, and nothin' stuck-up about ye, you're used to high company, and wanted there. You'll be off to France or away to visit the Chany Emperor, or on the top of the Hymeneal Mountains—land's sake, I know ye!"
               Aunt Hilda refused to be comforted, though Mrs. Ross laughed heartily at her distress.
               "You're jest as bad, Clytemnestry," said Aunt Hilda. "You're ready to bust out a cryin' this minute."
               "But she will go, Aunt Hilda; she's an obstinate creature, and all we can do is to trust to her coming back sometime."
               "So does leap-year come sometimes," retorted Aunt Hilda, impatiently. "I'm jest sick about it and that's the truth; it's worse than the dumb aguy! But there! 'taint no use to think; let's enjoy ourselves while we can! Try and look as if you wasn't a goin', my Lady Gay, and tell me about Miss Schuyler's di'minds; I feel as if 'twould console me a little to talk about sumpthing shiny."
               Gay left the next day by the noon train, and reached home in time for dinner; she was received with joyful acclamations by the fair Prophetess, and an attempt at emotion which was promptly and cruelly repressed by her hard-hearted relative.
               "Don't cry, 'Näis," said she, disengaging herself from her cousin's great white arms, which, like her broad shoulders, were as bare as ever Eve's were in the garden. "I'm not a funeral, and I suppose you are not sorry to see me."
               "I am enraptured," replied the Prophetess, wiping away her tears; "but you know my sensitive nature; these pearly drops will flow. I am not strong-minded—I never shall be, but I do not regret it."
               "I am hungry," said Gay, which was a fib, but it made an anti-climax to Athenäis's powers of speech. "Dinner is ready," replied the Prophetess. "I have chosen just the dishes you like."
               She named several which were Gay's abhorrence, but as they were all favorites with the Oracle, she appeared to plume herself so much on this delicate attention, that Gay went to her room without disturbing her mind by any expression of her real sentiments.
               "It is the first night of the new opera troupe," Athenäis said, when they were seated at table.
               "I thought you were unusually gorgeous," Gay remarked. "I shall stay at home, for I am tired."
               "I supposed you would be dying to go," said Athenäis discontentedly; "I might have asked Mrs. Lonsdale, for I hate being alone with a troop of men."
               "Are you going to have a troop of men?" Gay asked with indifference.
               "I believe I usually have more than my share wherever I go," said Athenäis, bridling. She meant to have had on that occasion, at all events, for she knew that Gay's appearance in her box would bring them, and she condescended to persuade her to go.
               "I've no new dress," said Gay, thinking that would appeal to her feelings; but having a fresh array herself, Athenäis could not admit the force of the argument.
               "There is the one you had for Mrs. Hylaper's party; you never wore it but once. Do go, Gay! I shall miss you so that my enjoyment will be ruined. It's cruel of you, when I love you so devotedly, and after our long separation."
               Gay thought—
               "What is the good of being selfish? I grow too contemptible to live! She wants me because she wants the men." Then she said, "I'll go."
               Athenäis was profuse in her rejoicings, but desired to make it clear that it was wholly on Gay's account she had been anxious.
               "You would have been so sorry after," said she. "Of course those tiresome creatures won't give me an opportunity to talk to any body but themselves. I declare they perfectly haunt me."
               Gay did not remind her that two minutes before she had said it was her company which alone could make the evening endurable, but got up and went away to dress. Her head ached from the motion of the train, and her heart ached worse, though, as she told the troublesome organ, that did not matter.
               "Here I am, in harness again," she said, looking at herself in the mirror when she was ready. "I look paler and queerer than ever; the black rings under my eyes are blacker, and my neck is blue-white! I should make a very respectable phantom; the women will all vow I am painted, and the men will rave like idiots, and if there was a doctor to speak the truth, he would probably say I looked disgusting, like a walking model of dyspepsia or some other nasty disease. Ugh, Agatha Van Kortland, I hate you!"
               She struck her white shoulders with her hand, laughed aloud an instant after at the tragic face she saw in the glass, picked up her handkerchief and fan, and floated down to Athenäis, so beautiful, and so unlike any body else, that another woman would have been furious; but the Prophetess was thoroughly convinced that she was the only perfect model of female loveliness in the world, and regarded Gay's singularity of appearance as a foil to her own charms.
               "That dress really is becoming to you," she condescended to observe. "I think your arms look a little thin—but you always are thin."
               She glanced at her own overblown person with an air of self-gratulation which would have been amusing, only Gay was too tired and too much disgusted with every thing to be amused.
               The evening proved as tiresome as she had expected, though for a time she enjoyed Kellog's singing when she could make Athenäis and her male idiots stop chattering, so that she could listen. But somebody spoke of Noel Seaton, and somebody else said that he had gone down to Long Island for the late shooting; then followed from Athenäis an audible inquiry if he were not more dissipated than ever, and Gay knew by her prolonged sigh of satisfaction that the man had made answer in the affirmative.
               The curtain rose again, but the music sounded in her ears like the discordant rush of machinery, and the lights danced to and fro before her eyes as if they were playing a part in some ghostly spectacle. Her first impulse was to plead illness and insist on going home, but she would not yield to it, and sat apparently lost in the duet between the prima donna and tenor, though not a note of it was audible through the whirl in her heart and the fiendish crash of the instruments.
               Fate was very hard upon her, Gay thought then and often after. Fate was hard and life a dreary business at that time, but there was nothing to be done. She could only be passive and allow events to take their course; dressing, going out, talking, laughing, and behaving like other people.
               The season was merely beginning, so the boredom of large parties was not of nightly recurrence, but somebody was always dragging her out to dinners or suppers, or coming to see her, and Athenäis—instigated by the devil, Gay declared to herself—indulged in certain musical reunions at her house, which filled Miss Van Kortland's soul with horror, because the trouble of coaxing professionals to come and sing, and keeping peace among the amateur performers, always a jealous and exacting race, devolved entirely upon her. If any thing went wrong, the Prophetess wept and blamed her, and said that the whole business had been of Gay's getting up; she wanted a little quiet herself, but some women never were happy unless they were in the midst of excitement.
               "I wonder at you, Gay, I wonder at you," she would say over and over as a refrain to the burden of her complaints when some bill came in, or an evening had been spoiled by the blunders or ill-humors of the song-birds.
               "I don't think I asked to be bored with the musicals," Gay sometimes mildly made answer.
               "Perhaps not; but I saw what you wanted; I could not refuse. I am never selfish; better for my peace if I could learn to be."
               "My dear," said Gay at last, "I am tired of this! You got up the musicals to please yourself. If you don't want to pay the expenses put them down among my bills; give no more, and let there be an end of the matter."
               "That's always the way you treat me," moaned Athenäis; "you have no sympathy, no consideration! I shall wear out under it at last; I can't endure such cruelty. I wonder at you, Gay! I wish I were a nun or a hermit—only the dress is so dreadfully ugly. I was meant for peace and retirement—my soul yearns for it; I really think if it were not for your needing my presence I should forsake the world."
               And so on—buzz, buzz—till Gay felt as if she were tormented by a bloated blue-bottle fly which would neither bite nor let her alone.
               One day she heard that Noel Seaton was in town, but that he had a spasm of work upon him, and did not descend to ordinary mundane amusements just then. He was writing a play, it was said, for Booth or Miss Bateman or somebody, and he or she or somebody else had read the first act and was charmed; but Gay knew Seaton so well, that she thought it very probable the task would never be finished. She had known him begin similar productions before, full of vigor and promise, and suddenly abandon them for a fresh whim or in a fit of despondency. And she thought sadly enough that if Destiny had treated them both differently, she might have been by his side, able to encourage and sympathize with him; but she was too clear-sighted to expect real work while he was undisciplined, vagrant and faithless in regard to most things, human and divine, as at present.
               A few days after, old Mr. Bitterworth invited people to come and see a new Kensett and several European pictures that he had lately purchased, and repaid them for looking at the paintings by a sumptuous luncheon of Delmonico's providing, which made them think that Kensett never had done any thing to equal that hazy autumn scene, and that Gérome and Frère had sent their chef-d'œuvres.
               There were not more than thirty people present, and no very immense fool among them besides Athenäis Schuyler. She was invited because the old gentleman wanted Gay; for Bitterworth had got to be sixty, was as rich as Crœsus, and boldly announced that he had not long enough to live to bore himself with stupidity. So there were men and women who could really enjoy the pictures and knew what they were talking about, and could say brilliant things over the luncheon, and there was not a single girl with a giggle, or a youth who ought to have been at college, or in the nursery, or anywhere besides the places in which they are usually found—thrust among grown-up people, and cackling more loudly than a silly pullet who has astonished herself by laying her first egg.
               The old gentleman took possession of Gay as soon as she entered, for she was an immense favorite with him, and convoyed her to see the paintings, which, like a sensible man, he had established on easels, each in a room by itself. After he had heard her opinions he was willing that other people should gather about her, and a knot of agreeable men did so at once, and two or three women she liked joined the group, and Gay absolutely enjoyed herself for a while, Athenäis being too much occupied to trouble her. The Prophetess was in a state of bliss, for she had captured an Englishman who would have a handle to his name if some inconsiderately long-lived relative ever got out of the way, and who intended to write a book on America, having a fancy for authorship. He was certainly admirably prepared for his task, as beyond New York, save a hunting excursion to Moosehead Lake, he had seen nothing of the country whatever, and was going to sail for his native island the coming week; but to be sure, there were plenty of books gotten up by his countrymen on a similar principle, if his imagination failed—which seemed probable from his appearance—and he wanted assistance.
               It was in the breakfast-room that Gay became aware of Noel Seaton's presence. He had come late, and was laughing and talking in his most heedless, bewitching fashion, and between whiles devoting himself to pretty little Mrs. Oxford, who had been more gossipped about than any woman in society for the last two seasons, and certainly deserved it from her imprudence, if no other charge could be laid at her door.
               Gay saw that Seaton was looking ill and pale, but he was as handsome as ever, and probably nobody but Gay noticed an undefinable change in his face. She knew what it meant—the trace of his added recklessness, the look of a man who having lost his last hold on faith and truth had no care whither he drifted, in his disgust of himself and his kind.
               She knew that he saw her, or more correctly, she felt it, she could not have told how; but she kept her eyes averted after that stolen glance; she wanted to get her composure back before any recognition took place, for she knew that it must come; impulsive as he was, he would permit no outward change in his bearing to her in public. But people were beginning to go away, and still he did not approach. Pretty Mrs. Oxford flattered off, and Seaton disappeared with her, and Gay heard one man whisper to another that he wondered how far they meant to carry that affair, and the other answered that he thought it had already gone as far as was necessary; then they both chuckled in a meaning fashion, and Gay got out of their neighborhood in horror.
               She was standing in the drawing-room where the Kensett was displayed, talking to two or three people, when Noel Seaton came back. He walked straight towards her, as if for the first time conscious that she was present, wearing his most careless, indifferent smile, which, somehow, hurt her terribly.
               "Good morning, Miss Van Kortland," he said; "how does Nature look to you in a frame after having so long admired her in the freedom of the country?"
               "Charmingly in this case; indeed, I believe I prefer her well framed and painted; it improves her, as much as it does us women," she answered, beating him with his own weapons, because she did not appear playing at indifference, but was as easy and unconstrained as possible.
               "O, no doubt of it," returned Seaton, and feeling that he had not distinguished himself by the remark, tried to say something else, and before he knew it found that he was repeating, "O, no doubt of it," and silently cursed himself for an ass.
               Somebody in the group addressed a question to him in regard to the picture, and Seaton, recovering his wits, began to talk his best, and it was a satisfaction to him to notice that, as his spirits rose Gay grew more silent, or spoke with a slight effort—apparent to him, though nobody else perceived it.
               The other people gradually drifted away, and left them standing there alone; but they still talked of the picture, the new opera-troupe, a late French novel, and any other trash that would serve for conversation.
               "I suppose you feel more eager than ever for gayety after your long seclusion in the country," he said.
               "Yes, I think I do," Gay admitted with great candor. "I am enjoying every thing as much as if it was the beginning of my first season." Then, she thought, "I wish he wouldn't say irritating things, and make me tell such senseless lies! I wish he would go away," yet for all that she could not bear to let him; even that bald, idle talk, which stung her like stabs from tiny penknives, was better than not having him near her.
               "I am a little tired of these American attempts at amusement," drawled he; "I think of running over to Paris again."
               "You believe yourself worthy of that apotheosis which is said to await good Americans when they die," returned Gay, with a laugh so natural that a high-comedy actress would have given her two cars to catch it. "Dear me, I should think you might manage to be wicked enough here."
               "Ah," said Seaton in a tone of self-commiseration; "I am only a man—dull of invention."
               "But somebody said you were writing a play, and were soon to dazzle us all by your new flight of fancy."
               "People say so many dreadful things of one—they will do it!"
               "I thought that rather complimentary to your talents and your industry."
               "So kind of you to be interested," returned he, growing downright ill-natured.
               "I don't think I professed to be," said Gay, laughing again; but she added more gravely, "I am, though—greatly interested. We have been friends too long for me to feel otherwise."
               "Friends!" repeated he, with so much smothered passion in his voice that Gay nearly dropped the bouquet of choice flowers old Bitter-worth had given her.
               What he would have said further was cheeked by the approach of the Prophetess, and it was as well. That fair dame had lost her Englishman, and not securing any other prey, began to look about for her cousin; seeing her with Seaton she sailed up at once, anxious to break off the conversation. She was gracious but marvellously condescending to the gentleman, and he hit her artfully in her tenderest point.
               "How well you are looking, Mrs. Schuyler!" said he with beaming cordiality. "Country air seems to have pulled Miss Van Kortland down a little, but you look stouter and better than I ever saw you."
               Athenäis tried to smile, but it was a ghastly effort.
               "Gay, my dear," said she, "we really must go home. Colonel Falkland has called the carriage. By-the-way, he dines with us to-night; just en famille."
               The rich colonel whom Seaton detested with such heartiness; but he did not appear to have heard. He walked down the rooms with them till they met the colonel coming to report the success of his errand, then he bowed and turned away, and Gay saw him talking to another woman before she was out of sight.
               "I hope we are not going to be bored all this winter with Noel Seaton," said Athenäis, as the carriage drove off.
               "You did not ask him to call," Gay answered.
               "And I don't mean to," retorted Athenäis; "and I hope you mean to show better sense than you have done."
               "Thank you! Once for all, Athenäis, understand that I meant exactly what I wrote when I consented to come back this winter. The first attempt at interference or even advice in regard to my male acquaintance, or effort to force your colonel or any other man upon my attention, and I leave your house in an hour."
               She spoke with perfect calmness, but so decidedly that the Prophetess did not dare offer any self-exculpation, and Gay began to talk dress by way of showing that she was not in the least angry, and her very good nature proved to Athenäis how hopeless the case was.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               ANOTHER PARTING.
               THE days and weeks that followed brought nothing worthy of record to Gay Van Kortland, and so the season went on till it was the latter part of January.
               In all this time she had scarcely exchanged more than the commonest words of salutation with Noel Seaton, though she met him frequently at balls and public places of amusement. He never called at the house, and Athenäis, believing ing that it was her advice which had brought about this state of affairs, plumed herself mightily on her success, and encouraged poor old Morrison to think that she should yet do wonders for him with Gay, though she no more ventured to infringe the rules her cousin laid down in regard to minding her own business, than if Gay were Semiramis or any other of the Eastern despots, from whom in her insanest moments the Prophetess was fond of trying to fancy herself descended.
               Gay had gone up to St. Alban's chapel for morning service one feast-day, and had walked, for though Athenäis entertained proper ideas of going to church on Sunday, she declared it wicked and papistical to do so during the rest of the week, and never could spare the horses, beautifully oblivious of the fact that Gay paid her share towards their maintenance.
               The service was over; the dear, beautiful service, which, thank heaven, can there be enjoyed in the fullness and beauty it deserves, according to the warrant and example of the Early Church.
               Gay was walking slowly homeward, and as she turned into Fifth Avenue, saw Noel Seaton in front of her. He chanced to look back, and, as he was so near there could be no excuse for not recognizing her, he stopped irresolutely, then advanced a few steps to meet her.
               "I could not believe my eyes," he said. "Where have you been down that dreary street?"
               "I have been to St. Alban's," said Gay.
               "O, is that the new excitement?" he asked.
               "No; I wish I could make it one," she answered, not in a mood to fence or tell fibs. "I don't pretend to be good, but I do like to go to service; it rests me. I hope some day it may do more still."
               "O dear, yes, I hope so; what, for instance?"
               "I think you understand without my being more explicit," she said gravely.
               "You see I am an ignorant outsider, a blind heathen, and I ask for information," returned he with a little harsh laugh. "It is very cruel of you to refuse any assistance to a wandering brother."
               "I don't imagine that an exposition of my private feelings could afford you available help in the right direction," she said.
               "Ah, now I recognize the true Christian spirit," retorted he. "It is no matter whether we wicked people are saved or not; but I wonder you don't go a step farther and accept the good old hot Calvinistic creeds instead of remaining Catholic."
               She would not answer; he should not irritate her into ill-natured speeches.
               "Don't you think they would be more consoling?" persisted he. "It arranges matters beautifully to say that certain men were born to be damned."
               "I don't wish to talk on the subject, Mr. Seaton; any sneers come with an especial bad grace from you, for you know what I mean and are capable of understanding."
               "And whom have I to thank that the last possibility of faith in any thing here or hereafter has been torn from me?" he asked, with an impetuosity that broke out from his former studied carelessness of manner, like a flame from under cold ashes.
               "If you think me to blame," Gay answered earnestly, "I beseech you to forgive me. I can say no more."
               "You can give it back to me," he exclaimed suddenly, his eyes meeting hers with the old ardent warmth. "O Gay, how happy we were in those days; were we not?"
               "Very happy," she replied slowly. "I told you that it was a great grief to me to lose my friend."
               "And do you think I wanted you to lose me?" he said eagerly; forgetting his doubts, his wrath, every thing, with the rapidity of a man in love; remembering nothing but the old hopes that gleamed up so brightly and with such fresh vigor, through all the angry passion beneath which he had striven to smother them.
               But Gay comprehended the fervor of his voice—she knew that he was not ready to be her friend—he wanted more—all he had ever wanted; and she, God help her, so far from able to give him this, recollected that the mere approach to the confidence which such a step demanded, would make him harder and more pitiless than now.
               "Do you think I have been happy, Gay, during these weeks and months that we have been estranged? Do you suppose that life has been easy to me, or pleasant to me, or any thing but an inexpressible weariness and torture?"
               "I am sorry," she said, regaining her composure, which had been sorely shaken by the reflections that rushed through her mind; "I am sorry—they are poor words, but I can say no more."
               "You can say a great deal more," returned he passionately; "you can give me new hopes, fresh interest in life; you can make me happy—you can—"
               "I can do nothing," she answered, breaking in upon his cager speech; "I can do nothing."
               The quick temper she knew so well, flashed into his eyes as she spoke; but he controlled himself and went on, regardless of her chilling words.
               "You talk about our having been friends. It is nonsense to talk about that, Gay; it is worse than nonsense. I was a man who loved you, and who showed it, and you were a woman who permitted and accepted that love—you have the whole truth now!"
               "Is this generous, Mr. Seaton? Even if I have been as much to blame as your words imply—if I have been mean and false—is it generous of you, a man, to remind me of it?"
               "It is not; I know that! Look here, Gay; an hour ago I should have believed that I would tear my heart out sooner than make any appeal to you again, yet I am doing it."
               "You must not do it," she answered; "I told you that must never be again; you said yourself that it could never be."
               He looked at her with angry inquiry in his eyes.
               "Have you forgotten?" she asked bitterly. "It is only for a moment; you will suspect me again of every kind of treachery and meanness. I shall see it in your face, as I have so often seen it during this miserable winter. The old insanity has come back for a moment, but it will pass."
               He had suffered so much in the loss of her, that his mood changed under her sorrowful words.
               "I was mad when I talked so cruelly," he said. "Forgive me, Gay—forgive me!"
               His very contrition reminded her of the worse than uselessness of permitting him to soften in his feelings, and she grew hard and stern once more.
               "It is idle to go back over all that," she answered; "I can not, and I will not."
               "Answer me one question," he said angrily.
               "I will answer nothing," she replied sullenly.
               "This may be for effect, or you may be vexed—I don't pretend to decide; you are too consummate an actress. I didn't mean to ask about any body or any thing, except where I am personally concerned."
               "And to all such questions you have had your answer, I believe," said she, relapsing into her fatigued, indifferent voice.
               "Do you mean that I am to take what you said that day for absolute truth?"
               "I never do remember exactly what I say—to any man; there are so many, and one says so much."
               "Take care," he said. "This is the last time you will ever have an opportunity to torture me like this—the very last, so be careful of your words.
               She looked at him and smiled. They tell in ancient chronicles of martyrs who smiled at their persecutors from the rack; and though in Seaton's eyes that smile almost transformed her into a fiend, Gay Van Kortland was enduring a martyrdom as fearful as any of the sufferers of old times—the martyrdom which belongs to our century, and wrings the soul—and she bore it as bravely as ever they could have done, sustained by no hope of speedy release, such as fortified them.
               "That is the correct thing to say," said she; "they always do in domestic tragedies. It might be a speech out of your play."
               "I have done," he answered. "I believe I know you now—thoroughly. There is only one word that can express your falsehood and your baseness; the name which belongs to you does it all—you are a woman. Now I'm going to tell you a little truth before I go."
               Her hands were hidden in her muff, they twisted themselves together there, and a prayer for mercy rose to her lips but was unuttered; she dared not speak. Even to excite his sympathy for her, might be the means of undoing her work—no word was possible.
               "You do care for me," he went on; "you love me as well as you are capable of loving any body, but you are a true woman of this debased age. You love the world, money, luxury, better still. My moderate fortune is not enough for you; you mean to sell yourself for millions, or a title, as so many of your countrywomen have done, and cover up your shame under its splendor. Bah—do you think you will be any the less base? You may be a duchess if you like, but you'll know all the while that you are as utterly lost and degraded as the homeless wanderers you will sometimes see walking the street as you cross it from your carriage."
               She did not speak, did not look at him; she walked on steadily with undiminished pride and stateliness, and he walked beside her in a rage so icy that he was unconscious of being angry, a rage born of his cruel suffering, for he had loved her with an affection as pure as if his life were free from stain; loved her with a power which might have changed his whole destiny, had fate been less hard upon them both.
               "I know how unmanly it is to speak like this," continued he; "I shall despise myself after for having uttered such words to one who had no means of defense, but you deserve it—you deserve more—more—for you have not the excuse an ordinary girl would have; you are capable of understanding what you do, of seeing its full wickedness, and you go on."
               "And I go on," she answered. A tiny hammer striking upon steel could not have rung colder, with less trace of human feeling than her voice.
               "And when the worst has come and you have your millions or your title, the shame and self-abasement will only grow. You may get as hardened and worldly as you can, it will always be there—always! You'd better wear a necklace of fire than diamonds at such a price! Better bear what the world calls downright sin, Gay Van Kortland, if your heart led you into it, than live with your boughten rank, sold like a slave-girl in the market to the highest bidder."
               Still no word; she walked on as steadily as before; the solid ground rocked under her feet, as if an earthquake were shaking it; the sky, golden with the noonday sun, reeled and floated before her eyes like a blazing hell which had no touch of mercy in it, but she walked on.
               "Your heart!" he repeated, maddened further by her silence. "Why you haven't one! I am going away now; you'll not be troubled with more pleadings from me. God forbid that you and I should ever exchange such talk again!"
               There was a murmur in her throat, the echo of some cry for mercy going up out of her tortured heart, but it found no vent in words.
               "I wish I could promise that neither here or hereafter should we stand face to face again," he added, more angered by her silence. "I have already told you that I am not so utterly weak and miserable as to let my life be ruined by a woman."
               "Thank God!" he heard her say.
               "Bah!" he exclaimed contemptuously. "Don't try theatrical cant! There may be people who believe in that name, who have a right to speak it—don't you! It looks well to go to church; it's part of your game. I've no doubt the lights and the incense and the vestments and the beautiful music please your taste, as the opera does; but don't talk about thankfulness or faith or belief."
               If ever a soul walked through purgatory, Gay Van Kortland was passing through hers in that hour. She wondered sometimes after, how she kept silence, why she did not either shriek out the truth or go mad, and hurl herself under the wheels of the first carriage that dashed by—but she bore it.
               "What I can do to punish you, I will," he said, and now his voice was broken and thick with passion. "As much as you are capable, you have cared for me. There is one thing I can do; it shall be done. Wait—then go buy your diamonds and your bridal finery with what pleasure you can."
               He turned down the corner of a street and disappeared. She did not look after him—she could not trust herself. She was almost home, and she must husband her strength to reach it; one glance towards him leaving her with death in his heart—the sight of her last hope, her sole friend forsaking her forever, would have exhausted the feeble remnant which remained.
               There were a few hours of solitude, but peopled with such horrors that no moment of rest could be found. She could not sit still; could only rush back and forth in her chamber unconscious of bodily fatigue; she was so strong and well that her physical strength would not give way and allow her the temporary forgetfulness a weaker woman might have obtained.
               But the world was going on and she lived in it; in reality she might be as far separated from its interests as if she were staring at it out of a fiery gulf, but she must walk in the round. There was a dinner-party somewhere; she was to dress and go. She did it, and every body said that Gay Van Kortland had never been so brilliant and witty as this night. There was a ball after. She was present; she was chosen by the man who led the German; her step was never lighter, her ingenuity in devising new figures never more quick. There was a supper later still among some of the craziest and fastest of the whole set. She was there, and her eyes were as unnaturally bright, her tongue as heedless, and her hands as cold as ever. She never faltered under her martyrdom, and no red-cross knight ever struggled more valiantly.
               The next day and the next were the same. The season had fully wakened: there was scarcely a moment to herself, and she would have been glad of less. Noel Seaton had gone—nobody knew whither; beyond a little passing regret nobody cared where; admired and courted though he was, there was not time for that.
               After that she had no sign from Seaton to warn her what mad step he contemplated; she could only sit and wait, dreading to see each day dawn, lest before it closed her vague fears should find confirmation, and in addition to the troubled memories of the past she should feel that the wreck of another human life might be laid to her charge.
               If she had known where to write to him there was nothing she could say; she could only wait and let time pass. A week went by—two weeks—three; twenty-one horrible days—twenty-one! She kept their count as a criminal who feels there can be no reprieve, adds up his shortening span. No; the comparison failed as she made it! To the criminal death would come; he would be done with this world, but she must still live on.
               Three weeks, then news did reach her indeed. Noel Seaton had kept the promise he made when bidding her wait, and the tidings came. But this was worse than any thing that she had expected, terrible as her forebodings had been—a million times worse. She could have borne whatever might come to herself alone, but this, O God! this was the ruin of a human soul and she had caused it. She grovelled there in the fearful night, feeling as helpless as if she were bound hand and foot in a dungeon, hearing little children shriek to her from without for protection against danger which she only could avert, while the bands that held her would not yield.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               SENTON'S RETURN.
               ALAN PRESCOTT and his wife came back from their journey, and settled down in the solitary house on the hillside to become accustomed, as all married people must, to their new life. During the weeks of absence there had been the excitement of travelling, the society of friends in the cities in which they tarried, but now they were at home together, and there was nothing whatever to break the quiet into which outward existence settled.
               Mrs. Dane had remained to superintend the new decorating of the house, and met them in New York for a day, on her road to Boston to deliver herself up to the tender mercies of the Pitcher, who was not a pitcher of delf or china that could be broken or cracked, but composed of materials harder than adamant, which would press very heavily on her poor little earthen pot of a visitor, as the remorseless Pitcher fully intended to do.
               So the newly-wedded pair came to their home to find no one but Nora and the subordinates over whom she tyrannized, for she was as determined to reduce the new members of the domestic staff to submission as she had been Miss Maguire and Jupe, both of whom remained, broken-spirited warnings to the fresh comers of what their fate would be, in spite of the demon of rebellion which was at first lively in the bosoms of the strangers from their ignorance of Nora's persistency and resources. But Nora knew herself and smiled grimly in the pleasing consciousness of power, enjoying the combat the more heartily because it was a tolerably active one.
               Margaret and her husband came back. How strangely the words sounded to her; it seemed that she could never grow accustomed to them, but the fact was harder still, though she realized that plainly enough—he was her husband. There is a certain type of women to whom the first months of marriage, even with a man fondly loved, are more or less hard to live through; now Margaret was one of these women, and the most that she could be said to feel for her husband was an awakening affection which might grow into love.
               The days were very long, and she was not happy, yet she knew that she ought to be, for Prescott lavished care and devotion upon her, and she felt herself a wretch because sometimes they were irksome. It hurt her in certain moods to feel his Kiss on her forehead—his arm about her waist; there seemed shame in it, and absurd as the feeling was, she could not help it. Then she began to reproach herself as wicked, to tell herself that she had no right to marry him, whereas it was wholly a matter of nerves, and had she kept herself occupied and not thought about it, she would have done very well. But she had many idle hours and lacked energy to find employment, though she knew well enough that it was both weak and wicked to waste her days as she was doing.
               Prescott was usually busy during the morning. but in the afternoon he would find time to drive her out; his evenings were passed at home, and it was natural that he should not think of her being oppressed by the solitude, as she was accustomed to it and had now a certainty that before summer came she would leave it forever. He saw how variable her spirits were, and he understood the cause better than most men would have done, and was patient and kind. But she could not appreciate his consideration and tenderness, because she did not know how different the conduct of the generality of his brethren would have been in like circumstances—how perverse their selfishness would have made them under her capricious treatment. There were very few people to visit them; beyond occasional calls of civility to certain of their neighbors, neither of the pair felt it a duty to bore themselves; a line of conduct which the village magnates bitterly resented, and they talked over husband and wife at sewing-circles and other terrible village festivities, with an acrimony which only virtue and morality can display.
               Mrs. Ross came as often as she could, but she was not well that winter and was several times absent. Aunt Hilda was encouraged to come whenever she pleased, but though she enjoyed her visits greatly, she refrained, with a delicacy which might have been a model to wiser people, from allowing herself to be in the way. Margaret wrote at regular intervals to her stepmother, but only as a matter of conscience, because she knew the Pitcher would read her epistles with stern old-maidish criticism. She exchanged occasional letters with Gay, but neither of them was any more inclined to gush on paper than in conversation; and though they wrote freely enough about other things, neither in any way laid her mental anatomy open to the inspection of her friend.
               So the weeks got on with the husband and wife, and affairs were not always so well between them as could have been wished, which is often the case with newly married people who have to grow used to one another. I do not mean that they quarrelled or had jarring words; but sometimes Prescott felt discouraged; he made no complaint, because he loved her so dearly that he was able to be unselfish, and he believed that matters would right themselves at last. Margaret was showing more weakness than was commendable, dimly conscious that she was not making her life what it ought to be; but as we have all occasionally failed in the performance of duty in the course of our valuable and decorous lives, we will not be too hard upon her, if you please.
               The time passed on until the latter part of January, when Gay and Seaton parted, as I have described in the last chapter. Mr. Prescott was much disturbed by news which reached him at this period, or more correctly, disturbed by the idea of the journey which it compelled him to make, for the news in itself was good. He had owned for some years a tract of land in Virginia, and the possession had suddenly become of great value. Coal and salt water had been discovered upon it, and there was an opportunity of selling it to a company; but as he had never seen the land, and was anxious, if worth all that was reported, to reserve certain rights and percentages to himself, he was obliged to go down and visit it. This was rendered the more important from the fact that he desired to go to Europe in the spring for an indefinite absence, and if he succeeded in his purpose, the proceeds of the sales, together with his present fortune, would make him so wealthy a man that he need not trouble himself about business henceforth.
               It was impossible to take Margaret with him; the journey would be an uncomfortable one at that season of the year, and the place, to which he was going was very little better than a wilderness, so her accompanying him was not to be thought of for a moment. It was very hard to leave her, and when he told her that he must go, he was anxious to provide for her not being lonely during his absence.
               But she had no such fears; perhaps she was glad to be alone; at least, he saw that his proposed departure caused her no keen regret, and it hurt him cruelly, but he bore it with patience, as he had done all things during their brief married life. In time every thing would be right —he always calmed himself by thinking that; she did love him, but she was still too confused and unsettled by the change in her lot to know how much; this very separation might be the means of bringing them more closely together.
               "I would urge you to go to town and stay with my cousins," Prescott said; "only they are such stiff, puritanical people that you would feel as if you were living in a refrigerator."
               "I really couldn't do it," Margaret frankly avowed; "the day we dined there nearly killed me. Honeyman's ghost and the Pitcher together could not have been worse."
               Prescott laughed at his young wife's smart speeches and thought them very witty.
               "By the way, you would not care to go on to Boston—"
               "Good heavens!" exclaimed Margaret, with such genuine horror in her voice that he did not finish his sentence.
               "And your mother could not well make a journey at this time."
               "O no; but you will only be gone three weeks. I shall get on well enough."
               "It seems a very long time to me," he said ruefully.
               "I mean to be a better girl when you come back," she returned, her conscience a little troubled by his tone.
               "You are always the dearest and best girl in the world," he said, and though Margaret knew that she did not deserve the praise she was glad to receive it; and when he drew her towards him and kissed her forehead, she tried to like that too, as a wife ought, but I am afraid she did not; though it was more a matter of nervousness than feeling—romance and poetry to the contrary notwithstanding.
               "I shall do very well," Margaret repeated, slipping away from his arm and seating herself by the fire.
               "But you need some one with you," he urged.
               "Why so?" she asked; "I am accustomed to being alone, you know. If Gay could come I should be glad, but she can not now, and there is nobody else who would not be a bore."
               "I suppose my old aunt is not to be thought of," Prescott suggested doubtfully, for the old aunt in question was the relict of a military man, and the most dreadful martinet that ever lived.
               "If I were a boy wanting to prepare as a cadet for West Point, she would be an admirable guardian, I have no doubt," returned Margaret; "but as I have no wish to be got out of bed at five o'clock, or to be scolded if the meals are three seconds before or behind time, I agree with you that she is not to be thought of."
               Prescott laughed again, but though Margaret spoke pleasantly she was conscious of a feeling of irritation, and, unreasonable as it was, she could not repress it. So much care and thoughtfulness was irksome: he meant kindly; she wanted to be grateful; but she was not a child.
               "I assure you I shall do perfectly well," she continued; "I have any quantity of new books, and certainly there are servants enough in the house for guards and sentinels. I shall neither be carried off or burned alive in my bed; I do know how to see that doors are locked, and can put out a candle."
               It was as well to leave the subject. Prescott was wise enough to know that when one of the partners in a marriage firm speaks in that tone, the other always does well to end the discussion—then no harm is done; and he was neither afraid of compromising his dignity or relinquishing his rights—those dreadfully abused stumbling-blocks of many new husbands and wives—so he said not a word more.
               "I shall be gone no longer than I can possibly help; you'll be glad to see me back, won't you, Daisy?"
               He spoke anxiously, and looked at her with such love and tenderness that her irritation vanished. She rose quickly from her chair and went up to him, laying both her hands on his arm, and for the first time voluntarily kissing his lips.
               "Very, very glad," she answered, able so thoroughly to appreciate his forbearance and kindness that her heart went out towards him as it had never before done. "You are so good to me—so good! I don't deserve it; but I will, Alan; I will."
               He longed to strain her to his breast and tell her that she did not yet half understand the fullness of his love, but he was afraid of startling her again, so he laid his hand on her forehead, and said gently,
               "God bless and keep my darling, my precious lamb!"
               He went away out of the room then, for this conversation had taken place as he was quitting the house one morning, and Margaret, left to herself, was so much softened and so grateful for his love that she wondered it did not always give her perfect rest.
               Towards the close of that week Prescott left home, and the parting was a sorrowful one, though Margaret's principal share in the grief arose from her sympathy for his trouble, which he could not conceal in spite of his efforts.
               "It is only three weeks, my darling, only three weeks," he said over and over, trying to find some comfort in the words. "It's a short time, but it seems very long when I am going from you, little one. Keep well and cheerful, and do be glad to see me when I come back."
               He did not mean the adjuration as a complaint, but it sounded like a reproach to her, and she knew that it was deserved.
               "I will, Alan, I will," she answered, clinging to him. "Say once more, God bless and keep you!"
               "God bless and keep my darling, now and always!" he answered solemnly, then his voice trembled a little as he went on: "I love you so, little one; you don't half know! I have not a hope or wish that is not for you. I can never be grateful enough that you were given to me, my treasure. If I have ever been impatient or selfish you'll forgive it, dear, won't you? you'll think that I did not mean to be?"
               "You have never been; don't say such things! It is I who am both; but I will be a good girl, indeed I will; you shall see."
               "I know you will! There, kiss me once more. I must go—good-bye."
               But naturally it was not good-bye yet for some time, and Jupe, waiting at the front of the house with the trap to drive his master down to the station, whistled loudly, cleared his throat with a sound like the grating of many rusty files, apostrophized the soul of old John Brown in the popular melody, and made use of every art his genius could call up to remind Mr. Prescott that time was flitting, and that railway-trains were as merciless as the grim tyrant with the scythe where delay was concerned.
               The sensitive Miss Maguire came out to sweep the veranda, and Jupe loudly expressed his fears to her that Marse Prescott would miss the train sure.
               "Ah, be asy now," returned Miss Maguire, in her most sentimental manner; "give him time; isn't he takin' his connuble adoo? ye wouldn't interrupt that?"
               "He'd better take it quick," grumbled Jupe; "why done he bring it wid him in a bottle and take it on der road?"
               "Ye're a haythen, Jupe," announced Maguire; "and ye don't understhand the manin' of things."
               "I knows dat ar train'll be long in a giffy," said Jupe. "Whoa, Sampson, quit a cuttin' up!"
               "It's you with yer twitchin the reins decomposes him," said Maguire. "Hould yer whist, Jupe."
               "Gor a mighty!" replied Jupe, "ye're only a gal; yer don't know nothin'; I want to 'mind young marse."
               At that moment Prescott came out and got into the carriage, while Margaret stood on the veranda uttering last farewells, and Maguire at a little distance leaned pensively on her broom-handle and watched the scene with sympathetic sighs.
               The impatient Jupe gave a hurra to Sampson and they were gone, and Margaret went back to her solitude. Miss Maguire was still gazing after the traveller and looking as melancholy as she could manage, when Nora darted out upon her, and, never speaking a word, seized her by the remarkable waterfall she wore at the back of her head, and before Maguire could recover breath even to scream, she found herself whisked through the hall into the regions at the back of the house, and was released with a shake so violent that it made her teeth chatter.
               "Ye lazy craytehure, what wor yo doin' there?" demanded her tyrant.
               "Swapin' the poorch!" gasped Maguire. "Ooh, ooh!"
               "Git out wid ye, whin I swipt it meself arly, and ye knowed it! Ye wor gauping, that's it! Go up stairs wid ye, and clane the bannisters and take wax, and av ye lave off till ye can see yer face in 'em and know how ugly it is, it'll be the worse fur yez! I'm Eleanora O'Flaherty; ye're acquainted wid me, I think."
               Maguire went away weeping and bemoaning her fate, but she did her work thoroughly, and it is doubtful if any discipline less rigorous than that Nora employed could have induced her so to do. Having subdued her, Nora flew at somebody else; she was distressed for her mistress on account of Mr. Prescott's departure, and was therefore in a worse temper than usual with her subordinates.
               Two days passed; it was now the first of February, and so warm and bright that spring seemed to have made a mistake and come in advance. The valley was so completely sheltered by the mountains that there was never much snow or cold wind, but the weather was so treacherously mild that sage elderly people prophesied all sorts of tempests when March and April came. There were frosts at night that turned the whole landscape into fairy land, as the morning sun shone upon it. The trees and shrubs on the lawn at Crosslands were transformed into silvery bowers, and to look away over the white glory of the distant hills, was like gazing into some wonderful world above our common earth.
               Margaret was entirely alone during the two days, for Mrs. Ross had not yet returned, and Aunt Hilda had been engaged in nursing a lame foot and could not indulge in a pilgrimage to her favorite Mecca.
               Late in the afternoon of the third day, Margaret, ashamed of the idleness which had kept her in the house, went out to walk. The air was so pleasant and the roads so passable that she determined the next morning to be off on Prairie Bird for a canter which should rouse her from her state of unhealthy depression.
               She was walking up and down the path near the gates when they clanged suddenly, and as she turned, a familiar voice pronounced her name—not the new title,—the old name that only the most intimate friends employed.
               "Margaret! Margaret!"
               Noel Seaton had come back, and appeared before her as unexpectedly as if he had been the realization of that brief summer dream thrusting itself into the chill of her present life.
               He hurried towards her, holding out both his hands; he grasped hers and was pressing them in his feverish palms, his eyes looking into her face with the old expression—those passionate eyes which long before had flashed their glory so deep into Margaret's soul.
               "Are you glad to see me?" he exclaimed. "Say you are glad—glad! Didn't you know that I would come back? didn't you know. I meant that the day we parted? How pale you look! Have I frightened you, poor little bird? You're not afraid of me? you are glad to see me? Say you are glad, Margaret."
               No wonder she paled under his glance; no wonder she stood mute and motionless as he poured out those cager words! She comprehended that he was ignorant of her marriage—that he had come back expecting to find her free as he left her, and the deathly chill which smote her heart spread through her whole frame, and turned her blood to ice.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               BEFORE THE STORM.
               ONLY the day before, Noel Seaton parted from Gay, and in his wrath and mad despair had threatened her with a blow which should make even her cold heart feel. He believed now, as he told her, that she cared for him, and was sacrificing both to her ambition and her love of wealth. A sleepless night rendered him more insane, and when morning came he took the train for Upsden.
               He meant to tell Margaret that he loved her—to marry her at once, and carry her back to trouble Gay by the sight of his happiness. Oddly enough, and yet naturally, he had not heard of her marriage. There had been no cards sent to their friends, and Seaton had seen no one who knew either Margaret or Prescott but Gay, and in their brief conversations neither remembered their acquaintances of the summer.
               Seaton had come; he knew that he should succeed; what would happen to himself after, he neither thought nor cared; he only wanted to take some step which would render it impossible for him to attempt supplication with Gay again, or make the least sign of the wild love that burned in his heart.
               He had missed the early train, and did not reach the village until late in the afternoon. He had driven to the hotel where he stopped in the summer, and exchanged no conversation with any body before starting for Crosslands. There he was, holding Margaret's hands, and repeating his eager words.
               "Say you are glad, Margaret! I have come back; you'll not send me away. I have nobody but you in the world, Margaret!"
               She forced her hands away from him. She knew that he was looking strangely at her—was conscious that she must speak—must utter the fatal truth; knew, too, what he had meant by his coming, and dared not acknowledge to herself that she knew. It was only an instant, but it was like living an eternity to pass through it.
               Before he could speak again, the iron gates clanged once more; instinctively Margaret allowed her veil to fall over her face; at the same moment a man-servant approached, and said, as he lifted his hat,
               "There were no letters, Mrs. Prescott," and passed on, too eager to read over an epistle he had received from his sweetheart, to look back or to think about the visitor.
               He had done his part; he had addressed her by the title which told the whole story, and saved her the first dreadful words of explanation. Seaton stood silent till the man was gone, never moving his eyes from her face.
               "What did he call you?" he asked hoarsely.
               "By my name," Margaret answered, in a voice that sounded to her as strange and distant as if another were speaking. "I am married, Mr. Seaton." He was looking at her still, with the same wondering, incredulous expression, as if he did not yet fully comprehend. There was more necessary to be said. and she heard herself adding, "I am Alan Prescott's wife."
               Seaton had moved back a few steps; as she spoke, he came close to her again, and taking her hand once more, bowed low over it, saying,
               "Allow me to offer my congratulations, Mrs. Prescott."
               There was a tone of bitter irony in his voice, though the manner and words were so courteous, but somehow it restored Margaret's powers: she was certain now that she should neither burst into tears, nor faint, nor commit any extravagance which in her present position would be self-abasement that she believed she could not have lived through.
               As for Seaton, in this brief instant, his part was taken. Unreasonable as it was, he felt that he had been a second time deceived by a woman; that was his thought, that, and a determination to carry off the awkward scene gracefully though this new cause of wrath, added to the former confusion and disorder in his brain, made sparks of fire dance before his eyes, and something in the back of his head beat and pounded like a hammer.
               "I congratulate you, Mrs. Prescott," he said again. "It is very good-natured of me, too, after your neglect. What were you and Alan about, not to remember me? and I flattered myself that we were such good friends."
               Margaret, unfamiliar with the ability for acting in which he and Gay Van Kortland were such proficients, looked at him in utter surprise at his change of manner; all earnestness, all impetuosity gone—gay, careless, playful as ever. Then came another reflection—it was her own folly and wickedness—he had not meant what she thought. All this quick as lightning, for she had to answer his speech.
               "I supposed you knew—I thought Miss Van Kortland would tell you."
               "But she did not. I have seen her very seldom," he answered, his brows contracting at that name. "And where is that happy man, your bridegroom?"
               She had thrown back her veil again, and he saw her face change. He had not lost his old power.
               "Mr. Prescott left home day before yesterday," she answered.
               "The ungallant monster! But you have not told me when you were married," he continued, feeling that it was a struggle for her to talk to him about her husband, and so thoroughly lost to his better self that he had a sort of pleasure in tormenting her. "When did you say you were married, Mrs. Prescott?"
               "Early in November," she replied, and never had the name to which she found it difficult to become accustomed sounded so strange and unfamiliar as when pronounced by his lips.
               "O, then you are quite old staid married people now," he said, laughing gayly, "Three months! No moon, not even a honeymoon, could last so long as that. I am sure you ought to be able to bestow a little time on an old friend and be glad to see him."
               She could not answer that question; she dared not to herself.
               "I suppose you are surprised to see me," he continued.
               "Yes; perhaps you had business." But that was an unwise speech, because her voice faltered as she remembered what she fancied his business had been.
               "O, I am always an erratic planet," he said. "I am busy writing. It is quite impossible to work in town, and this quiet place will be just the spot. I think I shall stay, now I am here." She did not speak; he was determined that she should. "Won't you say you are pleased to have me? surely you may do that."
               She murmured something; she would have given a great deal to reply coherently, but it was out of the question.
               "And I may come to see you, and we may be friends?" he persisted.
               "I shall be glad to have you come."
               "Ah, it will be quite like old times—no, not like old times—never that again." He saw her shiver from head to foot, and he knew the cause; the devil that had possession of him exulted at this evidence of power. "You are cold! I must not keep you out here; this air is treacherous, though it seems so balmy."
               She walked mechanically towards the house, and he accompanied her, asking questions about the people he had known in the valley, making talk as easily as if he were deeply interested in the topics.
               "And when does your husband return?" he asked.
               "He expected to be gone three weeks."
               "I may see him, then; I am quite capable of dawdling about here for a month, if the weather stays pleasant, and you promise to let me rest myself in your society when I am weary of my work."
               "I shall be glad to see you, and Mr. Prescott will too."
               A month—he might stay a month! She did not know why, but she was frightened at the idea; though it was very pleasant to her.
               "O yes, Prescott and I always got on smoothly. I shall come and watch your happiness; you'll not mind my enjoying it since that can hurt nobody but myself. I'll try to keep it to myself, too, I will indeed! We may be friends, may we not, Mrs. Prescott?" he asked, holding out his hand.
               She extended hers, feeling more at case than she had before done.
               "Yes," she said; "good friends."
               "Good friends," he repeated. "Well, there's something still left me; I must not complain."
               He turned to go; she asked him confusedly enough to enter the house, but he refused.
               "I will go back now," he said. "All these changes are new to me, you know; I must take a little time to bear—to get used to them. Perhaps you will allow me to come up this evening?"
               Margaret said yes, and he went away. But he did not return that night; there came a little note from him instead; a prettily worded little note, in which he begged pardon for not availing himself of her kind permission. He would not tell any stories, though he had meant to when he began. He was not ill; only in one of his dark moods when he was not company for any body, and would punish his morbid restlessness by postponing the great pleasure he had promised himself.
               Margaret spent the evening without visitors, though she had a new book and Seaton's note and a nervous headache for society, so that she could not be said to be alone. She was not moaning in her solitude and feeling that life was done because this man had come with the intention of claiming her and had come too late, though she could not shut her eyes to the meaning of his first words. She knew just as well as you or I do, that in time she should find peace in her new existence, if she tried to do right; though she believed that the freshness and bloom would never come back. Away from the fascination of Seaton's presence, she could perceive that if he cared for her and intended to return, he had behaved badly in leaving her as he did, humiliated and cast down. But she could be his friend still; he had asked her to be that, and she would. As for her dream and her romance, they were dead; she had buried them months ago, and she had given her life into the keeping of a good man, who loved her and whom she loved. She insisted upon that to herself as she had never before done.
               She wrote to him before she went to bed and told him of having seen Mr. Seaton and that he thought of remaining several weeks, because it was a quiet place where he could work; she had read in the papers that he was doing a play for somebody, but he had not mentioned it. She had no intention of writing deceitfully; she was pleased to see him, she said; so would Alan be, she was sure.
               If she had felt great sorrow or unrest she might have been warned that her dream had gone deeper into her soul than she supposed, but she was only glad to have Seaton back; the thought that she should see him daily was very pleasant to her—that was all. Indeed, once she was inclined to write to Prescott and tell him about that summer vision; she had often been tempted to do so, but lacked courage. She did not do it now either, though she argued with herself until she could have presented it in its most unimportant light. It had been a girlish fascination caused by his brilliancy, his lovely poems; but she did not write, because just then she recollected the meeting of that day, and somehow it would be so awkward to state that Seaton had not known she was married, and before he discovered it had spoken as a man would whose next words might be passionate and tender.
               The following morning Seaton called and sat with her for a long time. He was looking thin and worn, and in her innocence Margaret feared that he had been working too hard. She was greatly interested in his play, and began to ask him about it, but he shook his head.
               "I have not looked at it for weeks," he said; "I dare say it will never be finished."
               "Why?" she inquired; "are you not satisfied with it?"
               "I don't care about it; I take no interest in it," he said. "It is half done; I dare say it will lie as it is."
               "But you told me you wanted to work. I am sure the play would be a success; I do so want you to finish it."
               "Then I will," he replied; "I'll do it while I am here, if you will agree to let me read it to you and to criticise me."
               "I should not venture to do that," Margaret said; "but I should be delighted to hear it scene by scene, as you write it."
               So he promised to work and she was to be the confidant that he assured her any writer needed, to persuade him out of the discouragement which follows upon hard mental labor. They talked smoothly and easily. Margaret felt that he was solitary and depressed; that she could soothe and cheer him, and the idea was agreeable to her.
               While he was there Aunt Hilda appeared; it was the first visit she had made in a long time, and her astonishment at the sight of Seaton would have been past concealment had it ever occurred to her to make the effort.
               "Why land's sake!" cried she. "I ain't walkin' in my sleep and dreamin' till I snore, am I?"
               "I think not," said Margaret. "I am glad to see you once more."
               "And I you, Miss Prescott, my jewel. But lawful sakes alive! Mr. Seaton, is that you in the flesh?"
               "It is I, tolerably substantial still," replied Seaton, coming forward and shaking hands with her, though in a much less friendly way than formerly, for he wished her at home with two lame feet, or anywhere, detained by any calamity, except intruding upon him just then; and Aunt Hilda, who was keen as a greyhound, noticed the change and was bound to find out what it all meant, though she greeted him with great cordiality and was as talkative as ever.
               "And Lord Alan has gone away, my picturful deary?" said she. "I know you're awful lonesome, but law! it'll be all the pleasanter gettin' him back, won't it, Mr. Seaton?"
               "I have no doubt," he replied; "though as I have never been married I am not a very good judge of such matters."
               "No, no," said Aunt Hilda, "and saving your presence, geniuses are better off to take such things by hearsay—a steady married life don't suit 'em—look at Lord Byron, now! 'Is thy face like thy mother's, fair child?' and he a sulkin' 'tother side of the Alps, instead of goin' to see. My picturful creturs, genius is always queer and kind o' twisted up like," and Aunt Hilda rubbed her nasal decoration and eyed Seaton meditatively.
               Seaton vouchsafed her remarks only a slight bow, and began talking to Margaret about Mendelssohn's music by way of excluding the old lady from the conversation, and giving her a hint that she was not wanted, but Margaret would not aid him. Somehow she was not sorry to have Aunt Hilda there, much as she had enjoyed the previous tête-à-tête, and she would speak of things in which the old lady could be interested.
               "You have been away from home as well as lame, Aunt Hilda," she continued, when Seaton relapsed into sulky silence.
               "I have, deary; it was mortal lonesome and some of my relations up to Spider Hollow wanted to see me, so as I don't get to go away very of'en, I thought I'd whip the eat a little. I expect you don't know what whippin' the eat is, Mr. Seaton."
               "If you found it a relief to chastise the animal, I'm glad," said Seaton, pulling his mustache, and allowing his eyes to wish her at the devil as plainly as words could have done.
               "It means going on a tower of visits," said Aunt Hilda, laughing heartily. "It's a Pennsylvany expression. I do suppose. But you hain't told me when you came, nor what for, nor how long you mean to stay, nor nothin', and it's cruel, when you know I like to be first with news and hate to ask you questions."
               "I came last night; as for any other information, I suppose as long as I am not uproarious the village people will scarcely call me to account," returned Seaton, though Aunt Hilda had spoken so pleasantly that his remark was unprovoked ill-nature.
               She was vexed, but would not show it; his manner troubled her, too, and it made her dislike his being there. But she laughed and said,
               "You're bilious. Mr. Seaton; Miss Van Kortland said you were always a little crochety at such times."
               Seaton rose and bade Margaret good-morning, whispering a request to come in the evening which was not refused, and with a cold farewell to Mrs. Gallagher, he departed.
               "A picturful chap," pronounced Aunt Hilda, "but onsettled and onsettlin'. Lord Alan's wuth a hundred on him, if he don't write poetry—which he could if he tried, I make no doubt, for how he knows the classics—Jamdudum splendet!"
               She sat for some time talking to Margaret, but not another word did she say in regard to Seaton. Even when Mrs. Prescott took the trouble to explain that he had still some unsettled business about other lands he owned in the neighborhood, and that he thought of staying awhile; it was so quiet that he could write, and he had some important work on hand—Aunt Hilda only vouchsafed to utter,
               "O, indeed!" in a voice between a groan and a grunt. She was not satisfied with Mr. Seaton, and she intended him to be aware of it. "You must keep up a brave heart while Lord Alan's away, my deary. It would do you good to go out more, and the neighbors would be pleased if you went among 'em a bit."
               "I really can not bore myself for their pleasure," Margaret said, rather fretfully.
               "No, deary, and I dessay they're not congen'al, but law! when a body lives near folks it's better to be on fair terms with 'em. My picturful, I've larned—that's not grammar though—that the good-will of a dog is better than his ill-will," said Aunt Hilda, with a wisdom which Margaret, engrossed by her own thoughts, did not fully appreciate.
               "You must come and see me, Aunt Hilda," she said absently; "I am always glad to see you."
               "You're very kind to the old woman, and 'taint my wish ever to be cumbersome, as I think you know," returned Aunt Hilda; and recollecting the slight Seaton had put upon her she rubbed her nose, not so much in anger at being snubbed, as because she wondered why he disliked her being there.
               When Aunt Hilda returned to the village she went about making a variety of calls, though she was in a doleful mood, and would much rather have gone quietly home. As she expected, she found the whole town alive with the news of Mr. Seaton's return and every body wondering why he had come, and two or three trying to believe a rumor that he was staying at Crosslands, and greatly shocked thereat. So Aunt Hilda was able to do the good she wished. She said that she had seen the gentleman; she knew all about it; he had some business; besides, he was writing a book, and as a portion of the scene was laid in the valley, he wanted to write it on the spot, and it was a quiet place more fit than his city home.
               "And if that's stretchin' the truth a little," thought Aunt Hilda, "the preacher himself couldn't blame me." She added to her other information by saying, "He's stoppin' up at the Wyalusing Hotel near my patch, jest where he was in the summer, and a better place he couldn't find, for old Miss Tinklepaugh is as neat as wax, and can cook a meal with Queen Victory herself any day."
               Then Aunt Hilda, having dispensed her knowledge right and left, went home; but while she and her gray cat, the Doctor, were eating their suppers, she was very meditative indeed, and rubbed her nose till the pet wart looked like a scarlet bud ready to burst into full flower. It took a great many pipes after to quiet her, while the gray cat sat on the hearth, and blinked at the fire as if he had a weight on his mind too, and could not doze according to his usual comfortable habit of an evening.
               "I wish he hadn't come," said Aunt Hilda suddenly, as the Doctor sprang into her lap, apparently with the idea of sharing his mistress's meditations. "I hain't a thinking no bad, the Lord forbid! not even of him; he's only a feather-headed cretur' like your geniuses are; but folks will talk. I'm as sure they will if he stays, as I am that the blessed Fourth of July comes rig'lar onct a year."
               The next day Aunt Hilda, enjoying the sunshine as she walked up and down her little porch, saw Margaret and Seaton passing on horseback. They stopped to speak, and Seaton appeared to have recovered his good temper, for he was cordial in the extreme.
               "The roads have got in such nice order," Margaret said, "that Mr. Seaton persuaded me to ride."
               "It's good for ye, my jewel," replied Aunt Hilda, "but you'd find it better up towards the hills than goin' through the town; it's always black and nasty here."
               "We are going to cross the bridge and go down through the valley," Seaton explained, which was just what Aunt Hilda had wished them not to do, because the whole town would see them and begin commenting at once; but she had done all that she could and was forced to let them pass on.
               The next day was Sunday, and as Margaret was driving to church she saw Seaton and asked him to accompany her; and when they walked up the aisle together, all the good people who had gathered to pray "Forgive us our trespasses," looked shocked, and Margaret's beautiful new bonnet was an added thorn in the sides of the women.
               The days passed and Seaton remained, nor had he, apparently, any intention of going away. He was daily at Crosslands, and the whole village knew it; he rode and drove with Mrs. Prescott, and the whole village saw it and talked and suspected, with the venom and evil fancies which the inhabitants of a town where there is little excitement always display, and for which Upsden was celebrated above any other place that ever the sun shone on. The people were much given to church or meeting, encouraged all sorts of narrow, puritanical ideas, which were inherited from the Pilgrim Fathers perhaps, but certainly had nothing to do with Church doctrines, and they were always shocked at new comers who did not live according to the petty rules which cramped their minds as much as unwholesome cookery did their bodies.
               Abelard Straight's family were Dissenters, of course, and all the more outraged and incensed on that account at Mrs. Prescott's conduct. Indeed, the member of the circle who did the intellectual—a dried-up woman with attenuated curls, who knew the history of the Reformation by heart and indulged in works of fiction, provided they were published in New England—at last expressed it her duty to write to Mr. Prescott and advise him to return home; but she did not exactly venture to do it: as that gentleman never could be induced to enter her house or suffer an introduction to her, she found it difficult perhaps to indite the letter about which she said so much.
               They talked morning, noon, and night, and it was astonishing where people, who had always lived such quiet lives, and, as far as their conduct went, were respectable enough—scandal, sharp-dealing, over-reaching in bargains, not being considered disreputable sins—acquired the knowledge of evil which they betrayed in their conversation. Most of them belonged to denominations that believed in total depravity of the human heart, and when one heard them talk, one ceased to wonder thereat—they were such horrible supports of the truth of the doctrine in their daily walk and conversation.
               Aunt Hilda heard every thing, and battled bravely for her friend, though she was cut to the heart by the dreadful stories. She went often to Crosslands, but she could not bring herself to pain Margaret by hinting at the reports; yet she knew that she ought, and in her perplexity she smoked so much that she looked like a censer, and rubbed her nose so constantly that the wart on the end of it got as red as if it had been the coal which kept her lighted.
               Something she must do. At last she made up her mind to speak to Seaton himself, though she was mortally afraid to attempt it, and felt as if she were overtaken by a chill of the ague, as she tried to prepare her speech.
               "Pullin' teeth ain't nothin' to it," Aunt Hilda observed to the gray cat, one night when she fully made up her mind; "but it must be done. The ridic'lous, evil-minded creturs, to think harm of that picturful angel! I'd like to smoke the hull Presbyterian kit and boodle to death, so I would! But I must tell him. Hilda Gallagher, your grandmother was in the Ingin massa-cry, and your grandpa fit and bled and died for liberty, and dooty is dooty, and I want you to be true to your antescendants!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               AUNT HILDA SPEAKS.
               THAT was a very pleasant fortnight to Margaret, and one of the celestial beings Aunt Hilda often compared her to could not have been freer from thought of wrong-doing. That any thing in her conduct might lay her open to remark or censure never occurred to her, and a deaf and blind creature, unwittingly landed upon a savage island, could not be more ignorant of the approach of a troop of cannibals ready to crunch her bones, than she was of the malevolent eyes of her neighbors, and their virtuous determination to tear her character into the smallest possible fragments.
               Pleasant, pleasant days, with the sunshine resting on the hills like a golden mantle spring had spread, to make the earth warm for her approach; with the blue-birds returning, and making a low music among the boughs of the maple-trees, which began to hang out the first tinge of red in the buds that precede the leaves; with the soft south wind telling of the broad savannahs and tropical warmth from which it had come; with every sight and sound in nature in unison with the dreamy state of her mind and increasing its intensity—ah, very pleasant!
               Noel Seaton was with her daily. Encouraged by her sympathy, he wrote diligently in the morning or at night after he had left her house, but the afternoons and evenings he spent with her, reading to her the scenes of his play that were completed, or riding with her about the hills, or sitting by her side talking in his earnest way, or receiving her sympathy and counsels with a gentleness and patience which he had never shown with any other human being. Mr. Prescott wrote frequently and he had answered her mention of Seaton in high good-humor, congratulating Margaret on having such society, expressing great interest in the new poem, and saying how much faith he had in their friend's genius, if he could persuade himself to work. He sent besides a personal message to Seaton, in which he requested him to see that Margaret was kept from low spirits, and above all things to be good-natured and take care that she did not shut herself up in the house.
               If Margaret had needed to be fortified in her line of conduct she could not have received more encouragement, but she did not, for, as I have said, there was no shadow of a thought in her mind which could make her doubt. And so she went on in her innocence, while even the new servants whom Prescott had engaged were watching her with merciless scrutiny, and adding their meed to the village gossip; careful only to keep any hint from Nora, whom they had learned to fear as much as Miss Maguire herself did. As for that unfortunate female, she, being all this time laid up with rheumatic fever and assiduously cared for by her mistress and Nora, was kept in ignorance too. It is doubtful if she would have dared to mention the matter to her tyrant if she had heard any thing, for Nora domineered over her as much as ever, though in a different way. She nursed her carefully, but Maguire had to wake and sleep, and have pain according to order, and Nora could not resist sometimes reminding her that she had herself to thank for her illness, Miss Maguire having caught cold by a little dissipation in which she indulged on the occasion of her grandmother's death. The old woman was buried at Barry, and Miss Maguire rode thither with a party of loud-voiced mourners, sitting on her granddame's coffin, and eating cakes to assuage her grief; and either the coffin-lid struck a chill to her sensitive frame, or three previous nights of wakes and keening in a damp shanty had proved too much for her.
               Lucy Kenwyn was installed as her regular nurse, for the odd body was good at such work; but Maguire when howling most dolefully was never too much absorbed by her agony to forget her young mistress's kindness, and utter her admiration thereof in a sort of minor to the shrill major of her complaints.
               "Av coorse she's like a saint," Nora would reply, "ye naden't wear out what breath ye have tellin' me that! Whist now wid your scrames, onless ye wish to turn into a peacock, and tak your medicine; it's very bither an' it'll do ye good, an' the nixt time yet ould grandmother dies lave her the lid of her coffin to hersilf; shure it's all she can have in this world, and cowld comfort ye found it."
               "For these and all others—etcetera—amen!" Lucy would chant. "Wait till your hair falls out, and it'll be a consolation to love, as I find it, jined to the Pristicals—amen."
               But it seemed a poor consolation to Miss Maguire to listen to, for she was rather proud of her tresses, and had a weakness for studying the fashion magazines and arranging her locks in accordance with the newest style as set down in those veracious publications, and when she began to get better was so much afraid that Lucy's pious adjuration might come true, that she was always tugging at her hair to be certain the roots held firmly to the scalp.
               Aunt Hilda had made up her mind to speak to Seaton, and as thinking about the matter only wore upon her small stock of courage, she kept herself very busy the next day raking the dead leaves off from her grass-plat and hoping that chance would give her the opportunity she dared not take. Seaton unintentionally did her a great favor; he walked out of the inn, and seeing Aunt Hilda at work in her garden, came over and spoke to her.
               "Hard at it, Aunt Hilda;" he said, "you are a model of industry."
               "No," replied Aunt Hilda, "I am't, but I must do my little do. I'm through now. Come in and set by the fire a minute; I want to speak to you."
               She tried hard to say the words in a natural tone of voice, but failed, and Seaton, thinking she had some personal grievance to relate, entered the little sitting-room, which was the neatest and quaintest little room one could find.
               "Why, Aunt Hilda," said Seaton as he took an arm-chair by the fire, "this place is like a bit out of a Pre-Raphaelite picture."
               "I know what that is—read about 'em," returned she; "wal, I'm glad of it. Got a cigar? now just smoke and be comfortable, for I want to say a word or two that's on my mind, and I feel as if I should never sleep again until I'd done it."
               Seaton took a case out, and while he was selecting and lighting his cigar, glanced at Aunt Hilda with languid curiosity, for she was grim and gray, and shaken with an odd nervousness, though she sat upright and looked as determined as ever a Roman soldier that meant to die at his post could have done.
               "Why, Aunt Hilda, what troubles you?" he asked. "Have they been trying to encroach on your patch again?"
               "My patch is all right enough," returned Aunt Hilda, in a trembling voice; "but I'm troubled, I don't deny. Nobody has hurt me, only through them I'm fond of; but I'm hurt, for all that."
               "Ah," Seaton said, with polite indifference, sending a curl of fragrant white smoke into the air, "I am sorry to hear that."
               If he had asked a question it would have made Aunt Hilda's task easier, but he did not appear in the slightest degree curious as to the cause of her suffering, and leaned back in his chair, gently pulling the gray cat's tail.
               "Yes, I'm hurt and I'm troubled," repeated Aunt Hilda; "and if about half the people in the world had their tongues cut off it would be a mercy."
               "Ah," said Seaton again, but whether he sympathized with her trouble or the gray cat's—his arising from a harder jerk that Seaton had given his tail, which he resented by a piteous mew—did not appear.
               "There he sot," Aunt Hilda described after, "as han some as Loocifer and as kerless, and yet a body couldn't help but be drawed towards him—picturful cretur! Like the lilies of the field, with no thought of the morrow, so he had his sport to-day, and as for his clothes, as near like Soloman in his glory as a velvet sack-coat and a bright neckercher and gray trowsers—if I don't offend—could be."
               His cigar was consuming fast; he might at any instant rise to go, and her story must be told. Aunt Hilda gasped and began,
               "Mr. Seaton"—
               But Seaton was laughing heartily at the gambols of the cat, that had forgotten his recent injury; a boy at play could not have laughed more merrily.
               "I beg your pardon, Aunt Hilda," said he; "you were speaking."
               "O I was," returned she, ready to cry, "if you would listen."
               "There, kitty, now we must be good," said Seaton, placing the old fellow on his knee where he curled himself up with a contented purr. "I'm listening, Aunt Hilda, I'm serious as a judge;" and he rested his head on the back of his chair and looked a thousand leagues off, at least.
               "Just for all the world," Aunt Hilda averred when she told the story, "like one of them locust-eaters in a poem I onct heerd him repeat—picturful cretur and so kerless!"
               Aunt Hilda rubbed her nose and fidgeted in her chair and picked up her knitting work, not in the least conscious what she was doing, and worked mechanically with great diligence.
               "I ain't Lord Byron," said she, "nor Saint Paul, nor a Philadelphy lawyer; and though I knowed my grammer and spellin'-book by heart when I was to school, not to mention the poetry bits in the English Reader, I've got into ungrammatical ways and am too old to break myself; but you're a scholar and a master of the languages—mebby seven and like enough more, for there's enough on 'em, and though they sound like gibberish, I do expect there's heaps of wisdom in 'em and learned books enough to weigh a camel down—but," continued Aunt Hilda, reminded of the Scriptures by that mention of the desert steed, and thinking it well to add a slight warning suitable to the occasion, "rich and poor, we must all pass through the needle's eye at last, though mebby it'll scratch every grain of skin off to struggle through."
               This was delicious to Seaton; he laughed with a quiet enjoyment that would have been delightful to Aunt Hilda at another time, but the sound rasped her nerves now like the grating of a file.
               "This is poetry and morality too," said Seaton. "Why, Aunt Hilda, you talk like a printed book yourself."
               Aunt Hilda dropped the half-finished stocking into her lap and burst out crying, with a series of grimaces that made Seaton long for a pencil and paper.
               "Don't," she sobbed, "don't! It breaks my heart to see you so light and trifling when all this trouble's come."
               "I am sorry for your trouble, Aunt Hilda"—
               "It ain't mine—it a-ain't," she gasped.
               "Nor mine," said he, "so I may laugh."
               "I don't know that," retorted she, wiping her eyes on her gingham apron, and feeling vexed that he did not understand before she explained, as all women do when they have explanations to make. "I love that dear cretur as if she was a nidol an-d-di a paggan," continued Aunt Hilda, running her words together by reason of her sobs. "If ever angels come down in our day and gineration she's one—I say it and I know it—that same blessed Miss Prescott."
               "Nor has Mrs. Prescott any trouble, more than you or I, that I know of," returned Seaton, and his voice was no longer mirthful, though he made an elaborate effort of yawning behind his hand.
               "She will have, if this goes on," said Aunt Hilda, with great rapidity lest her courage should fail; "she will, bitter and black, for she's a tender-hearted lamb, and to know she was belied and talked over, and mebby a gulf dug betwixt her and her husband by evil tongues, would a'most be her death; and if even murderers ought to be tried and convicted by a grand jury without leaving the box, it would be them that slayed her like Jephtha's daughter."
               "I am really at a loss to gather your meaning, Mrs. Gallagher," Seaton said carelessly, but looking keenly at her.
               "Don't I tell you they're talking about her, the whole kit and boodle of 'em—things that would make your hair stand on end, wherever or however you was rose, if it was among the Cannibal Islands or the Tottenhots!" cried Aunt Hilda, too much excited to be particular how she arranged her syllables; "if she was to know it, she'd be clean beat down like a flower and never hold her head up agin."
               "You mean that some ignorant village gossip has been impertinent enough to make remarks about Mrs. Prescott, I suppose," Seaton said with the same indifference, while his glance softened.
               He had thought, when she began, that Aunt Hilda intended to read him a lecture, but as she seemed to have no such idea he felt amicably disposed towards her again.
               "Call 'em what you like, there's no name bad enough," returned she; "but 'taint one, nor two, nor three; it's the hull village, and they're goin' on awful! If it was only old times, and we all in Massachusetts, they'd get the selectmen and drive her out of the town, I do believe—the ornary, disgraceful creturs!"
               "Upon my word, Aunt Hilda, I can not perceive that all this is of the slightest consequence. This place is not to be Mrs. Prescott's home, these people are not her associates; of what consequence is the folly they talk among themselves?"
               "Ah," returned Aunt Hilda; "a man might look at it in that light, but a woman couldn't. She may be richer and more edicated, and all that, as I know she is, but here she must stay for a while, and mebby come back. How would she feel if nobody' would speak to her, and her husband was to notice, and set to work to find out the reason, and p'raps have the story told him by some venomous cretur, or it to go among his great friends in York, as it might easy, and would, for some of them rich coal dealers is here every onct in a while; it would, sure as fate, if it isn't stopped."
               "If what isn't stopped—the gossip?" He asked the question inadvertently, but it gave Aunt Hilda the opening she had desired.
               "That ain't all," said she, dashing on as desperately as the leader of a forlorn hope, lest the courage of his forces should give way; "it's you, Mr. Seaton; you mustn't be mad, for I'm tryin' to do my dooty, and it's hard work. It's you and your goin' there so much, and bein' with her always, that has set them off. I know you meant no harm; I know it's nat'ral; but you can't make them believe it. You wouldn't have trouble come to her through you for the world, so I'm sure you won't be mad at me, but you'll just go quietly away, and then they'll hold their tongues, and in a little while there'll be some new gossip to make 'em forget her."
               "How very absurd!" returned Seaton; "it's too impertinent; one may expect comment among one's equals, but for these people to presume to have opinions is too insolent."
               "'Taint no good to look at it that way," said Aunt Hilda, wiping her eyes on the gingham apron again; "some of 'em's rich, and got fine friends abroad, and they can all talk."
               "If there's any man you can name who has said a word, I shall know how to deal with him," Seaton exclaimed angrily.
               "I was afraid you'd say that; 'twould only ruin her complete. Don't do a thing; but oh, Mr. Seaton, you're a gentleman and a scholar, with the hull world before you where to choose, don't stay here another day; don't be the means of bringin' trouble on that dear angel!" and Aunt Hilda began to sob again, wringing her apron between her hands as if to dry out the moisture.
               "The whole thing is beneath notice," he said; "I must beg you not to mention it to Mrs. Prescott."
               "I don't mean to," she answered; "but her husband 'll soon be here. Only think if there should be trouble between them!"
               Seaton pushed his chair back and flashed his haughty eyes full upon her.
               "You are going too far," he said in a low, stern voice; "you forget yourself, Mrs. Gallagher."
               "Then I'm sorry," she replied, weeping no longer, and not feeling afraid now; "I've meant it for the best, and I say to you agin—and I could never die easy on my bed if I didn't say it—you ought to go away."
               "Having relieved your mind by that advice, Aunt Hilda," Seaton said with restored equanimity; "we will have done with the subject, if you please."
               "And you'll go?" cried Aunt Hilda exultantly; "bless you, I knowed you was a picturful cretur!"
               "You're a good soul," said Seaton with easy contempt; "but you are blinded by your fears. A little world like this must be treated like the great one: run from it, and it will pursue, believing you frightened; put your foot on it, and it yields. If I were to go, these gossips would take it as a proof that they had been right."
               "O dear! O dear!" groaned Aunt Hilda, "you're all wrong and I've neither learnin' nor sense to set you right, though I see it clear if I could only tell. That might do for a man, but Margaret is a woman; she can't do that. O for any sake go away, Mr. Seaton; go away!
               She seemed ready to throw herself on her knees before him, but Seaton pushed her gently back in her chair, and said lightly,
               "There, there, you good old soul, don't think about it any more; you've done your duty! I am not angry, but let it end here. Mrs. Prescott is not a woman to listen even to a word, I assure you. But you think too seriously about it; the matter is of no consequence whatever;" and he rose to depart.
               "Look here!" cried Aunt Hilda in great agitation. "I might be a queen as grand as ever stepped, I might be Sheby herself, and I've no doubt that visit to old Soloman was talked about at the time—but if I had to live in the middle of a pack of curs, I'd have to be afraid of their bite."
               "You would do better to strike them down and make them afraid," said Seaton.
               "If I'd neither gun, nor stick, nor strength—O, I can't explain it, but I can see it; I know I'm right."
               "Mrs. Prescott will never be without defenders, my good Aunt Hilda."
               "She'd better be dead than defended by any man," exclaimed she. "I may be queer and oldish, but I know that, husband or no husband, the man who tries that tack ruins the woman."
               "There, there, my dear soul; keep yourself quiet! Don't be troubled any more. The matter is out of your hands now; you may rest satisfied that every thing will be right;" and with a merry parting word he left the house, nor did Aunt Hilda make the least effort to detain him.
               "Rest satisfied!" she repeated over and over, as she twisted and untwisted her apron and stared into the fire with her tear-dimmed eyes. "I can't, and I won't! But what to do, and how to do it!"
               She rose and trotted up and down the room, muttering to herself and sniffling dreadfully, to the great discomposure of the gray cat who watched her with eyes wide with wonder, till at length a sudden inspiration dawned upon her mind and she said aloud,
               "I'll do it! I'll write to Miss Van Kortland this very day; I'll tell her every thing. I do believe she and him have had some fuss and he's here for spite; I'll do it! Mebby he means no harm; he ain't one to be deliberate and cold-blooded; but he's got fire in his veins instead of blood; he's capable of movin' a mountain, when the fit was on him, to please a whim. The picturful, keerless cretur—I'm drawed to him all the same! There's good at the bottom, but he might do a sight of mischief notwithstandin', with his white hands that neither toils nor spins, and his handsome eyes, and a tongue that the old sarpent couldn't have beat—I'll do it!"
               Aunt Hilda could not lose a moment after her resolve was formed, and to the increased astonishment of the gray cat she pulled her table to the window, laid paper and pens upon it, hunted high and low for her spectacles, diving into closets and knocking her head against the shelves, searching in every imaginable place, even to the coffee-pot, and at last discovering the missing articles on the top of her head, where she recollected having pushed them when Seaton came in. By the time she was seated at the table, with the dictionary and Lord Byron beside her, the gray cat seemed to understand the whole matter and curled himself up on the big Bible and watched Aunt Hilda's proceedings with a look of immense wisdom. When the old lady read sentences aloud from her epistle tle, the gray cat would give a loud mew of approval which encouraged Aunt Hilda greatly; so much, that as soon as the letter was finished she read it over to the Doctor, for lack of some other sympathizer, and he purred in his highest key.
               It was severe labor to Mrs. Gallagher, for she seldom wrote letters; but it was odd to notice that though she talked ungrammatically, when she wrote she spelled very correctly, and there was nothing unusual in the appearance of the pages besides the number of capitals; but those were so great a relief to her mind that she could not resist putting them in, and, after the first half page, began each line with a tremendous one, as though she were inditing a poem.
               Noel Seaton walked back to the inn and shut himself up in his cheerful old-fashioned rooms, which were much neater, if less luxurious, than any bachelor lodgings he could have had in town, and sat down to write, not meaning to bestow a moment's thought upon Aunt Hilda's revelations. But he did no work; he was thinking in spite of himself; he was asking his heart what he did mean—a question he had carefully avoided during the past days.
               He had been driven on by his rage against Gay—his unreasonable anger at finding Margaret married—after that, by the charm of this idyl and his habit of yielding to any strong impulse that chanced to take possession of him. What did he mean? the question rang in his ears as if another had asked it, but he had no answer ready, and was irritated by the pertinacity with which the reflection intruded itself. No harm, no deliberate wickedness had been in his mind—let us do him that justice—nor were there now. But he would not go away; he was obstinately decided on that point. It amused and interested him to remain; life had been so hard upon him, that he was right to cheat it of any enjoyment he could. He had not made love to this woman; had not spoken a word to which the most shrinking prude could have objected; he should stay. He felt a sort of rage against Prescott, as if he had wrongfully become possessed of something to which he, Seaton, had a right. Bah! it was all folly—he would not think! It was pleasant to sit in the sun; why should he deny himself the satisfaction? Life had deprived him of every other source of happiness; if he could be quiet there he should stay. He was going on nicely with his poem. Nobody considered him, why should he think of others? As for the village people, their talk was of no consequence in the world; Seaton's intolerable haughtiness and determination to do as he pleased would have made that feeling natural under any circumstances.
               But he was doing no harm—would not for his life—he had to answer that inward questioner at last. Many a woman went deliberately into a deep flirtation and was good enough at heart; neither he nor Margaret had a wrong thought; if she could sympathize with his aspirations, share his dreams and fancies, why should the stupidest dolt of a husband object to that! There were spiritual affinities and magnetic attractions—and here he became transcendental, and when a man does that, I leave him.
               He took his hat and went out into the sunshine, up the road, away to Crosslands, and there was Margaret to meet him with her shy smile and her graceful words. He had half meant to tell her something of what was said, but he forgot all about it in the pleasantness of their conversation, and that very afternoon the virtuous villagers with such very evil thoughts in their minds—which, oddly enough, are so often possessed by the children of Virtue—saw the pair dash past their doors on horseback, laughing and talking like a couple of children daring a den of lions from sheer thoughtlessness.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               THE WARNING BROUGHT TO MIND.
               LENT had commenced, and society was as dull as a faded coquette who has grown too old to find fresh lovers at her shrine. Of course a reasonable share of amusement must be taken, like daily food for the body, and a great many people thanked fate that there were churches which did not rush into ritualism and too frequent services, and so took their spiritual refreshment there in a languid manner.
               Athenäis Schuyler esteemed herself for her Low Church proclivities—indeed, once she got confused in an argument she insisted on holding with Gay, and pronounced it her opinion that Semiramis had been Low Church too, and was sulky for a whole day, after Gay's laughter made her conscious of her own absurdity. But Athenäis's religious creeds would afford us little edification, since she was profoundly ignorant of the commonest historical facts even, setting aside higher authority, in regard to the Catholic Church, as are so many people in this country, be it said to their shame. I only wished to get at the fact that Athenäis liked a priest and a chapel where Lenten austerities were as much neglected as possible, because she wanted all the dissipation she could take, and, in spite of her follies, had slight qualms of conscience unless she was supported by precept and example.
               At present, Athenäis was madly and outrageously musical, for a purpose. She played the harp admirably; I grieve to say, because I love the instrument, that for some unknown reason every really fine amateur performer thereon whom I ever saw or heard of has been an utter idiot—can any body tell why?
               A young Italian professor, with great dreamy eyes and a melancholy voice, and a history so romantic that it would have qualified him to be the hero of a three-volume novel, had that winter been taken up by several fashionable women and Count Gardoni became the rage; asked tremendous prices for lessons, had more pupils than he could manage, and was invited to oceans of places, because he was good-nature itself about playing the piano-forte and singing sentimental strains in his lovely tenor voice. Athenäis had taken it into her wise head to get up a weakness for the young Italian, and was much laughed at therefor behind her back; Gay knew that she had no idea of marrying him—she loved her money too well; though people said that was her intention, and the young beast himself was capable of saying any thing and making any sort of boast.
               But he was invited to the house till Gay grew sick of the sight of him; the whole pack of relations were abusing the Prophetess, other people laughing, and at last Gay's patience gave way, and one morning she told Athenäis a few plain truths, which it was well to have spoken by somebody. At first Athenäis was angry, then she wept, then to Gay's disgust she did the romantic, which Gay knew meant nothing at all; she would not be silly except in words and languishing glances.
               "It is ever thus," moaned Athenäis. "My relatives to talk, indeed! They tore me from my girlish love; they wedded me to a man I hated; and now, when the blossoms of sentiment again cluster about my wounded heart, they seek to force them away and make my soul bleed anew."
               "Dear me!" said Gay, "it is much more poetical to remain faithful to the dream of your girlhood; second tendernesses are very unromantic matters indeed."
               "Mine," said Athenäis, "is a sensitive and a clinging nature. I am not adamant; my heart opens to respectful homage and tenderness."
               "You don't suppose the man is in love with you, my dear? Why, he could marry Lily Oakly, or two or three other geese to-morrow; but he has a wife, I believe."
               "Peace!" exclaimed Athenäis, with imposing solemnity. "I expect no sympathy from you, Agatha, there is no softness in your nature—you are ice. Since your treatment of that poor Noel Seaton I have given up; you have no heart."
               "This is really refreshing," said Gay, "when you gave me no peace while we were tolerable friends."
               "You have blighted his existence," Athenäis went on, regardless of her remark. "You will never marry; I have ceased to hope it. I do not intrude my advice upon you. Leave me to my dreams, my little summer of content, for my life has been sorrowful. I have not complained—I forgive every body! I hope my papa has not been made unhappy in another sphere by the sight of my anguish. I trust you will never have to regret your coldness to me; but leave me to my dream! I am not strong; I am plump, and my checks are rose-tinted, but I know my constitution! Do not weaken it by contention—leave, O leave me to my dream!"
               She clasped her hands, and struck an attitude; rolled up her eyes, and panted; she thought she was sighing tragically, but the shortness of her breath and the rotundity of her person converted it into a pant.
               "Very well, 'Näis, if you wish to be laughed at, I can't help it," said Gay. "But you must tell your paragon, or your dream, or whatever you call him, that I desire he will never speak to me when he can avoid it; I detest the creeping, fawning creature."
               Athenäis would not be angry, she enjoyed her rôle of martyr too much. She searched for a tear in the corner of her right eye with her lace handkerchief, and wailed in a voice like that of Matilda Heron in Camille—
               "I expect to be persecuted; I can bear it! Look through history; it has always been the same. What Juliet suffered, and Sappho, and—and—Petrarch—no, he was a man, but it matters not! The devotees at the altar of dreams have ever had to bear the taunts and malignity of a cruel, heartless world, of kindred more cruel and worldly still."
               "Her brain has softened," thought Gay; "it has become a mere pulp; what is the good of wasting words?"
               "You, Agatha," pursued Athenäis, "are worldliness personified, incarnate! All you think of is dress and glitter! Diamonds are dearer to you than the jewels of sentiment; love is an empty name; you can not understand me. My nature has ever been simplicity itself; I sigh for retirement, seclusion; my brilliant career has been forced upon me. I have borne my part in the gilded pageant; I have been worshipped and sought after, but my heart lay dead beneath! And now the roses of sentiment cluster about my soul once more; do not seek to lay a cruel hand upon them—disturb me not—leave, O leave me to my dream!"
               "'Näis," said Gay, "if you'll stop, I promise not to speak of the matter again. If you want that sickly snake running tame about the house, you shall have him."
               But Athenäis would not stop; she was under full headway, and she poured out a torrent of high-flown nonsense that made Gay sea-sick. Fortunately a servant entered with letters for both and made a diversion. Gay opened hers, at first thought it an anonymous poem, glanced at the signature and saw it was from Aunt Hilda Gallagher. She read the opening paragraphs, and went away to her room to peruse it in solitude. The sentences were roundabout and twisted; it was an odd production altogether, but it told the story, and alarmed Gay as no trouble menacing herself could have done.
               This was what Seaton had meant by his threat; this was her work too! She knew that he was not capable of a deliberate wrong, but his impulsiveness was as much to be dreaded as cold-blooded wickedness. He had gone there meaning to torment Gay herself, but heaven only knew what mad fancy might possess him. She thought no evil of Margaret; she knew her pure and good; but at least her reputation must suffer, if her peace sustained no shock. What to do—how to do it? At first she thought of writing to Seaton—worse than folly—he would only rush on more madly. To warn Margaret—but how word her counsel? If it should make her miserable to know what was said, or if, as so many women would, even good women, she ascribed it to jealousy on the part of her friend!
               She was irresolute for a time, but not long. There had been more than one crisis in Gay Van Kortland's life in which she was forced to act so rapidly that she had acquired the valuable habit of quick thought and decision. She would go to Upsden, no matter what Seaton thought. He could not hate or despise her more than he did; indeed, where she was concerned, nothing mattered, and seeing Margaret face to face, she could tell her every thing, and soften the blow; help, moreover, to change the current that had set against her. It was nearly night now; she would go the next morning. She packed such clothing as she needed, made all her arrangements for starting, but did not tell Athenäis until after dinner of her intended journey.
               "Rushing away from me?" cried Athenäis. "O cruel girl!"
               "Margaret needs me—she is alone—I must go for a few days," was all the explanation Gay would give.
               "And I? Do I not need you—I with my sensitive, clinging nature—I who am at this moment suffering persecution from relatives and friends? But go—leave me! May you not on your death-bed be forced to repent your cruelty; if you do, may I be living to grant you my pardon—you shall have it—go."
               At that moment the servant announced that the Italian Count was in the drawing-room, and Athenäis descended gracefully from tragedy to tenderness, in order to welcome him. Now she thought of it, she was glad Gay was going. In her heart she knew she must give up her romance very soon; she did not wish to be laughed at; she could take advantage of Gay's absence to have a tremendous scene, and make herself and the Count very miserable in a parting which she would tell him was forced upon her by the cruel exigencies of fate—the venom and hatred of a cankered world.
               Later in the evening, when the Count and other guests who dropped in had gone, she said to Gay,
               "You are quite right to go, Agatha, if your friend needs you. I am always ready to sacrifice myself. Come back to me when you can—when you are inclined—but do not consider me. Perhaps when you return you may find how capable I am of heroic sacrifice—we shall see!
               "Sappho leaped from the beetling crag, but heroism did not perish with Sappho! Juliet died, but love and its strength survived! Heloise immured herself in a convent, but devotion did not forsake the world! Go, Agatha, go! Embrace me; better now than in the chill of the morning, when my sensitive nature can ill bear rude shocks. Farewell! I think you will find me still living on your return. I shall be resigned either way! But do not linger too long; I am plump, but not robust, and I have a fearful trial before me. I must walk over burning ploughshares and rend the deepest recesses of my soul asunder. Agatha, farewell!"
               She made her speech standing, paused to receive Gay's kiss, and continued with her eyes fixed on vacancy, her hands stretched out like a person talking in a dream. She had done; and slowly, with one hand still extended, her eyes yet uplifted, she glided, or would have done so if her weight had permitted it, towards the door. She halted there to heave three tumultuous sighs followed by a strangled groan, which she tried to check by pressing her hands convulsively to her face, then rushed from the apartment as if her fortitude could bear no more, and the reality of her anguish had suddenly broken the apathetic chill which locked her senses so that she could not trust herself to remain longer.
               She believed that she must have made a deep impression on Gay, and enjoyed her suffering so much that she did groaning and pantomime in her room, till her maid came in and brought her to her senses by having the ill luck to tear a piece of lace. Gay did not sleep, but it was not anxiety for Athenäis that kept her awake. She was thinking of Margaret, but of Seaton still more. Margaret's trouble would only be to bear the brunt of envious village gossip—but Seaton—ah, who could tell whither recklessness and lost faith might lead him! And where he was concerned, Gay was powerless; she could help her sister woman, but she was chained hand and foot so that she could not aid the man she loved.
               She started the next morning. The cook had a good breakfast prepared, and the man-servant insisted upon riding on the carriage-box to the station to procure her tickets, check her baggage and save her all trouble; for the whole domestic staff adored Gay, and were never weary in their secret conclaves of contrasting her with their mistress, whose follies they saw as plainly as their betters.
               It was a long, long day to the traveller, a day of storm and tempest, too. She ought to have reached Upsden soon after noon, but the Express was delayed by the breaking of an engine-wheel, after that by an accident which had happened to a coal-train, so that it was sunset before she arrived at her destination. Aunt Hilda's letter had informed her of Mrs. Ross's absence, and she was obliged to drive directly to Cross-lands—perhaps that was better; at all events she must do it, as the whole village would be roused by the news that she was at a hotel.
               As the carriage passed through the gates and rolled up the winding road, there came over her one of those moods of depression which the bravest suffer when tired physically. It was like a terrible presentiment that she had arrived too late—that some horrible event had already occurred—that Margaret was dead. The carriage stopped before the veranda steps, and at the sound Nora came running out of the house. Opening the door while the coachman was getting down from his seat, she peered eagerly in, and seeing Gay, cried in a tone of wild disappointment,
               "Miss Van Kortland! Miss Van Kortland!"
               "Yes, it is I, Nora—you are surprised! All well?"
               "Come in, come in till the house!" said Nora, sinking her voice to a whisper and pulling at Gay's dress; "come in, I say!"
               Without a word Gay stepped out of the carriage, mechanically placed the fare in the hand of the driver, who by this time had descended from his perch, and preceded Nora into the hall.
               "In the name of heaven, Nora," she cried, "what has happened?"
               "Whisht!" said Nora, turning her face towards her with a wan, haggard look that made her seem ten years older. "They're all listhenin', the divils! I know thim. Come in here, acushla, come!"
               She opened the door of the sitting-room, followed Gay, and closed it carefully behind her, then opened it quickly to be certain that no spy was creeping towards it.
               "Is any body ill—dead?" demanded Gay, sick with alarm. "Where is Mrs. Prescott? what has happened?"
               "She's gone," returned Nora in an awful whisper, sitting down on the floor and rocking herself to and fro in a grief which could find no vent in tears. "She's gone!"
               "Where? What do you mean?" cried Gay. "Speak out! Nora, Nora, where is she?"
               "Av I knowed, wudn't I be there?" exclaimed Nora; "if cuttin' me hands off and tearin' out me bowhills could bring her back, wudn't I do it and be thankful? She's gone—she's gone!"
               "Where? With whom? Stand up, Nora; tell me! You drive me out of my senses with this suspense."
               "I'm out of mesilf, and that's the thruth," said Nora rising slowly; "I've beared it all day and have held me own among thim divils; but I'm clane give out now, and me head's going, I think. But they lie—they lie! The little babe that dies afoore it can lisp isn't purer nor she! I can't understhand it; but av I was dyin', I'd say that, and I'd—"
               "Nora," interrupted Gay, sinking into the nearest chair, so sick and faint that she could not stand, "tell me your story collectedly; begin at the beginning."
               The unnatural quiet of her manner had its effect upon Nora, and though she began to shed a few tears, she spoke more coherently.
               "It was yistherday that Mr. Seaton—he's bin here these weeks past"—Gay made a sign that she knew it—"he comed and ast Miss Mag'ret to drive to Barry. They wint. Last night there comed a telegrum fur me to say Miss Mag'ret would not be home, and she's not here yit. O Miss, the folks in the village has been talkin' of her dreadful, and I niver knowed it till the day, whin wan of thim bastes of sarvints ups and tells me. I whips off down to ould Misthress Gallagher and tells her, and she wint down to Barry hersilf, fur she's cunnin' and loikes Miss Mag'ret, but all she could larn—askin' permiscus like—from the Sanderson woman was, that Miss Mag'ret had gone on a sleigh-ride agin her wishes wid a party—"
               "Then there's no harm done!" interrupted Gay.
               "Whisht till I tell ye, alanna! Misthress Gallagher she whips off to Miss Morand, what she knowed, and larns that she's to hum. They did all start fur a sleigh-ride up to the lake, fur there's snow that road; but the party in the sleigh turned back, and Misther Seaton and Miss Mag'ret in the cutter wint on. There's bin diviltry, ould Miss Gallagher thinks, on that Morand girl's side."
               "They may be there; the fearful storm has prevented their coming back."
               "Plaze God, it may be!" said Nora; "but the man at the station says Misther Seaton started in a late train last night wid a vailed lady. It's all over town, and the paple goin' on like mad, and the masther to be back tonight, fur the telegrum-bye bringed a telegrum fur Miss Mag'ret this noon, and telled me the sinse of it—O wirra, wirra! and she's gone—she's gone!"
               There was still a hope. In some mad freak, they might have driven to the lake and been detained by the tempest, for it would have been that among the mountains. Gay was trying to speak some such assurance to Nora, when an engine whistle sounded shrill and sharp.
               "Howly mother! It's the westhern thrain, and the masther's come!" groaned Nora, falling upon her knees; "Jupe's gone wid the carr'age to meet him; he'll tell, though I bid him not."
               Gay was past speech; she could only walk up and down the room in an excitement which forbade an instant's rest, while Nora crouched on the floor and hid her face in her hands, moaning at intervals like a demented creature.
               There was the sound of wheels—because she would gladly have put off the evil moment, it had seemed a brief waiting to Gay. Nora heard the noise, and sprang up, exclaiming,
               "It's the masther! I can't go till him; I'm out of mesilf—Howly mother, have mercy!"
               She fled from the apartment and concealed herself somewhere above stairs, while Gay stood motionless in the centre of the room, waiting to hear Prescott's step. It came—quick—heavy; the door knob turned—he stood before her. At sight of a woman he cried out; then, as Gay turned her face upon him, he exclaimed,
               "Miss Van Kortland! In God's name, where is my wife?"
               "What have you heard?" Gay asked.
               "Jupe told me that she went to Barry, and had gone from there; I could not question him. Is she gone? Where is she?"
               As briefly and clearly as she could, Gay told her story, not giving the reason of her own appearance, however; it was as well he should think she had only chanced to choose this time to surprise them with a visit.
               Prescott did not interrupt her with a single question. When she paused, he said,
               "I must see Aunt Hilda first; then I will start."
               He was very pale, but calm. Gay could not make out the meaning of what she saw in his face, and she cried,
               "You don't believe it—you don't! Where are you going?"
               "To the lake; they are there, of course. The other story is too silly to think about."
               "And you will bring her back—you'll not—"
               Alan Prescott turned his white face towards her with a look that cheeked her very breath.
               "I will never believe evil of my wife until she tells me with her own lips that I must; and then I'll think her mad, and so guard her from harm," he answered.
               Gay had spared him nothing. It was better that he should learn the worst at once; all the horrible reports in circulation—every thing. She had known him good and noble, but she had never fully comprehended his nature till then. For the first time the tears rushed to her eyes; she caught his hand, saying softly,
               "You are a good man! No harm has befallen your darling."
               He asked for Nora—said he wished Miss Van Kortland to be made comfortable during his absence, but Gay stopped him.
               "I am going with you," she said.
               "You can not! I must go on horseback; it still rains; the mountain road must be almost impassable."
               "I am going with you," she said. "I am not afraid; I will go! We can take the carriage to Aunt Hilda's and below the village. Send Jupe there with the saddle-horses. I will be ready in a moment; there's a riding-dress of mine up stairs; I can put it on while you are talking to Aunt Hilda."
               He offered no further opposition; even ate and drank, when at her bidding Nora brought in a tray of eatables, but they wasted no time.
               "Are you ready?" he asked. "It would be better not perhaps, but if Margaret is ill or frightened she will be glad to have you."
               Gay did not answer; she passed out of the house; he followed. They entered the carriage and were driven swiftly away.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               THE MOUNTAIN ROAD.
               THE carriage stopped before Aunt Hilda's house. Neither Gay nor Mr. Prescott had spoken during the rapid drive. The rain beat, the wind tore howling past through the gathering gloom, and masses of clouds, heaped like frowning rocks from the west to the zenith, told of increased storm and fury before the tempest spent itself.
               "Shall I go in and speak to Aunt Hilda?" Gay asked.
               "We will both go in," Prescott replied. He opened the carriage door and stepped out, spreading an umbrella over Gay. They ran up the path to the little porch, and Aunt Hilda opened the house door at Prescott's knock, holding a candle in her hand, which shook feebly when she saw who her visitors were.
               "How do you do, Aunt Hilda?" Prescott said cheerfully.
               "The land's sakes! Is it you?" she exclaimed. "Lady Gay, too! Dear heart, how are you? Come in, come in; there's a good fire."
               She hastened to set chairs for them, attempting exclamations of pleasure at sight of Gay, and questions about her journey, but breaking down with each in turn, and unable to conceal her agitation.
               "Aunt Hilda," Prescott said, standing by the fire so that his face was turned from both his companions, and speaking quietly; "you know my wife has been prevented by this terrible weather from coming home. We wanted to hear who went on that unfortunate pleasure-trip. Nora tells us you were in Barry to-day."
               "I was," Aunt Hilda answered, very busy with the snuffers and the candle, "I was; but I guess you know it was not curiosity nor nothing mean that made me ask questions."
               "Of course I do," Prescott answered. "It was like your friendliness to go, and I thank you exceedingly; your forethought has prevented our losing time. If you will tell us all about it—exactly whom you saw and what was said."
               "My dearest dear, to be sure I will," returned Aunt Hilda, in a voice so full of sympathy and tenderness that it sounded absolutely sweet. She sat down near the table and began to twist her apron-strings to give herself a countenance, while the gray cat mounted the great Bible on the stand back of her chair, and as he watched the scene with eyes that looked as wide awake as if he had not slept for six months, and was not likely to for a longer time to come, he softly purred encouragement to his mistress, with his head stretched over her shoulder. But when Aunt Hilda had repeated, "To be sure I will," she sat silent, evidently at a loss how to proceed, and Gay, catching an impatient movement of Prescott's hand as it rested on the mantel, thought it better to make the old lady understand that she might speak with perfect freedom.
               "Mr. Prescott has heard all the foolish and wicked reports abroad in the village," she said; "tell us every thing, Aunt Hilda."
               "The poor, low-lived, ornary, ignorant creturs; who minds them!" exclaimed Aunt Hilda indignantly, though she looked much relieved at having her task thus simplified. "Yes, they've talked—but law! they talk about each other, brothers and sisters and all—but there, I'm a fool; this is the pint."
               Gay, unseen by Prescott, made her a little sign to tell her story, and Aunt Hilda nodded back intelligence.
               "Mr. Prescott, sir," said she, drawing herself up and stretching out her right hand, apparently with an idea that she was on her oath and must be exact in every word, "this very morning, knowin' that the dear angel had gone for a drive to Barry with Mr. Seaton and had staid, some pisoned idiot said the gentleman and a closely-veiled lady left on the midnight train a-going west. Nora she heerd it and come to me, and she was that troubled that I jist stepped into the way-train and run down, and nobody the wiser—I of'en go on a bit of business, about yarn or socks or sich comestibles—(taint the right word, but no matter)," whispered Aunt Hilda in a parenthesis.
               "And you saw Miss Morand," Gay suggested, perceiving that the old lady was brought to a confused stand-still by her blunder.
               "Oh," said Aunt Hilda, "yes, my picturful dear; you're as helpful as the glossary to Lord Byron! But first I dropped in to see Miss Sanderson—jist promiscuous—I of'en do—and she was as stiff and vinegary as ever! 'I needn't say how all friends is,' says I, 'for I expect you see Miss Prescott, dear creatur, yesterday.' 'She jist stopped a minit,' says she, short as pie-crust. 'She was goin' on a crazy sleigh-ride with that Morand gal and a lot of fast ones—a pooty time they'll have a gettin' back in this rain; the mounting road'll be a ratacact'—I mean a cataract," added Aunt Hilda in self-correction.
               "Well—well?" from Prescott.
               "Off I goes and whips over to Sallie Morand's—I know her and her grandma—a flighty thing I never liked! The lot she come from, for all their money, wasn't none of the most virtuousest, if all old stories is true."
               "Was she at home?" inquired Gay.
               "Ah, there's the rub, she were!" answered Aunt Hilda, in a low voice, beginning to rub her nose.
               "But about the sleigh-ride," said Gay; "they started?"
               "Wait—I didn't make a fool of myself," returned Aunt Hilda! "'How are you, arter your craziness?' says I, and she began to laugh, and, without askin' if Miss Prescott had come hum, she went on—how they started, Seaton and Margaret in a cutter, she and her cousin and two gentlemen and that old cat Miss Prime in a sleigh—and when they got part way, the cutter was out o' sight and the storm threatened, and she was sick and jist made 'em go back. 'I knowed,' says she, 'that Seaton and Margaret would disciver we'd turned back, and turn off on to the Upsden road.'"
               "That was all?" asked Gay.
               "I never let on a word myself, deary! It was plain to me that she had wanted Seaton with her, an' was mad an' meant to play Marg'ret a trick. I know her—she's a nasty, spiteful thing, and thinks it fine to be fast—she's clean cracked arter Mr. Seaton. There, that's all! I come hum and told Nora to hold on. If you hadn't come back to-night, Mr. Prescott, I'd have tried to git word up to the lake; for there they be, an' hain't ben able to get away—don't you see?"
               "Of course," he answered. "I am much obliged to you, Aunt Hilda; you have done me a great service."
               Aunt Hilda rose and grasped his hand, while two great tears rolled down her nose, and mingled on the pet wart, causing it to look as if it had been crystallized. "If I have, I'm thankful! You and yours are dear to me, and you wouldn't be mad with a young thing for a girlish frolic."
               "There's nothing to be angry about," he replied impatiently. "Come, Miss Van Kortland, if you are ready; I do advise you to return in the carriage; it will be a fearful ride."
               "She ain't a goin' over the mounting road tonight?" cried Aunt Hilda; but the pressure of Gay's hand on her arm made her pause.
               "For Margaret!" Gay whispered, and Aunt Hilda shut her mouth as firmly as if she never expected to open it again.
               Gay put on the riding-skirt she brought; she had a thick winter jacket over her dress, so that there was little fear of her suffering from the cold. Aunt Hilda lighted them out on the porch, something gurgling and rattling in her throat as if she had a coffee-mill somewhere inside that was vigorously turning.
               "The Lord be with you!" was all she said, and shut the door hastily before they had reached the gate, returned to her easy-chair in the corner and fell to sobbing bitterly, while the gray eat mewed in sympathy with her distress.
               The gray cat was an animal of rather abandoned character in the ordinary walks of his life; given to night-wanderings, and coming home in broad day with his face bloody and his eyes in a dreadful condition. His cars were scarred and slit with the memorials of many a battle, and there were more gray kittens at all times in the neighborhood than looked well, as he was a bachelor and had been the only male of that color anywhere near until the improper increase of youthful grimalkins I am obliged to mention. But to-night he kept at home. It may have been the inclement weather which detained him, but Aunt Hilda preferred to think it was because he shared her trouble, and gave him delicate chicken-bones for his supper as a reward, which he nibbled with a thoughtful air, as though to say that he had no appetite and only ate as a duty to keep up his spirits, in order to be a cheerful support to his mistress and a courageous guardian of the house.
               The carriage drove down the road—across the bridge, was soon past the town, and reached the point where the first mountain road turned off. There was a shed here under which were the saddle-horses and Jupe. The coachman halted beneath that place of shelter to permit them to alight.
               "Now, Miss Van Kortland," Prescott said, "you really must go back. I appreciate your kindness; but it is not safe for you to go on. It rains heavily still—"
               "I am not afraid of the rain," interrupted Gay.
               "The road is unsafe; may be impassable when I get to old Besecker's tavern, and I shall have to stay there."
               "They will give me a bed," said Gay.
               "You must go back," persisted Prescott; "I can not take the responsibility upon myself. I tell you there may be great danger."
               "Mr. Prescott," returned she quietly, "I shall go to Tamarack Lake to-night, if I walk every step of the way and go alone."
               He did not offer any further remonstrance. He remembered that voice; he had heard it once speak in the same tone away off in the land washed by the Southern Sea; he knew, as he had done then, that nothing short of death could shake her purpose.
               He helped her from the carriage, produced a couple of oilskin coats from under the cushions, helped her on with one, and drew the cape over her head for a hood.
               "You will need this," Gay said.
               He held up the other in the light of the carriage-lamps. She stood silent while he made his arrangements, and gave his orders to Jupe to return with the driver and to go straight home. He lighted a couple of small lanterns that he had brought and fastened one to each saddle, and as both Sir Rohan and Prairie Bird had been often ridden down the gorge road on dark nights with these decorations, neither of the intelligent creatures offered the least opposition. He lifted Gay into her seat, mounted himself, and they rode away.
               The wind and rain had slackened in their violence and the sky had cleared somewhat, though it was still burdened with heavy masses of clouds which drifted about like ships that had lost their anchors. The spent blasts blew cold and chill down the mountain-pass which they were entering, but Gay was thoroughly protected, and her wandering life had taught her to disregard ills that would have intimidated many women.
               In the summer season, when the road was best, the fifteen miles' journey to Tamarack Lake was equivalent to double the distance on a respectable highway. It was an almost continual ascent; at times in the midst of dense woods, at others along the side of torrents and steep cliffs, that left barely room for a carriage to pass.
               Twice within the first eight miles there were little groups of miserable houses, calling themselves villages; two miles farther, the tavern; beyond this, nothing but an occasional tumble-down farm-house perched among the rocks, like an insane hen that mistakes stones for eggs of her own laying. Here dwelt some indigent family, who raised enough buckwheat on the sterile soil to keep from starvation, and, ignorant of their own poverty, lived in their unfinished dwelling—unfinished still, though perhaps thirty years had passed since the foundations were laid—in a state of indolent peace that would have driven a New Englander frantic, merely to witness.
               Prescott and his companion rode forward, taking advantage of every bit of decent track to make up for the time lost in fording swollen brooks, and moving cautiously over places in the woods where the snow and ice still lay, white and treacherous. They talked, but not of the object of their journey. Every thing which need be said concerning that had been spoken. If they should not be there! was the thought in Gay's mind, and though she hated herself for the idea, it would recur again and again. But Prescott was not thinking that; he had never been able to forgive himself for his suspicions of Margaret when he first knew her, and now there was nothing in his heart but mad eagerness to find her—to hold her in his arms—to pity and be good to her. If it had been possible for him to think of the blackest chance, of reaching his journey's end and finding her gone, of forcing himself to believe the village scandal true, there would have been only one determination strong in his soul—to follow—to find—to save her.
               There are men who may deem this weakness, but he would have done it. If it were necessary to spend years in the search, to wander over the whole habitable globe, he would not hesitate. If he found her sunk in the lowest depths of misery and shame he would rescue her, tenderly as if she were his sister, caring for her always, loving and protecting her always, even if she had rendered it impossible that his love should be shown otherwise than in a brotherly support and protection. He would have done it; and I say, thank God for the truth and the perception of right which grows clearer with each successive age, in spite of error and the effect of miserable murderous ancient codes of manly honor; in spite of the lack of faith in humanity, shown by misanthropes and modern skeptics, proving only their own narrow-mindedness and falsehood by their doubts.
               They rode on—past the groups of wretched houses, through the woods beyond, over the sterile bit of plain, drenched with water till it was like a half-frozen morass—on till old Besecker's tavern loomed up, dismal and deserted-looking as a rude pestilence-hospital, from which the guardians had run away and left the dead to bury each other.
               "We can stop here, and warm," Prescott said. "We shall find a great stove in the bar-room and nobody there but a Dutch boy who wouldn't wake unless you set him on fire."
               "I don't think I am cold," Gay answered, but as he helped her off her horse she found herself so stiff, and her feet so chilled, in spite of-her fur-lined shoes, that she felt as if she were half marble, like the unfortunate in the Eastern tale.
               "Go in at once," Prescott said, "I must fasten the horses."
               Gay went up the steps of the ruinous porch, avoided the broken board, that had been broken good five years before, and opened the door of the bar-room, where a great anthracite coal-stove, with its cylinder red-hot, made a stifling warmth, diffusing light enough about to show the bunk in the corner covered with buffalo skins; and the Dutch boy gave token of his comfort therein by notes from his proboscis that sounded like vigorous blasts of a hunting-bugle.
               Prescott soon followed, made her take off her outer jacket and remove her furred shoes, found a candle, and by the light of it hunted up a tumbler, spoon, and sugar in the bar. He took a flask out of his pocket, and with the aid of hot water from a kettle on the stove, and a little nutmeg from the drawer of multifarious contents, mixed her a palatable draught which helped to restore warmth and strength to her frame. He indulged himself in the same way, and they sat there until he was certain that Gay was rested; then they went out of the house pursued by a parting toot from the Dutch boy's horn, who from first to last was in blissful unconsciousness of their visit.
               "It is of no use to wake him," Prescott had said; "if I succeeded he wouldn't answer a question rationally. If the road is impassable we must come back, that's all."
               "We shall get there," Gay answered, and she was confident of the truth of her assertion, but should they find those they sought? Something colder than the wind she had breasted so bravely shivered down to her very heart, but she said no more.
               They mounted and rode on; six or seven miles farther to go, and the next three or four the most arduous and full of danger. Up the rocky ascent, among the pines that talked ominously of the perils beyond, among the masses of snow and ice and stones, which had rolled down from the frowning hills, but the sure-footed horses picked their way daintily and well, never troubling their riders with the least show of impatience or fear. Up—up—steeper—more rocky—glassy with ice—dangerous with deep gullies—but they went on. Now the rush of a fierce torrent made itself audible, tearing along the rocks and sweeping across the road before them, dammed up by the great heaps of stones, swollen and turbid in the light of their lanterns.
               "You must wait," Prescott said; "I will try it and come back for you."
               "Go on," returned Gay; "I will follow at a safe distance; you shall not dare it twice."
               Her voice rang out free and true; the real metal of her nature was roused. Pausing only to utter a word of caution, Prescott rode forward into the water, and Sir Rohan sank to his knees in a hidden hole, recovered himself, and paced on. Gay watched for an instant, then followed, gathering her feet and dress up on the saddle to keep them from getting drenched. The stream was wide and deep; as they were half way across, a fierce blast of wind swept down the gorge, fairly making the horses totter, but they bore on; the dry rocks beyond were reached.
               "Thank God!" said Prescott. "The worst is over."
               "Thank God!" repeated Gay, and again the shiver smote her heart. Was the worst over? What was to meet them at their journey's end? Life had held crises too full of pain for. Gay to be hopeful, though she loathed herself more and more for her nameless fear.
               "We shall soon be there now," Prescott said as they gained the summit of a still steeper hill and found a plain of hard frozen ground. "We may get on a little faster."
               There was no word spoken after that. On they rode; another hill, a dense wood, a short turn, and there below them in the troubled night lay the white frozen surface of the lake, surrounded by its coronal of primeval forest-trees, and in the sole perceptible break upon the margin the long, ill-constructed hotel thrust its peaked chimneys into the air.
            
            
               CHAPTER XL.
               THE SLEDGING-PARTY.
               THE two or three days which followed Aunt Hilda's warning only made Seaton more obstinately determined to pursue his reckless fancies, and enjoy to the full the pleasure of the time that remained during which he could have Margaret's undivided society. On the third morning he proposed to her that they should drive down to Barry and procure a book which he wanted to read to her, the warm weather of the past weeks having left the sandy valley roads in very fair condition. Miss Morand met them at the bookseller's. She had a great weakness for Seaton, and was determined to invent some plan by which she might give herself the pleasure of his company for a while. She proposed the sleigh-ride, and succeeded in carrying out her design. Old Miss Prime would matronize the party; they would have supper and a dance at the hotel and come back the next morning. The sleighing on that road was still excellent and Margaret must consent. Seaton, always eager for excitement, urged the matter, and Margaret could not hold out against them both, nor was there any reason for so doing, as such parties were of almost weekly occurrence during the winter.
               She went to call for a moment on Mrs. Sanderson, and that lady opposed the idea, as she did any thing for the amusement of young people, but Margaret paid no attention. When they were ready to start, a bitter disappointment overtook pretty Miss Sallie. Instead of going with the rest of the party, Seaton had hired a small sledge in which he proposed to drive Margaret, and held fast to his resolution, in spite of all Miss Sallie's arguments and ill-concealed chagrin.
               
               They set off, crossing the river to gain the mountain road, careless of the warnings from hostlers and the toll-keeper that a storm was coming up before night. Seaton's fleet mare kept so far in advance of the large sledge, that Miss Sallie had not even the tantalizing pleasure of watching him from a distance, and an aggrieved and shamefully treated Miss Sallie she felt. She grew ill-tempered and tormented her companions inexpressibly; she turned acid as a bottle of soured small beer. She was cold—she was sick—she was threatened with bronchitis—she was dying—and one of the young men, her most ardent admirer, was full of sympathy. At last, back she would go; back they must go, said her lover. But Seaton and Mrs. Prescott, urged the others. Miss Sallie did not care what became of them; she was disgusted, any way, with Margaret's goings on; grandma did not approve of them. The storm was coming; she was freezing, perishing. If they did not obey her she should jump out and walk home. Seaton would stop at Long's tavern; would find they were not coming, and so turn into the Upsden road. Then it was proposed that they should go on as far as Long's and acquaint the pair with this change of plan; but Miss Sallie began to sob that she was dying, and to make preparations for springing headforemost out of the sledge, and so alarmed her lover that he peremptorily ordered the driver to turn his horses' heads. The rest of the party gave in, as people usually do to a pretty girl's obstinacy, and home they went. Miss Sallie snubbed her admirer heartlessly, nagged her grandmother when she reached the house, got up a cough to terrify the old lady, and having made every body near as uncomfortable as she could, went to bed in a fit of sulks. She consoled herself by dreaming that Seaton had proposed to her, while Margaret stood by and cried till her tears washed off her beautiful complexion and showed that she had tanned leather under for skin; whereat Miss Sallie was so delighted that she laughed till she woke herself up and lost the close of her charming vision.
               Seaton, as it fell out, made no halt at Long's, not having understood there was any such arrangement, nor did he slacken speed till he reached old Besecker's tavern. They waited there for a time, but the storm even to their careless eyes appeared imminent, though old Besecker assured them it would only be snow. The rheumatics had settled securely in his shoulder—threatening rain would have lodged the malady in his foot, he informed them; so Seaton decided to drive on as rapidly as possible to the lake, never supposing that their friends had turned back.
               The storm overtook them; up where they were it was at first hail and sleet, but before they reached the last hill it had changed to a beating, driving rain. At the turn down towards the hotel the sledge struck against a rock hidden in the snow; the frail vehicle upset and they were both thrown out. Margaret was not in the least hurt, but Seaton was flung against the stone with such violence that it stunned him, while the skittish mare dashed off as if the devil were after her, and never halted till she had lamed her leg in a hopeless manner, as far as present use was concerned.
               Fortunately Turner and his man saw the accident, came to the rescue, and got Seaton and Margaret down to the house; Seaton insisting upon it that he was not hurt, though his deadly pallor and the way his right arm hung powerless at his side belied his words.
               They thought at first the limb was broken, but it proved to be a sprain of the wrist. A sharp point of rock had also cut an ugly gash above the elbow, which bled profusely and was with difficulty stanched, though he did not allow Margaret to know that. Old Turner bustled about and made them both as comfortable as they could be, in no time. Seaton told him of the party that were coming; but when he wondered at their delay, and said how long they had themselves waited at Besecker's, shrewd Turner decided that they had seen the storm and wisely turned back. He said so, as he was binding up Seaton's arm and rubbing the wrist with some wonderful liniment of his own concoction, and his remark made Seaton wince as the pain had not been able to do. In an instant he thought how wretched Margaret would be; his thoughts went beyond that—he knew what a frightful source of evidence it would be against her. He understood to the full what trouble he had brought upon her and was stricken with penitence and remorse.
               His arm was so painful that he could not wear his coat, but Turner provided him an old-fashioned dressing-gown with immense sleeves, saying in a tearful voice,
               "It was my father's; a harder and more onnat'ral old skeezies never lived. Mrs. Prescott has come down into the middle parlor, sir. if you'd like to go in. I don't think you'll see the rest of the party to-night; there would be no such luck for me as having good, generous folks storm-stayed; O no, I don't expect it. I'm like old Billy Grimes of these parts, that never could get the fish to come to his net," and he proceeded with a ludicrous story, which made Seaton laugh in spite of his pain and uneasiness, told in the same repressed and doleful tone.
               It seemed to Seaton that he had grown fatter and rounder than ever, and his nankeen waistcoat looked still more like the crust to a dumpling, made so tight there was not room enough for the stuffing.
               "We must get away from here in the morning," Seaton said.
               "Not to-morrow," replied Turner; "this is only the beginning of the storm. If you are off in three days you'll be lucky; but we'll do our little do, and treat you to our best, Mr. Seaton. You saw what that was last summer, and didn't murmur."
               Seaton went into the parlor where Margaret stood by the window looking out into the gathering ering twilight. She was anxious about Seaton's injury, but he treated it lightly, and laughed at the appearance he made in the old chintz robe.
               "Isn't it odd they do not come?" Margaret asked. "Can any thing have happened?"
               "Either they turned back or could get no farther than Besecker's," Seaton said carelessly; "they'll not be here now."
               He saw that she looked annoyed, but at this moment Turner came in, to be certain that the fire was burning, and said to Margaret,
               "I hope you're not uncomfortable, Mrs. Prescott. I've not seen you since that change. Wal, wal, it comes to all or most. You remember our little Davy—poor little sufferer with a hip complaint? He'll never walk—O no, he'll never walk! I'll bring him in after supper," continued he, as if the sight of a sick child must necessarily be cheering. "Poor little Davy; they throwed him off the table and broke his hip when he was a smiling babe, and he'll never walk—O no! Supper will soon be ready—chickens briled, and the like, for we mean to do our little do. Mr. Seaton, sir, don't forget the embrocation at inter-vals—at intervals! Supper almost at onct—briled chickens—venison steak! I'll go and see my little offspring—it's a heart-breaking pleasure to watch him smile—throwed off a kitching-table—never'll walk a step—O no!"
               He waddled away quite cheerful over his misery, and presently could be heard in the hall, swearing at a servant with the most dreadful oaths; but the same quaver was in his voice, and did not change in the least when he paused in his vituperations to ask somebody else if supper was nearly ready. If he had been questioning his guardian angel in regard to the probable safety of his soul, he could not have spoken with more anxious pathos.
               The supper was excellent. Seaton talked and made himself agreeable, though he was suffering severe pain, and soon after the meal Margaret was glad to go to rest, as she was thoroughly tired out. She had been too much absorbed in her annoyance at the non-arrival of her friends and her fears for Seaton, to think of the probabilities of not being able to return an the morning; and as she was leaving the room she said.
               "You will have to let me be charioteer, I think. Shall we start very early?"
               "I see no good of it," he replied, feeling rather cross with her because she appeared so unconscious of her difficulty.
               When she had gone he called. Turner, and asked him if his wife could not sleep in an adjoining room to Mrs. Prescott's, as he feared she might be timid in that great empty house.
               "She can and will; always glad to obleege," said Turner. "Mrs. Prescott has the front chamber over the reading-room, my wife will take the back and put her door ajar; I'll speak to her. Sleep there, of course—O yes, for I don't care where I sleep! Why should I want a connubial chamber, when the infant we have brought into the world has been throwed off a kitching-table? I don't want to see little brothers and sisters sharing his hip complaint! Remember the embrocation at inter-vals, Mr. Seaton—at inter-vals. Breakfast when you like—pickered and birds. We do our little do, though human nature is a poor thing, and the most of it I'd hang like onions, twenty in a bunch. There's fire in your room, sir. You, Tim, out there, 'tend to Mr. Seatons's boots, or I'll skin you alive, I will, by the Lord! Poor little Davy—I hear him cry!" and so he whined himself out of hearing, having been somewhat more pathetic when threatening Tim than at any other point of his discourse.
               Between pain and mental distress, there was very little sleep for Seaton that night. Twice Turner waddled into the room in his nightshirt and a red silk handkerchief for a cap, to rub his shoulder and weep out a funny story; the rest of the time Seaton lay staring at the fire, smoking his meerschaum or cursing the ill-luck that had overtaken them. The rain beat in great sheets against the windows, the wind howled and shrieked; every now and then the creak and rush of some old tree could be heard as it fell with a thundering sound under the fury of the blast, and Seaton wished that before morning the house might topple over, and, by burying them in its ruins, end their troubles at once.
               He cared nothing for himself—the whole world raving would not have disturbed him; but he was very sorry for Margaret, and he knew that all the precautions he could take would not prevent scandal. If Prescott should return before they got back—should believe the stories, and come to him for satisfaction! There was a gleam of comfort in that; Seaton hoped savagely that he might—but afterwards? A pretty situation, for him to be left with a woman on his hands whom he could not desert unless he were an utter brute—pretty, indeed! Seaton sprang out of bed, wrapped the dressing-gown about him and sat over the fire, contemplating this new possible phase of annoyance.
               What a blatant ass he had been! His wayward fancy for Margaret died out very rapidly before the probability of this future annoyance, and Hecate herself could not have looked less charming to his fancy than his irritated selfishness made her. Then he remembered Gay—it would wring her heart; there was more comfort in that, even, than in the idea of standing face to face with Prescott at correct pistol-shot distance. He wished heartily that she were in Upsden to hear the scandal; it was all her fault—false, perjured woman! He thought he was hating her deeply, but it was only the smart of his wounded love; and, in spite of his efforts to think wickedly on the blackest side of the affair, her memory softened him, till be crept back to bed, sullen and ashamed, and said bad words to his aching arm, as if the unfortunate member belonged to somebody else and had thrust itself and its suffering upon him.
               After daylight he fell asleep, and did not wake till Turner came in to inquire concerning his sprain, and say that Mrs. Prescott was down stairs and breakfast ready.
               "She speaks of going," said Turner with compassion. "Hear the rain! a flood—a second flood! The others ought to be here—but that's my luck; no doubt that old Dutchman has 'em fast, the shark! Little Davy's very chirpy this morning—poor hip-complainted boy."
               Seaton would gladly have cursed him and Davy too, but his arm was so stiff and lame that he could not dress without assistance; therefore was forced to endure Turner's loquacity and his doleful whispers, as if he were a tender-hearted undertaker measuring a corpse, and afraid of disturbing the sleep of death and missing his emoluments.
               Turner had sensibly ordered the breakfast-table spread in one of the parlors instead of condemning them to the dreary immensity of the dining-room, and there Seaton found Margaret when he went down stairs. She was watching the storm from the window, as he had seen her on the previous night. It was a grand spectacle looking out across the lake to the great forest, where the trees nodded and bent in the blast, as if trying to escape the fury of the drifting rain and mist that swept in heavy clouds from the mountains beyond.
               She moved from the window as Seaton entered, and inquired anxiously about his arm.
               "Less painful," he replied, "but very useless indeed. Never mind; it doesn't make me think about it all the time now."
               "Can we start this morning?" she asked.
               "It is utterly out of the question," he said. "We should be swept away over the mountain if we tried."
               "I feared so," she returned thoughtfully. "At least can we send some message to Nora?"
               "As soon as the storm lulls a little."
               "Then we can go ourselves," she interrupted.
               "By to-morrow, certainly. Luckily there is no one to be alarmed; your housekeeper will think us safe in Barry."
               Margaret made no answer. At that moment Turner and a maid appeared with the breakfast trays, and they sat down to their meal. Turner waited on them himself, and felt it his duty to press them to eat, and sympathized with Margaret because his wife had told him that she feared Mrs. Prescott did not sleep much.
               "I hope it wasn't lack of blankets," said Turner; "if it was, say the word, and I'll cut a hole in the ice and drowned myself at onct. I told my wife I shouldn't wonder; nothing goes as it ought to here. They broke little Davy's hip for him, and I can't have two heads, O no."
               "I was very comfortable," Margaret replied; and Turner with a groan shuffled off in search of hot cakes, and could be heard informing the handmaiden who met him in the hall with a plate, that if they weren't nicely browned he'd come out and bake her immortal soul on the griddle, he would, by the Lord Harry! in a wail which would have befitted the chief exhorter at a prayer-meeting.
               Seaton watched Margaret furtively and saw that she looked pale and harassed, but she talked cheerfully and did her best to make him forget any physical pain he might be suffering. She had indeed passed a sleepless night; a remark of good-natured Mrs. Turner when she took possession of the room next hers, had deprived Margaret of all inclination to slumber.
               "Don't you be worried, Mrs. Prescott," she said; "those young folks played you a shabby trick in not coming, but nobody shall be able to say a hateful word about your being here! Turner and I have characters, I hope, and I'd sleep on my head before your door, ruther than you should'nt be able to tell just how it was."
               Margaret thanked her and went to bed, leaving the door ajar, for the woman in her effort at consolation had roused fears and ideas in her mind which had not before intruded. She saw how imprudent the matter might look; she did not, unaccustomed to scandal, dream of a tithe that could be said, but enough to make her wakeful and uneasy all the night through.
               The morning passed—the afternoon. If it had not been for the uneasiness she felt, Margaret would have enjoyed the day, for Seaton read the new book aloud and talked in his must charming manner. The tempest did not slacken until it was too late to return that evening; but when Margaret had to relinquish the hope her composure gave way, and she was so shaken and disturbed that Seaton found it impossible to quiet her.
               "It makes no difference," he said, "to-day or to-morrow, there is no one to be troubled by our absence."
               "I did very wrong in coming," she exclaimed, rising from her chair, then forcing herself to sit down again; "very wrong. I deserve the things that will be said."
               "I'll shoot the first brute who gives tongue," exclaimed Seaton.
               "Then you do know there will be gossip? Heaven help me! there may have been already!"
               "As if you need care for the comments of a pack of ignorant villagers!"
               "I do care," she replied; "I am a woman! For mercy's sake, tell me the truth! Do you mean that there has already been gossip?"
               He tried to evade the question, but she would be answered.
               "Nobody would believe that I could have been so blind," she said quietly, though pale as death; "but God is my witness, I never dreamed of the possibility until now."
               He could not comfort her; his arguments and sophistries were without power in her new clear-sightedness.
               "There has been more than you tell me. Oh, why were you silent? I beg your pardon; you meant it for the best. Who knows what will be said now? My husband may return— may be there—what story may have met him! I must go back; if I walk, I must go!"
               "If he has heard stories and can believe them, you are better off here," Seaton answered recklessly. "If I have brought trouble upon you, Margaret, I shall not leave you to bear it alone."
               He grasped her hands; mad words were on his lips; not because there was passion in his heart, only that he could see no other way out of the dilemma; but one look into her innocent face, which was raised gratefully to his with such utter lack of comprehension, cheeked their utterance.
               "You are good and kind," she said; "I thank you! O, if I could only get home! My husband will have a right to be angry. I was wicked, horribly wicked to bring the least shadow of reproach near his name."
               "Then you must not see him," exclaimed Seaton, not urged to speak by her beauty, though he had never seen her so lovely as in her distress, but because, in his miserable creed as a man of the world, there seemed only the one means of helping her; it would bring ruin and misery to both—he saw it clearly now; but there was no other. "You must not see him, Margaret! If my life can protect you from trouble, none shall come near you—if—"
               "Hush," she interrupted, not taking in the signification of his words even then, though she was startled by them. "I will go back to my husband; if he is angry, I will plead for his pardon! He has been so good to me, so kind! He will think me headstrong and ungrateful, but he will not reproach me. Tell me every thing, Mr. Seaton; I must know exactly why people have talked about me, and what they have said."
               "Why should you care? what does it matter? Ignorant, stupid animals, whom, at the farthest, you would have left in the spring."
               "Because I must be able to tell my husband; if I have ignorantly done any thing to cause censure, I have been to blame, and must tell him."
               What was he to say? He knew in his heart that, after all which had passed, the story which would greet Prescott if he returned must be that his wife had eloped. Ten to one, in seeking her his only thought would be of revenge. He tried to tell her, but his words were lame and poor; the old eloquence which had dazzled so many women was all lost, and when he would have gone on to assure her of his entire devotion, his willingness to take her so far away that no echo from the past could disturb her, his voice failed, his heart sank like a lump of lead in his breast, and his whole soul revolted against the sin which his worldly teachings would have induced him to propose.
               To that which he did say she listened with a desolate quiet more harrowing than the most tumultuous grief. It was growing twilight now; he could see her twisting her white hands together, and trying to speak calmly, and he cursed himself and his wicked folly for the misery he had brought upon her, and could not utter the words that would have completed her self-abasement.
               "I will go up stairs," she said faintly, rising from her scat; "I—I don't feel well; I shall lie down awhile."
               He did not attempt to detain her; only made some commonplace remark, as he might have done to Mrs. Turner herself if that female had complained in his presence of indisposition, and Margaret went away. Alone in her room, down on her knees in her misery and shame, she looked back over the past and saw her insane weakness in dwelling upon her summer dream, and saw, as she had never before done, how unreal and girlish it was—how unworthy she had proved of her husband's love—how incapable, in spite of her imagination and her poetry, of appreciating its breadth and grandeur. And now it might be that she had forfeited it forever. Never had it looked so precious and beautiful to her, though even yet it was more the sense of her ingratitude than the feeling of personal loss which oppressed her.
               She wore the hours out as best she could; when Mrs. Turner came up stairs she peeped into her room, but Margaret was in bed and did not move or speak. It was a longer evening still to Seaton; he sat by the parlor fire deep into the night, and never in all his wayward life had he held so wretched a vigil as that.
               It was hours after midnight when, through a brief silence of the wind, he heard the tread of horses' hoofs and started up. He knew that Alan Prescott had come, and without an instant's hesitation he hurried through the hall, unfastened the great doors, and stepped out upon the veranda.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLI.
               MEETING AGAIN.
               GAY and Prescott cheeked their horses before the steps as Seaton opened the door. In the uncertain light he could distinguish two figures, but some undefined desire to be the first to speak made him call aloud, without waiting to accustom his eyes to the gloom,
               "That's you, Prescott, isn't it?"
               "Yes; is all well?" Prescott asked hurriedly in return.
               "All well," Seaton answered, but spoke no other word, for the gleam of the lanterns fell upon the other figure and he saw that it was a woman.
               Gay sat still while Prescott dismounted; the sight of Seaton, the sound of his voice, had stricken her dumb and motionless. She was able to think now of his anger, his scorn—not that it mattered; though the whole world were to know and put the most unwomanly construction upon her act, she would have done it again.
               "Just help Miss Van Kortland off her horse, will you?" said Prescott; "she must be chilled through."
               "Miss Van Kortland!" repeated Seaton, but never stirred.
               "Only a pile of blankets, I believe," Gay heard herself saying in her ordinary voice; "Mr. Seaton has no faith in there being a woman under."
               "Do give her a little assistance," said Prescott.
               "I will hold your horse while you do it," Seaton replied; "I can only use one arm."
               "What is the matter?" inquired Prescott, as Seaton took Sir Rohan's bridle from his hand.
               "Nothing; I sprained it. We were upset in the snow."
               "Is my wife hurt?"
               "No, no, she is well."
               By this time Prescott had lifted Gay from the saddle, and the man who slept in the barroom, roused by their voices, came out and took the horses.
               "Bring Miss Van Kortland into the house," Seaton said, leading the way; "there is a fire in the parlor."
               They reached the room and the three confronted each other in the cheerful light. What would come next Seaton had no idea, and was too reckless to care; peace or an instant duel, like two fierce, Bordermen, in Gay's presence—it was all the same to him.
               "Throw off your cloaks and riding-skirt at once," Prescott said to Gay. "Are you wet?"
               "Not in the least," she answered, divesting herself of her wraps, and laying aside her hat so that Seaton could see her face distinctly. She sat quietly down by the fire and warmed herself; too weak with gratitude at this unhoped-for prosaic conclusion to their journey to have any words.
               "I suppose my wife is in her room," Prescott said. "What an unlucky expedition!"
               His tone was perfectly friendly; there was to be no scene. For his life Seaton would not have made the first advance, but he was willing enough to meet him in the same spirit.
               "Very," he said; "it was impossible even to get word back. Your wife has been much distressed."
               "I suppose so; your accident must have alarmed her greatly. Are you in much pain?"
               "Not now; it doesn't signify! I suppose the village had us murdered, at least, that you came off in such hot haste."
               "Really I did not concern myself about the village," replied Prescott; "I could not rest till I knew that no accident had happened. It was a rather crazy ride for all of you. The others may thank Miss Morand for fancying herself ill, and making them turn back."
               "Only it was somewhat inconsiderate," said Seaton dryly; "as we could not possibly imagine they would indulge in such a freak, after persuading us to join their party."
               "I suppose my wife is asleep," Prescott said; "perhaps I had better not disturb her."
               "She went to her room soon after dusk. She was greatly annoyed at our not being able to get back this afternoon, and troubled, I believe, by the possibility of your thinking she might have been wrong to start on the trip."
               "My wife is never in the wrong," Prescott answered pleasantly, but in a tone which left nothing more to be said. "We must rouse old Turner; Miss Van Kortland will want a bed and something to eat."
               "I am not hungry," Gay replied.
               At that moment Turner himself appeared, having been wakened by his man. He had dressed himself so hurriedly that he still wore the red silk turban unconsciously, and was beaming with satisfaction at the arrival of new guests.
               "Welcome, Mr. Prescott, sir, and the lady too. I hope you're in your usual health, and even better, Miss. You've had a bad ride; didn't think the road passable."
               "It would not have been except on horseback," returned Prescott; "but we were both too anxious to wait, not being able to get any news. We shall want some supper, and Miss Van Kortland must have a room."
               "At onct; venison steak—a pickerel—good fire in her room—next to your lady's—Mrs. Turner will make the bed over," wheezed Turner, bustling off.
               Prescott followed him, and meeting Mrs. Turner in the hall, was informed that she thought his wife had wakened and was getting up.
               Margaret had been roused by the sound of her husband's voice, roused from some indistinct, dreadful dream which turned her cold to the heart, and at those familiar tones she cowered down among the pillows, so overcome by the thought of his anger that she could not rise. She must get up and meet him; if he were enraged with her, she would plead with him, humiliate herself in any way, do any thing to prove that she had not been ungrateful for his love and kindness. She got out of bed at last and dressed herself by the firelight, shivering dismally, though the room was well warmed. She was hunting about for a shawl, instinctively delaying that first interview, when she heard Prescott's step on the stairs. The door opened; she was clasped in his arms, and such tender words and caresses lavished upon her that she could only weep and cling to him convulsively.
               "My poor darling!" he said; "you are quire upset by all this worry; but you must not mind now."
               "You are not angry?" she asked.
               "Angry? you silly little thing—I don't know that you have done any thing to make me so. It wouldn't be worth while to be vexed with you because this horrible storm came on or poor Seaton hurt his arm."
               "You are so good to me—so good!" she murmured penitently.
               "I hope so; you deserve that I should he."
               "I will—indeed I will! But, Alan, I never thought—until something Mrs. Turner said made me—people may say wicked things of me—"
               "We will not think of the possibility of any body being so insolent or so vile," he interrupted. "There, there, dear; I am back now; you are not to be troubled."
               "Never, with you near me; there can be no trouble for me now," she answered, with a gratitude too deep for tears.
               "It is very sweet to hear you say that, Pearl."
               "Unless you were angry with me, you know."
               "Am I likely to be that? Does my face look as if I were?" He lifted her head and made her look into his eyes, beautiful with such confidence and devotion.
               "You are the best man that ever lived!" she exclaimed.
               "I ought to be; I know that no man ever had a truer or more womanly heart confided to his keeping."
               She could only cling fast to him, uttering broken thanks. For the first time, she would have given much to be able to tell him of a love deep and fervent as his own, but she could not; though she was grateful and full of tenderness and respect; appreciating him as she had never before done.
               "What a terrible ride you must have had!" she said, after a little.
               "Rather dark and stormy, my precious; but I knew that I should find you at the end it, so I did not mind."
               "Alan, Alan, you are too good to me—too good!"
               He silenced her with fond words that had a new meaning to Margaret's heart.
               "And I was fast asleep," she said in self-reproach, "while you were out alone in all the tempest, just for me!"
               "But I was not alone," explained Prescott, for the first time recollecting his companion. "Who do you suppose came with me?"
               "I can not imagine; tell me."
               "Think of the person who would be most likely to take trouble for a friend."
               "It was not Mrs. Ross; she is away from home."
               "No; it was not Mrs. Ross, nor Aunt Hilda, though, upon my word, the old lady is gallant enough to have done it."
               "It was not either of them? Then I have no idea; do tell me, please."
               But he enjoyed trifling a little, after the anxiety of the past hours, and would not answer at once, putting her off with nonsensical speeches till her interest was fully aroused.
               "Think of the best and truest friend you have," he said at length.
               "That's you, Alan."
               "Little flatterer! But a woman."
               "Not Gay—it can't be Gay!"
               "She's down stairs this minute; two such soldiers as you and she I never knew."
               "I must see her—let me see her!" pleaded Margaret.
               "So you shall! Wrap your shawl about you and come down. I dare say you need supper as much as we; I'll wager you've eaten nothing all day."
               He led her down stairs to the parlor, where Gay had been sitting alone since he went out, for Seaton left the room without a word, immediately after him. If Gay had ever felt the least doubt of her friend, it would have needed only one look into the face that beamed upon her to set it at rest. Margaret was in a state of ecstasy after her recent depression, and, with her husband and her friend beside her, could forget all about the little village world and its animadversions.
               Turner came in with the supper-tray and wheeled the table and chairs close to the fire that they might be comfortable.
               "I hope you can pick a bit," he said, looking with vast pride at the meal spread out on the white cloth, which might have tempted an anchorite—a juicy venison steak, a cold bird, hot potatoes, smoking biscuits, frosted cake, and more varieties of sweetmeats than any body ever saw except on a Pennsylvania supper-table. "We do our little do; it's poor but hearty! Little Davy's sleeping like a lamb, Mrs. Prescott. You'll likely remember the poor hip-complainted cretur, Miss Van Kortland; he was powerful bad when you was up in the summer."
               "Certainly I do," Gay answered; "I hope he is better."
               "Not to say better, ma am," moaned Turner, "for he's as meachin' as a cherub can be, but freer from pain, though his poor little underpinning would crack under him like sticks of molasses candy if he was stood upon 'em."
               Gay expressed her sympathy for the ailing child. Turner rubbed his eyes, smiled satisfaction at her kindness, groaned aloud, and waddled to the door to meet a servant, whispering to her in an audible tone that if she didn't bring some pickles in a jiffy he'd draw and quarter her and hang her up on a tree to scare the crows—he would, by the Lord!
               "We've all our trials," pursued Turner aloud, as he arranged the dishes on the supper-table; "some have one and some another, and mostly they come as onions is strung—twenty in a bunch. Jane, tell Miss Turner that on-less she's a born fool she needn't let that other steak burn! Yes, trials—poor little hip-complainted boy—that's mine! Throwed off a kitching-table! Mustard, Jane"—in a sepulchral tone. "Here we be, Mr. Prescott, sir; we do our little do."
               "I believe I have an appetite, Miss Van Kortland," Prescott said; "I hope you have too."
               "I dare say I shall convince you. Come, Margaret; I am sure you have fasted all day."
               "Hain't picked no more'n a chippy bird," sighed Turner. "I was quite down-in-the-mouth about it! Why I'd have killed and cooked every living cretur about the place if she could have fancied 'em; I would indeed. Do my do, is my motter."
               
               "You carry it out well, judging from the supper," said Prescott.
               "Sir to you," groaned Turner, in high delight. "Mr. Prescott, there's a bottle left of the wine you brought up in the summer; I have it here. If any body could relish a drop of whisky-punch after, as a night—night—well, a night-cap, if the ladies 'll excuse the word—there's water hot, and some real Old Scotch in the cupboard that would make a deacon whistle."
               They drew up to the table, and Prescott asked for Seaton.
               "He's went to his room," whimpered Turner; "I do expect that arm of his'n is considerable troublesome, but he ain't one to complain, and I've helped it a sight with some embrocation of my own, used at inter-vals—at intervals."
               Seaton came in at the moment, and Prescott said in a friendly tone,
               "Here you are; I was asking after you. Try this venison while it is hot."
               "I don't care for any supper," Seaton answered; "I'll drink a glass of wine, though."
               "Only remember the sprain," whispered Turner, pausing near the door and speaking as earnestly as if Seaton's life depended on his heeding the words. "The sprain, Mr. Seaton, sir; embrocation is better'n wine—at inter-vals—at inter-vals."
               "I suppose you ought to be careful," Prescott said.
               "Please do," urged Margaret.
               Seaton caught Gay's look of entreaty too. Of course he poured out a glass of wine and drank it hastily.
               "We might have known he would," said Prescott laughing. "Maggie, Miss Van Kortland was wiser than we, she held her peace."
               "Miss Van Kortland is too much of a philosopher to trouble herself about so useless an individual," returned Seaton.
               The philosopher felt her heart flutter in a way that spoke poorly for her composure and indifference, but she said not a word.
               "I fancy persuasion is always rather wasted on you," said Prescott, good-naturedly, to cover Gay's silence.
               "I don't remember that any body ever tried it," returned Seaton. "But don't you hate things if you are told it is for your good to do or take them, and don't you want whatever you are ordered to let alone?"
               "No, I don't," replied Prescott, "nor do you, so don't get into one of your contradictory moods."
               "I won't," said Seaton, laughing heartily, and flashed at once into his gayest spirits.
               But though Prescott enjoyed the cheerfulness, he did not forget that it was after three o'clock, and that Margaret looked weary in spite of contentment in the rest and safety which had come back to her; so they bade Seaton good-night, and went up stairs, accompanied by Gay.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLII.
               BEFORE MORNING.
               GAY was in her own chamber, standing by the fire, thinking how oddly it had all ended, and reviling herself for an absurd female Don Quixote to have undertaken that midnight pilgrimage. She might as well have staid in town, for that matter; she was not needed; she had done no good by coming; she was not needed anywhere; she never did the least good in any direction. If she tried, her efforts worked harm or were only miserable uselessness, as in the present instance; exposing her to her own censure and perhaps the contempt of others.
               She wondered what Seaton thought of her conduct; if he would attribute it to jealousy or a desire for interference, or would he in his heart do justice to her motives, and feel more placable where she was concerned?
               "But it doesn't matter," said Gay; "nothing matters! I might have been drowned in the torrent, it would have made no difference! Now that's wicked, and I meant not to be wicked any more. I can't see the way; I am very blind, and the path is very hard, but there must be a reason for it! I'll try to be patient; help me, O my God!"
               She looked about for a little book which had been her constant companion of late, but remembered that she sat reading it when they left her alone in the room below; it was there now. She took her lamp, and descended the stairs softly, not expecting to meet any body, but as she opened the door of the parlor she saw Noel Seaton still sitting by the hearth, his eyes fixed on the glowing mass of coals that reddened the grate.
               He rose and stood looking at her—not angrily, she thought; with a dreary composure in his face very unusual to those mobile, restless features.
               "Don't let me disturb you," she said; "I came after a little book that I left."
               He held out the volume, which was already in his hand.
               "This is it; I saw your name inside." She took it, expecting some sneer concerning its contents, but he made no remark whatever.
               "I fear your arm is very painful?" she said.
               "Somewhat; it is stiff and rather useless."
               "I should think rest and sleep would be the best panacea for it."
               "It is so near day that I did not think it worth while to take the trouble to go to bed."
               "I never can sleep in a chair; if I doze. I wake up feeling as if my limbs were paralyzed."
               "Nor can I," returned he, and again he said no more.
               Woman-like, she could not bear to leave him while she believed him suffering, yet it was difficult to continue a conversation where she met with so little assistance.
               "I wish there was something I could do." she said, almost timidly. "I am very wise, you know, on the subject of hurts and bruises."
               "What sort of hurts?" he asked in a more sullen tone, and with a significance which she could not mistake.
               "I have great faith in warm water for curing a sprain," she went on, ignoring his words.
               He laughed; a short bitter laugh, intended to mark his understanding of her desire to avoid the talk which answering his question would have brought about.
               "The learned Turner has been treating me," he said, "and his unlimited faith in his own remedies ought to effect a care."
               "It is very fortunate that the accident was no worse."
               "Yes; it might have been—in many ways."
               She had better go away; it was useless to prolong talk of this kind, and any effort to assure him of her sympathy appeared completely wasted—perhaps only seemed boldness or an insult, coming from her.
               "I think you ought to go to bed and to sleep," she hazarded gently.
               "Can you sleep whenever you please? I am not so fortunate."
               "At least you would rest lying down."
               "Thanks; I believe I am better here; this accursed shoulder—I hope your little book wouldn't consider that swearing—objects to my indulging in a horizontal position. By-the-way, that seems to be a very remarkable volume for one so small; do you find it a great comfort?"
               "Very great," she replied, as seriously as though there had been no ironical inflection in his voice.
               "Expiation and penance—how fine they sound! I suppose sufficient bread and water during Lent would atone for any sin."
               "I don't think my little book says or implies any thing of the sort."
               "Do you think my remark rude?"
               "No, we are old enough friends to speak plainly to each other."
               "Excuse me. Miss Van Kortland; we are not friends at all."
               "At least, I am your friend," she answered.
               "I neither want nor will have your friendship," he said in a cold, repressed voice. "You are my enemy—the bitterest and cruellest I ever had."
               "Nothing can make me that," she replied; "you may refuse my friendship, but you can't prevent my feeling kindly towards you."
               "This I suppose is the martyr-spirit," returned he, "taught and cultivated by the little book. At this rate, St. Alban's will soon possess an Anglo-Catholic saint of its own production."
               "O Noel!" she said softly, with a patient reproach in her voice very unlike its former fire and impetuosity.
               "Yes, you used sometimes to call me that—"
               "In the old days when you were my friend," she interrupted.
               "In the days when I was your dupe," he said bitterly; "when I loved you and believed in you; but the name is out of place now—like our meeting."
               He was ashamed of this taunt the instant he had uttered it, but to feel that he had in any way put himself in the wrong only made him more angry.
               "I suppose we can not avoid meeting occasionally," she answered, trying to speak with composure.
               "By heaven, we will avoid it!" he exclaimed. "You have made me miserable enough. I will never see your face again if I can help it."
               "If it is to be the last time, so much the more reason why we should not speak harshly to each other, Noel."
               "The harshness has been all on my side, Miss Van Kortland; but as I don't aspire to saintly honors, that is of less consequence."
               She longed to tell him that it was of the greatest consequence to her; that each sharp word or look stung her heart cruelly, but it was unwise and must not be done. If she could succeed in softening him towards her for a little it would only leave them worse off; he would begin again to plead his love, and she must not listen to that; she was too weak and miserable to go through her wretched play-acting anew.
               "You will not answer," he said; "you will not be irritated into speaking one severe word. You have become patience and charity and all the other cardinal virtues in person. Which quality among the godly list was it that brought you here to-night?"
               "I think it very natural that I should have come."
               "Did you expect to release a lamb from the clutches of a wolf?" he sneered.
               "I had come to Upsden to visit Mrs. Prescott; like her husband, I feared that she was ill or that some accident had occurred. I could not wait there alone till news could reach me. Besides, if my friend had been ill she would have needed me."
               "I wish you had come and found her gone," he muttered.
               "You don't mean that, Noel."
               "I do! If I'd dreamed of your being near—of your coming—I'd have dragged her off, if it had been by force."
               "To avenge yourself on me? You forget that you said once you had not feeling enough left towards me even for hatred."
               "I have made several vows to you and broken them; I swore never to speak to you."
               "It shall not be my fault that you ever have to again," she replied, neither proudly or angrily; with a sickening sensation at her heart as she thought that estrangement must last—that probably never in this world would he be able fully to understand her. It was a dreary, dreary burden to look forward to. They might both grow old and her lips still be sealed, or his restless soul might suddenly wear out its body when she was at a distance, and never could have the consolation while this life endured of hearing him confess that he knew the motives which had actuated her were right and honest. If she could only be certain of having this mercy granted her—the assurance that before either of them died she might receive his forgiveness—she felt that she could more easily bear whatever of suffering lay before her.
               "If it could only be," she muttered, unconscious that she had audibly uttered her thought until she heard him ask eagerly what she meant. "I believe I am too much worn-out to talk connectedly," she said. "I will go back to my room."
               She took up the lamp which she had set on the table, and as her face was turned full towards him, he saw how ghastly white it was, how worn and thin it had grown during the past weeks.
               "Don't go," he said; "if we are not to see one another any more, at least stay a little."
               "I think we have nothing more to talk about," she answered. "I should have been glad to hear you say that you had forgiven me, but you can not do that."
               "I did not think you would care," he said.
               "Yes, I care! Perhaps some time you will be able to do it! I think if we were ever so far apart I should know it; I think when you remembered me more gently I should feel it, no matter how far off the time might be, or how impassable the distance which separated us."
               "A woman could only do this if she loved the man and knew that he was mistaken in believing himself wronged," he said, in an altered voice.
               She did not speak; she could make no answer to words like these; she would not lie, and the truth must not be uttered.
               "This is not so with you," he continued, after an instant's silence. "You do not love me; you know that I have suffered wrong at your hands."
               "Not willfully, not willingly," she replied; "I wish you could believe that."
               "How can you expect me to believe it?" he asked.
               "I suppose you could not," she said wearily; "I suppose not. It was wrong for us to meet again."
               "Did I bring about this meeting?" he asked, with a lack of generosity for which he would be ashamed when they had parted.
               "No," she replied, "I thought it right to come."
               "Right—right—I'm sick of that word! I think the devils themselves must laugh to hear it so often in women's mouths, and always a falsehood."
               "They must laugh at us and our blunders a great deal, any way," Gay said; "but if it is not willful error on our parts, we can afford to let them."
               "A beautiful sentiment! That must be out of the little book, I am morally certain."
               "Possibly; I hope it has taught me many things."
               "'To forgive those who despitefully use you,'" he quoted scornfully. "I am less Christian, I confess; I don't forgive—I never will."
               "I wish you could have said you did; I wish you could."
               "To ease your own conscience, perhaps."
               "Partly that; for your sake, too."
               He looked keenly at her; she was in earnest, he could see that.
               "One would really think you cared," he answered.
               "I care so much—more than you can understand! It hurts me so to think that I may have done you harm; it frightens me."
               "I told you a long time ago to be easy on that score, Miss Van Kortland. I never blamed any body for my past follies; I shall not lay any future ones at your door. You know that you have made my life a very dreary business—you have deprived me of the power of having faith in any thing, but there your share ends."
               "And my life is dreary too," she said; "you may believe that."
               "How or why, I don't know," he replied, but the trouble in her face and voice softened him in spite of his anger, and he added earnestly, "O Gay, if you would only be frank with me! If you would tell me what your real reason, back of all your old subterfuges, is for refusing my love! for there must be something."
               "I can tell you nothing that could soften your feelings towards me—nothing that could help either of us."
               "But there is something—not your distrust of me—not coquetry or worldliness; there is something else; I have often thought so, and now I am sure of it."
               "Then so much the more reason why you should keep aloof from me," she answered.
               "You admit it?"
               "I admit nothing! I thought you learned long ago that I never gave reasons."
               "Then you throw me back on the belief to which I was driven that dreadful day—you have cast me off because I was not rich enough to gratify your ambition; you want me to think you utterly without heart and without faith."
               "Any meeting-point in our two lives is past," she answered; "it can not matter now what you believe—only let this conversation end here forever."
               She was so exhausted physically that her manner added to the effect of her words. It seemed as if all she cared for was to be free of his reproaches and his presence.
               "I understand," he said, as she turned again to leave the room. "You needn't go; I'll not trouble you further."
               He pushed past her, flung open a window, and threw back the shutters. The wind moaned drearily in, and the rain, that had begun to fall heavily again, swept like a sheet of spray across the veranda.
               "What are you going to do?" she asked in alarm.
               "I am going out; I want the air; this place sickens me," he replied.
               "Not in this tempest," she pleaded; "it might be the means of your death, with your arm in the state it is."
               "I had not thought of that," returned he with an insane laugh; "I'll certainly go now."
               He darted across the veranda, regardless of her cager expostulations, and in an instant she heard his foot slip, then a heavy fall. She hurried out—a flash of lightning revealed him lying senseless on the steps. The mental agitation of the past hours had aggravated his physical pain until he was almost delirious, so that he was hardly conscious what he was doing when he started away.
               How Gay did it she could not have told, but she managed to half lift, half drag him into the parlor, and then she saw that her hands were stained with blood, which streamed rapidly through his coat-sleeve. She thought that he was dead, and, completely unnerved by this last shock, she uttered a shriek which rang wildly through the house and alarmed the sleepers in the apartments above.
               The sight that met their eyes as they entered the room was startling enough. Seaton lay upon the floor, the blood oozing slowly from his wounded arm, his white face upturned in the lamp-light looking fixed and dead. Gay knelt beside him, apparently unconscious of their entrance or the eager questions addressed her, while the wind moaned dismally in at the open casement and added to the dreariness of the scene.
               They carried Seaton into another room and laid him on a bed. Gay followed silently, not speaking a word or seeming to hear the inquiries addressed her. She sank on her knees by the couch, and they heard her pallid lips mutter the fear that had struck each heart—
               "He is dead! he is dead!"
               Prescott placed his hand on Seaton's breast. He could feel a faint pulsation, and he said,
               "No, no; he is living! Try to tell us how this happened."
               But she only crouched lower and hid her face in the counterpane. Prescott called for scissors and cut off the sleeve of Seaton's coat and shirt, and stanched the blood, fortunately possessing some knowledge of what was necessary to be done. Margaret and the landlady aided him, while Turner, quite bereft of his senses, danced about the parlor and howled and swore, having conceived an idea that Seaton had been murdered either by Miss Van Kortland or some unknown assassin who had entered at the window.
               "We must have a doctor," Prescott said; "where is the nearest one, Mrs. Turner?"
               Fortunately Mrs. Turner knew that a young surgeon who had been wounded in the war was staying with some relatives at Mace's Hollow, some six miles off, on the side of the mountain opposite the valley, and Prescott went out to find Tom Puterbaugh and dispatch him on the errand. Tom luckily preserved more hold of his faculties than his master, and was able to understand the need of haste.
               The day was breaking as Prescott returned to the room where Seaton lay. He had not stirred, Margaret told him in a whisper, nor had Gay spoken or looked up. But as they stood there, Seaton suddenly moved and opened his eyes. He looked wildly about for an instant and called in a broken voice,
               "Gay! Gay!"
               She started to her feet at the sound, and stared about in a stunned, vacant manner.
               "I thought he was dead!" she gasped; "I thought he was dead!"
               "No, no," Prescott answered; "it was the loss of blood that made him faint. We have sent for a surgeon; don't be frightened."
               But Seaton was calling her name again; she bent over him whispering softly, and her voice seemed to quiet him somewhat for a few moments. Presently, however, he began muttering delirious fancies that filled each listener with fresh dread. He was being borne away by the rush of swift waters, and was unable to help himself. He could see Gay standing on the bank and he was calling out to her for aid—the water ran so swiftly—he was so helpless—Gay! Gay!
               But her voice quieted him again, and he sunk back on the pillow holding her hand fast, while a smile softened slowly the death-like rigidity of his face.
               Prescott led Margaret away and motioned Mrs. Turner to follow.
               "She loved him," Margaret whispered to her husband as they moved away; "I never knew it."
               That painful hour had made Gay's secret clear at last—she loved him; and, living or dying, Prescott felt that he belonged wholly to her now; no human being had any right to intrude.
               "Do you think he will die, Alan?" Margaret asked, as they returned to the parlor.
               "No, no! He must have fallen in trying to go down the veranda steps. His hurt was probably much worse in the first place than he acknowledged."
               She was shaking from head to foot, though, woman-like, she tried to keep up an appearance of composure.
               "You must go to bed, dear," he said; "there is nothing you can do, and you will be ill."
               But she would not hear of it, and he had not the heart to send her away.
               "Don't make me go up stairs," she pleaded like a frightened child; "I'll lie on the sofa in the parlor; please let me, Gay might want me."
               Prescott put her on a sofa in the parlor, spread some shawls over her and she lay still, weeping sometimes quietly, but feeling a certain sense of security in his presence.
               There was more confusion in the dining-room than was desirable, so Prescott stepped in there in the hope of quieting it, and found Turner relieving his mind by lamentations over the calamity, and a hearty scolding of the maids, Mrs. Turner, like a sensible woman, having got out of his way.
               "There never was any thing like it, never!" sobbed Turner. "I'm ruined; nobody'll ever come to the house again! The poor young man—fine a fellow as ever trod shoe-leather! We shall all be burned alive in our beds, no doubt! Any way we shall be dragged off to jail—of course we shall—they'll say we murdered him—the jury'll bring us in guilty—to be sure they will; we'll be strung up like onions in a bunch. O Lord! O Lord! What are you doing there, you lazy huzzies? don't you mean to get us any breakfast? Ain't you satisfied with stabbing an innocent man in cold blood? Do you want to starve us all?"
               "O murther, O howly Virgin!" chorused the frightened trio of Hibernians, and the cook added,
               "He says we murthered him, Bridget Flanagan! Och, what'll we do, at all, at all?"
               "Get the breakfast, you lazy piece! get the breakfast! Cook and cat while you can; the Square'll be here and carry us all off together! O Lord, where's Mrs. Turner—where's little Davy? Poor little hip-complainted lamb, who'll take care of him while we're all being jailed and hung! Get the breakfast or I'll break your backs, I will! Lord have mercy on us—oh, oh! Won't you get the breakfast, I say?"
               "O howly Virgin!" groaned the frightened women anew, fleeing before a sudden dash he made at them, while Turner, becoming aware of Prescott's entrance, began to sob aloud.
               "It's dreadful work, Mr. Prescott. I'd better have died last week, and took Davy—that's my hip-complainted lamb—along with me! I didn't do it; my wife can swear that I was in bed and I can swear that she was—though perhaps if the jury means to hang either one of us it had better be her, for there's little lame Davy to be took care of, and Mrs. Turner's not a self-helpable women—she's not indeed; she's consaty, but not self-helpable."
               "Mr. Seaton is not dead, or dying, Turner; any way, you are not to blame or likely to be accused."
               "Lord, sir, you can't tell! When them juries gets to hanging they never know when to stop—I know 'em; they'd be capable of hanging Davy by his hip-complainted leg! O such times! it's my luck—the house is ruined; nobody'll come here for fear of being murdered in their beds! Tamarack Lake mought as well be drained, it mought indeed. I'm a ruined community, and so is Davy."
               "Stop crying and don't be silly, Turner."
               "I can't—I can't indeed, sir; my eyes is cisterns, thinking of that young man cut down like a thistle-field in its bloom, as the Sunday-school book says."
               "His fall has aggravated the wound in his arm. There is no danger if the bleeding can be stopped."
               "Dear me—O content!" cried Turner, wiping his eyes and snorting like a buffalo. "What a mercy! Then they can't hang us, can they!"
               "I don't think there's much danger, but we shall know when the surgeon gets here."
               Turner came close to him and whispered mysteriously,
               "I thought there was sumpthing queer in her eye when I first looked at her. She's did it, O of course. Perhaps we ought to shet her up against we send for the Square. You might coax her out on some pretense and we'd clap her into the closet under the stairs! Lord, we ain't safe with a raving Bedlamiter about—think of lame Davy!"
               "What the devil are you talking about, Turner? are you crazy?"
               "A'most—it's nat'ral! Why, Miss Kortvanter—she done it. I didn't tell the wimmin, for the credit of the house, but she done it, of course—she stabbed him or shot him; I thought I heard a pistol go off."
               "Turner," said Prescott, laughing outright, "I'll shut you up in the closet if you don't hold your tongue. Go and get some breakfast ready. When Mr. Seaton can speak, he will tell us how it happened. Miss Van Kortland had no more to do with it than you or I."
               "Don't say me, Mr. Prescott, sir—don't—think of little Davy! I never murdered or stole; I've kept honest accounts and good liquor. Mabby I've made more profit there than I need, but I'll take it off your bill anyhow and glad to do it. Don't talk about me that way, and the little hip-complainted child screeching himself into fits in his bed."
               "Then go and take care of him, and let me hear no more nonsense."
               "Pistols and knives isn't nonsense, nor murder. O Lord! if, it wasn't her, mabby the murderer is hid in the house and 'll jump out on us. I thought I heerd Davy scream. O Lord, we're all murdered, and if we ain't, we'll be hung! Oh give me some pison! Where's the cellar key? I might hide Davy down there. O Lord!"
               He was dancing about in perfect frenzy, wringing his hands, in an airy costume of a shirt and a pair of pantaloons. No persuasions of his wife had been able to induce him to go back to his room and finish dressing; and as he jumped, his suspenders flapped up and down like twin snakes, and frightened him afresh each time they hit his face. Prescott caught him by the shoulder, at last succeeded in shaking him into silence and a little sanity, and sent him off out of the way.
               It was now broad daylight, and the golden streaks gathering in the east promised a beautiful morning, as quiet and serene as if no tempest had lately darkened the sky. Prescott went back to the room where Seaton lay. He was holding fast to Gay's hand, and Prescott could hear the murmur of their voices in brief words at intervals. He stole softly out and left them together. There was nothing he could do, and he had no right to watch them. Whatever came, the wounded man must be left now to the woman who loved him.
               There was an attempt at breakfast. Prescott persuaded Margaret to eat and drink, but he did not disturb Gay; it was useless to weary her with the thought of any physical need at present. Turner kept himself tolerably sane when within Prescott's hearing, but he relieved his feelings in the kitchen and his wife's chamber, moaning, swearing, weeping; at any sudden noise impressed with the belief that the concealed murderer or Miss Van Kortland was ready to spring upon him from some dark corner. Three separate times he was captured by his wife and taken back to her room from a flight towards the cellar with the lame boy's cradle in his arms, he soothing the terrified child by informing him that every body was murdered and hanged, and poor Davy was to be concealed in the apple-bin. It was afterwards rumored among the maids that Mrs. Turner, though a patient and long-suffering creature, did lose her composure, and finally boxed his ears, and threatened to sew his head up in a petticoat unless he kept himself still. However that may be, he certainly went to bed, and lay there drinking huge bowls of ginger-tea under the impression that he was ill, and wept sorely because he was not permitted by his spouse to dose the unfortunate Davy with the same grateful beverage.
               At last the surgeon came, and Prescott went into Seaton's room to inform Gay of his arrival. She was sitting by the bed as before, and Seaton was holding her hand. He had been slightly delirious at times, but he had never released his grasp, and her voice would call back his wandering senses at the worst.
               Prescott leaned over Gay and whispered his errand. Seaton heard his voice and opened his eyes.
               "Is that you, Prescott?" he asked faintly. "What a trouble I am to you all! I'm easier now. You are here, Gay?"
               His eyes closed; he murmured something about the rush of the water. Gay must hold his hand fast; he was slipping away—slipping away.
               "Noel," she said softly; "Noel."
               He opened his eyes again.
               "Yes, dear; I hear you; I always hear you."
               "The surgeon has come; he may come in?"
               The pressure of his hand gave consent; Gay motioned Prescott to call the doctor. When the two entered together, Gay spoke to Seaton again, and he roused himself at once.
               Gay explained that he had fallen on the veranda, and the surgeon, on examination, found that he had struck his wounded arm against an iron scraper, and severed an artery already injured by the blow he received in his fall from the sledge. Prescott's prompt action had probably saved his life.
               It was a long day—a day no soul there was likely soon to forget—but a very quiet one. The surgeon told Prescott that there was great danger of fever setting in; the injured man's mind must have been in a highly excited state for weeks, and even without this hurt he would certainly have had some dangerous illness. Prescott decided to send for Mrs. Ross, who would be at home by this time, than whom no better nurse could be found. Tom Puterbaugh was dispatched on horseback with a letter to her; she was to come in Prescott's carriage, as the road would now be passable.
               Fortunately, Tom was possessed of good sense, and it was easy to ask him to give no news of the accident in the village and to be certain that he would do his errand discreetly.
               Even Turner was able at last to understand that there had been no attempt at murder. though Prescott felt it was a mercy he chose to fancy himself ill, as otherwise he would have been quite capable of starting for Barry to announce that Seaton had been stabbed by Miss Van Kortland, or else wounded in an affray with burglars, whom Turner himself had fought single-handed for the space of an hour.
               In the dusk of the evening Mrs. Ross arrived, and her presence was a great comfort to Gay. So the night set in, and the danger which menaced the sick man seemed coming nearer and nearer with the gathering darkness.
               If the day had been long, the night was longer, unless it might be to the Irish maids in their distant roost; for even poor Mrs. Turner had her season of watching, independent of the needs of her sick guest. Little Davy was fretful, and Turner in a dreadful way. He had dosed himself so inordinately with ginger-tea that his stomach, huge enough at all times, was more distended than ever, and he was seized with a hypochondriacal fancy that he was dying of dropsy, and should burst unless he were tapped. He had himself wound tightly in a sheet, and every time his ill-treated stomach burned or gurgled, he would cry frantically.
               "O Lord, Betsey, I'm a busting! It's dropsy, that's what it is; my grandmother died of it. I knowed my flesh wasn't nat'ral, and here I be a busting! O, fetch the doctor—let me be tapped 'fore it's too late! bring a fasset—git a gimbler and gimble a hole in me! O do sumpthing! Betsey Turner, don't you hear me gurgle? I'm a busting! O Lord, here's a wife lets her husband bust, and never hists claw nor hoof to help him! O you unnat'ral Jezebel, you! if ever I do get up agin, won't you ketch it for this night's work!"
               She had to call the surgeon up stairs at last, and Turner received a blessing from the medical man which kept him quiet for a time, though whenever he thought poor Betsey was going off into a doze, and she hoped so, he would bring her back to reality by a poke in her side from his great elbow, and revile her fearfully for being inhuman enough to sleep when her suffering husband might at any instant gasp out his last breath. If not occupied in dying, he was haunted by the idea that he heard footsteps on the stairs, and would howl dismally that the concealed assassin was coming to murder them all in their beds; and after the door was locked he conceived the fancy that Miss Van Kortland had hidden herself in the closet, a raving maniac, and was ready to pounce upon Davy, armed with a dagger, and do a little more blood-letting. At last he frightened the child so much by his outcries, that he added his shrill voice to the tumult, and between the two Mrs. Turner nearly lost her senses, and ended by slapping them both soundly.
               This had the effect of producing temporary quiet, though as soon as he dared mutter again, Turner insisted upon it that his wife meant to kill him, and that he believed it was she who had injured Mr. Seaton. She assured him it was, and that she would be the death of the whole house if he whimpered again; so he buried his head in the sheets and lay shaking like a bowl of jelly.
               Gay watched all night by Seaton. The surgeon and Mrs. Ross urged her to lie down, but she knew that it would be impossible for her to rest. She should have strength to go through with whatever lay before her. It was no matter what happened after this present agony ended, for her excited mind was unable to fasten upon the hope that the doctor held out. Seaton slept at intervals, but whenever he woke he would cry out her name, pleading always,
               "You won't go; you won't leave me?"
               "Never, while you want me to stay! Hold my hand fast. Now sleep, my darling, sleep."
               And the night passed, and when morning broke again, Noel Seaton was still alive; tormented by fever, beset with delirious fancies, but with much to hope, the surgeon said, as he joined Prescott at breakfast.
               Greatly to his own astonishment, Turner also found that he was living when he wakened in the morning; but he declared himself too ill to rise, infinitely to his wife's relief.
               "I mustn't run any risks," he said; "I feel as if I was a big bladder and my legs was sticks. I'm awful sick, Betsey. Bring me two or three eggs and a mouthful of briled ham and some buckwheat cakes and a cup of strong coffee. I must try to keep my strength up, for there's nobody to take care of poor little Davy when I'm gone. You throwed him off the ironing-table and broke his hip, you know you did, and you're a consaty woman, Betsey, but you're not self-helpable, you know you're not! I'm ready to go, and I forgive you and every body; and tell them Irish jades in the kitchen, if they don't give the people a right good breakfast, I'll come down and break every bone in their bodies with the big poker, I will, by the Lord Harry!"
               By this time, his sorely-tried companion was past trusting her voice. She turned her back on him with feminine energy, occupied herself dressing little Davy, and finally carried the child away, in spite of the hypochondriac's protestations against such cruelty.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLIII.
               LAST WORDS.
               PRESCOTT and Margaret remained three days, for neither of them could bear to go until the danger was over; but by this time the surgeon declared that good nursing would bring Seaton through, though he was so exhausted it might be an affair perhaps of several weeks.
               Prescott's business required his presence at home and they decided to return, promising themselves and Gay to come back soon. Mrs. Ross and the surgeon would both remain, so there was no lack of attendance. Gay gave a letter to Prescott to be mailed to Athenäis Schuyler, simply telling her that she had decided to stay in the Valley for some time yet, and bidding the Prophetess send any letters she might feel it her duty to write, under cover to Mr. Prescott.
               So Margaret and her husband one beautiful afternoon drove back to Upsden and again took possession of their house. Of course, during these past days the village had been on the verge of insanity from excitement, though Aunt Hilda spoiled each new romance by simply repeating the story she had chosen as a text—the Prescotts and Mrs. Ross and Miss Van Kortland and young Seaton were off on a trip together. People could believe or let it alone as they pleased; she didn't care, for her part, and she guessed the parties themselves would not. If they liked lies better than truth that was their look-out, though she would advise some folks not to be too free with their tongues—she would indeed.
               In the mean time she was very uneasy, for Mrs. Ross had stopped to tell her where she was going and the necessity therefor. Aunt Hilda and the gray cat held many earnest conversations in the little parlor, and it is to be said for the credit of the Doctor, that during the whole time he behaved in the most exemplary manner, and never once went out at night in search either of a fight or a flirtation.
               Prescott had sent word to Nora which quieted his household, and as she took the opportunity to indulge in a general scrubbing of the mansion, she kept her satellites too constantly occupied for them to make visits into the village. So the town was agonized by divers rumors and their contradictions. It was not even generally believed at last that the party were at the lake. Indeed nobody knew what to credit, and each gossip was too busy refuting the stories of every other gossip to be very clear in building up her own, and they all suffered terribly. Tamarack Lake was not on a road that led anywhere; not even a post-boy went there; and as no one from the hotel had been down that they knew, no gleam of information in the least to be depended on could reach them.
               It was on Saturday evening that the Prescotts returned, so their appearance at church took people by surprise, and it is to be feared sadly distracted the attention of many of the worshippers in those prayers against malice and hatred and all uncharitableness, whose precepts they had so completely forgotten during the past week. They both attended to their duties closely and looked so exactly as usual; that the curious were more perplexed than ever, and stared after them as they passed down the steps to their carriage, saluting such acquaintances as stood near just as if nothing happened, and actually drove away and left the poor creatures nearly beside themselves with wonder.
               Of course nobody paid Sunday-evening visits in a village blessed with so many church-steeples, and what Abelard Straight's intellectual sister called "Sabbatical privileges," except Aunt Hilda; she would, when inclined, and she made her way up to Crosslands as fast as her feet could carry her, leaving the Doctor in charge of the house. But if that old chap had been a young medical student, he could not have been less trustworthy, for he departed as soon as his mistress was safely out of sight, and must have gone on a frightful bacchanalian revel, for he never returned until the next morning, and then was as morose and snappish as a man who has done wrong and takes the initiative in the way of ill-temper, in order to frighten his household into silence.
               Nora, from some post of observation, had seen Aunt Hilda approach the house, and she condescended to open the outer door herself, that she might at least exchange a congratulatory glance and word with the old lady on the happy termination of all their troubles and fears. Nora had been frantic with delight ever since their return, and could only express her feelings by sending up all sorts of marvellous dishes for the table, in as great abundance as though she thought they had suffered partial starvation during their absence.
               "It's beauchiful to see thim," she whispered in Aunt Hilda's ear as she admitted her; "I feel as if the millynaum had come and we was all lambs a-lyin' down in pace and hominy wid the lions! Come in, Mrs. Gallagher, fur ye've a harrut in your bosom as warm as a smoothin'-iron and I'm proud to see yez, I am indade."
               Aunt Hilda had a pleasant greeting when she reached the library, where Prescott sat reading to Margaret as she rested on the sofa.
               "It's a pictur," Aunt Hilda declared; "don't stir. It's awful soothin' to the feelins of a lone creatur like me, to see the domestic affections in full play—like—like a nest of young robins all a-chatterin' at onct," pursued Aunt Hilda, after a little search for her simile, and then shook hands with them both a second time, and sat down, beaming with kindness and the satisfaction of having made a poetical speech.
               "I hope the Doctor is well, Aunt Hilda," said Margaret.
               "He is, and I thank you for remembering my family, for if ever there was an animile that was a credit to his bringing-up, it's that cat now: he's ben a little wild, maybe, and there's ben things laid to his charge that he didn't deserve, but he's all right now. He's jist turned of a sudding into all the virtues and graces combined, and he's more comfort to me'n I coald tell in a week."
               "Aunt Hilda," asked Prescott, "is it true that the Doctor scratched your friend, Mr. Straight, the day you and he held that notable argument about the fence?"
               "Don't call him my friend, nor your own," exclaimed Aunt Hilda, bristling with indignation; "bungled tigers would be better wuth the name! Mr. Prescott, sir, he did—the Doctor actilly did! he flowed at that heap of pompousness and fairly tore his—saving your presences—his limb-covers, and made him dance Juba, now I tell you, for all he was a deacon!" and Aunt Hilda laughed at the recollection till the tears ran down her checks.
               The good soul was uneasy till she could hear about Seaton; but she was too delicate to enter upon a subject which might be unpleasant, and Prescott, seeing this, told her that he was better.
               "I'm glad; I'm proper glad! Miss Ross couldn't tell how the accident happened and I dessay he couldn't himself, but it's a massy he's so far over it, and Clytemnestry is a nurse in a thousand; and law! he's happy, now he's got that picturful Lady Gay by him. I'm not a weathercock nor a magnet perhaps, but I see from the first which way that wind blew."
               "Do you know, I did not, Aunt Hilda," Margaret said, and was thankful that she could speak the words calmly and with no hidden feeling.
               "'Twasn't likely," returned Mrs. Gallagher; "you're young and had other things to think about nearer home, my beauty. But I was done with romanticals on my own hook long ago, and am what the Immortal calls a looker-on in Venice—hey, Mr. Prescott?"
               "And a very clear-sighted one," he said.
               "Sir to you!" cried Aunt Hilda. "You're a gentleman and a scholar, and speak the languages, and I'll be glad of a little advice about an offer I've had for the lot next to my patch."
               While Aunt Hilda and her husband talked, Margaret lay there thinking over the events of the past mouths. She saw her own folly clearly, wondering that she could have allowed a baseless dream to come so near troubling her peace beyond the possibility of relief, and she longed to tell the whole story to Prescott, to beg his forgiveness, and beseech him to teach her to love him as she knew he deserved.
               They were going down to the compline service, so they kept Aunt Hilda until evening, and took her home in their carriage, to the old lady's great satisfaction.
               "Mr. Prescott, sir," said she, "Shakspeare tells us some are born to greatness; it's you and that jewel, if ever humans was—were, I mean. You'll prosper now and always, take an old woman's word for it. Time was, I expected to ride in my own carriage, for my father owned a sight of land, and gave us the best schooling the times afforded. The land's gone, and I've almost forgot the rules of grammar, but I recognize them that's dukes and duchesses by nature, and so you are, and you'll prosper; while some that gets made deacons and tries for Congress and fails, will find themselves deformed camels that can't get their humps through the needle's eye when the end comes, though they may go about simpering like the Pharisee. Sir, she's a gem and you're a gentleman and enjoy the classics—Jamdudum splendet focus—there!" and she uttered the quotation as energetically as if she had flung it direct at Abelard Straight's head, and seen him writhe in conscious ignorance.
               The church was crowded that evening. Since the advent of the unmarried pastor all the young girls and spinsters were fond of going there, and the young men followed the former. That night more people than usual came, because they wished to convince themselves with their own eyes that the Prescotts were actually to be seen together, and every body stared at the unconscious pair, from the deaf old gentleman with the chronic sniffle who was always in one of the front seats and could not have heard the last trump if it had blown, to Lucy Kenwyn, who groaned the amens more loudly than ever, and astounded the modest young priest by shouting in the midst of his sermon,
               "The lion of Judah, the lion of Judah; hang on to the tail though your 'air falls out—amen, amen!"
               She was immediately throttled by the irate Jordan, who was usually on the watch for her outbreaks, and the next sound was a strangled wheeze from the unfortunate Lucy, whose breath was so effectually weakened by the dexterous fingers of the cross sexton, that she was obliged to keep silence till the service ended.
               Margaret and Prescott returned home. She was not at all well—the repeated shocks of the past days had left her weak and nervous, and, tender and loving as he had always been, it seemed to her that he was never so full of thoughtful care as now.
               She longed to tell him all that was in her heart, but it was too difficult, though some feeling, which she did not understand until too late, made her eager to offer confession of her poor little sins, and beg him to love and teach her to give him every thought and wish in return.
               "I shall not be at home much to-morrow," he said, laying down the book he had been reading aloud. "Coyle wants me to go into the mines in the morning, and after that I must go up to the Gorge. I shall be off early, but you must not disturb yourself; you need rest just now."
               "I wish—I wish," began Margaret, and stopped.
               "What do you wish, little bird?"
               "That I was as good as I ought to be," she said, quickly; "that I was more worthy of all your love and kindness."
               "My blossom, I have not complained," he answered cheerfully. "I do not know how you could be better."
               "But I do! I mean to try, Alan, indeed I will."
               He stooped over the sofa and laid his hand upon her hair, saying softly,
               "You are a dear, good girl! These have been the hardest months to you, little one; you will grow used to your new life now; I am sure you will."
               "I wouldn't change it to be a queen," she cried suddenly, so touched by his devotion that she could mean every word.
               "God bless you for those words!" he whispered; "they are the sweetest you ever spoke."
               He began to talk lightly and pleasantly to her again, for he was singularly reticent by nature, and, loving as he was, had not quite learned that there can be no reticence in true marriage; that whether it be content or care, it must be shared by both, else the blessed oneness which the holy sacrament ought to make of two lives can not be complete.
               It was still early in the morning when Margaret was partially awakened by the touch of her husband's lips on her forehead and the murmur of some words which she hardly heard then, though they came back distinctly to her in the black hours when it was a relief to remember them.
               "God bless my darling!" Margaret was sure that he had whispered those words, though she turned her head on the pillow and slept again before he had closed the door. They recurred to her in all their fullness of meaning after the blow fell, and never in her whole life had she thanked heaven so devoutly as she did for the mercy granted in that supplication. Poor Margaret!
               Prescott ate his solitary breakfast and departed for the mines, where Coyle the overseer was awaiting him.
               "It might be my mistake," said Coyle as they seated themselves in the car, "but I'll be easier in my mind, anyhow. There's bin noises and there's queernesses, and I want to pint 'em out to you, and I'll tell you what I think ought to be done, and you and the rest o' the company'll decide, you know."
               It was late before Margaret rose, and after Nora had tempted her with the daintiest repast that her skill could devise, which she saw fit to bring up with her own hands, mercilessly snubbing the new servant whose duty it might have been considered, Margaret went down stairs, and by Nora's advice walked up and down the veranda in the pleasant sunlight.
               "It's betther than atin and drinkin' even," observed Nora. "There's a power of nourishment in fresh air. What are ye plased to want now, Miss Maguire?" she continued in a very different voice, for that luckless damsel had tapped at the door and been bidden to enter.
               "Shure, I on'y wanted to spake to the misthress," returned Maguire, with a courtesy.
               "Ye're always wantin' to spake to somebody, Miss Maguire," said Nora with fine sarcasm; "it's your chafe fault, or one on 'em, for ye've manny; I may say their name is Lagion."
               "I am glad to see you about, Honor," her mistress said kindly.
               "And thanks," replied the sensitive damsel, beginning to weep. "I was wantin' to thank ye for all your goodness to me, and to say, ma'am, I'm quite able to be at my work agin."
               "Very well; don't try to do too much at first, that's all."
               Nora gave a loud snort, which was meant to express her opinion that the mistress need have no fears on that account.
               "Indade I'll do my best, ma'am; you may belave it, too, Nora," sniffed Maguire, trying to soften her tyrant.
               "I hope ye will," replied Nora, with an emphasis that was full of doubt, and added—
               "Ye'd betther not be usin' up yer strength wid tears, anny how; they're mighty wakenin', and they'll be apt to take the starch out of the collars, av ye thought of ironing this afternoon."
               Miss Maguire performed another courtesy, and retired with a parting sob, expressive of her sense of Nora's harshness.
               "They're a great thrial, Miss Marg'ret, and them new wans is the divil, but I'm aqual to my lot, glory be to the saints; and as ye want nothing more, I'll be afther the whole squad wid a sharp stick, for that Jape's fuller of thricks nor a monkey, which I'm thinking his grandmother was, av no nearer."
               Margaret walked up and down in the sunshine, and thought, not of her girlish folly and her old dream, but of the husband who loved her, and the great happiness which might be hers if she learned to accept her lot wisely. The past—that brief summer vision—looked so far off! She seemed to have lived ages beyond, and there was no longer any false halo over it to dazzle her fancy, and leave her discontented with the present. She could think of Gay and Seaton, and be glad that peace seemed near them at length; but she had very little reflection to spare even for this, just now. It was not so much of herself as of her husband that she thought; how to be worthy of his love—to feel that her whole heart was his—to have pleasure and pride in the idea that she belonged to him; she could be content with no less.
               It was nearly noon. She had been in the house trying to read, and had come out on the veranda again, seized with a sudden desire to go down among her flower-beds, and see if the crocuses had not ventured out into the sun. She was on the steps, singing softly to herself, as she went, a quaint old melody that was a favorite with Prescott, God help her! thinking little enough of the possibility of any trouble to the new repose which was settling about her.
               There was a horrible crash—louder than the most tremendous peal of thunder—another that made the house totter like a child's fabric of cards, while the ground shook as if with an earthquake. Margaret clung fast to one of the pillars, dizzy and frightened; for the third time that fearful roar sounded, as if the very mountains which guarded the valley had fallen from their foundations and crushed in frightful ruin across the plain.
               No distinct idea in her mind—no time for it. A cry of men's and women's voices in the house—a tumult that surged suddenly up from the village; then, as she clung blind and sick to the pillar, she heard the frightened servants rush past her on the lawn, and Nora's voice exclaiming,
               "Howly mother of God, it's the mines has fallen in!"
               Margaret caught the words and started forward; she knew that they were calling after her, trying to overtake her, but she never stopped, never looked back. Out of the side gate she flew, through the fields, minding neither fence or ditch—on—on—in a wild race, that it seemed to her she was running against death—powerless to think, hardly able to breathe—no sense left but the volition which helped her in her flight.
               She was in sight of the office—the entrance to the mines. She could see a great crowd gathered—more people rushing up! There were fearful shrieks from female voices; the groans and lamentations of strong men; women calling for husbands and children; and beyond—oh beyond, where the green sweep of hill once spread, dotted here and there with houses, beautified by trees—the solid earth had disappeared, and masses of rock, uprooted oaks, ruined dwellings lay scattered about, forced down into the cavern that gaped exposing the awful darkness below, while clouds of dust and smoke shut out the sun and swept away towards the north like the wings of a tornado.
               Margaret was close to the crowd; they saw her; men and women shrank back; there was a pause broken by a new storm of shrieks and prayers and curses, and Margaret knew that a woman with a white face clutched her dress, while an awful voice moaned in her ear,—
               "They're all gone togither—yours and mine, me leddy—all gone togither!" Then a sudden blackness spread before her eyes, and Margaret lay senseless in the midst of the maddened throng.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLIV.
               WHEN THE BLOW FELL.
               THE fears of the overseer proved correct; the pillars of coal and rock which supported the mines gave way in places where the oldest works had been carried on, and, almost without warning, buried them in this fearful ruin.
               Three men worked their way out while the crowd were still paralyzed by the first moments of horror. They had got so far towards the mouth that they chanced to be left in one of the gaps, unharmed. They had an awful tale to tell, but coherent enough. There had been a rush of the miners; many must lie in the main road—others locked in the new portions of the mines, shut in completely by the masses of rock, so that if not killed outright, they would smother in a short time.
               There was an immense crowd gathered; there were experienced leaders to direct; men, women and children dug among the horrible ruins, working as they could only have done at a time like that. There is no possibility of portraying the scene—no pen could do it. I have seen more than one actor in the fearful tragedy, but no human tongue could ever describe it.
               A strange, awful stillness suddenly fell upon the throng; even the shrieks of the Irish women ceased; the workmen in one spot had heard the sound of voices. On they toiled, throwing aside the heaps of earth, lifting masses of rock with the strength of giants, and at last from the black depths were dragged other sufferers—maimed, bloody, but living—living. Those farthest on the outskirts of the crowd knew that by the great shout which went up to Heaven from a hundred voices. The toil was redoubled; the hours flew like moments. Nearly a score of bodies had been dragged to the light and carried away to be claimed by wives and daughters, to be nursed back to life or mourned and lamented, but still the work went on; there were numbers yet to be rescued, and the hours were flying, and human might could do so little.
               Margaret had been conveyed into the office. Before she recovered her senses Aunt Hilda, like the rest of the village, reached the spot, and, learning where she was, went in, shut the people out, and took the care of her into her own hands.
               It seemed cruelty to restore her to herself; consciousness would come back only too soon, for the men first rescued knew that whoever else was saved, it was almost impossible that Prescott and the overseer could be. They were known to be in a drift where the first crash took place, and the convulsion there had been so terrible that it would take days to dig through the mass; if not killed by the fall of rock, they would be dead from suffocation long before assistance could reach them.
               She opened her eyes at length and looked up; the sounds that met her ears from without brought back the reality at once. She was on her feet and at the door before Aunt Hilda could stop her.
               "Let me go!" she cried madly, "I can find him; he's not dead—he's not dead—let me go!"
               There was no consolation possible; Aunt Hilda did not attempt it. She fell on her knees and tried to sob a prayer; she felt Margaret sink by her side, and heard her voice trying to pray too. After a time she could get up—she would go out; she was quiet now, but Aunt Hilda could not detain her. People who knew her attempted to speak words of sympathy; she heard nothing. She went from one place where they worked to another; asked no questions—spoke to no one; and wherever she moved, in the dumbness of her despair, a silence crept over the throng, and the maddest of the women ceased their moans till she had passed.
               At length she went back and shut herself in the office; even Aunt Hilda was barred out then; there was nobody with her but the blessed angels, who kept insanity aloof from her reeling senses. When a new shout told of more victims recovered, she came out and walked swiftly to the spot; she stood there and saw the lacerated creatures pulled forth one by one, but she uttered no word. People spoke to her; entreated her to go away. They might as well have talked to the dead body that was last to be drawn out, for all she saw or heard.
               She went about among the hurt; she spoke sometimes to the women who were wailing over their wounded or dead; she was in and out of the cabins, helping others to care for the sufferers, and at last she came upon one of the men who had been among the first extricated. She questioned him—only a few words, but she would have the truth.
               "I could as soon have lied at the Day of Judgment," he whimpered after; "her eyes was awful."
               The day got by; the work went on. It was known by every body that little more could he done now, though the labor would continue till every mangled shape was recovered; but it might last for days. It was probable that all the living were now rescued.
               There had been not half the usual number of men at work that day, some funeral having kept many of the miners idle. Before night-fall, more than twenty were exhumed—several of them killed, others dangerously maimed and hurt.
               The sun set in a blaze of glory and twilight began to gather; evening was coming on, but there would be no relaxation in the toil, one of the clerks came to say this to Margaret. As it grew dark she allowed Aunt Hilda and Nora to take her home, but her house was closed against all other comers. It had been a frightful shock to the whole neighborhood; every body's best sympathies were excited; still certain good people could not help feeling offended because Mrs. Prescott preferred to bear her grief alone when they were willing to aid her with advice, and there were already whispers among the rigid and puritanical concerning "judgments"—the most sinful word that ever finds place on the lips of any human being; which is nevertheless the favorite cry of so many who firmly believe that Christian faith animates every action of their lives.
               Aunt Hilda left Margaret to herself; she knew that it was the kindest thing she could do, and Margaret was free to lie on her bed or wander softly about the house, passing from room to room like a ghost searching for some expiatory work which should end its penance. Deep in the night she put on her cloak and went out; she must go back to the place where the laborers ers still toiled; perhaps she could be quiet after that. There was moonlight enough to show her the way, making the ghastly ruins more terrible as she came in sight of them, and the blaze of torches in two or three places revealed the men at their task.
               She went quite near one group. They had ceased their excavations. In the weird light of the fires, Margaret saw them drawing forth more bodies. She passed swiftly along and bent over the still forms, before her approach was observed.
               "It's not him, me lady," exclaimed an old man who recognized her, fairly bursting into tears. "Better luck the next; these is all alive. O take heart from that, me lady, and go back home. We'll save him yet."
               She crept away without a word. They sent a man to follow her at a distance and see that she reached her house in safety; and when he came back to report how she had fled along like a shadow, wringing her poor wee hands, but uttering never a moan, not a heart among impulsive Irishmen but cried out in sympathy for the young creature so terribly stricken.
               The morning broke—the cold, cruel dawn that looked so hopeless. Margaret rose from her bed and went down stairs, still bearing her horrible burden of suspense. In the course of the forenoon one of the clerks came to the house. It was necessary that Mr. Prescott's private safe should be opened; he was obliged to request her to undertake the task, as nobody was willing to accept the responsibility. He told her that in the confusion of yesterday, he had not remembered until late to telegraph news of the disaster to the Company. He had obtained an answer that the president and some of the leading members would be there by evening; they had not received the telegram in season to take the early train.
               Margaret ordered the carriage and drove down through the village to the counting-house. It was closed; two of the clerks were there, but they shrunk away at sight of her, not knowing what to say or do. She passed on into the inner office, which her conductor unlocked for her, and having opened a shutter to lighten the room and pointed out the safe, he left her to herself.
               During all this time she had not shed a tear; she had wished to weep, but there was no moisture in her burning eyes. She felt stunned, paralyzed, though the power of suffering was not dulled by the apathy which locked her other faculties. She took the key and opened the safe; Prescott had once shown her how, and this key was a duplicate which he had given her to keep in case his should be lost. She found the papers after a brief search. In the same drawer was a small red memorandum-book, which she picked up and glanced over. It was filled with her father's writing—the little volume that Aunt Hilda had brought to Prescott, which he had meant to destroy, but had forgotten in its hiding-place.
               It was no new shock to learn that her father had been led into error by his passion for speculation; but she discovered for the first time that her husband had kept this secret, and made such restoration that the good name of the dead would never suffer—no trouble therefrom ever come to her or her stepmother.
               This was not all; in another drawer, among packets of letters which she knew had been written by his favorite sister, now dead, she came upon a case that held a few withered geranium leaves, exhaling a faint odor still as she raised the lid—the leaves he had begged of her one morning; which she had given so carelessly, and never remembered since! There they were, with a bit of paper that had her name written on it and the date when he received them.
               Down on her knees, clasping that poor treasure fast, Margaret knelt; the fountain of her tears was unlocked, and she wept long and bitterly. He had loved her so truly, and she had not half realized it! she had been cold and careless, troubled, unrestful; but in that hour another knowledge forced itself upon her—she had learned to love him and he was lost!
               The suspicions which, during the past week, had haunted her girlish ignorance grew into certainty just as this blow fell. Margaret knew that before another autumn came God would send her a little babe, and the consciousness stirred her softened feelings into passionate love for her child's father—that father whom her child could never see in this world. Margaret knew now that she must live; even penitence and remorse must not be allowed to wither up her life, since this sign of pardon was mercifully granted her.
               When she was able once more to control herself, she made the safe fast and went out of the room, giving the papers to the clerk as she passed. He did not glance towards the veiled face, for, awaiting her in the silence, he had heard the murmur of her sobs and prayers, and felt that it had been almost like standing beside the new-found corpse of her husband for her to search among those relies which his hands had arranged.
               Margaret returned home, and yielded to the pleadings of Aunt Hilda and Nora that she would not try to go back to the mines, but would let them put her to bed.
               "It'll shorten the time, Miss Ma'g'ret dear," urged Nora; "it will indade! Come wid me, darlint, and I'll darken the room and ye'll sleep a bit. I'll go up there mesilf, and I'll bring the first news quicker than the wind."
               "There'll be no news, Nora," she answered; "no news."
               "Whist now, me purty bird! there will be, take crass ould Nora's word for it! Don't ye give up yet; just don't think at all, at all, but slape a bit and ye'll be sthronger."
               They got her on the bed and sensibly left her to herself; and there she lay in the gloom, staring silently before her with eyes which had no sleep in them, but so exhausted physically that she had not the least inclination to move.
               "I'll go up to that murdering hole," Aunt Hilda said, as she and Nora went down stairs. "There'll be nothing to hear, but it's better than sitting still."
               "Troth, yis; I'm after thim lazy divils of sarvints mesilf; I'm thinking I'll be the death of that Jupe yit. And where are ye goin', Miss Maguire, av I may make bowld to inquire of yer ladyship?" she called after that young person, who was rushing back into the kitchen at their approach.
               "I jist wint to feel a look at the front doore," quavered the maiden, who had wept till she had no eyes to mention.
               "Miss Maguire," returned Nora, in a suppressed voice that had an awful threat in it, "I'll give ye somethin' else to fale, av ye don't git to yer work."
               "It's did up," moaned Maguire. "O don't be haird on me, Nora dear, for I'm kilt wid the grafe that's in me."
               "And how do ye think the poor lamb up stairs can bear it? Your grafe, indade! git out wid ye! don't let me hear no more; it's impudence, that's what it is. It's none of your buryin' anyhow, and ye'll plase to remimber it."
               "She means well," Aunt Hilda said, as Maguire fled with stifled sobs into the kitchen.
               "O, manes!" cried Nora. "Stip into the dining-room a minnit, Mrs. Gallagher, me dear."
               Aunt Hilda followed her. As soon as the door was shut Nora's grim composure gave way, and she howled worse than Miss Maguire at her weakest moments, while Aunt Hilda crooned a shrill soprano to her contralto moans, and they both relieved their feelings greatly.
               "I'm an old fool!" choked Aunt Hilda.
               "Me head's no more good nor a cabbage!" groaned Nora. "O the masther! O the poor young misthress—oh! oh!"
               "I shall never be worth sixpence again!" cried Aunt Hilda; "Abelard Straight might trample on my grandfather's grave and I shouldn't mind!"
               At that moment Jupe in the kitchen struck up a doleful funeral hymn which he deemed proper to the occasion, and it brought back Nora's self-control. She dried her eyes on her sleeve, swooped down upon the inconsiderate Jupe, flung her apron dexterously over his head and arms, and having him thus pinioned, she performed a dirge on his shins with her copper-toed shoes, while Lucy Kenwyn, who had come up and was sitting by the fire, wept quietly and sighed at intervals—"Amen, amen! We're here to-morrow and gone to-day! Don't freight the misthress, Mr. Jupiter, dear! O what a day, what a day! Ye'll leave no skin on him, Miss Nora—for these and all others, amen! I feel my hair fall out for grief and love; I wish I could have goed for him. Honor Maguire, that kettle's got no water in it, there'll be a crack—all flesh is grass—don't disturb the meetin', Mr. Jupiter, dear—you're black, but you can love! O dear—O dear, I wish I'd folleyed my sister's silent babbies and I'd have missed this day! Give over, Miss Nora, or you'll be barefeeted; copper toes even can't stand it—O woe, woe!"
               Jupe, with one final howl of agony, made a violent effort, extricated himself from his assailant, fled as fast as his aching legs would permit, and presently could be seen in the back porch, rolling up his breeches to examine his injuries, while Miss Maguire, watching from the window, groaned in sympathy, for his brown shins were as beautifully tattooed as if he had been a cannibal chief fresh from some South-Sea island. Nora administered a sounding slap on Miss Maguire's ear, sat down on the hearth and cried for a little, then picked herself up and went about her work in a dreadful silence, upon which even Lucy Kenwyn did not venture to intrude.
               The day wore by; Margaret did not leave her chamber; in the cabins of the workmen was desolation and the voice of mourning; at the mines the toil went on without result, and over the whole village brooded an unwonted stillness like that which might be kept by the survivors after an earthquake away on the Pacific shore.
               With the exception of two bodies, all were recovered before noon—the missing ones were Prescott and the overseer; there had been, it was supposed, no opportunity for them to reach the main road in which most of the others were found. Every body knew that the task was utterly hopeless, still it was continued; it would go on, if necessary, for days—but it would only be to dig two mangled, unrecognizable shapes out of that black tomb and prepare them for another grave.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLV.
               THE STORY TOLD.
               THE three days passed quietly enough at Tamarack Lake; the surgeon pronounced Seaton on the high road to recovery; the fever had abated, and his mind was perfectly steady.
               Below stairs, the household had fallen into its ordinary routine; Turner allowed himself to be persuaded that he was not going to die, and after taking any quantity of colored water and bread-pills, which the surgeon administered with a profound gravity that impressed his patient wonderfully, Turner admitted that he felt strengthened, able to get out of bed and live a little longer. His airs of invalidism were very amusing to Mrs. Ross and the young doctor, and he talked incessantly about his own case as if he were a second Lazarus newly resuscitated from the tomb.
               "I couldn't stand another such attack, ma'am," he said to Mrs. Ross and the surgeon several times; "it's a moral to a man when he goes so fur that he can hear the doors of death a squeaking as if they needed ile; but, thanks to Dr. Sims, I'm recuperated up and it's a mercy, for I've a little hip-complainted boy that was throwed off the kitching-table, dependent on me. Mebby they bain't showed him to you yet, sir—my little topple-sided Davy; Mrs. Turner never thinks of nothing that might be soothing to our guests."
               The doctor had seen the pretty, patient little creature with his worn face and his wistful eyes, and had held many consultations with Mrs. Ross about him, but there was nothing to be done beyond employing medicines to alleviate his pain, until it should please God to let him go back among the angels.
               Turner fortunately avoided Seaton's chamber; he had an idea that any kind of illness was contagious, and considered his guest's malady as easy to catch as small-pox. There was no possible precaution which he neglected in his own behalf—from wearing a bag of camphor in his waistcoat, to keeping his hair deluged with vinegar till he smelled like an apothecary's shop. To increase his sufferings, he read an account in a newspaper of some accident owing to a loaded pistol left where it had no business, and he immediately locked in the garret two rusty old guns with broken triggers, lest they should explode unexpectedly and hurt him, though neither of the weapons had been in a state to load within the memory of man.
               "A body can't be too precautions," he said, when his wife expressed her contempt of his folly, "and it's my dooty to be keerful of myself on little Davy's account, for he'd have no rampart if I was gone. You're not to be trusted, Miss Turner, with all your consatiness, you know you're not; you throwed the little lamb off the kitching-table and hip-complainted him for life."
               He never failed to tell her that at least three times each day year after year, though the accident had occurred while she was dangerously ill, and he might be supposed accountable rather than she.
               Mrs. Ross, with her cheerfulness and her familiarity with illness, was a great comfort to Gay during that season, and as soon as she was able to believe Seaton's life not in danger, the poor girl had more rest from anxiety than she had known for months.
               It was now a week since his accident; the fever left him, and the wounded arm was in a fair way to recover speedily, but the surgeon would not permit him to rise or make any exertion, and after a few trials which proved to him how feeble he was, Seaton submitted to the edict more patiently than could have been expected. During the first days, while partially delirious, he would scarcely allow Gay out of his sight, and he was not much less exacting now that he began to insist on the privileges of convalescence.
               She had been reading to him one afternoon, but glancing up from her book she saw by his face that he had ceased to listen, and stopped, thinking that he was weary. The moment her voice paused he roused himself and looked towards her inquiringly.
               "I have read too long," she said; "you are tired."
               He shook his head.
               "I don't believe you have heard a syllable for the last ten minutes," she continued smiling.
               "But I heard your voice," he answered; "that always quiets me. I believe I was not listening to the words; I was thinking—thinking."
               "But you are not to think; you are to be as much like a vegetable or an oyster as is possible with that excitable brain of yours."
               "I don't seem to take kindly to the molluscalescent state," he said; "there's no keeping these tired fancies quiet."
               "What do you think about, Noel?" she asked, for during his illness it had become so natural to address him by his Christian name, that she did it unconsciously.
               "Always about one thing; I can't keep away from it if I try."
               "But the doctor says you are not to think. You are a prisoner, and must obey orders."
               "Your prisoner then, Gay, and you could end the fancies that disturb me so much."
               "When you get stronger we will talk about them," she replied, understanding now what he meant, and afraid of the effect of any excitement upon him.
               "I shall not get strong while my mind is so restless," he said with his old persistence; "I shall fret and fume until there will be no possibility of it."
               She did not reply; she had determined days before, that as soon as he was able to bear it, he should be made acquainted with every reason for her conduct. She thought now that she had been wrong in not telling him the whole truth at first, but she had loved him so well, and had wished to spare herself a little; it had been so hard to think of enduring the full measure of his wrath and scorn, since no change in his vindictive judgments seemed possible.
               "You know what I mean," he went on, after waiting an instant for her to answer. "You are more of an enigma to me than ever. If you loved me best of all human beings you could not have been more patient and tender, during this time; it was not merely from duty; I was never so delirious but I could understand that. Gay, why have you persisted in keeping me from you all these months? why did you reject my love?"
               "Not now," she said; "we must not talk now."
               "Yes, now! I tell you I can't get well while I am so troubled."
               "But if I have nothing to say that can bring you peace—"
               "I don't believe it," he interrupted. "See here! For a long time I could think you hesitated because you did not credit the fullness of my love. When we parted in the autumn, I tried to believe you as heartless and cold as you appeared, but I can't, I can't! There is some reason back of it all, and I must know it."
               "I will tell you every thought in my heart," she answered bravely, "but not yet. I don't hesitate for myself, but you must have quiet."
               "I never shall until then! Talk to me, Gay; let me know every thing."
               He raised himself on the pillow, his eyes began to light up, and the red came into his cheeks; whatever effect their conversation might have upon him, it seemed that this fever of suspense would do him more harm.
               "You believe that I love you, Gay; with all my heart and soul; with the real love that can never change—own that."
               "I do believe you love me," she said, and though her voice trembled, he caught the thrill of womanly triumph in the tone, which revealed her pride and contentment in that affection.
               "God bless you!" he whispered. "You never admitted this before."
               He turned his head away for an instant, but looked back at her with a tender smile that made his face soft and beautiful.
               "I don't wonder you were afraid of me," he said; "I have been so bad-tempered and violent that you had reason to distrust me."
               "I don't think I was afraid of that," she answered softly.
               "Do you know what you are saying?" he asked quickly. "Do you know that is almost a confession, Gay?"
               "It would be useless for me to make any, Noel."
               "Now what do you mean? That is another of those enigmatical speeches that always vexed me! Be frank, Gay! You said things 
                     the the
                     the
                   other night, which made me feel there was some reason back that I knew nothing of, which kept you away from me. I have not forgotten a word through all these days and nights; no matter how much my mind wandered, I always remembered that."
               "I know," she said, like one thinking aloud; "waking or sleeping, you talked of it constantly. Poor Noel!"
               "You don't want to give me up," he cried; "it is a pain to you! Tell me the truth, Gay; own that you do care."
               "I told you that I must not make confessions," she said, "they could do no good."
               "No good? Look at me; see how I suffer! Can you allow any feeling to keep you from ending this pain?"
               She was alarmed by the excitement of his manner and the feverish flush that dyed his cheeks.
               "You must be quiet, Noel," she said soothingly, but with a certain firmness by which she had been able to control him during his worst moments. "I can't talk to you unless you try. You will do yourself harm."
               "Answer me and I will—I can't be quiet otherwise! I live over all the agony of these past months, and I have suffered so, Gay, I have suffered so."
               "I think nothing I could say would end the pain," she said in a dreary, hopeless voice. "Even now you had better let me say good-bye forever."
               Her tone sounded fairly cold and cruel from the great effort she made to speak, but he was leaning forward so that he could see her face; there was no mistaking its expression; it was livid with suffering. He caught her hands and held them fast, exclaiming,
               "You do care for me! O, what keeps us apart? I am not deceiving myself; you do care."
               "Let me go," she said faintly. "I ought to have told you the truth long since; that was what I meant to do, but I could not bear to endure such utter hatred as must follow."
               "I could not hate you, Gay; no matter what came, I could not hate you! I think I have tried, but I loved you most when I was most angry. Say that you value my love—that you care for me."
               "I do care," she replied slowly.
               "Then what separates us? Nothing can—nothing shall!"
               She motioned him to be silent.
               "What separates us?" she repeated. "The grave of the man whom you loved."
               He could not comprehend; he was dizzy and sick with the whirl of struggling thoughts.
               "Don't you understand?" she cried out, and the voice was like that of one in the agonies of martyrdom. "I am the woman you have loathed and hated for years—the woman for whom Charles Murray shot himself."
               There was an instant's silence, then she heard Seaton exclaim,
               "You were innocent! It is all a horrible dream—but you were innocent!"
               She leaned back in her seat, her eyes closed, her white lips framed the whisper.
               "Thank God!"
               He did not attempt to touch her hand—did not speak. The ghost of that dead man seemed to stand between them; the recollection of the solemn oath he had sworn came back, but he knew that the impulse which dictated his words had been true. She was innocent.
               "May I tell you?" she asked at length. "All this time I have held my peace; may I tell you? He wrote me that you would know. I wanted to speak when we first met; but I have borne it alone—all alone."
               He had turned his face away, but as she spoke he stretched out his hand and laid it on hers. He thought that if they had never met till now and he heard her speak in that voice he should believe in her truth.
               "The whole," he muttered; "tell me the whole."
               The poor, miserable story was brief enough; she told it, not trying to screen herself, but it was plain where the fault lay. She had lived through the agony, the first horrible remorse, and learned to feel that she was blameless. She could tell it so quietly that her very effort to soften the errors of that dead man showed her innocence.
               Soon after her father's death she had gone with her uncle to Cuba to spend the winter, and she met Murray there. He plunged at once into a reckless, violent love which touched her, because, in her youth and inexperience, that very passion seemed an evidence of its truth. She was very lonely, very sad; her happy, thoughtless career had so suddenly been blotted out, and the affection of this impulsive man was pleasant to her. She allowed herself to be urged into a hasty engagement, but almost from the first she felt how wrong she had been, and could perceive not only the dangerous faults of his character, but that her feeling for him was more a tender, anxious regard than any other sentiment,
               He was dissipated, and even the engrossing happiness of their betrothal could not keep him from yielding to his vicious habits. But for that very reason she bore with him; she was afraid of doing him harm, forcing him still more rapidly into evil ways if she attempted other than gentle expostulation. Added to the rest he was horribly jealous, and though, owing to her recent mourning and her uncle's health, she was living very quietly, scarcely a day passed that his impossible temper did not give rise to some dreadful scene. Gay had numerous acquaintances among wealthy Havanese who had visited New York during her season of magnificence, and though she refused to go out they would visit and pay her every kind of delicate, friendly attention.
               Murray was rabidly jealous of any man that approached her, and at last settled upon one in particular—a Spaniard who had been an intimate friend of her father's, and whom she could not treat coldly in spite of her desire to do every thing which might appease the exacting selfishness of her lover. One night Murray insulted this man grossly in some public place, received a challenge, and they fought, though Gay's name was not in any manner involved in the affair. Prescott had arrived in Havana only a few days before, and was cognizant of the facts of the quarrel, but notwithstanding he was an old friend of Murray's he blamed him entirely. It was he who told Gay the history of the duel; Murray had informed him of their engagement, and when the news of the meeting reached her, unable to find out the truth, she wrote for Prescott and made him relate the entire story. The Spaniard was dangerously wounded, but owing to his generosity the matter remained a secret and Murray was not molested. The evening after the affray, Murray sent her word that he was coming to see her. Prescott had informed him that she knew the whole. But before the hour he had set arrived, she received a message from Señor Yznaris; he believed himself dying and pleaded to see her. She could not refuse a request thus urged, and went with his sister to his house. He was noble enough to extenuate Murray's rash behavior, for Gay had been some time before obliged to tell him of her engagement in order to make his attentions less assiduous.
               While she was absent, Murray came, discovered where she had gone, and, mad with jealousy and wine, could see only one reason for her conduct. She had thrown him over—she meant to marry this Spaniard for his title and his wealth. He rushed home and no one ever saw him alive again. His last act was to write and post two letters—one for Gay, the other addressed to Seaton in France. He went back to his rooms; late in the night the house was roused by the report of a pistol. His chamber was broken open; they found him stretched on the floor. He was dying.
               Perhaps in that final moment his senses partially cleared from the madness which had disordered them for days; at all events, he could speak some last words which made it believed that the pistol had gone off accidentally, and the story never was disputed. When Gay rose the next morning she received the news of his death, and his terrible letter was placed in her hands.
               She told it all very quietly—the poor story that might have been made so dramatic and sensational, though the mere facts sound tame and bald. Seaton did not once interrupt her; he lay motionless, his face hidden by his hand. He was shuddering at the resemblance between the character of this unfortunate man and his own wayward youth; appalled at his own wickedness, as any one who has harbored thoughts of revenge must be when he is forced to look them in the face without the false glitter of pretended justice and right.
               "I think," Gay continued with the same forced composure, "that I should have gone mad during those first days but for Alan Prescott. My uncle was in such wretched health that I dared not talk with him, and he had not known of my engagement; Yznaris was ill; I should have been quite alone except for Prescott. He made me feel that I was wicked to give way to remorse—that, however faulty I might have been, I had tried to do the best I could."
               Seaton murmured something with his face still concealed, but she did not catch the words.
               "That is all," she said; "there is nothing more to tell. When I first met you and you seemed attracted towards me, I wanted to tell you the truth, but I could not bear to, and you know I did not trust your love. I was afraid of impulsive men; I had reason to be."
               "My poor Gay!" she heard him whisper.
               "You can forgive me; you don't hate me?" she asked in the same unnatural tone. "I used to think you would believe me till I saw by many allusions what a terrible effect Murray's story had made on your mind; and then last autumn when you told it all—oh, I could not speak! Better you should think me a coquette than endure the whole burden of your hatred."
               He repeated her name—he could not do more yet, but the tenderness, the passion in the accent told her that she was believed.
               
               "You don't hold me guilty," she said. "O, let me hear you say that I am innocent! Often I have thought if he could only come back and tell me so—could hear my forgiveness and I receive his—but I have borne it alone—all alone."
               Seaton raised himself on the pillow and once more extended his hands. She sank on her knees by the bed and felt his trembling fingers rest softly on her hair.
               "Pray to God to forgive me," he said; "I need it."
               "And you do think me innocent?"
               "I once thought if I could learn that woman's name, I should have something to do," he said brokenly; "I was right, but it is a work of expiation. As I believe in the mercy of heaven, I believe that we here on earth are permitted to help him! See; can you take my hand, Gay? Can you trust me—believe that the last of my arrogant youth has gone out in this revelation which teaches me how miserable and blind I have been?"
               "I do trust you; I do believe you, Noel."
               "And love me?" She hesitated an instant, but as he repeated the question, she replied in a voice so solemn that it meant volumes more than any maidenly shyness could have done, "I do love you!"
               Seaton wound his arm about her neck, and lifted her face so that he could look into her eyes.
               "O my beloved," he whispered, "we will go forward together! At least he is permitted to know that God has saved him from wholly wrecking a human life."
               There was little more said at the time; it was not easy to talk in these first moments. Seaton was so thoroughly exhausted by the agitation that he was content to lie back on the pillow, holding fast to Gay's hand, and float off into a pleasant, dreamless sleep, from which he woke strengthened and refreshed, able to feel that the night had come suddenly to an end, and that the new morning which should never fade had dawned about his way.
               He would not allow Gay to reproach herself for having so long kept back her vindication.
               "I had no right to know," he said, "till I came to you with my love; and I was so passionate and wrong-headed, so blind in my wicked resentment, that you could have no encouragement to trust me with the truth."
               But such talk was for later times, when he could sit up and leave his room, feel life and strength come rapidly back, and begin to dream of the future. To-day it was enough to lie there and know that she was near, and watch the afternoon fade softly into night with a feeling of rest, such as his whole life had never offered.
               It faded, too, with Margaret sitting alone in her chamber from which the sunlight had been all day shut out—waiting,—waiting, as she had done during that round of days and nights which seemed an eternity to look back upon. She kept a terrible count of the hours—each one longer than common years—and the stroke of the clock had been like a knell that killed another hope. She could only think of Prescott now lying helpless in the cavern—his last gasping breath stifled in the suffocating atmosphere—perhaps uttering her name; realizing every pang so acutely, that her own breath seemed to fail and she wondered if she were dying—permitted to go at the same moment with him. But she knew it was all fancy—she must live—that was to be her punishment—to live! She repeated the words, and the wind that moaned faintly past the casement seemed to re-echo them like the whispers of reproachful spirits. So she sat there in her solitude, counting time by the variable pulsations of her tortured heart, which at one moment appeared to cease beating, then throbbed and struggled as if trying to wear itself out and be at rest.
               Aunt Hilda had stolen out of the house and gone up to the mines; she had already made numberless pilgrimages to the dreary scene during the day, but it was a kind of relief, painful as it was, to witness the funereal work that went ceaselessly on, watched always by scores of eager, pallid faces.
               Suddenly, in the gloom of her chamber. Margaret heard another sound besides the moan of the wind; the tread of hurrying feet came up from without; eager, subdued voices exchanging quick words. Aunt Hilda's step echoed in the hall—on the stairs—moving softly towards the chamber, and Margaret knew that her purgatory of suspense was over—the horrible grave had been forced at last and her husband's body found.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLVI.
               THE GRAVE OPENED.
               WHEN Prescott and the overseer got out of the car in the darkness of the mine on that fatal Monday morning, they stopped for a few moments in the main road to speak of the errand that had brought them to two or three of the more experienced miners whom they chanced to meet with the little lamps on their caps shining upon their blackened faces and stained garments till they looked like a company of evil spirits come to explain the mysteries of Hades to their adventurous human visitors.
               After that, Prescott and the overseer turned off by themselves to visit the drift which was the object of special suspicion, Coyle lighting a powerful reflector that he had brought with him for the purpose of showing the ominous fissures more plainly. There was no work going on in this portion of the mine, and it required very little examination to convince Prescott that the overseer was right, and that measures must be taken at once for propping the roof more solidly, and perhaps in certain places filling up the deserted chambers altogether.
               They left there, and went farther down the road to examine some other part of the cavern. Here they turned off from the main track again and wandered for more than half a mile through the dark silence; such of the men as were at their labor that morning being all in the drifts of the new mine, and within easy reach of the principal road.
               Suddenly there burst upon their ears that appalling roar which had sounded like thunder to those without, but in the recesses of the cavern pealed and reverberated with a noise so deafening that it fairly stunned the two unfortunates. Prescott heard the overseer exclaim,
               "Great God, the mine is falling in!"
               They turned to flee. The overseer stumbled over a pile of rock and fell prostrate; the lantern was thrown out of his hand and extinguished. One fearful echo of human cries came up from the far distance; a second time that rush of the falling hill shook the ground, and made the rocky roof above their heads creak and totter like a fabric of reeds.
               The overseer was thrown back in his effort to rise, and Prescott only saved himself from a fall by dropping on his knees.
               "I have lost the matches," Coyle said.
               Prescott drew a box from his pocket, lighted one and found the lantern; as he kindled the wick, the third avalanche rocked the earth. An awful silence followed. They started to their feet and ran; a cloud of dust, like fine ashes, met them, and they had to turn their backs for an instant. They flew on, keeping side by side, neither speaking, animated by the same thought—to reach the new portion of the mine before another explosion. They ran with the speed of desperation, but ere much more than half the distance was accomplished, they knew that they might as well have awaited death where they stood; the storm of dust grew more dense. It was not that; in the light of the reflector there towered before them a wall of slate and coal which had settled so suddenly from the height above, that it was almost as regular and unbroken as the original bed before the miner's drill had smitten it.
               With one groan of agony the overseer fell to the ground, and his cry struck Prescott with a dread new and worse.
               "Buried alive! buried alive!"
               "No, no," he answered; "we can't be. We can get over this; perhaps the way beyond is free."
               Coyle lifted his lantern, and shot the rays from one portion of the wall to another—no break—no opening.
               "Buried alive!" he repeated, and Prescott caught himself echoing the words half aloud.
               It was like a horrible nightmare; it could not be real; it would pass presently, and he should find himself on his bed, able to thank God that it was only a dream.
               "My babies! my three babies!" he heard Coyle whispering to himself; "and the old mother too!"
               A sense of the truth in all its horror flashed upon Prescott; he crouched down on the ground and leaned his head upon his hands. He was thinking of Margaret; she would have heard the noise—perhaps at that moment was with the crowd gathered outside their prison. He waited for another explosion, but there was no sound—only the heavy sobbing breath of the man by his side met his ear.
               "The roof seems safe enough now," he said.
               "Ay," returned Coyle bitterly; "and the wall's safe enough too! There'll be no more fall; better if we'd staid in the old drift and been killed outright."
               "They will begin to dig at once—"
               "O man, don't cheat yourself! They may dig; it would be days afore they could reach us if they knew just where we were! But they might dig all about us and not find us, and we hear the sounds of the picks, and not be able to make our voices reach them."
               "Are you hurt, Coyle?"
               "Not to speak on; I bruised my side a little."
               Another brief silence.
               "Coyle," asked Prescott; "how long could we live here?"
               "Maybe till we starve," returned he with the obduracy of despair; "maybe the mine'll fill with gas and we'll choke in a few hours; I don't know."
               Prescott took up the lantern and extinguished it.
               "What's that for?" asked his companion.
               "We are only wasting the light."
               "That's true; though we shan't need one to die by."
               Prescott did not answer; the conversation only unnerved him. He knew that the overseer was a stout-hearted fellow, and would rally presently. They might make some effort; any way, the paralyzing fear would pass and leave their minds freer to act. He could hear his watch tick; the moments seemed hours. The air appeared to grow more dense; he knew that it was partially fancy, but in that darkness it was difficult to keep any restraint upon his imagination.
               There was a new sound; a dull creaking of the wall—a slow, steady settling—a torrent of dust and slate from the top, falling with a heavy thud.
               "It's coming," Coyle said.
               "It is falling on the other side," returned Prescott, as soon as he could speak.
               They waited—it was still again; even the rain of dust was not in their direction.
               "Light the lantern, sir," Coyle exclaimed in an altered voice.
               Prescott obeyed. They were both on their feet now; looking up to the wall, they could see that a portion from the top had slid off, leaving a dark aperture.
               "We may be able to crawl through," Coyle said; "it may fall on us. We can try; better go at once; it mayn't settle any more for some time."
               
               He mounted the wall by means of the projecting points of coal, and called to Prescott to reach him the lantern. He climbed on till he could hold the light into the cavity.
               "It seems to be all free beyond," he said; "can you get up?"
               Prescott followed him without a word. It was an arduous task; their hands were torn and bleeding; the passage through which they crawled would just admit their bodies as they crept feet foremost. While they were in the middle of the tortuous opening there was another creak and stir in the rock; they could hear the fragments tumbling down upon the place they had left. Presently Coyle said,
               "I'm at the end! Let me hold on to your foot; I'll hang the lantern down and see what it's like."
               A wall such as they had climbed up; he got down with considerable difficulty, and seated himself to rest on the ground, holding the lamp so that Prescott could see. A new hope sprang up in Prescott's heart as his feet touched the earth once more, though there was no gleam of light but that east by the lantern.
               "Have you any idea where we are?" he asked.
               "I can tell, likely," Coyle replied, gathering himself up. They walked on without meeting any obstruction, turning up and down the archways of adjacent drifts. Suddenly Prescott's foot hit against some object that gave a tinkling sound—he stooped and picked it up; it was an oil-can holding two quarts, and almost full.
               "Keep it," Coyle said grimly; "we may live long enough to have that ile choicer drink than champagne."
               They walked on in silence for a time, 
                     Pres
                     Prescott
                   feeling his hopes dashed by his companion's tone.
               "Here we are," Coyle said at last; "here's the main track."
               "Thank God!" exclaimed Prescott.
               "O man, man!" groaned the other; "what good do ye think it is to us? We may walk on a while, then we'll come to a wall of solid earth nigh half a mile thick! There, now you know the worst, so don't let's cheat ourselves."
               "We can try; come on, Coyle! There must be gaps like this one, We may get near enough to make our voices heard."
               "Come on," replied Coyle, without a note of hopefulness in his voice. "We may as well walk—walk; the sooner our strength gives out, the better for us."
               "Do you mean there is no hope, Coyle?"
               "Come on till we see! no, 'tain't any good to haggle. I know what we'll meet; a solid wall that'll never open in time to let daylight through for us."
               They marched for a tedious distance; then the way began to be strewn with great fragments of coal—heaps of dust—then the light of the lantern showed a stretch of black wall, as Coyle had predicted. The overseer pointed towards it without another word. The two men sat down staring straight before them into the darkness; never glancing at each other's faces where there was reflected such livid despair.
               The hours crept on; no sound broke the stillness; hunger and thirst began to make themselves felt; some trouble for breath, as if the air gradually grew more dense. There was a confusion in Prescott's mind; whether the hours pointed to those of evening, or night had passed, and the blessed light of day shone in the world above—the light which he should never see again.
               Coyle talked very little; he was a taciturn man at all times, and he so far accepted his fate with the quiet obstinacy that made the bottom of his character.
               "It's getting on to evening," he said at last, as Prescott took out his watch.
               "It is half-past six."
               "Seems like day after to-morrow to you, I'll be bound—I know! I expect we could eat if you thought it was worth while."
               "Where should we get any thing?"
               "The men must have left their dinner-pails. I hadn't thought on it afore; we'll look."
               They began searching about the adjacent drifts; they found two of the tin pails which miners use, having a can attached that held cold coffee.
               "One apiece," said Coyle; "share and share alike. Here's a couple of pickaxes too; we'll take 'em."
               "You think we are the only ones left in the mine."
               "Yes, just as I said; most of the others was nigh enough to get to the mouth, I think; probably there's some buried in that wall there; but they're luckier than we, for they're dead."
               They went back to the place where they had been sitting; the night wore on. Sometimes a rat scampered desperately past; sometimes they spoke a few words to one another, but not often, and at length they both slept from sheer exhaustion.
               When Prescott woke, Coyle was moving about. He heard Prescott stir and called to ask the hour. It was seven o'clock.
               "I've found a little gap to one side," Coyle said, "after we've eat some breakfast, we may as well work at it; that'll pass the time, anyhow."
               They did work; they toiled manfully; they broke through the wall only to find themselves in a closer vault, so crept back to their starting-place, and flung down their tools in speechless desperation. For hours they sat motionless; they started up and toiled again in a new direction, with no more result than before, only that their prostration and despair were increased.
               "Night again!" groaned Coyle, when Prescott told him the hour. "We're a mortal long time dying—mortal long."
               Their coffee was gone, and they were consumed with a raging thirst; at last Coyle found a spring for which he had searched in vain during the day; the water was cold and sweet, and they drank it eagerly.
               That night passed; no sleep now, or only troubled visions which were worse than the hours of their waking moments. Their food was exhausted. When they went back to the spring it was empty; the convulsion of the earth had turned its source; that which they had found was left in the hollow of the rocks—it had all oozed out through a crevice.
               "O Lord," moaned Coyle, "let us die! Why have we got to be tortured; we're no worse than other men. Lord, let us die!"
               He completely lost control of himself; he raved till he sank into a stupor, from which he would rouse at intervals to tell of fruit-trees covered with ripe apples that he could not reach; a swift running brook sounded in his car and he could not find it—water—water—bread! He was locked in a vault, and Prescott was his keeper and would not feed him. Let him get up—a little more strength and he'd have it—he'd have it! Prescott knew that a worse horror menaced him; that of being shut there in the dark with a raving maniac. At last Coyle slept and woke more rational; there was a crust of bread left in the pail, a few drops of coffee in the can; Prescott fed them to him and he ate greedily.
               "I can't die here," Coyle said presently. "Somehow I feel stronger; I'm going to try the spot again we worked at yesterday."
               They did try it; they hammered and hacked the wall, and tumbled piles of rocks and clouds of dust down upon their heads—at last the mass yielded with a dull crush, giving them admittance into another succession of drifts. No gleam of light; no sound but a rush of imprisoned rats that fled past them; nothing eatable but an old lamp-wick lying on the earth which Coyle picked up and chewed eagerly.
               They lay down again; the agony that had before been endured was nothing to the suffering of these hours. At times Coyle was quite mad, and would have dashed himself against the sharp stones if Prescott had not held him fast; then he lay back panting for breath, and begging Prescott to pray—only that they might die speedily; he did not ask for release now—only to die. Prescott felt his own brain going; the pressure there was so great from mental suffering, and the physical pain brought on by want of air, that he suffered little comparatively from hunger. He knew that he had grown very weak; if there had been any use in so doing, he could not have struck another blow with the pickaxe.
               Coyle was raving in delirium again; not violent now—begging, praying; at last he became silent and Prescott crouched there alone trying to pray himself—trying to die like a man, knowing that whatever the death might be it was God's will at least.
               In a sort of stupor which had come over him he heard a sound. He did not move; every faculty left was concentrated in that eager listening. It came again; he did not deceive himself; sounds from above—the noise of picks and shovels. The workmen had begun in a new place; near the wall behind which they were confined, where, unknown to them, was a fissure open to the day, only just discovered by those outside.
               "Coyle, Coyle!" he exclaimed.
               "Let me alone! Let me die!" groaned the sufferer.
               "I hear them; they are at work near us. We shall be saved! Get up, man! get up!"
               Coyle raised himself on his elbow and listened, but his senses had grown so dull that he heard nothing.
               "Only fancies," he moaned;" I had 'em in the night. It's no good—no good."
               "But listen—there—there!"
               Coyle heard it too now; he tried to struggle to his feet, but could barely sit upright. They shouted both together; their voices rang dismally through the vaulted arches and did not penetrate above. There was a new stillness; it seemed as if the work had ceased, and this time Prescott knew that he too must go mad. It began again—thud—thud—beat—beat—nearer—nearer. Once more they raised their voices in a wild shout; with that fearful shriek Coyle's strength yielded and he rolled back upon the ground insensible.
               Prescott felt his senses going. He had just reason enough left to make one other effort. A silence followed his shriek; he yelled again; the beat of shovels and picks—the roar of voices—told him that he had been heard; then he too fell back upon the ground.
               He was partially sensible; it seemed days—weeks—years—that he lay there. He wanted to move—the falling earth might crush him; he could not stir—could not lift his hands—he was suffocating! He opened his eyes as a louder ring of metal brought back his faculties for an instant; there was a gleam of light swimming before his sight—then he floated off, off into utter darkness and knew no more.
               The men without toiled with new courage and strength; the last barrier gave way; the foremost could descend into the cavity. The shout which went up told the scores of watchers on the hill that the work was done. Prescott chanced to be the first raised into the free air; he was carried to a shed near and a doctor came to his aid. After a little search Coyle was found and brought out in turn.
               It was soon known that they lived. Aunt Hilda only waited for that; then, faster than she had ever run in her life, she started for the house—outstripping those who followed—never pausing for breath till she reached the lawn and could just shout to Nora,
               "Found! found!"
               Margaret heard the voice—the tread of feet on the stairs. She tried to reach the door—could only hold fast to her chair as it opened and Aunt Hilda entered.
               
               "He's found—he's alive—oh my deary, my deary."
               Margaret dropped on the floor without even a gasp, but the insensibility was very short; before the bearers of her husband reached the house she had recovered and was waiting to meet them.
               They brought Prescott in and laid him on a sofa in the parlor. There was nobody left besides herself, but the doctor and Aunt Hilda, who were working over him. "He has spoken," the doctor said; "he will come to again in a moment."
               A groan—a movement of the worn frame; the wild, eager eyes opened and rested on Margaret's face; the feeble voice answered her thrilling cry; the shaking hands tried to respond to the passionate embrace in which her arms encircled him, while her very soul seemed going out in prayers of gratitude. He was saved!
            
            
               CHAPTER XLVII.
               IN THE LIGHT.
               THE village felt that it had endured a great deal and that it ought to be made an incorporated city at least as a reward; but when, in addition to the recovery of Prescott and his fellow-sufferer, it became known that Mr. Seaton had been all this time lying ill at Tamarack Lake nursed by Mrs. Ross and Miss Van Kortland, the village went quite out of its poor little senses.
               The wildest rumors were afloat. Prescott had wounded him in a duel; Miss Van Kortland had shot him; Margaret had done it; he had accidently hurt himself; and at length people got so tired confusing their brains with new stories they were forced to settle down to the prosaic fact that there had been nothing the matter beyond the injury he received in his fall from the sledge.
               Prescott was a hero, of course, though people became very indignant because they were not allowed to rush in crowds to see him; but they made up for it by tormenting poor Coyle with visits until he told his mother at last that he thought he would rather have staid in the mine and done with it.
               Before a week passed. Prescott was quite himself again, and he knew that the fullness of happiness he longed for had been granted him. Margaret told him every, thing: there was no shadow of a secret between them now, and lying with her head upon his breast, his loving arms holding her close, she whispered the little story that made amends for all; she loved him, and when the summer waned, there would be a new treasure granted to make their bliss more perfect.
               Prescott had very old-fashioned ideas in certain respects. I dare say most modern young husbands will think him a muff, but he was delighted at the idea of the baby, and the gossips were excessively shocked at the want of modesty displayed both by Margaret and himself. Fortunately before many weeks had gone, the husband and wife bade farewell to Upsden, and as they were not likely ever to return unless for a short stay, the opinions of the townsfolk, however valuable to themselves, were of very slight consequence to any body else.
               But other startling events took place before that. Some ten days after the accident in the mine, the party from Tamarack Lake came down to the valley, and Gay and Seaton settled themselves at Crosslands. Mrs. Ross and Aunt Hilda were both provokingly silent in regard to matters, but they went about with the air of women who could tell a long story if they chose, and their neighbors felt that they ought to be burned alive for not doing so.
               Mrs. Ross found a great deal to occupy her at home, as she was obliged to break off a courtship that had begun between Lucy Kenwyn and Dan Simmons.
               "It's Alzady Mari's wish," pleaded Dan. "She's ben to me a heap o' times; we shouldn't ort to go agin speritooal wills."
               "O Miss Rossy," whimpered Lucy, "I never thought to wed. Once is enough for me arter the last experience as I had with a lovyier, but Dan he worrited me so. I don't want to go agin the sperits! I've buried one; I've had one stoled; I've lost little childers and 'ave had silent babbies! I didn't go to do it, but Dan he says it's the sperits' wull, and that Fendower Sowder he, writ word by Alzady Mari, and what is to be is—for these and all others, etcetera, amen."
               But Mrs. Ross was firm in her cruelty, and prevented the match, a measure which Lucy appreciated more gratefully later than she did at the time, as Dan's weakness for spiritous liquors rapidly increased, and even Alzady Mari's ghostly counsels did not appear to have the slightest effect.
               "You was right, Miss Rossy," Lucy used to say. "If Alzady Mari, a coming in the sperit can't straighten him out, what could a poor cretur like me do, though my hair falls out for love. No, no; I'm jined to the Pristicals and there I'll rest, and on my tomb-head you shall read, Harriet Lucy Kenwyn Fendower Sowder he, ralict, and aged what the Lord may please—amen—amen."
               The quiet days passed rapidly, and Gay felt gratefully that she could be content to rest forever in this new peace which had settled upon her life. For a little, Seaton left her undisturbed with importunities, but when his strength was so fully restored that he was able to go back to life and the duties which he was ready now to take upon himself, he opened his heart fully and pleaded for his happiness, nor did he plead long in vain.
               "If you will take me, proud, wayward, and rebellious, you shall have me," Gay said at last; "I'll try to make you a good wife; I will try, Noel."
               He was eager that their marriage should not be delayed, and urged numerous pretexts which he knew would have weight with her.
               "I shall not be able to do without your nursing for ever so long," he said; "and we can't in conscience bore these dear people with our company forever, and you couldn't be with me anywhere else."
               Prescott joined heartily in his pleadings, and Margaret went over to the enemy, too.
               "I could have borne any thing else," Gay declared; "but to have a woman turn against me is too much; especially when she is married herself, and knows all about the slavery."
               "It's a very nice slavery," Margaret averred, and Gay abused her for being mean-spirited and hugging her chains. They both laughed a little and cried a little, and finally Gay went with the most charming humility and told Seaton he should have every thing his own way.
               Gay wrote to Athenäis, expecting to receive a torrent of vituperation in return; instead of which, the Prophetess sent back an ecstatic letter, and a few days before the ceremony, appeared and quartered herself on Mrs. Ross, to give countenance to the affair. She was stouter than ever, and more gorgeous in dress, but she declared that she was wasting to a shadow, and in strict confidence revealed her secret to each of her friends in turn. She had sent the Italian away; he was a disguised prince now. There had been a terrible scene, but though she felt her heart-strings crack, she held firmly to her purpose. He had at last rushed from her presence with frantic vows to destroy himself, and disappeared altogether. It was rumored by ill-natured people that he opened the Prophetess's eyes by trying to borrow money of her; but she did not mention that, nor did she allude to another story current, that he was obliged to leave the country in order to avoid falling into the hands of the police, who were after him on the charge of being a common swindler.
               "I bear it," said Athenäis to Gay; "as I have borne all the griefs of my life—in silence! You see me smile; you dream not what a sepulchre yawns beneath! I am fading—slowly, but surely! I have such will that it supports me, but when the spring-flowers bloom, you will plant them on my grave. Do not weep, Agatha; see, I am calm."
               In ten minutes she would be discussing dress, and forget her misery. She was vexed at the idea of a stupid, quiet wedding in the country; only consoled by the thought that if it had taken place in town, it might have been some expense to her.
               "I have always adored Noel Seaton," she said; "he was always the man I wanted you to marry, but you were obdurate! Ah, Gay, Gay, I think you feel that you owe a portion of your happiness to my counsels."
               The news that Seaton had acquired a large sum by the unexpected rise of Western stocks, which had been left him by his old uncle, probably increased his charms in the eyes of Athenäis, but nobody was ill-natured enough to remind her of the fact, and they allowed her to talk all the nonsense she pleased.
               Mrs. Dane had escaped from the thraldom of the Pitcher and come out to the valley again; she was so happy in the sight of Margaret's content that she forgot her ill-health and was as cheerful as an old robin. Mrs. Ross enjoyed the little excitement greatly, and Aunt Hilda was lifted to the seventh heaven of delight.
               "Though what I shall do when you're all gone, goodness only knows," she said. "Such picturs as you are—such classical pairs! But I'll live on the memory and the hope o' your coming back, and you'll all write to me onct in the while, and Clytemnestry'll come to see me, and me and the gray cat will wear along with Lord Byron and take care of the patch! My patch is a great comfort to me; that and my wart; I always touch it when I cry and it sort of soothes me—it does indeed! Picturs you are and jewels, and I know! Jamdudum splendet focus—heigho! there'll be few to take in a classical quotation after you're gone."
               Nora went about with added dignity and ferocity during these days. She was to remain in charge of the house after the Prescotts left, as a bachelor member of the company meditated coming out to take the control of matters, and Nora loved so well to rule, that the thought of her future grandeur partially consoled her for the loss of her mistress. Jupe and Miss Maguire were able to bear her yoke with more composure than of old, for they would soon escape it. Jupe stumbled about in a state of bliss; he was to be set up in business. Prescott had bought the barber's stand in the village for him; Jupe was to be a man of position, and forget as fast as possible that any woman had ever played dirges on his shins with copper-toed shoes. Maguire the sensitive was about to enter the matrimonial estate with a good-looking young Hibernian, and she felt such contemptuous pity for Nora's winter of desolate spinsterhood, that she endured her reproofs with lofty disdain.
               The days passed quietly on. Lent was over; spring bursting into beauty, and with its approach new hopes and freshness had come to the hearts of those whom we have watched struggling, as we all must at some period of our lives, under the burdens laid upon them.
               It was the close of a bright, beautiful day, and Margaret and Prescott sat by an open window and talked softly of the dear future opening before them, while they could see Gay and Seaton walking up and down the winding paths of the lawn.
               The last glory of the sunset died, and Gay said,
               "We will go in, Noel; you must not stay out any longer."
               They paused on the veranda for a moment. Seaton's hand grasped hers; his eyes looked into her own with such fullness of content and thankfulness, that his whole face changed and brightened—the old life, with its errors and sufferings, faded out of sight forever.
               
               "To-morrow!" he said softly. "I shall have you always with me—my very own—the best part of my soul! You are not afraid to trust me, Gay?"
               She rested her head against his shoulder for an instant as she answered,
               "Not afraid to trust either you or myself, Noel; I love you too well now to have any selfish fears."
               The latest glow faded from the sky; Seaton drew her gently into the house and shut the gathering twilight out behind them.
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
