
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Anna, Louisa, and Nannie, or, The Three Victims .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5583 wright2-0063A
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            ANNA, LOUISA & NANNIE,
            OR, THE THREE VICTIMS;
               
                  
               
               WITH FULL AND CORRECT STATEMENTS OF THE INTRIGUE, DECEPTION,
                  CONSPIRACY, AND MURDER, COMMITTED BY DANIEL LONGRAVE, THE ACCOMPLISHED ACCOMPLICE
                  OF MOTHER HIGGINS.
               PHILADELPHIA:
               PUBLISHED BY M. A. MILLIETTE, 320 CHESTNUT STREET.
               1859.
            
         
         
         

            
               
                  LONGRAVE INTRODUCING HIS FIRST VICTIM.
               
            
         
         
            
               ANNA, LOUISA & NANNIE,
               OR, THE THREE VICTIMS;
            
            
               
            
            
               WITH FULL AND CORRECT STATEMENTS OF THE INTRIGUE, DECEPTION,
                  CONSPIRACY, AND MURDER, COMMITTED BY DANIEL LONGRAVE, THE ACCOMPLISHED ACCOMPLICE
                  OF MOTHER HIGGINS.
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               PUBLISHED BY M. A. MILLIETTE, 320 CHESTNUT STREET.
            
            1859.
         
         
         
            
               
                  
               
               Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1859, by M. A.
                  MILLIETTE, In the Clerks Office of the District Court of the United States in and
                  for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
            
         


      
      
         
            Anna, Louisa, and Nannie, or, The three victims
            ANNA, LOUISA AND NANNIE,
            THE THREE VICTIMS.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               It was a dark, misty evening, about the beginning of November, that a carriage,
                  containing a gentleman and lady, drove up to a house in P—— street. The
                  carriage-door was thrown open by the driver, and the two stepped out upon the wet
                  pavement.
               The lady had a heavy shawl thrown about her shoulders, and a veil completely
                  hiding her face; yet, from her appearance ,and manner, it was observable that she
                  was from the better class of society, and from her graceful and dignified step, it
                  could be seen she was spirited and proud.
               Her male companion was a shrewd, cunning man, well versed in all the passions of
                  the human heart, with bland and affable manners, and a flow of soft, sweet
                  language. His intellect was glittering as the fascinating eye of the serpent, and
                  his cunning, strong and powerful as the loathsome reptile. Fair complexion, black,
                  sparkling eyes, high, commanding forehead, black, glistening hair, dignified,
                  graceful and easy in his movements, perfectly self-possessed and composed in every
                  emergency; and under all circumstances, he was a man well calculated to work
                  intrigue and deception, and become a dangerous man.
               The hackman was dismissed, and the two entered the house and were met by a servant
                  in the hall, who conducted them to a third-story back room, as the dressing (or
                  setting) room of the establishment. The lady thought it strange that the
                  dressing-room was located so far from the parlor; but, for the moment, had not the
                  fortitude to inquire the cause, or express an opinion in regard to it. Of course
                  she was under the protection of the Mr. Longrave, and dare not, under pains and
                  penalties, doubt his sincerity.
               "My dear Louisa," said he, in a soft, bland tone, "you remind me, in grace and
                  dignity, of the lovely Louisa, the wife of the emperor Napoleon, and once Queen of
                  France."
               Louisa turned a look of surprise upon him, while the color mounted to her
                  cheek.
               "Why, Mr. Longrave, what mean you by your pointed compliment?" she asked, rather
                  sternly.
               "Oh, nothing, my dear Louisa, only you remind me so much of a picture I saw of
                  that lovely Queen," he replied, while he approached her with one of the most deceptive and fascinating
                  smiles that ever graced a villain's face.
               "You must desist those compliments, Mr. Longrave, they are unbecoming and
                  improper, especially when we are alone. Where are your friends? I have not seen
                  any of them yet."
               "They will be ready to receive us before long, I hope. But my compliments, you
                  certainly cannot object to them, when they come from a heart that realizes all
                  your excessive beauty."
               His arm had stolen around her waist, and this time he pressed her more fervently,
                  and placed his face closer to her. She turned and looked him full in the eyes, and
                  found those snakelike orbs fastened intently upon her. She for the first time
                  realized her true position, and seemed to read the soul and intentions of the man
                  in that one glance. She cast a withering and searching look upon him, which for a
                  moment seemed to disconcert him. "Shame on you, Mr. Longrave!" she exclaimed while
                  her face colored with indignation.
               "Where are your friends you talk about," she demanded, imperatively; "I must see
                  some of them soon, or I will leave the house immediately, and report your conduct
                  to my friends."
               "That would do you no good, for they would not believe one word of it."
               "You don't mean to say I would lie?" she asked, in a tone fierce with suppressed
                  rage.
               "Oh, no, not that; they would simply say you were mistaken, that I meant you no
                  harm."
               "Then your conduct is very peculiar. and I wish to leave this house
                  immediately."
               "You cannot go to-night, my dear Louisa, it is raining quite briskly, it might
                  injure your health. Just conclude to make your self comfortable here till
                  morning."
               "I shall do no such thing, sir; I will leave immediately! I do think your conduct
                  is outrageous, and if my parents know it, they would discard you from their house
                  for ever."
               "Not a bit of it; I could modify it so that it would not seem half so bad as you
                  represent. But come," said he, as he caught her about the waist.
               "Infamous scoundrel!" hissed Louisa, as she sprung away from him, "to violate the
                  confidence I have placed in you—I will go this instant."
               Mr. Longrave was somewhat perplexed at the obstinacy of the girl; but the greater
                  the difficulties to overcome, the sweeter the prize when won. Her opposition only
                  added a zest to his already excited passions. Placing himself between her and the
                  door he said:
               "Come, Louisa, you will get over this mock modesty. It is nonsense to go to-night.
                  Stay; I will order wine and cake," at the same time giving the bell-rope a violent
                  jerk.
               "Have you turned to be a devil, or what has come over you. Leave me depart this
                  minute, or I will cry murder, and alarm the whole neighborhood."
               "Make yourself easy upon that point, for I apprehend that but few would answer
                  your call," he replied, as a certain meaning expression crept over his face.
               The door was opened, and a waiter bearing glasses, wine and cake, was passed in.
                  Mr. Longrave locked the door, put the key in his pocket, and placed the waiter
                  upon the centre-table.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               On a morning in November, a notice appeared in one of the daily papers, under the
                  head, "Boarding," in the following language, "A man and wife can be accommodated
                  with comfortable boarding at No. — Second street."
               The notices of boarding were carefully looked over by a gentleman and lady at one
                  of the hotels, and several directions selected. Among the number was the one in
                  Second street and to that they immediately applied.
               The young man who called was rather prepossessing and apparently not more than
                  twenty-one or two years of age. He had a very light complexion, light hair and
                  blue eyes. His dress was dark and of the best and latest style.
               The lady was an innocent country girl, unused to the ways and scenes of cities,
                  and of course easily imposed upon. She had left her home in the country at the
                  earnest persuasion of the young man, and partially under the promise of marriage.
                  But how faithfully he kept his vows will be seen.
               Between three and four o'clock that afternoon a carriage stopped at the house, and
                  a gentleman and lady entered it, taking with them a small amount of baggage. The
                  lady seemed to be in very feeble health. It was with the greatest difficulty and
                  great labor that she ascended the stairs; but there was no alternative, go she
                  must, and go she did, though almost exhausted when the task was accomplished.
               "Oh, Edwin, why did you bring me to this dismal place?" she asked, in the most
                  pathetic tones. "There certainly are other places in the city."
               "Would you have me run my legs off to find a fashionable place, and pay eight or
                  ten dollars per week?" And looking about the room a few moments, he left her
                  alone.
               Passing from Second street over into Third, he had nearly reached the Exchange, when he met a friend, whom be
                  hailed as Jim Boxer. This Mr. Boxer was one of those exquisite young gentlemen who
                  do nothing in particular, and everything in general. He was a superb young man,
                  white hands half concealed in big coat sleeves, a black moustache, colored from a
                  deep red. There was a vast quantity of low cunning, and deception visible in his
                  countenance, while his fingers nimbly played with a watch chain about the value of
                  fifty cents.
               "My dear Jim," said Sylvester, as he seized the young man's hand, "I am so glad to
                  see you, how have you been?"
               "Well, indeed, Ed.," replied the sagacious youth, "and I imagine your own health
                  is good."
               "Quite excellent; but I am in trouble, Jim!"
               "Ah! my dear follow, confide in me. I will give you the best advice I can, and, in
                  fact, render you any assistance I can," replied this exquisite individual, ready
                  to assist Ed. that he might at some time press a loan from him.
               "I will tell you," said Ed., "provided you will keep the matter a perfect
                  secret."
               "Of course I will, I can keep a secret."
               "Well, Jim, it is all about a girl, and—"
               "Ha! I expected as much, but go on."
               "Well, you see, when I was up in the country, I got acquainted with a girl, and a
                  beauty she was, too, and soon was on very intimate terms with her. I loved the
                  girl for a while, but that soon wore off. I came back to the city, stayed a few
                  months, and having business again in that section, went up, find of, course found
                  my girl. But, Jim, I found her in a very peculiar situation, and I was threatened
                  with the law if I did not marry her. Well, I coaxed her along to the city, and
                  what the devil to do with her I don't know."
               "Well now, Ed., my friend, I can give you some very wholesome information. If you
                  will go with me this evening, I will take you to a house where all these little
                  difficulties are removed, and without the slightest danger."
               "At what hour?" inquired Ed., eagerly.
               "Say nine o'clock, I will meet you at the corner of S. and C. sts."
               "Agreed," said Ed., and after some further conversation the two separated, to meet
                  again to take a trip to the house of the abortionist.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               It was later than Ed. had calculated when his friend Boxer met him, but off they
                  started, fortifying themselves on the road by stopping in at sundry places where
                  they keep stuff in the shape of strychnine compounded with whisky.
               "I'll tell you, Ed.," said Boxer, as he hooked his arm in that of his friend, "if
                  you can pay the old thing well, she will attend your girl right; sometimes it goes
                  mighty hard with them, and sometimes they slip their cable and are off to kingdom
                  come before you know it. But, then, the old woman, you know, keeps a
                  boarding-house, for indisposed people—females, I mean—and if one was to die, she
                  can't help that," and he gave his friend a peculiar pinch and a thump in the side,
                  as if to give him a thorough understanding of what he meant.
               "That is all very true," replied Ed., "and I think it is sometimes better for them
                  if they do die, for they are disgraced, and never can expect to be respected
                  again. That girl has been a sight of trouble to me, and I have often wished either
                  one of us was dead, I would not care much which."
               "Oh, don't despond, my dear fellow, it will all come out right yet; the girl will
                  get over it, and nobody know anything about it, and then she will be past taking
                  the law on you. I have had several girls under the care of Mother Higgins, and
                  only three out of the number died."
               "Well, how did you fix it about those that did die?" inquired Ed., for, he thought
                  that some account must be given of the girls, or it would involve the parties in a
                  rather suspicious position.
               "Very easy, Ed., very easy. We just put a notice in the paper, that a girl had
                  died at ——, from some kind of fever, and her friends and relatives are requested
                  to attend the funeral. Old Mother Higgins treats those who come very kindly, and
                  that dispels all suspicion; so, you see, it is nicely managed."
               "Well, Jim," said Ed., with some surprise, "as long as I have lived in the city, I
                  never before knew a house of this kind was kept; and don't anybody interfere with
                  it?"
               "Sometimes somebody kicks up a little spree about it; but you see the old woman
                  has all the rich folks on her side, and they back her up. Why, Ed.," said Jim, who
                  had now become very communicative, "I have seen the most sanctified individuals in
                  the city at that house—men who are the loudest in their cries against the corrupt
                  morals of the day, and men who would prosecute me or you if we would steal five
                  cents from them—come from that house, where they had seen their victim in the last
                  struggles of death, occasioned by mixing a little white powder in their food.
                  These men would not allow harm come to Mother Higgins."
               By this time they had reached the place, when Jim whispered, Here Ed., and immediately entered a sort of little
                  store. Having passed through this, they entered a sort of sitting-room, and Boxer
                  inquired for Mrs. Higgins.
               In a few moments a stout, and rather burly-looking individual, made her
                  appearance. Her features were very sharp, and was a fair type of the sharpness and
                  acerbity of her nature. If her features were sharp, her nose was much sharper, and
                  that was still sharpened by a pair of sharp eyes, twinkling and blinking in their
                  deep sockets, like two stars shining through a mist. Her rather narrow forehead
                  was covered with a mass of brown hair, cocked in hay-stack form upon her
                  cranium.
               "Why, Mr. Boxer, how glad I am to see you!" exclaimed the widow—for Mrs. Higgins
                  was a widow, as all abortionist females are—"Indeed, it has been so long since I
                  saw you that I really thought I had been forgotten by you."
               "Forgot you; never!" exclaimed our dramatic Boxer, as he seized the proffered hand
                  of the lady, "and so far from forgetting you, I brought my friend, Edwin
                  Sylvester, who wishes to obtain boarding for a lady acquaintance of
                  his," and Boxer made a peculiar wink, and a sort of mysterious sign, by which the
                  lady readily understood the kind of boarding he desired.
               "O, I can accommodate him in the best of style," said the worthy Mrs. Higgins; "I
                  will only require a small amount in advance. Is the case very far gone?" she
                  inquired, with professional exactness.
               "I can't say," replied Boxer; "Ed. must answer that himself."
               "Not very," replied Ed., "only about six months."
               "O, not very desperate," said Mother Higgins, with a toss of her head, "I can
                  settle that without any trouble. When do you desire to bring your lady?" inquired
                  Mother Higgins.
               "As soon as possible to-morrow evening, if you are willing," replied Ed.
               "I have no objection, if you are ready to meet the rules of my house. First, I
                  must have fifty dollars down; and secondly, you must agree to keep all matters a
                  secret; and thirdly, you must bring some reference."
               "I will be reference, madam," said Boxer, with all the gusto of the conspicuous
                  part he was playing so well.
               "You will be sufficient," said the lady; "but the promise, and the fifty
                  dollars."
               The promise I make now, and with the fifty dollars I will prepare to-morrow,"
                  replied Ed.
               After treating to wine and cake, at Ed.'s expense, they prepared to leave. It was
                  now near one o'clock, and they passed into a hall, and as the light broke full
                  upon them a person passed, whom Boxer recognized as Mr. Longrave.
               "There!" said Boxer, giving Ed. a punch, "there goes one of your sanctimonious
                  persons, ever preaching and praying about sin and Satan, and a bigger libertine
                  never run unhung. But of course, you dare not say a word against him. Mr. Longrave
                  is not the only one of the upper ten who visits this house, and if you become as
                  constant a visitor as I have, you will learn very queer things; that is all I have
                  to say."
               On the following evening a carriage was driven to the house of the abortionist,
                  and from it alighted a gentleman and lady, and were conducted to a room up
                  stairs.
               "This looks a little more comfortable," said Ed. to Anna, as he took a survey of
                  the room.
               "Yes," replied Anna, "it seems if the lady lives more like people than they do in
                  that filthy hole in Second street."
               "Well, now, you see, Anna, I have taken great pains to make you comfortable," said
                  Ed., in a conciliatory tone, as if to quell the fears, if any there might be, in
                  Anna's mind, in regard to the house.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               After Mr. Longrave had placed the wine and cake on the table, he walked up to
                  Louisa, and, with a sanctimonious countenance, asked her to partake.
               "Do you really mean what you say?" she asked, with the utmost surprise. "Are you
                  really in earnest, that we shall partake of cake and wine? you certainly would not
                  commit such a sacrilege by your loose representation. Why, Mr. Longrave, you are a
                  monster—-a base, vile hypocrite, as cruel and wicked as the devil himself. Is it
                  possible you are in your right senses, or are you crazy; answer me quick for I
                  scarcely know what to think of you?"
               "You will know me better, by and by, my dear Louisa!" he exclaimed, as he caught
                  her about the waist and whirled her into a chair beside the table. She screamed
                  with affright at his impetuous behaviour, but he only laughed at her temerity.
               "Oh! Mr. Longrave, have you no shame, no regard for me, whose virtue you should
                  protect?"
               "Virtue! a name without the substance, an imaginary something, about which people
                  prate so loudly, and yet so few possess."
               Having delivered himself of his elongated opinion of virtue, he passed his hand
                  familiarly over the head of Louisa, and seemed to think he had completely
                  conquered her. He had overwhelmed her with a logical argument, conclusive in its
                  proofs and undoubtedly carrying conviction with it.
               Louisa was sagacious enough to discover the drift of his remarks, and discern at
                  once the meaning they were intended to have. It was certainly Longrave's design,
                  and most ardent desire, to vitiate and corrupt the mind of Louisa, and prepare her
                  for the further advances he might make. He had upon other occasions pursued the same course, and his efforts were
                  crowned with success. But, in Louisa, he had a different person to tamper with,
                  and one who, when her vindictive and revengeful passions were aroused, would be
                  the most deadly of foes. No strife, no privations, no toil, nothing too great to
                  accomplish the purpose of revenge.
               "Be careful, Mr. Longrave, you may tread upon a viper." And Louisa's eyes
                  sparkled, and her whole appearance gave evidence of the most intense rage.
               
                  
                     Longrave persuading Louisa to partake of drugged wine.
                  
               
               Longrave, finding that words were only prolonging his stay and keeping the prey
                  out of his clutches, resolved upon stronger efforts. So, walking up to Louisa, he
                  laid his hand upon her to force her to a seat.
               "Hands, off, you sanctimonious villain!" she screamed; "I will leave
                  instantly."
               Longrave was considerably taken back by her fierce repulsion. It was a part of the
                  programme he had not calculated upon and it rather perplexed him. But, thought he,
                  if coaxing will not answer, force must.
               He silently watched her while she was putting her bonnet and shawl on, and when
                  she reached the door and found it locked, a smile of satisfaction crept softly
                  across his features.
               "Open the door this instant, or I'll scream for assistance," she demanded; but he
                  only smiled, as he replied,
               "Call as lustily as you desire."
               "Oh! that I could wring your head from your body. Open this door, or I will break
                  it down."
               "Break away."
               "Have you no sense, no feeling, no shame? Have you brought me to it house of
                  ill-fame to destroy me? Leave me depart, or I will burn the house down."
               "Burn away; you will perish in the flames."
               But Longrave thought this play bad gone on long enough; he would resort to means
                  that would insure her quietness. Going to a small door in another part of the
                  room, he pulled a bell-rope, and in a short time a servant appeared. He whispered
                  a few words, and the servant departed, but in a short time, returned. He then
                  closed the door, and walking past Louisa he put his hand to her face. She seemed
                  instantly to become stupid, and the next moment sank insensible upon the
                  floor.
               He gazed a moment, with a smile of triumphant satisfaction, upon the helpless and
                  unconscious girl, and then sneaked from the room as one caught in a horrid
                  crime.
               Passing down stairs, he entered the private parlor and found Mrs. Higgins seated
                  in a large rocking chair and seeming to take the world as comfortable as if her
                  conscience was perfectly at ease.
               "Mrs. Higgins," said Longrave, "keep the girl in close custody until I call
                  to-morrow night," and, after a few unimportant remarks, he departed.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               The day following the night Longrave spent with Louisa, he called at Mr.
                  Antford's, and found a young wan and Mr. Antford's oldest daughter in the parlor.
                  He cast a contemptuous look upon the young man, and bowed very politely to Miss
                  Antford. In a moment after Miss Antford's mother entered, and to her he extended
                  his ungloved hand, and with a gracious smile inquired after her health. He listened very attentively to all the
                  ills and ailing of the complaining lady.
               The young man's brow darkened as he noticed the sharp eye of Longrave fixed upon
                  him and knew it boded no good. In the glances the two exchanged, enough was known
                  to satisfy each that they were enemies. Longrave saw in a moment the young man was
                  a favored suitor of the girl.
               Ha! thought Longrave, I'll make you, young coxcomb, cringe for that yet, and you,
                  Miss, shall be mine.
               The young man took his departure, to the evident delight and satisfaction of
                  Longrave. He now drew closer to Mrs. Antford and reduced his voice almost to a
                  whisper.
               "Is that young adventurer really a favored suitor of your daughter?" he asked, in
                  a manner calculated to create an anxiety in the mind of the mother.
               "Well, rather so; I think Nanny likes him."
               "I am sorry for that, as he is certainly not worthy so excellent a girl as Nanny.
                  But young ladies sometimes have such peculiar fancies," and he closely watched the
                  old lady's face, to learn if possible, the impression of his remarks.
               "Do you know the young man, or anything about him?" eagerly inquired the old
                  lady.
               "Oh, yes, I am well acquainted with his history."
               "Then tell me all about it, for I have not liked him much, although he is a great
                  favorite with her father."
               "Well Mrs. Antford," said Longrave, "I very much dislike to make remarks about any
                  one, for it might draw me into very disagreeable difficulties."
               "I am so glad, Mr. Longrave, you happened in, for I don't know but this young man
                  might have gained on us so, that we would have consented to his continuing to
                  visit Nanny."
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               When Louisa awakened from the stupor into which she had been thrown by the drug,
                  and discovered the crime, which had been perpetrated upon her, a sickening horror
                  passed over her, her head became dizzy, and she felt a change, a terrible,
                  dreadful change, come upon her—disgraced, ruined and destroyed, for ever, and then
                  came desperation. It seized her mind, blinded every happy prosect, and turned up
                  the dregs of infamy and despair. It opened the fountains of hate and revenge, and
                  let a stream of evil passions flow into her soul, hot as burning lava fresh from
                  the burning crater. She felt it seething and boiling in her brain, deluging her
                  with a desire to destroy the perpetrator of the crime.
               She arose from the floor and glanced hastily at her dishevelled hair and torn
                  dress, as it had been snatched from her bosom by her ravisher, and then stood for
                  a few moments in deep reflection.
               "I'll do it," she said; and seizing the lamp, she was about to apply it to some of
                  the furniture for the purpose of burning the house, when the door was thrown open
                  and a man entered.
               "Stop, lady," said he, in a kind voice, which immediately arrested, her design;
                  "do not fire the house, it would be of little service to you."
               "You come, too, to torment me with your Satan-like presence," she exclaimed,
                  gazing fiercely upon him. "I will be revenged and die in bringing it upon the
                  heads of those who have ruined me."
               "But those upon whom you would be revenged are not in the house, so you would only
                  destroy property without accomplishing that which you desire."
               "I care not; I have no friends, and wish to die, and the house shall be my funeral
                  pyre."
               "You have a friend. I will be your devoted friend. Be not surprised,
                  look not so wildly at me; it is true, and I will assist you in your plans of
                  vengeance."
               "Do you know me? Do you know of the foul, hideous crime which has been committed
                  upon me? Do you know this, and still say you will be my friend?" she asked,
                  eagerly, and seemed impatient for his reply.
               "Ay, I know it all; but hark ye! I am employed in this house, and therefore have
                  ample means of serving you. I was bid by Mrs. Higgins to watch you, that you do no
                  harm to yourself, or to the room in which you are; that accounts for my presence.
                  I saw you long before you came here. I loved you then. I love you now. What is
                  past, say nothing about, but let the future speak for itself. If you will but
                  promise to be mine, my heart and my soul will be devoted to you. Your commands
                  shall be my law. You but bid me, and I will obey."
               Louisa gazed upon him in astonishment, and closely scanned every line of his
                  features. Was it possible that one so young and handsome should enlist in her
                  cause,—should love and respect her, and engage to vindicate and revenge her
                  wrongs. Could her heart love at this moment—and could she duly appreciate the
                  affections of one who, under all the circumstances, loved her still? Her heart was
                  free from the influence of love, and at liberty to fly whithersoever its own
                  promptings directed. Was there ever a more propitious moment; a time when Cupid
                  could more effectually drive the shafts of love deep into the heart of Louisa,
                  than the present? Now she was in distress, she felt forsaken and condemned by all
                  the world, and desired but to be out of it. But now comes a gleam of sunshine.
                  There is one who still clings to her, and who comes with a heart filled with love,
                  and casts it at her feet. Why should she not, when her heart is free, reciprocate
                  strict affection, and suffer the tendrils of her own heart to entwine fondly about
                  his?
               
               "Can I trust you, sir?" she inquired, as if not satisfied with his apparent
                  sincerity.
               "On my soul, you can, for I mean what I say," he replied firmly.
               "Then, sir, when I have accomplished my purpose, I am thine, soul and body. But
                  mark you! my hands will be dyed in the blood of the man who violated me; for I
                  swear before my God, that I will wash them in his gore. If you can then accept me,
                  it will be well; if not, I will but follow the villain to the eternal world, and
                  pursue the purpose of my vengeance."
               "It is enough, I accept, and will aid you."
               "Your name?" asked Louisa.
               "My name is Harvy Riccord. I am usually called 'Ric.;' it is a sort of
                  nickname."
               "The name pleases me," said Louisa, as a faint sickly smile gathered about her
                  lips.
               Riccord took her hand, and gently pressed it to his lips, while a tear dropped
                  upon the back of it.
               Louisa burst into tears, and for a little time, the two silently wept together,
                  then, after a short conversation, they separated, and Louisa was again alone, but
                  still a prisoner.
               It was the evening following her incarceration, that she was seated alone in her
                  prison, meditating upon her condition.
               The door opened softly, and Longrave stood before her. Her face turned a scarlet
                  red, then a death-like whiteness settled over it. Her lips quivered, her eyes
                  sparkled, and her bosom heaved violently. It was evident she was laboring under
                  some intense mental excitement.
               After staring at her a few moments in silence, he approached her, and very
                  graciously extended his hand.
               "Sooner would I grasp an adder, than the hand of a man whose soul is steeped in
                  crime, and who wears the cloak of religion to disguise his infamy. Away, base
                  villain! and touch me not, or I will tear you limb from limb—I will gnaw the very
                  flesh from your bones!" hissed Louisa, through her set teeth.
               "Come, now, my pretty bird," replied Longrave, as he marched coolly up to her, and
                  attempted to put his arm about her waist.
               "Away!" she screamed, as she hurled him from her, and sent him full length upon
                  the floor.
               "You impudent thing!" he exclaimed, as he rose to his feet, and brushed the dust
                  from his clothes.
               "Impudent! I have a right to defend myself, and as long as God gives me strength,
                  I will make use of it. Accursed villain! as your length has been measured upon the
                  floor, so will I measure you in your gore. I will wash my hands in your blood, and
                  hiss my curse in your dying ear. You are accursed of heaven, and though a servant
                  of hell, devils are ashamed of your wickedness. Leave me, or I may become mad, and
                  devour you, as a wild beast would devour its prey. I feel it coming now! I feel it
                  in my soul! it burns me! it makes me mad! I'll tear thee!" and with a hideous
                  scream, she sprang toward him, but he fled beyond her reach, and she fell upon the
                  floor in a convulsion. He called for assistance, and in a few moments Mother
                  Higgins stood by his side. After some effort, Louisa was restored to
                  consciousness, and Longrave withdrew from the apartment, and was soon followed by
                  Mrs. Higgins.
               "It won't do to release that girl," said Longrave when they were alone, "or she
                  will destroy us both."
               "But what will we do with her?" inquired Mrs. Higgins; "I cannot keep her
                  here."
               "I have but one question to ask, and think it will settle the matter one way or
                  the other, and that is: would it be better for us to risk our lives and
                  reputation, than remove her beyond the power to harm us?"
               "But how can that be done? Inquiry will be made for her, and you will have to
                  account for her absence."
               "I can settle that matter—people will believe me, when I say she started for home,
                  and if she never reached there it will be no matter of mine—only one of those
                  mysterious disappearances we so frequently hear of. Do you understand me?"
               "I think I do."
               "To make the thing a little plainer," said he, as he draw his chair closer to Mrs.
                  Higgins; "a little white powder, and a lone interment, will silence her. I wish I
                  had not brought her here; she is such a devil."
               The old lady understood the hint, and as Longrave passed out Ric. quickly ascended
                  the stairs to avoid detection.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               The next evening, after the interview of Sylvester and his friend Boxer with Mrs.
                  Higgins, a carriage stopped again in front of the house in Poplar street, and from
                  it two persons descended, and entered the hall door.
               "So you have come, my dear?" said Mrs. Higgins, as she took Anna by the hand, and
                  very affectionately caressed her.
               The timid girl shrunk back from the hypocritical fondness displayed by Mother
                  Higgins, and seemed to read in the glazed sereneness of her countenance and
                  actions, the villainy which lurked in her soul.
               Though Anna Morton was glad to escape from that horrible place in Second street,
                  where filth pervaded everything, and bed bugs ran riot at will, a heavy presentiment settled upon her
                  heart, the moment she crossed the threshold of the abortionist's house; a
                  something which seemed to indicate, like a thermometer of evil, some approaching
                  calamity. As her thoughts flew back to her happy home—to the fond parents she had
                  forsaken, (she knew no better)—the sisters and brothers she had left behind her,
                  and the gay innocent days of girlhood—she burst into tears, and wept bitter,
                  fervent sighs of repentance. But, Anna Morton, it was too late; the fingers of
                  fate were tightly fastened upon thee, and thy doom was sealed, with the black and
                  damning seal of murder.
               "Come my dear girl, don't weep, it will be all well yet. Come, I will show you
                  your room, and send you up a cup of tea," said Mrs. Higgins, as she led the way,
                  follow by Anna.
               "Riccord," said she where she had reached the up-stairs hall, "is that door
                  locked?"
               "Yes ma'am."
               "Then go down and bring up this lady's baggage; make haste, now."
               As Riccord placed Anna's trunks in her room, he cast an anxious glance at the
                  girl, and seemed as if he would warn her of some danger. But the sharp eye of Mrs.
                  Higgins was constantly upon him, and he found, for the present, that it would be
                  impossible to give her any warning.
               The room presented a very comfortable appearance, compared with the apartments she
                  had left, and Mrs. Higgins seemed so motherly and kind, that, for a moment, Anna
                  felt happy and contented. But when she peered more closely into the old lady's
                  face, (for Mrs. Higgins was old,) she discovered something that cast a shadow of
                  despondency upon her.
               "Now, my dear girl, you can make yourself comfortable, and in a few moments I will
                  have a cup of tea brought," for the old lady had noticed the officiousness of
                  Riccord, and had become suspicious of him.
               When things had been properly arranged, the old lady rang the bell, and in a few
                  moments a servant appeared with the tea. Riccord had left the room, but still
                  lingered about the door, anxiously watching the movements of the old lady. He saw
                  her drug the tea, under pretence of putting sugar in it, and knew in a moment what
                  would be the result of the operations of the drug. Perhaps it would be death, and
                  another victim would be added to the catalogue of mysterious deaths which had
                  already occurred in that house. Should he rush in and warn the girl? But such a
                  proceeding would only endanger his own life, and subject him, perhaps, to a horrid
                  lingering death. Then, too, Louisa would be unprotected, and in the power of those
                  who would destroy her. No, one victim had better suffer at the hands of the
                  destroyers, than a dozen be sacrificed and the perpetrators escape.
               Mrs. Higgins prepared the tea, and as she came toward the girl, she stopped and
                  gazed upon her, while her face turned pale, and her hand trembled.
               "It cannot be," she said, mentally; "my daughter died years ago. But that mole,
                  and, those other marks; no, no, it is only cowardice; why should I tremble?" and
                  with a reluctant hand she passed the cup to Anna.
               "Drink it, my dear child, it will make you sleep well."
               "My dear child!" Why did those words startle her, and echo upon her hollow heart
                  with a wild, discordant sound? Did they bring to memory scenes which were buried
                  deep in the Lethe of forgetfulness, and carry her thoughts back to happier and
                  better days?
               "Things look and feel so much more comfortable here," said Anna; the dread which
                  had at first oppressed her wearing off. "Our other boarding place was so filthy
                  and noisy, and the landlady would get drunk."
               "I am glad you feel yourself at home. Would you like anything more to-night than
                  the tea?" inquired Mrs. Higgins, with an apparent maternal anxiety.
               "Nothing more to-night. Tell my husband to come up, if he is still there. I wish
                  to have company," replied the innocent girl, not for a moment imagining the
                  terrible fate in store for her.
               "O, certainly. Should you want anything in the night, just pull the bell-rope, and
                  a servant will attend you. Good night, my dear," said the old lady,
                  affectionately, closing the door and passing down stairs.
               Riccord left his post as watchman at the door of Louisa, and stole along the hall
                  to the apartment of Anna. Could he rescue her? Alas, it was too late! Should he
                  warn her of her danger, it would only premeditate her misery.
               When Mrs. Higgins entered the parlor, Sylvester was still there, and in a few
                  moments they were joined by Boxer.
               "Why, my dear friend Ed., you are here? I came up expressly to see whether you had
                  arrived," and the sagacious Boxer shook his friend's hand with the most
                  enthusiastic expressions of delight.
               "I am here," replied Ed.
               "I see you are; and the girl, where is she?" inquired Boxer, casting a glance at
                  Mrs. Higgins.
               "In her room," replied the old lady.
               "Ah! all right, then; I suppose the job, will soon be done, and you, Ed., will be
                  rid of that little annoyance;" and Boxer laughed as if it was a common business
                  transaction.
               "I am under obligations to you, my friend Boxer, for the trouble you have been put
                  to on my account, and ——."
               "Don't mention it, I adjure you. The thought that I have befriended you is pay
                  sufficient; and then I wished to do Mother Higgins a flavor. So, you see, it comes
                  right all around."
               "I thank you for your consideration, Boxer," replied the old lady; "perhaps I can
                  requite you some day."
               
               The door opened and Longrave stood in the passage. He started back when he beheld
                  the two young men, but Mother Higgins called him:
               "Come in; they are friends."
               He reluctantly entered, and bowed stiffly as they were introduced, offering no
                  other civility than an unintelligible grunt.
               "Ha!" whispered Boxer to Ed., "he feels his dignity; but we have him in our
                  power."
               "And maybe use him," replied Ed.
               "That we will, and I think we may need him," said Boxer, giving Ed. a shrewd
                  wink.
               No conversation of importance passed between Longrave and the two young men. He
                  felt chagrined that he should be caught in such a house, and he felt his dignity
                  too much to condescend to be familiar with them. Beside, he was anxious that the
                  object of his visit should not be known to them.
               When they had departed he drew close to Mrs. Higgins, and said: "I am sorry those
                  men caught me here; they may make mischief against me."
               "Fear them not, Mr. Longrave, they are true friends, and one of them brought a
                  girl here this evening."
               Ah! then they are not blameless," he said, seeming to feel relieved by the
                  information. "You know there has been suspicions afloat about your house, and
                  therefore it would not be policy for me to be caught here by those who may make
                  capital of it."
               "I understand that well enough, but I knew the young men would keep it a
                  secret."
               "Well, that is all I desire. Now, I'll tell you what I came back for. I thought we
                  had better arrange the removal of Louisa as soon as possible, for I desire to
                  bring a girl here who will be more flexible, and more readily yield to my
                  desires."
               "Well, but how do, you propose this affair shall be done?"
               "By you, or some one whom you may hire. The girl is alike dangerous to us both.
                  She can destroy me, even to a criminal conviction; for no man has an equal chance
                  in a court of law, or anywhere else, with a woman. Sympathy is always in her
                  favor."
               "But, you know I have not the means to hire a substitute."
               "I will pay part. I will give two hundred dollars; if you can get the job done for
                  that, well and good; if not, you make up the balance. I think that is a fair
                  proposition, where the danger incurred is so near alike."
               "I will try; I think I have a young man in the house who will undertake it. He is
                  now keeping guard at Louisa's door."
               "Be careful to whom you intrust so great a secret, for that alone might betray
                  you."
               "I can trust him, be assured of that."
               Longrave departed again, feeling some better of the arrangement he had made.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               When Longrave had departed, Mrs. Higgins called Riccord to her room.
               "Riccord," said she, "I have a fat job for you, and one that will require but
                  little time to do it in."
               "Well? what is it; I am fond of fat jobs, you know."
               "It must be a profound secret, and even if you do not do it you must swear to keep
                  it as such."
               "I swear!"
               "Enough. Longrave will give you two hundred dollars to give a dose of
                     silence medicine to Louisa, and that you take care the authorities
                  do not get hold of it."
               Mrs. Higgins spoke low, and glanced cautiously around the room, as if afraid of
                  the truth of the old adage, "that walls have ears."
               "Two hundred dollars," said Riccord; "but where is the money? It is a good sum,
                  and I would like to see the cash before I undertake the job."
               "The money shall be forthcoming."
               "But that is not the money in my hand. I must see the cash; not only see it, but
                  have it in my hand, before I, or anybody else, can do so valuable a job."
               "You don't mean to say you wont let anybody else do the job?"
               "I mean to say just that."
               "But how can you prevent it? I am mistress of this house, and will do as please in
                  it."
               "All right enough; but I am guard at the door of Louisa, and you nor any other
                  person shall enter there, unless I am willing, or over my dead body."
               Mrs. Higgins was on a stand whether to get angry at the impertinence of Riccord,
                  and discharge him, or to treat him kindly, and gently coax him into a performance
                  of the task. Mrs. Higgins was a woman of policy, and had she been a man, her
                  shrewd management and insinuating manœuvering, would have made her a successful
                  politician.
               "Well, Riccord, it will be impossible to give you the money to-night, but if I
                  give you my word, will not that suffice?"
               "Give it to me in writing, acknowledged by an officer, and I will do the job. But
                  the signature of Longrave must also be attached."
               "How impertinent you are!"
               "It may be, but these are my terms."
               "Then I shall get some one else, and ——."
               "No one else but myself shall enter that room. You had better comply, for you are
                  in my power; do you understand that?"
               "Why, you impudent scamp, what have I done, that I should be in your power?"
               
               "Who produced an abortion upon Miss S—— at eight and a half months, and when the
                  child came breathing into the world, who tied a cord about its neck, and, with a
                  weight attached, cast it into the Delaware, with as little compunction as a boy
                  drowns a kitten? Who, for the sum of one thousand dollars, gave Miss D—— a slow
                  lingering poison, which wasted her form as if dying from consumption, and, then
                  had her buried in a pauper's grave? Think you, now, you're not in my power?"
               "Say no more for Heaven's sake, Riccord; but why do you want the promise in
                  writing?"
               "That I may be sure of my money."
               "Will not my word be sufficient?"
               "No."
               "Then you shall have the writing; when do you want it?"
               "To-night."
               "That is impossible. It cannot be done to-night. Longrave is gone, and every
                  officer is in bed. It cannot be to-night."
               "When do you desire the job done?"
               "To-night."
               "It cannot be commenced until the writing is perfected."
               "Then it shall be to-night; draw the document, and I will get the signature of
                  Longrave; be brisk."
               While Riccord was writing out the obligation, Mrs. Higgins drew on her bonnet and
                  shawl. She cast a vicious, savage look upon Riccord, and shook her head with a
                  meaning gesture. It was evident she was in an ill humor, and only yielded to the
                  demands of Riccord because she wished to retain him, and seek an opportunity to
                  remove him secretly.
               In about two hours Mrs. Higgins returned with the document properly endorsed, and
                  delivered it to Riccord.
               "No one is to enter that room until I have removed the corpse, nor are you to
                  interfere in any manner whatever."
               This last injunction was unnecessary, for it was not the desire of Mrs. Higgins to
                  interfere; she was glad enough that the job had been got off her own hands, and
                  without any expense to herself.
               "That work done, and I will undertake something upon my own account," said Mrs.
                  Higgins to herself, as Riccord passed out of the room.
               The evening following the scenes above described a child was carried from the
                  house to the Delaware, with a cord attached to its neck, and a heavy weight which
                  was to hold it in its watery grave.
               Sylvester called to inquire after the girl, and was informed that her condition
                  was a very critical one, and in all probability she would die. With a heavy heart
                  he left the house; nor did he return until he received a note requiring instant
                  attendance.
               
                  
                     Longrave reading the document.
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               Longrave felt troubled. He knew some account must be given of Louisa; and whether
                  he could concoct a story which, uncorroborated, would be likely to silence the
                  inquiries which might be instituted about her, was a matter to him of vital
                  importance.
               But Longrave had certainly degenerated, and his glowing genius would suddenly
                  become dim, if he could not fabricate some plausible pretext for her absence.
               After Mrs. Higgins had left him, be put on his gown, and taking a seat, threw his
                  feet across a small table and set his entire powers at work to manufacture some
                  plan to escape suspicion, or account for Louisa's absence in some rational
                  manner.
               "I have it," said he, after some fifteen minutes' deep and earnest reflection;
                  "those two young men must aid me, and then I can clear myself beyond a doubt."
               So thought Longrave; but would the public think so? and would the friends of
                  Louisa think so? Longrave placed great reliance in his popularly and position, and
                  in the credibility with which his statements would be received. Of course, no
                  malicious motives would be imputed to him; no one, without ocular demonstration,
                  would for a moment accuse him of improper conduct.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               The deed was done; the death by poison had been passed, and Riccord stood alone by
                  a coffin, the lid of which he was fastening down. As he performed this part of his
                  task, a smile of satisfaction played about his features, and he seemed pleased
                  that the monstrous job was accomplished.
               But to get the coffin away without creating suspicion and escape the vigilance of
                  the police.
               Night had gathered its sable curtains around the city and cast a dense misty pall
                  in the vicinity of the abortionist's house. A covered wagon drove up, and when the
                  street was clear, the coffin was brought out and placed in it. It was then driven
                  north of the city, where the coffin was taken into a boat and carried away down
                  the river, where it was dropped to rise no more, and, sometime during the
                  following day, Riccord returned to the service of Mrs. Higgins.
               The old lady congratulated him upon the successful termination of the job, and
                  praised, his ingenuity in devising so secret and secure a mode of accomplishing
                  it. Louisa was gone, but was she buried in the waters of the deep? and would she
                  not rise up in judgment against them?
               The same day, a very polite note came to Longrave, from Louisa's friends,
                  inquiring about her health, and the cause of her prolonged absence. It came like
                  thunderbolt upon Longrave; though he had expected it, but not so soon. He
                  immediately prepared to go to the house of Louisa's cousin and give them a
                  plausible story, which he would corroborate by Boxer and Sylvester, for he did not
                  for a moment suppose but they would assist him.
               "Why, my dear Mrs. Gordon," said he, when he was seated in the parlor, "I thought
                  Louisa would have written you long before this. I to-day received a note by an
                  agent who travels on the express trains, wishing her baggage sent to her
                  immediately."
               "It is very strange, indeed, that Louisa should treat me so," replied Mrs.
                  Gordon.
               "Yes, it is very strange, but the evening we left here she spoke of going West;
                  but I had no idea she would go so suddenly, and Without giving you notice. She,
                  however, is a strange girl, and subject to moments of melancholy. It may have been
                  in one of those particular dejections of the mind she started upon the journey.
                  She is now in Pittsburg, and thinks she will start in a day or two to her
                  parents."
               "There is something very strange about it," said Mrs. Gordon, She did not doubt
                  the word of Longrave, and yet, to her mind, there was an incomprehenSibility about
                  it not at all satisfactory. Why was it Louisa should take such a sudden fit to
                  travel westward, and leave her baggage and, more especially, her traveling clothes
                  behind? Mrs. Gordon thought there was something suspicious about it.
               Longrave saw the weakness of his story, and found it was more difficult, to
                  convince Mrs. Gordon of its truth than he had at first anticipated; but now it was
                  told, and must be rigidly adhered to. Prevarication would instantly ruin all.
                  Longrave was a judge of human appearances, and saw, by the actions of Mrs. Gordon,
                  that his story was not well received. This cast a damper upon his feelings, and
                  created a fear in his mind that all might yet be discovered. Something must be
                  done to strengthen his position, and, if possible, make Mrs. Gordon believe his
                  statement.
               "I will show you the letter, or rather the note I received from her," said he, as
                  he fumbled over some papers he drew from his pocket; but still, the note could not
                  be found. "Ah! I recollect now, I left it lay on my table; I am sorry I did not
                  bring it along."
               "No matter about it, Mr. Longrave; your word is sufficient."
               "The young man who is agent upon the train, said he would call to-morrow for her
                  baggage. I believe he became acquainted With her during the trip, if I am not
                  mistaken."
               "I will have her things ready by the time he comes," replied Mrs. Gordon, seeming
                  somewhat satisfied with the last remarks of Longrave. Still there lurked a
                  suspicion in her mind.
               When Longrave withdrew, he was not at all satisfied with the result of his
                  interview with Mrs. Gordon, and he must now get Boxer or Sylvester to go for
                  Louisa's baggage, and represent himself as an agent on' the railroad.
               That night he enters the house of crime and infamy, to concoct plans to screen him
                  from the greatest and most heinous of crimes—murder.
               "My dear Mrs. Higgins," said he, extending his hand, "how goes matters now?"
               "Bravely and successfully," she replied, shaking his hand warmly.
               "How about Louisa?"
               "All safe, locked in the bosom of the great deep; far from troubling US."
               "That is well; but I fear it will be more difficult to account for her absence
                  than I at first anticipated. I was called to task to-day by her cousin, to know
                  what had become of her." He then related Mrs. Higgins his interview with Mrs.
                  Gordon.
               In a few minutes, Boxer came in; and on this occasion Mr. Longrave was very
                  friendly. Boxer was one of those individuals who think it a great honor to be
                  considered the friend of some great man, and felt extremely flattered by the great
                  confidence Longrave seemed to place in him.
               His services to personate the agent were soon secured; and when he was properly
                  schooled in the manner of his performance, he was promised a handsome reward if he
                  should be successful.
               When Boxer had left the room, Longrave drew near to Mrs. Higgins. "I will have
                  another girl here to-morrow evening, or in a day or two at most."
               "Ah! indeed!" replied Mrs. Higgins, surprised at the headlong rashness of
                  Longrave.
               "Yes, it is so. She is more beautiful than Louisa, and more gentle and tractable.
                  I can manage her; and if she is once broKen, then there will be no danger. I can
                  let her return home, and visit her just as I please. That Louisa was a devil; and
                  had she ever escaped, all would have been lost; we would have been ruined, and
                  that beyond redemption."
               "Riccord managed the affair nobly. He is a good boy, and can be trusted. He
                  carried her away down the Delaware, rather than risk a burial in the city."
               "That was well done, and worthy of praise."
               At this moment the door opened, and a servant girl presented herself.
               "How now, Mary?" asked Mrs. Higgins quickly, for she saw that something unusual
                  was the matter.
               "The girl up stairs is dying, ma'am, and wishes to see you."
               
                  
                     Death of Anna Morton.
                  
               
               
               "I must go to her in person—you will excuse me?" and Mrs. Higgins ascended the
                  stairs rather quickly.
               Anna Morton, sure enough, was dying, and desired to see Sylvester once more.
                  Though he had connived at her murder, and treated her with the greatest cruelty,
                  yet in death she clung to him with the same fondness, and still loved him
                  fervently.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               The day following, Longrave called again at Mrs, Antford's, and found the lady, as
                  usual, in the parlor, Waiting to receive company. The stereotyped congratulations
                  passed between them, and Longrave threw himself into an arm chair, and puffed and
                  panted as if almost overcome by fatigue.
               "Well, Mrs. Antford," said he, with a cool, dignified deliberation, "my worst
                  anticipations in regard to that young man, Carroll, have been realized. Yesterday,
                  when I was going home from your house, I saw him in the hands of the officers, who
                  were conveying him to prison, and now he is incarcerated in a felon's cell."
               "Oh! terrible, horrible, that my daughter should have been in company with a
                  common thief. She is ruined; she is disgraced forever. The infamous villain, to
                  impose himself upon respectable people and ruin good families."
               "Come, now, Mrs. Antford, don't take it so hard; but few people ever saw them
                  together. It will not be generally known, and if you say nothing about it, the
                  public will not notice it."
               "Well, I will bear this unfortunate circumstance with as much composure as I can,
                  but for the future I will know with who my daughter is on intimate terms."
               "Suppose, then, I take her to my friends, to remain until this affair wears
                  off."
               "You have my consent, and not only that, I will compel her to go," replied Mrs.
                  Antford, with a determined gesture.
               She had two objects in view, in allowing her daughter to go with Longrave. First,
                  to get her away from the place of scandal; and second, she thought Longrave might
                  conclude to marry Nannie. This latter circumstance would have been the glory of
                  her life, and then she could have laid herself down in peace. No thought of wrong,
                  no thought that the chastity of her daughter would be attempted—secure within the
                  care of Longrave's protection, beyond the reach of harm.
               But the livery of wealth frequently covers the deepest and heavily charged mines
                  of crime and iniquity, and suffers them to explode with fearful results in the
                  midst of unsuspecting society.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               "And maybe she Would not consent to go; but, no matter, she must go."
               "My friend will keep her. She is a very pious old lady, and lives in a retired
                  part of the city. She is alone now, except one servant, and I know she would be
                  glad to receive your daughter. I, however, will see her, and if you say she shall
                  go, I will call for her to-morrow evening."
               "She shall go, certainly; and I thank you for your consideration and the
                  unsolicited interest you take in this affair. I wish you would talk to my
                  daughter."
               "If you desire it, my dear madam."
               "I will call her."
               How anxiously he watched the door through which she would appear; and when Nannie
                  came in, with the grace and dignity of a queen, how his eyes sparkled, and with
                  what rapture he gazed upon her glowing charms, just budded into womanhood.
               Little thought Nannie how rapidly the net of sorrow and trouble was weaving around
                  her, and that the man to whom she bowed with a holy reverence was the evil genius
                  of her life. But would she triumph over the intrigues of this bad man? and would
                  she yet be successful and obtain the hand of Carroll?
               "My dear child," said her mother, as she took Nannie's hands between her own, "Mr.
                  Longrave will tell you something about this Mr. Carroll."
               "Mother, I dislike to hear anything against him; for I cannot believe half that is
                  said against him," said the girl, as she turned a suspicious glance toward Mr.
                  Longrave.
               "But," replied the mother, with surprise that her daughter should doubt what
                  Longrave should say, and that in his immediate presence, too, "you cannot doubt
                  the word of Mr. Longrave; he would not tell a story for the world."
               "I do not doubt but he means the truth, and means well towards me; but he may be
                  mistaken; somebody may have imposed upon him."
               "No," said Longrave, "I am not mistaken, nor have I been, misinformed. Mr. Carroll
                  is, beyond doubt, a very bad and dangerous man; liable to be arrested at any
                  moment, and would be as likely to meet With that unfortunate circumstance in your
                  presence, as at any other time. Beside, he is paying attention to a girl of very
                  bad repute, thinking, I suppose, to keep the matter a secret from you."
               "I cannot believe he would be so false; it is a mistake; the slander of some
                  enemy."
               "Why you impudent thing," exclaimed Mrs. Antford, "do you suppose, for one single
                  moment, that Mr. Longrave would tell a falsehood? Oh, what impertinence!"
               "Mr. Longrave may have been misinformed."
               Longrave replied, "It is too true; but if you doubt my word, and the correctness
                  of my information, you will realize its truth, perhaps, with shame to yourself and
                  sorrow to your parents."
               
               After their conversations were ended, Mr. Longrave took his departure, rejoicing
                  at the success which seemed, to attend his schemes.
               As he was nearing his home, he was met by Carroll, who accosted him, and charged
                  him with the falsehoods he had perpetrated against him. Longrave, with the
                  impudence of a hypocrite, contended for the truth of the assertions, and supposed
                  public opinion would sustain him. Carroll became exasperated. and in the heat of
                  passion, felled the man in the white neckcloth, to the ground. The next moment he
                  was in the hands of an officer.
               "We have met twice," said Carroll, as Longrave arose from his humble position,
                  "and we will meet again. Base, infernal hypocrite! Libertine, under the garb of
                  heaven's protection, thy crimes are multiplying, and a day of reckoning will come.
                  My life shall be devoted to thee; and beware, the serpent will sting thee."
               When Carroll spoke of crimes, Longrave shuddered, and looked quickly about him,
                  lest some other accuser might arise.
               At the time appointed, Longrave appealed before an alderman against Carroll, and
                  the complaint of assault and battery was heard.
               Carroll was required to give bail in the extraordinary sum of one thousand dollars
                  for his appearance at court, to answer the charge preferred against him.
               The alderman, in fixing this bail, said, "This is an extraordinary case; one of an
                  aggravated character; an unprovoked attack. A peaceable, harmless man is assaulted
                  and beaten in broad day-light, by a young scamp who should have' been locked up
                  long ago. That men, whose honorable avocation is sufficient guarantee of their
                  peaceable disposition, should be thus molested and ill-treated, is almost beyond
                  belief. But, so it is; and in order to set an example, that those may expect who
                  are brought before me for a like offence, I fix the amount of bail at that
                  extraordinary sum. A few days or weeks in prison, may, in a measure, reform you,
                  and teach you to act with becoming propriety toward this class of men."
               Carroll could not give the required security, and was, therefore, committed to
                  await the action of the court.
               With what pleasure Longrave viewed Carroll's commitment, and how he smiled as the
                  police van carried him away. What a lucky circumstance that he had been attacked;
                  and how fortunate he should have the committing officer in his favor. Now a
                  semblance of truth was given to everything he said of Carroll, and, of course,
                  would double the confidence Mrs. Antford had already reposed in him.
               Feeling happier than he ever felt, he bent his course toward Mrs. Antford's house,
                  that he might communicate the pleasing intelligence to that good old lady.
               "Oh, Mr. Longrave, I am so glad to see you. What in the world has kept you away so
                  long?"
               "Carroll is now in prison; he had a hearing today before the magistrate, and was
                  committed to await a trial at court."
               "With what was he charged?"
               "Robbery, I believe. He knocked a man down for the purpose of robbing him."
               "Oh, horrible! How will I ever get over it? My daughter associating with a highway
                  robber;" and Mrs. Antford did really feel distressed, about it.
               "I am afraid that I will have more trouble with that young villain and my
                  daughter."
               "I think not, for the evidence is very strong against him; and he will undoubtedly
                  be convicted, and sent to the State's prison for several years. That, of course,
                  will cure your daughter's love."
               "I hope he will go there, for he has already caused me much trouble."
               Mr. Longrave felt cheered by the genial face and undying confidence of Mrs.
                  Antford; and when he left the good old lady to her own happy thoughts, he took his
                  way to his studio. He picked up an afternoon paper, and looking over the news, he
                  noticed a long recount of a terrible railroad disaster. He read it, and something
                  seemed to attract his attention, and particularly the names of the killed and
                  wounded. He seemed to labor mentally, as if working out some abstract question of
                  propriety, of right or wrong. Being satisfied with his deductions, he cut out the
                  article; and, taking a pen, wrote a name upon a piece of paper, and again started
                  out.
               The errand of Longrave, this time, was one of much importance to himself. The
                  account of the accident located it in the West, and on a line over which it was
                  necessary for Louisa to pass, in order to reach the home of her parents. If he
                  could get her name inserted among the killed, in the morning papers, then he would
                  put to rest every suspicion that might have arisen against him.
               He laid the copy before the editor of a paper, and in a very sincere and pathetic
                  manner, talked of the girl's many virtues, and that her name, by some neglect of
                  the reporters, had been left out of the list of killed, and that he had just
                  received a dispatch announcing her death.
               The next morning the paper appeared with the account of the accident; and in the
                  list of the killed appeared the name of "Louisa." A smile of triumph drew shallow
                  furrows across his face as he read the article; and placing the paper in his
                  pocket, he wended his way to Mrs. Gordon's.
               After the usual compliments had been passed, he said:
               "There has been a terrible railroad accident in the West."
               "Ah!" replied Mrs. Gordon; not for a moment suspecting what would follow.
               
               "Yes, ma'am; and on the line over which Louisa passed."
               "Is it possible! No harm has befallen her, I hope. I wrote to her parents a day or
                  two ago, and expect an answer soon."
               "I have paper here that contains an account of the occurrence," said he, as he
                  handed it to her, and then closely observed her features.
               Mrs. Gordon glanced over it until she came to the killed, and then her face grew
                  deathly pale, and the tears started from her eyes.
               "Oh! why did the foolish girl start off in the manner she did? It seems as if it
                  was so decreed, and that she must go so far and meet such a horrible death."
               "The ways of Providence are mysterious and past finding out, Mrs. Gordon; and this
                  one circumstance should teach us to be always ready;, for we know not what hour we
                  may be called to our reckoning. Louisa was a noble girl; and, to tell the truth, I
                  loved her. But she was almost too gay and wild to suit one of my calling."
               He then consoled Mrs. Gordon; and comforting her grief for the loss of her cousin
                  in the best manner he knew how; he left the worthy lady to mourn in secret for her
                  relation.
               "To-night, then, she will be mine," thought he, as he descended the door
                  steps.
               Night came, and with it came Longrave in a carriage, to convey Nannie to the
                  residence of his particular friend, the abortionist. Everything was ready, and,
                  with a heavy heart, the girl bid her mother farewell.
               As she was entering the carriage, a female closely veiled came up, and when near
                  Longrave, her veil was quickly drawn aside, and gazing a moment into his face,
                  rapidly passed down the street. Longrave shrunk back in horror, and, as he entered
                  the carriage, he trembled violently.
               Again the carriage stopped, and from it descended the second victim.
               Nannie was conducted to the same room lately occupied by Louisa, and while she was
                  removing her bonnet and shawl, Longrave excused himself, and hastened to Mother
                  Higgins.
               "Are you sure," asked he, in an excited manner and tone, "that Riccord actually
                  did poison that girl? or has he duped you?"
               "No, not he; I saw him take the coffin from the house, and know it was carried
                  down the river, for I had him watched."
               "Well, I may be mistaken, but it looked so like her."
               "Like who?"
               "Like Louisa—a woman I saw this evening."
               "Certainly you are mistaken; be satisfied on that point. But Ann Morton is dead,
                  and what to do with her I don't know, I am afraid the officers will take the
                  matter in hand, and if a post mortem examination
                  should be made, all will be revealed."
               "I don't think that a very serious apprehension—bury her as you would any other
                  stranger, and after she is buried a day or two, publish a notice of her death in
                  the papers. I am acquainted with the Coroner, and will keep him off."
               "Thank you for the suggestion."
               "Did Boxer succeed in his enterprise?" asked Longrave with some anxiety.
               "O, yes; he had no trouble at all; everything was believed with the greatest
                  readiness."
               As he entered the room, a very pleasant smile was upon his features, and he
                  desired to make himself as agreeable as it was possible for mortal to be. He
                  approached Nannie, and very familiarly placed his arm about her waist, and bent
                  his head in a most enticing attitude.
               Gently she removed him arm, not wishing to offend him by acting rude. But again it
                  softly encircled her waist, and his manner became still more familiar. She cast a
                  reproachful look into his face, but it was only answered by a glance of his
                  snake-like eyes, which seemed to fascinate and enchant her. Without an instant's
                  reflection, she dashed him from her, and fled, to the opposite side of the
                  room.
               Smiling through his rage, he followed her, and gently pressed her to a seat.
               "Now, my dear, Nannie, don't be so intractable, but let us be sociable; be
                  friends; intimate friend."
               "What mean you by this talk, Mr Longrave? It is really insulting; you must think I
                  am a notorious character, to suffer such familiarities, and that with impunity.
                  You certainly forget your calling."
               
               "No, no, my dear Nannie, your charms inspire me with love, and if I am
                  over-ardent, be not angry with me."
               "Spare your flattery, sir, it doesn't become you. But is this the house of the
                  friend I am to stay with? If so, I hope you will not be so familiar again."
               "There, I knew you would forgive me; you are a good girl, and I like you. Now, let
                  me sit beside you; no harm in that."
               "But it indicates no good," she retorted quickly.
               Longrave was not satisfied with the second bird he had caught. She exhibited too
                  much spirit, and talked and acted, too much like Louisa, to please him. Still,
                  however, he must persevere; faint heart never won fair lady.
               "I think, my dear Nannie, you like me;" and again his arm crept around her waist
                  and gently pressed it.
               "Remove your arm, Mr. Longrave," commanded Nannie, with a fierce look.
               "No, no, Nannie; not so cruel; think how I love you, and ——."
               "Release me this instant, or I'll scream for help;" and the more she struggled the
                  tighter became his grip.
               "It would be useless to scream; you would only waste your breath."
               He was now fierce with excitement; and the greater the resistance the more
                  determined he became in his purposes. He hurled her on the floor, and had torn her
                  dress from her bosom, when, as if just risen from the grave, the form of Louisa
                  stood before him. His hold relaxed, and, rising from his incumbent position, he
                  pressed his hands to his brow, and staggered back from the girl.
               Slowly a finger arose from among the folds of the spectre's black dress, and
                  pointed toward him. A pair of eyes, which seemed to dart fire, stared upon him,
                  while he trembled violently, and glanced quickly around him, as if seeking some
                  place of egress.
               Nannie sprung to her feet, and clung to the apparition for protection.
               "Flee if you can," came in hollow and death-like accents; "but whithersoever thou
                  goest there will I go. Hell is now open for thee; gaping, yawning, to receive thy
                  villainous carcass. Thy crimes are treasured up against thee, and a day of
                  reckoning will come. Fear him not, gentle maid; I will protect thee. Hence,
                  monster; fly, or the floor will open beneath thee;" and fly the villain did.
               Villain as he was, when confronted by a singular appearance, he was no longer a
                  man, but a cringing coward. He descended rapidly to the sitting-room, where he
                  found Mrs. Higgins engaged in conversation with gentlemen; and, so violent was his
                  entrance, that he threw the whole company into the greater consternation.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               Longrave did not know whether to believe Louisa dead or alive. He had been assured
                  by Mrs. Higgins that she had been disposed of, and, beyond a doubt, if so, then it
                  was her apparition, which came to protect, this virtuous and good against the
                  brute force of a villain.
               Longrave was smart enough to know his course was one of crime and villainy, and
                  now, for the first time, he gave the matter a serious thought. He was surprised at
                  the extent of his depredations, and shuddered at the depth to which he had plunged
                  in crime. So far protected behind his position and fair exterior, he had carried
                  on a life of libertinism unknown to the world. Circumstances which would have
                  created a suspicion against any other man, were passed unnoticed, because they
                  pointed to the good Mr. Longrave. But should the truth burst forth, and his
                  infamous career be discovered, it would shock society like an earthquake.
               Now, for, the first time, Longrave paused to reflect, and earnestly seek a place
                  of retreat from his besetting sin. But now it was too late; the net was rapidly
                  closing around him; the storm was gathering, and the only course left was to
                  buffet it, and boldly face the danger. He felt and knew that it would take
                  powerful and overwhelming evidence to condemn him, for the prejudice of the public
                  mind would be strongly in his favor. On! on!! then became his motto, nor falter
                  again.
               "Mrs. Higgins," said Longrave, with some agitation, when the company had
                  withdrawn, "I believe there is some treachery about this house."
               "Why, Mr. Longrave, what on earth ails you? you came into the room like a
                  madman."
               "I am nearly mad. Twice this evening have I seen Louisa, and in the room with
                  Nannie she spoke to me, and drove me from it."
               "What! Louisa?"
               "Ay, Louisa."
               "Impossible; it cannot be!"
               "I tell you it is so. I have been trifled with. She is alive, and not dead, for it
                  could not have been her ghost; it was her flesh and blood, and nothing else."
               "I will call Riccord and question him," said Mrs. Higgins, as she rung a small
                  bell, which was answered by the presence of Riccord.
               When he was informed that Louisa had been seen he trembled violently, and appeared
                  to be in the greatest terror. He related the manner of her death, and how and
                  where he had buried her. This removed all suspicion of treachery from the mind of
                  Longrave and he left the pleasant impression that it actually was her spirit.
               
               "We have another trouble on our hands now, Mr. Longrave."
               "And what is that?"
               "Annie Morton is dead, and how to bury her without creating suspicion is what I am
                  anxious about."
               "Bury her to-morrow, and that as quietly as possible, and trust to chance for the
                  result."
               "I shall follow your advice. But what are you going to do with this last girl you
                  brought here; I guess you don't find her quite so lamb-like as you imagined."
               "O, I will subdue her yet; I would have overcome her, but the spirit of that
                  Louisa interfered."
               "Pshaw! such nonsense, Longrave. A spirit! I thought you had more courage than
                  that."
               "I will go to her immediately;" and he left the parlor and ascended to the room
                  where he had left Nannie. But, imagine his consternation when he found the
                  apartment empty. Whither she had fled he knew not; but that she was gone was a
                  certain fact.
               In a few moments he acquainted Mrs. Higgins with the fact, when a thorough search
                  of the house was made, but no trace of her could be discovered.
               "Are those young men, Sylvester and Boxer, still here?" inquired Longrave.
               "They are."
               "I will set them on her track. Call them in."
               In a few moments they came, in. Longrave was much excited, but, stepping forward,
                  he offered the two men fifty dollars apiece if they would follow a girl who just
                  escaped from this house, and bring her back quickly.
               After a few minutes consultation they agreed to undertake the job, and, having
                  received a description of her, they started in pursuit.
               In about an hour they returned, bearing the girl with them, and securely gagged to
                  prevent her outcry.
               Their zeal and ability as detectives were highly commended by Longrave and Mrs.
                  Higgins, but nothing of a more substantial character was offered them.
               Nannie was conveyed to a more secure room this time, and locked up for the night.
                  Longrave, considering it unsafe to visit her immediately, took his departure, but
                  promised to return on the following evening.
               The next day Annie Morton was buried in rather a clandestine manner, and the
                  procedure drew some remarks from neighbors who thought it rather a suspicious
                  affair. The tongue of inquiry had been set going, and now, Mrs. Higgins and
                  Longrave, beware. The storm is gathering thick around ye.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               A notice of the death of Annie Morton appeared in the newspapers; and in a few
                  days some of her relations made their appearance, when Sylvester was brought to
                  task, to account why they were not informed of her illness. He told a very
                  plausible story, and for a time set their minds at ease. But the tongue of
                  suspicion was busy; and it was suggested that her body should be taken up and a
                     post mortem examination made. Some would have
                  it she had been murdered in a most brutal and shocking manner, and that loud cries
                  of distress were often heard. Others believed that she had been poisoned, and that
                  a certain individual was guilty, (one neighbor would always put the mouth close to
                  the ear of the other, when they would say,) he was a minister. Wonderful stories
                  were set afloat in regard to the house which Mrs. Higgins occupied; spirits,
                  ghosts, hobgoblins, and all sorts of blear-eyed and cracked-faced creatures were
                  seen going in and coming out, and at all hours of the night and day, and
                  especially at twelve o'clock at night, when it is supposed all evil spirits are
                  abroad. Everybody in the neighborhood was willing and ready to talk, but would not
                  take the responsibility to act.
               The coroner was requested to have the body taken up, but he thought it did not
                  belong to his jurisdiction, as the girl was from the county. He then wrote to the
                  county coroner; and he, some days after, wrote back; then the city coroner wrote
                  again; then the county coroner answered. Then the hackman, who conveyed the
                  parties to the house, was advertised for; and he, a good, honest Irishman, thought
                  some poor relation in the "ould" country had died, and left him a fortune, and, in
                  great excitement, came to the place where the information was desired, and
                  informed the person he had taken the parties to the residence of Mrs. Higgins.
                  This is all that was actually done in the case. Money, the great moving power, was
                  wanting. Another strong link was necessary; she was not the daughter of those whom
                  she had been taught to regard as her blood connections. When a babe, she had been
                  deserted by her unnatural mother; and when found, a small picture, the likeness of
                  a lady, and set in a peculiar frame, was found with her. She was taken by these
                  people and reared as their own. Who was she, then, and who was her mother?
               Mrs. Higgins was in the room lately occupied by Annie Morton, and was examining
                  her baggage. In the trunk she discovered many little trinkets; and her avaricious
                  nature coveted them all. At length she picked up a picture; the likeness of a
                  woman. It looked familiar; its workmanship seemed like that of one long since
                  lost. She gazed again; she re-examined it; memories of days long past began to
                  rise in her mind; persons loved and cherished then came like spectres before her,
                  and gradually the truth came in full
                  force; it was her own likeness, and she had murdered her own daughter. She was
                  alone in her secret; no one knew it, and no one ever should know it. But the pangs
                  of her heart, the misery she suffered, did it not amply repay the crimes of her
                  own committing? and how Heaven visited judgment upon her own head.
               "How long," she said, clasping her fevered brow with her hands "have I sought to
                  know something of my child. With what fondness I have cherished the image of my
                  babe, and with what pride I have looked forward to the day when I should see her a
                  full grown woman. I did see her, and I murdered her. Vengeance upon her betrayer!
                  Vengeance upon her seducer! I will repay the crime, though it should steep my soul
                  in sin, black as the blackest darkness of hell. He who was the cause of this last
                  crime, and robbed me of my daughter, shall well and truly pay for it. Fool that I
                  was; why did I not hesitate? I saw the mark, but would not believe it. My career
                  will soon be ended; my daughter avenged, and I die in peace."
               Remorse and repentance was no part of Mrs. Higgins' nature. Punished for her
                  crimes, by murdering her own daughter by causing an abortion which she well knew
                  would result in death; she did not repent, but only plunged the deeper into the
                  pool of sin.
               She replaced the articles in the trunk, and then a letter, which she had just
                  penned, and with a dark and threatening cloud upon her brow, left the room.
               Evening had gathered again; and as its dusky shadows crept into Nannie's room, she
                  felt a presentiment of some coming evil. Why was she kept a prisoner? Why
                  incarcerated in so secure a place, unless for a prey to the lusts of Longrave? But
                  Nannie's resolve was taken; she would rather die than yield to his hellish
                  purposes.
               "Oh, that I had a weapon, that I might slay him if he comes again," she said to
                  herself, as impatiently she walked up and down the room. "If Carroll knew of my
                  perilous situation, he would come to my relief instantly. Why does he not seek me
                  out and rescue me; then my parents would bless him, and we would be happy. Prison!
                  if I had the power I would tear these walls from their very foundations. Foolish
                  mother, to listen to the insidious whinings of a hypocritical monster."
               "Thank you, dear Nannie, for your considerate cognomen," said Longrave, as he
                  approached her, while a dark, hellish look lowered upon his features; "Carroll, I
                  have no doubt, would gladly come to your deliverance, but the walls of a prison
                  detain him. Perhaps he wears a pair of iron bracelets, and such other jewels as
                  they ornament felons with."
               "You are lying, sir, and well you know it, though you are a preacher."
               "I am not, Nannie; he is, indeed, in prison, charged with robbery, and the
                  evidence is very strong against him."
               "I will not, I cannot believe it."
               "Come Nannie, love me. I love you with all my soul; my heart is only yours, and
                  shall be only yours. I will live for you only, and to make you happy and
                  comfortable in life. Will you be mine?"
               "Love you! Love a villain as black in sin as you are! Love a thing, who violates
                  every law of God and man! Who stoops to the most monstrous crimes! On whose head
                  rests now the blood of a victim, murdered at thy instigation."
               "How know you this?" fairly screamed Longrave, while he trembled like an
                  aspen.
               "Your own guilty conscience condemns you."
               "It is false, Nannie; I never murdered or connived at it," and he cast a hasty
                  glance around the room as if expecting the spirit of Louisa to rise up before
                  him.
               "Come, Nannie, a truce to this; let us be friends, lovers, and not be continually
                  quarreling. Come," and extending his hand, he walked toward her.
               "Keep your distance, sir."
               Longrave had intended to woo Nannie this time by promise of marriage; not for a
                  moment supposing she would refuse so good an offer; but when he saw her hostile
                  array, his resolution was taken, and, seizing her in his grasp, he endeavored to
                  force a kiss from her. But, acting in self-defence, her feeble frame seemed
                  endowed with more than ordinary power, and with violence, she hurled him from her.
                  He stood for a moment, stupefied with amazement at her extraordinary resistance,
                  but in no wise inclined to relinquish his prey.
               Again he seized her in his grasp; she redoubled her exertions, buried her hands in
                  his hair, and tore it by bunches from his head. They now fell to the floor. Nannie
                  quickly entwined one of her hands in his white neckcloth, and drew it tighter and
                  tighter about his throat until his face became livid.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               Carroll was brought up on a writ of habeas
                     corpus, and when the case had been heard, the Court censured the
                  Alderman for the enormous sum he required in bail, and ordered that he be released
                  on three hundred dollars, which sum was readily given.
               When he passed from the court-house, he was met by Riccord, who asked if he was
                  the young man who waited upon Miss Nannie Antford.
               
               
                  
                     Nannie's encounter with Longrave.—See page 39.
                  
               
               "I am the same-why do you inquire?"
               "For the best reason in the world;" replied Riccord. "Go with me to-night, and I
                  will prove to you that your rival is a villain of the deepest dye."
               "Longrave you mean?"
               "The same."
               "O, that I could thwart his designs, and prove to the Antfords what I have long
                  suspected. That he lied to them respecting me, I know too well. But who are you,
                  and what interest have you in my cause?"
               "I am your friend, and there is much that interests me for you."
               "I will trust you, but I must seek an interview with Nannie."
               "You will seek in vain."
               "Why so? what mean you? speak quick."
               "She is now in the power of Longrave."
               "Is she not at home? You puzzle me—explain."
               "She is at the house of the abortionists—imprisoned; and to-night he visits her,
                  to compel her to yield to his lustful embraces."
               "Speak you truly?" fairly screamed Carroll, as he grasped Riccord with a giant's
                  grip.
               "The abortionist's house—where is it? tell me quick, that I may rescue her."
               "Don't be so hasty, man. You don't know where Mother Higgins lives?"
               "Indeed I do not."
               "Well, meet us at seven o'clock, at the corner of Tenth and P. streets, and you
                  will see sights that you never saw before."
               "Who do you mean, when you say us?" inquired Carroll, looking at Riccord, rather
                  suspiciously.
               "I mean one more person who is to be in our company. We mean you no harm."
               "I will come," replied Carroll, as they parted.
               He was fearful it was a trap laid by Longrave to ensnare him into something that
                  would result in his ruin. But was the person correct in regard to Nannie being in
                  the power of his rival? If so, than he must rescue her, and perhaps he would yet
                  win the respect of her parents. If he could prove Longrave the liar, he knew he
                  would then indeed triumph.
               Not being satisfied that Nannie was actually from home, he turned his face in the
                  direction of Antford's determined, at all hazards, to find if that part of the
                  man's story was true.
               "What is your business, sir?" asked the haughty Mrs. Antford, when she came in and
                  found Carroll there. "I thought you were in prison, and would never get out. I
                  hoped so, at least."
               "You are very charitable, indeed;" replied Carroll, as haughtily. "I came to know
                  if Nannie went away in company with Longrave."
               "What is that your business, sir? My daughter goes with respectable able people, and not with rascals, you impudent
                  sneak, to come and question me about my daughter."
               "Mrs. Antford," said Carroll, springing to his feet, "I am not a villain, or a
                  rascal, but an honest, hard-working man. Longrave is a villain, a liar, a
                  libertine, and I will prove him to be such."
               "Clear out of the house."
               "I shall not go till you answer the question."
               "Then you shall be put out."
               "She is at the house of Mrs. Higgins, the abortionist, a prisoner there by
                  Longrave."
               "No, she is not; she is at a friend's of his."
               "And that friend is the notorious abortionist."
               "'Tis false, it cannot be so, you slandering puppy."
               "It is so, and I will prove it. Reflect a moment and think of the circumstances
                  under which he took her away."
               Mrs. Antford did reflect, and the more she reflected, the stronger too her mind
                  became the charge of Carroll.
               Why was it Longrave had not told her the name of his friend, where she lived, her
                  character &c.? Why did he take Nannie away in the evening, and in a closed
                  carriage? and why so anxious to have her go from home? He said, too, that Carroll
                  was in prison, and would stay there; how does it come he is free?
               "Carroll," said Mrs. Antford, turning sharply toward him, "what were you put in
                  prison for?"
               "Because I thrashed Longrave for the lies he told about me."
               "Then you were not in prison for robbery?"
               "Robbery! I never thought of such a thing in my life. Longrave has been lying
                  again, I see."
               "Where did you say my daughter was?"
               "At the abortionist's; I don't know the place. I will find out and go there
                  instantly. To-night I will go and rescue her, and prove to you, beyond the
                  possibility of a doubt, the guilt of Longrave in this matter."
               "It will be useless; they will lie you out of it."
               "But I will take an officer."
               "It will be no use; wait, and all will come right."
               "You will find that I am not the villain, but Longrave;" said Carroll, as left the
                  room, and Mrs. Antford to her own bitter reflection.
               Was Carroll telling the truth, or was every word false. If false, why should he be
                  desirous to prove the truth of his assertions. If he should rescue Nannie, as he
                  promised to do, and from the place he says, then, of course, she would be his.
            
            
               CONCLUSION.
               It was six o'clock, and Mrs. Higgins was very busy in making preparations, as if
                  going upon a long journey. So she was, and one from which she would never
                  return.
               In the middle of the room lately occupied by Annie Morton, was a small table, on
                  which was several bottles, and cake and nuts, as if a feast, or, at least, a
                  sociable entertainment of a friend, was prepared. Mrs. Higgins was there—a deep,
                  heavy cloud of anguish seemed to hang upon her brow, and from her dark eyes shot
                  forth fire, that lighted up her soul, and revealed the black revenge that lurked
                  within it. The door opened, and Sylvester entered the room.
               "Ah! you are punctual, boy; I am glad of it."
               "And you have important business with me?" he asked, somewhat hurriedly.
               "I have; be seated, and take a glass of wine, and then I will tell you all. It is
                  much, and will take some time."
               "I am very sorry for that, as I have a special engagement with a friend."
               "You can attend to that afterward; your friend will not be much disappointed.
                  Come, be seated and take some wine."
               Sylvester reluctantly complied. There was something strange and unnatural in her
                  conduct, and' which rather excited his suspicion. She poured out two glasses of
                  wine, both from the same bottle, and handed one to him. He took the glass, eyed it
                  curiously, and then tasted it.
               "Are you afraid of it?" asked Mrs. Higgins, with assumed surprise.
               "Oh, no; I was just tasting to test its character."
               "Oh! well, let us drink our health;" and she touched her glass to his, and then
                  put it to her mouth, while he unhesitatingly gulped his glassful down.
               Mrs. Higgins watched him eagerly while he was drinking, and when he had finished,
                  her eyes sparkled with a hellish delight.
               "Now drink your wine," said Sylvester, when he saw Mrs. Higgins' full glass
                  standing before her.
               "I will in a few minutes. I don't drink so fast as you do; but now we will talk of
                  matters of importance."
               "You were not married to Ann Morton?"
               "No."
               "You didn't love her, did you?"
               "Well I can't say that I did; but why these questions?"
               "Oh, nothing particular. You never intended to marry her?"
               "No, I did not; for I don't intend to marry a girl I don't love."
               "Do you know Ann Morton's mother?"
               
               "Oh, yes; she's a nice old lady."
               "You did not know Ann Morton's mother; but now you do know her, for she stands
                  before you to avenge the death of her daughter: you are poisoned, and will be dead
                  in less than one hour."
               
                  
                     Sylvester poisoned by Mother Higgins.
                  
               
               As she ceased speaking she swallowed the contents of her glass, and then fixed her
                  gaze steadily upon Sylvester.
               "I poisoned! nonsense; and you drink out of the same bottle? You can't scare me;
                  so rest easy on that point."
               "Infernal villain, you caused me to murder my own daughter, and when I discovered
                  the fact I swore to be revenged."
               "You lie, you old hag, you are not her mother."
               "Believe that!" she screamed, as she placed the picture before him, "and say it is
                  not like her. That picture is my likeness, taken before she was born."
               Sylvester gazed upon it, drew his hand across his brow, as if to aid his
                  recollection, and, reeling back from the table, faintly groaned, "My sister!"
               Mrs. Higgins sprung toward him and tore the sleeve from his arm, and there was a
                  mark which he had made when they were school children together.
               "Great heaven! have I been my brother's murderer, too. But in a short time I will
                  be with them. I feel it now; it burns my brain; it drives the blood from my heart;
                  it sets my soul on fire."
               She reeled and staggered a few moments, and then fell heavily to the floor.
               "Away! oh! oh! away!" she screamed, brushing past her eyes with her hand.
               "Now!" and she sprung to her feet, then fell again, and all was still, except the
                  death agonies of this bad woman.
               We will how turn to another part of our closing scene.
               Longrave succeeded in loosing the hold of Nannie, and regained his feet exhausted.
                  She, too, sprung up, and stationed herself near a window.
               After resting a moment he again started toward her.
               "Stop!" she screamed, at the same time throwing up the sash, "or I'll plunge
                  through it."
               He did stop, and, stood eyeing her, when the door was burst open, and Riccord,
                  followed by Carroll and Louisa, rushed into the room. In an instant Nannie
                  recognized them, and rushed into the arms of Carroll.
               
                  
                     Louisa's Revenge.
                  
               
               
               Louisa threw off her disguise, and drawing a bright dagger from her bosom, walked
                  calmly, but with a ferocious and savage look upon her countenance, in every
                  lineament of which was written revenge, toward Longrave.
               "Villain! dost thou know me, arisen from the dead to work out my curse of
                  vengeance. Thy time has come; thy hypocritical soul shall stand before thy judge
                  to account for thy sins. Prepared or no, thou shalt die!" and brandishing the
                  dagger high above her head, she rushed furiously upon him.
               He cast a hurried glance upon the group, before him, and in a tone of desperate
                  hate and scorn, he hissed rather than spoke it, "Betrayed!" and quick as lightning
                  plunged through the open window.
               
                  
                     Longrave commits Suicide.
                  
               
               With a cry of horror they all rushed to the spot, but only to hear the crash of
                  the body as it fell upon the pavement beneath. Then came a groan of dying anguish,
                  and for a few moments all was silent.
               
                  
                     Correct Likeness of Mother Higgins.
                  
               
               
               "I am robbed of my revenge," said Louisa, as she turned from the window. "But the
                  world is clear of a dangerous and bad man."
               They now went in search of Mrs. Higgins, to acquaint her with the catastrophe, and
                  bring her to an account of her conduct. But that lady had gone to render an
                  account to a higher tribunal. They searched several rooms until they came to the
                  one in which they found Sylvester and Mrs. Higgins dead. They fled from that place
                  in the greatest consternation, and, when they came to the yard, they found
                  Longrave quite dead; his neck had been broken by the fall.
               "He is dead!" said Louisa, as, with a look of unsatisfied vengeance, she turned
                  from the body. "Though my hands are not dyed in the villain's blood, and my ready
                  steel did not still the beatings of his heart, yet I feel, Riccord, that I am at
                  thy disposal. Thou knowest all; if thou canst take me, I am thine; if not, ——;"
                  and she grasped the handle of her dagger, as she extended her left hand toward
                  him. She fairly hissed, "we are upon an equality!"
               "I have toiled to win this hour, and will ever bless it. The past is forgotten,
                  and we will live for the future," exclaimed Riccord, as he fervently grasped her
                  hand.
               "And I saved my Nannie," chimed Carroll, as he clasped the fair girl about the,
                  waist, and drew her to him.
               They then left the premises, and repaired to the house of Mrs. Antford, who was
                  almost crazy about her daughter, but whose eyes were opened when her daughter's
                  wrongs and narrow escape were recited. The note signed by Longrave confirmed all,
                  and the old lady's curses were turned into blessings upon Carroll; and shortly
                  afterward Nannie and Carroll were one. Riccord and Louisa went to Mrs. Gardiner's
                  where the appearance of the supposed dead threw the family into the greatest
                  confusion; but the story of Louisa's wrongs soon explained all.
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
