
    ----CITATION----
        Burdett, Charles, (b. 1815). Dora Barton, the Banker's Ward .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5947
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               DORA BARTON, THE BANKER'S WARD. 
             
          
          
             
             
               DORA BARTON, THE BANKER'S WARD. 
               A Tale of Real Life in New York. 
             
            BY CHARLES BURDETT, AUTHOR OF "MARGARET MONCRIEFFE, THE FIRST LOVE OF AARON BURR," "THREE PER CENT. A MONTH," "SECOND MARRIAGE," ETC., ETC. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               S. A. ROLLO, 169 & 171 FULTON STREET.
             
            1860. 
             
            ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860, by W. H. TINSON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York. 
            
               W. H. TINSON, Stereotyper, 
               Rear of 43 & 45 Centre St., N.Y. 
               R. CRAIGHEAD, Printer, 
               81, 83 & 85 Centre St., N.Y.
             
          
          
             
            TO THE HON. FERNANDO WOOD, MAYOR OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, This work is respectfully dedicated, not alone as a recognition of personal kindness, but as a token of admiration for the exalted abilities, unwavering perseverance, and honorable ambition which have placed him in the elevated position he now holds, 
            
               By his humble servant, 
               CHARLES BURDETT.
             
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. THE LITTLE WANDERER. 11
                
               CHAPTER II. THE PHILANTHROPIST. 23
                
               CHAPTER III. BROTHER AND SISTER. 34
                
               CHAPTER IV. GOING BACK A FEW YEARS. 41
                
               CHAPTER V. TWELVE YEARS AFTER. 52
                
               CHAPTER VI. THE PARTY AND ITS EVENTS. 65
                
                
               CHAPTER VII. FIRST IMPRESSIONS. 74
                
               CHAPTER VIII. RENEWING AN ACQUAINTANCE. 81
                
               CHAPTER IX. THE PHILANTHROPIST'S END. 89
                
               CHAPTER X. THE CHAMBER OF DEATH. 101
                
               CHAPTER XI. A CHANGE OCCURS. 111
                
               CHAPTER XII. MOTHER AND DAUGHTER. 125
                
               CHAPTER XIII. ANOTHER WILL. 129
                
               CHAPTER XIV. THE STORY OF A LIFE. 141
                
               CHAPTER XV. THE STORY OF A LIFE, CONTINUED. 156
                
               CHAPTER XVI. THE STORY OF A LIFE, CONCLUDED. 164
                
                
               CHAPTER XVII. HONORS CHANGE MANNERS. 176
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. THE LEGAL ADVISER. 187
                
               CHAPTER XIX. THE DOCTOR AND THE LAWYER. 197
                
               CHAPTER XX. ANOTHER CHANGE. 208
                
               CHAPTER XXI. A NEW FRIEND. 222
                
               CHAPTER XXII. DORA'S NEW HOME. 228
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. ANOTHER NOBODY'S CHILD. 236
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. THE HEIRESS IN POSSESSION. 245
                
               CHAPTER XXV. DORA'S NEW FRIEND. 256
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. APPROACHING A CRISIS. 267
                
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. OPERATIONS OF THE LAW. 281
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. A DISCOVERY.297
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. THE TEST OF LOVE.308
                
               CHAPTER XXX. NINETEEN YEARS AFTER.320
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. THE REVELATION.333
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Dora Barton, the banker's ward 
             
            DORA BARTON, 
            THE BANKER'S WARD. 
             
               Chapter I. 
               The Little Wanderer. 
               IT was a cold, raw, cheerless night, in the month of December, 18-. The northeast wind was howling fiercely through the streets, and the few scattering flakes of snow which came down gave warning of the approach of a severe storm. 
               Pedestrians were hurrying homewards with their faces muffled up as they breasted the wintry blast, and the streets wore an aspect of desolation and solitude unusual at that time of night, for the clock had just sounded the hour of eight. 
               A carriage stopped at the door of a large and elegant mansion in Twenty-third street, from which a gentleman alighted, and in a moment after lifted out gently a child of some eight or ten summers. 
                
               He carried her, carefully wrapped up so as to protect her from the storm, to the door, which had been opened by the servant in attendance, who had heard the carriage stop; and as he placed her down he imprinted a kiss upon her forehead, saying gaily, "Now, Clara, darling, I shall be here at eleven; that is quite late enough for small young ladies to be out, and you must not keep the coachman waiting when he comes; you know I don't like to keep James unnecessarily in the storm." 
               "Oh, I'll be ready, Uncle Charles," replied the child, as she bounded up stairs, eager to join the gay and happy throng which she knew was assembled within, and whose voices saluted her impatient ear while her companion was addressing her. 
               Mr. Barton paused an instant on the steps as the door was closed upon him, and the sounds of music and gay laughter reached him from within. 
               Glancing upwards, he noticed that the snow was falling faster, and that the ground was already white; then addressing the coachman, he said, "James, this will be a very stormy night, and I think I would not take the horses out again. You can put them up, and tell Mr. Hanson to send a coach for me at a quarter before eleven. Why, what is this?" he said, half aloud, as he was descending the steps, for at that moment his eye caught sight of a little figure standing up close to the railing of the area, and holding on with both hands, as she stood on tiptoe, in the effort to catch a glimpse of the scene within, for one of the curtains was drawn up just far enough to allow any one on the outside to obtain a view of the fairy forms flitting to and fro in the parlors, and now and then of a smiling face of some happy child who came to the window to peep out into the storm. 
               "What is this?" he repeated, approaching the child, who stood mute, and apparently wrapt in her own thoughts; "what are you doing here at such a time and in such weather? Why don't you go home? There, child, take that," and he tendered a half dollar to the little girl, who had not moved from her position even when addressed by him, for she had been so engrossed in watching the gay and happy children within, she had not noticed him. 
               Mr. Barton laid his hand gently on her shoulder, and then she turned her gaze full upon him, and as the light from the parlor windows streamed upon her face he saw that it was suffused with tears. 
               "Poor thing," he said half aloud, and glancing down, he perceived that her dress was sadly unsuited to the weather, and that her feet were but scantily covered by a pair of tattered shoes. 
               "Why don't you go home, my child?" said the kind-hearted gentleman, in gentle, soothing tones; and again tendering the half dollar, he added, "Take this. Are you not cold?" 
               "Very cold," she said with chattering teeth, and as she spoke, she raised her tattered frock and wiped away the tears which were streaming from her eyes. 
               "Go home, like a good child, and don't stay here in such weather. See, it is snowing now, and it will be a dreadful night. Where do you live?" 
               "Oh, a great way from here," she replied, looking up in his face, and as she spoke she shifted her feet uneasily, as if suffering from the cold, standing alternately upon either foot. 
               "How old are you? Pshaw, what nonsense to be talking to the child in such a manner. Here, get in; come with me and I will give you some warm clothes at least. Come, my child," and with gentle force he drew her from the railing which her little half frozen fingers still mechanically clutched, and lifting her slender form he bore her to the carriage, and drawing the door to with a loud slam, he bade the coachman drive home. 
                
               "Why were you crying, my child?" asked Mr. Barton, as the coach was driven rapidly off. 
               "Oh, sir, it made me feel so sad and so unhappy when I heard you call your little girl darling. I could not help wishing I had some one to call me darling;" and again her tears broke forth, and burying her face in her thin, chilled hands, she wept bitterly, the hot tears forcing themselves through her clasped fingers. 
               Mr. Barton could offer no consolation to the houseless, homeless, friendless child. Hers was a grief of the heart which words could not assuage, and throwing himself back in his seat he bent his gaze upon his shivering, weeping companion, and gave way to the thoughts which such a scene and such an incident would be likely to call up in the heart of a feeling man. 
               "Here we are," he said, aroused from his reverie by the stopping of the carriage in front of his residence. "You are cold and hungry, I dare say." 
               "Very, sir," she said, wiping her eyes, and vainly endeavoring to draw her scanty garment closer around her shivering person, as if to gather warmth. 
               Mr. Barton alighted, and as the child in obedience to his request followed him, he took her gently in his arms and bore her to the door, which was promptly opened in obedience to his summons. 
               "Maria," he said to the servant who had let him in, "where is Mrs. Edson?" 
               "Up in her own room, sir." 
               "Tell her to come into the parlor." And as Maria cast a glance which had something of a sneer in it upon the little form which Mr. Barton still bore in his arms, he repeated the order in a more imperative tone, and she started to obey the mandate with a contemptuous toss of the head, for had she not a warm, comfortable home, and had she not a right to despise the poor and suffering? 
               Bearing his still half inanimate burden, Mr. Barton entered the elegantly furnished parlor, and pushing a large, soft cushioned arm-chair towards the cheerful fire, he placed his new-found charge tenderly within it, and now for the first time scanned carefully her face. She could not have been more than six or eight years of age, but her wan, hollow face, the sad seal left by want and suffering, caused her to look much older. Her eyes were large, and of a deep blue, fringed by lids of uncommon length, and their expression was one of tenderness and firmness most strangely combined. 
               Her hair, which was of a deep, rich brown, curled naturally-so naturally, indeed, it would have puzzled the most accomplished friseur to keep it straight, though it was now tangled and matted, and hung about her face and neck in disordered masses. 
               Her head was uncovered, and her dress, of the poorest materials, was not only scanty in quantity, but sadly torn and defaced. She was, as she lay there before the cheerful fire, a fit subject indeed for the charity which had prompted Mr. Barton to relieve her want and suffering. 
               The genial warmth of the fire soon had its effect upon the chilled and benumbed child, and even while Mr. Barton sat gazing upon her with looks of compassion and with moistened eyes, her head sank heavily on one side, and yielding to the weariness against which it was evident she could no longer bear up, she sank into a profound sleep. 
               "What is it, Charles?" said Mrs. Edson, entering the room unperceived, for Mr. Barton was so engrossed in his own thoughts and in watching his new-found charge, he had not noticed her presence until she laid her hand upon his shoulder. 
               As he started under her touch and arose, his eyes turned to the chair in front of the fire, and then first perceiving the unconscious occupant, she approached proached, and bending over her, gazed long and silently upon the thin, attenuated face of the sleeper, and turning to her brother, for such was the relation in which Mr. Barton stood to her, she stretched out her hand to him, and as the tears gathered in her eyes she said in a gentle voice, as if fearful of awakening the child, "She is a frail, delicate little thing, to be out in such weather and in such garments. You did right, Charles. You always do," she added with energy, gazing with looks of deep affection in the face of her much-loved brother. 
               "Where did you find her, Charles?" queried Mrs. Edson, as she crossed the room and rang the bell to summon a servant. 
               Mr. Barton commenced to narrate the accidental meeting at the house where he had just left Clara, and was interrupted by the entrance of Maria, to whom Mrs. Edson gave orders to prepare the bath, and to lay out some of Clara's clothing. 
               "Now, go on, Charles," she said, turning to her brother, and Mr. Barton pursued his narrative. 
               "Poor little suffered. What can be done for her?" 
               "Oh, we'll think of that to-morrow, Bessy. Tonight let her have rest and food-to-morrow I will try and find out more about her. She looks like an uncommonly interesting child, and I think her instincts are above her position. She spoke as if nature had planted her in her appropriate sphere, and some untoward accident or chance had transplanted her to a foreign soil. She has the loveliest blue eyes you ever gazed upon, and she speaks so gently, but uncomplainingly." 
               "The bath is ready, ma'am," said the servant, entering, and interrupting the conversation. "Shan't I get some supper, too?" 
               "Yes, Maria; tell the cook to warm something nice and make a cup of tea." Let her sleep a little longer," she said, turning to her brother. "I will go and see that everything is ready, and when I come back it will be time enough to waken her." 
               Mrs. Edson left the room to perform her good offices, and Mr. Barton, throwing himself upon a sofa, lay gazing upon the sleeping child, wondering in his own mind what this adventure might bring forth. 
               His thoughts were interrupted by a movement of the child. Her eyes were half unclosed, and she lay looking steadily, but evidently more than half unconsciously, into the fire, as if lost in a dream. Suddenly she started to an upright position, and rubbing her eyes as if to assure herself that she was not asleep, she gazed about with an air of bewildered surprise. 
               For an instant this continued, and it seemed as if she was striving to recall something to her wandering mind, when her eye caught sight of Mr. Barton, who was still reclining on the sofa, and who was watching her looks and movements with eager interest. 
               At sight of him an expression of joy, gratitude, and happiness crossed her face, and springing forward she sank on her knee by his side, and grasping his hand, which hung listlessly down, she covered it with kisses, while the tears rained down her pale face. 
               "Get up, child; get up," said the kind-hearted man, as he sprang up himself and hastily dashed away a tear which had gathered upon his lids. "Get up, my child." 
               "Oh, you are so good, and so kind, and so"-- 
               What she would have said was broken off by the opening of the door, and the entrance of Mrs. Edson, who, approaching, took the unresisting hand of the little stranger in one of her own, and placing the other on her head, gazed earnestly in her face for an instant, peering into her deep blue eyes as if she would search her very soul. 
                
               But the child bore the look unflinchingly, looking upwards with such an air of gratitude and meekness as could proceed only from truth and sincerity, and Mrs. Edson, drawing a long breath, said, as if satisfied in her own mind, "I think you will be a good girl." 
               "I know I will try to be," replied the child, and brother and sister exchanged glances as she spoke. 
               "You are cold and hungry, I am sure," said Mrs. Edson. 
               "I was very cold, but I ain't now; and I'm so used to being hungry, I don't mind it so much as I once did." 
               "What is your name," inquired Mr. Barton. 
               "Dora Layton they call me, but it ain't my name, I know." 
               "Indeed; and how do you know that?" 
               "Because Mrs. Layton said it wasn't." 
               "Well, never mind that now. Come with me, Dora, and I will give you some warm clothes; we'll hear more about you by and by"-and taking her unresisting hand, Mrs. Edson led the child from the room, leaving Mr. Barton alone. 
               He took up a book, but he could not read, for the large blue eyes and pale face of the little stranger haunted him; and throwing it down, he paced the floor with hurried and uneven steps, inwardly wondering what consequences might result from his evening's adventure. 
             
             
                
               Chapter II. 
               The Philanthropist. 
               HOW long Mr. Barton had remained alone he knew not, but he was aroused from the reverie into which he had fallen, by the entrance of the servant, who had been directed to summon him to the basement. 
               On descending, he found a table nicely spread, and seated before it was Dora; but the tempting viands before her had been untouched, while she sat there weeping and sobbing as if her very heart would break, but utterly unable to utter one word. 
               "I can't imagine what is the matter with this child," said Mrs. Edson half soothingly, turning to her brother as he entered the room. "She has not tasted a mouthful, and I can't induce her to touch anything, though I am sure, to judge from her looks, she must be half famished. 
               Mr. Barton turned to his young protge, if indeed deed she might already be thus designated, and he at once, with the instinct of a sensitive nature, comprehended the truth. Her heart was too full for words, and even the pangs of hunger had been conquered by the feelings of gratitude which oppressed her. In truth he had judged rightly. Her little heart was overflowing with feelings implanted there by nature, but which until now had never been called into action. 
               The novelty of her present position-the change from the sadness and sorrow of the few hours past-the poverty and misery which had been her lot-the comfort and happiness which surrounded her now-the dreary past and the cheerful present were in her mind and thoughts; and young as she was, the dreary, desolate future was there, too, before her. 
               These were the feelings which, child though she was, arose in her heart, and deprived her of all power over herself. 
               "Come, my darling," said Mr. Barton, tenderly approaching her, and imprinting a kiss upon her forehead, "don't cry so; try and eat-I know you need it. Do, my little darling; you will be sick if you do not eat." 
               The change that came over the child's face at the utterance of these words by Mr. Barton was so sudden and so great as to be almost miraculous. At the sound of the word "darling" the tears actually seemed to force themselves back; and when on his repeating the word she felt the kiss of sympathy, perhaps of affection, on her brow, nature re-asserted her sway, and springing from her seat she fairly threw herself around Mr. Barton's neck, and sobbed, "Oh, call me that again; call me darling once more," and reclining her head upon his willing shoulder she lay so quiet, so breathless, Mr. Barton actually turned to see if she had not fainted. 
               But as he looked into her face, there was such an expression of serene happiness, of trust and hope, he could not repress the tears which forced themselves to his eyes, and clasping her to his heart with the warmth of an earnest nature, he said, scarce knowing how or why he did so, "My darling." 
               Sliding from his arms, which had so closely clasped her, she stood by his side for an instant, and looking up in his face with the ingenuous expression of youthful trust and love, she said, with an earnestness far beyond her years, "Oh, am I your darling? May I love you, and will you love me? Oh, I will be so good if you will." 
                
               Mr. Barton looked at his sister, but she stood pale and mute; her lips were fairly quivering with emotion, and a tremor ran through her frame. And who could blame her, for had not she a darling too? 
               She could not speak-she dared not trust herself to make the effort; but forcing a smile, which her brother rightly interpreted, he seized Dora in his arms, and fairly forcing her into her chair by the table, he bade her eat. 
               Hastily wiping her eyes, she looked upon her benefactors with a gleam of intense affection and gratitude, and strove to comply with their kind wishes. 
               But she could not eat-and pushing the plate from her, she leaned her head upon the table, and gave way to another burst of tears. 
               "Oh, I am too happy to eat, Sir. I cannot now; please, don't make me, for I know it would choke me. Please, ma'am, don't ask me any more," she said, appealingly, to Mrs. Edson. 
               "Well, Dora, you need not try," said Mrs. Edson, rightly divining the cause. "By and by, perhaps, you will feel better. Come, stand up and let my brother see you;" and Dora, obedient to the mandate, left her seat and stood before her benefactors. The bath had cleansed her from the dirt which had accumulated perhaps for weeks, and she was clad from head to foot in clothes belonging to Clara. 
               Mr. Barton gazed at her for a full minute without a word; he scanned her from head to foot, and at length his eyes were again rivetted on her large lustrous orbs, now beaming with animation. True, her cheeks were pale and wan, but they were nearly shaded by the masses of rich auburn hair which floated in uncontrolled confusion about her head and neck. 
               Her form was very slender, but it had evidently been attenuated by want and suffering; yet with all, and through all, there was an air about her, an appearance of instinctive nobleness, which might have attracted a less acute observer than Mr. Barton. He was evidently pleased with the result of his observations, for he turned from Dora to his sister, and thanked her with a smile which she well knew how to interpret. 
               "Come, Dora," he said, drawing a chair close to the table, and motioning her again to her own seat, while Mrs. Edson seated herself opposite the little stranger, "tell us something about yourself. You say your name is not Layton. What is it?" 
               "I don't know, Sir. I only know that Mrs. Layton has told me I was not her child; and," she added with a shudder, "I am glad I am not." 
               "Indeed; and why?" queried Mr. Barton, turning to his sister with a look which seemed to ask, "Do you not think she is an extraordinary child?" 
               "Because she is a bad, wicked woman," replied Dora promptly. "She beats me and gets tipsy, and sometimes she leaves me alone for days together." 
               "And where do you live?" 
               "Over in Cross street. But she ain't there now, I know." 
               "What do you mean? Where is she?" 
               "I don't know, indeed, where she is, but I am sure she is not at home. She hasn't been home these four days." 
               "And what have you been doing while she was away?" 
               "Oh, what I have often done before. I have been begging from door to door." 
               "And where have you slept?" 
               "I always went home at night; but to-night when I went there, the people in the house wouldn't let me go in. They said I had no business there as I didn't belong to anybody, and that Mrs. Layton wouldn't ever come back." 
                
               "Well, you shan't go there to-night, that's very certain," said Mr. Barton with decided emphasis. "I will go down to-morrow and see if I can learn anything about her." 
               Mr. Barton and his sister continued their questions to Dora, until, in the excitement of the conversation, she forgot her past troubles, and before she was aware of it, she had fallen upon the food set before her with a voracity which brought looks of pleasure to the generous couple, who sat watching her with glances of unalloyed pleasure, for they felt that she was a brand which Providence had enabled them to snatch from the burning. 
               Little, indeed, could she tell of herself-of the past, or of her position. She could only say that she had been brought up in poverty, associated with vice and crime, and been brought into hourly contact with infamy and debauchery. But through all, it was evident that the instincts of a pure and gentle nature had carried her uncontaminated, and her own heart had taught her to distinguish the evil from the good. 
               It was this instinct of a true and noble heart which had filled her with such gratitude to him who had rescued her from present suffering, and it was this instinct which had caused the young heart to beat with a new, but exquisite feeling, when her generous benefactor had uttered that simple word which opened the very well-spring of her nature, and the true emotions of her pure and gentle mind for the first time found free vent. 
               No wonder she could not eat-no wonder she could only weep from very excess of joy. 
               "Well, Dora, we will take good care of you to-night, and to-morrow we will see what we can do for you," repeated Mr. Barton in kindly tones, while Dora was engaged in devouring the first substantial meal she had probably ever eaten. 
               "Again the tears started to Dora's eyes; but hastily repressing them, she finished her meal, and rising from her chair, she approached Mr. Barton, and taking his hand in both her own, pressed it to her heart, and said, as she looked into his face with eyes which fairly danced with happiness, "I am very happy and very grateful, sir." 
               "I know you will be a good girl," said Mrs. Edson, with an emphasis much stronger than that with which she had before said, "I think you will." 
               "Thank you, ma'am; I will be as good as I know how," said Dora; "and may I be your darling, too?" 
               "Yes," said Mrs. Edson, bursting into tears, for the thoughts of her absent one were crowding upon her heart. "You shall be, for I know you will be;" and for the first time in her memory Dora was clasped to the warm and loving heart of woman; and during the short moment in which her little head reposed upon that gentle bosom, a new world seemed to open before her-a new existence had dawned. 
               "Now, Dora, Maria will take you to a nice warm bed. Go to sleep, and in the morning we will see more about you;" and gently imprinting a kiss upon the pale forehead of the child, she released her from the embrace in which she had been clasped, and left the room to give directions to Maria as to the comfort of the stranger thus singularly thrown upon their charity and benevolence. 
               "Am I your darling?" she said, approaching Mr. Barton, who had stood watching the movements of his sister with emotions of pleasure, and seizing his hand, she gazed into his face with an expression of such mute entreaty he could not, if he would, have resisted the impulse which led him to clasp her to his heart, and imprinting a fervent kiss upon her brow, to exclaim, "Yes, you are my darling; for I feel that God has given you to me." 
                
               "Come, Clara, I want to show you something," said Mr. Barton to his niece, as she divested herself of her outer garments on her return from the party. "But first I want to tell you something." And he narrated to the loving, wondering child how, when he had left her at the party, he had found wandering in the streets a little ragged, shivering girl, who was watching the windows of the parlor, whence the sounds of music, gaiety, and children's happy voices reached her lonely heart. 
               "And why didn't you bring her home and give her some of my nice clothes? I am sure I should have been glad if you had." 
               "Poor little thing," said Uncle Charles, apparently not noticing her remark, "she was so cold and shivering, and she seemed to be looking so wistfully into the windows where you were. No doubt she was hungry as well as cold." 
               "Why didn't you bring her home, I say, Uncle Charles?" exclaimed Clara, with an expression in which tears and smiles struggled for the mastery "I say, why didn't you bring her home? I am sure I would, if I had seen her." 
               "And she looked so pale, and so desolate, and so unhappy, and she said she had no home nor friends, and was cold and hungry." 
               "Why didn't you bring her home, Uncle Charles les?" repeated Clara, the tears gathering in her soft eyes. "Oh, why didn't you? Poor little thing, and to think of her standing there in the cold and snow while we were so warm, and comfortable, and happy inside." 
               "Come with me, Clara," and Mr. Barton led his niece, whose eyes were half blinded with the tears drawn forth by his brief narrative, to which her gentle heart and vivid imagination had lent a terrible reality, to an upper chamber, where, nestled in the downy bed, with nothing visible but her auburn curls and her pale wan face, lay Dora, buried in the blissful unconsciousness of sleep. 
               "Oh, you are so good, Uncle Charles," said Clara, comprehending the whole at a glance; and as she threw herself sobbing into his open arms, he kissed her fervently, and exclaimed, "And you are my own darling, too." 
               Sliding from his arms, Clara softly approached the couch of the sleeper, and drawing the clothes gently down, gazed long and earnestly in the face of the unconscious stranger; and as if satisfied with the scrutiny, turned to her Uncle and said in low tones, "I think I shall love her, Uncle Charles." 
             
             
                
               Chapter III. 
               Brother and Sister. 
               "DEATH FROM INTEMPERANCE AND EXPOSURE.-An inquest was held yesterday upon the body of Mary Layton, a dissipated Irishwoman who was brought to the Tombs the day previous in a state of the grossest intoxication, and who was found dead in the cell on the following morning. The deceased had lived in a state of destitution in Cross street, and was well known in that neighborhood as a very intemperate woman. Verdict accordingly." 
               Such was the announcement which Mr. Barton read on the morning following his introduction to the reader, while waiting in the basement for his sister and his breakfast. 
               He laid the paper down, with something like a sigh, and leaning his head upon his hands, gave way to his thoughts. This was undoubtedly Dora's protector, if indeed she could be called a protector, who had brought her up in ignorance, and in hourly contact with sin and infamy in its worst and most debasing forms. 
               But perhaps she had done the best she could, and had shared with her the best she had, and had suffered, if not encouraged, her to learn all that she knew. But she was dead, and Dora was, in the most terrible sense of the word, alone! 
               What was he to do with her?-he, a bachelor, with no prospect or thought of changing his position. How could he ask Mrs. Edson to receive her into the house, to give a home to a houseless wanderer, of whom nothing was known, save that she was homeless and friendless? True, it was his house, for Mrs. Edson was a widow, left in impoverished circumstances by a dissipated husband, and he had given her a home, as he loved her truly and devotedly, and, to all outward appearance, she returned his affection with all the energy of a sister's love, strengthened by the most boundless gratitude; for she had lived long enough to know that every brother does not recognise the claim which a sister has upon his kindness, love and protection. 
               But, even under these circumstances, how could he venture to bring such a companion for Clara? How could he ask her to permit it, and did he wish it himself? He asked himself this question several times, and each time it was answered by a glance of the deep blue eyes and the pale, thin face which looked so imploringly upon him. 
               He had not yet answered the question to his own satisfaction, when Mrs. Edson entered the apartment, and, after the usual greetings of the morning, he handed the paper to her, and pointed to the paragraph which heads this chapter. 
               "I am glad of it," she said, "for the poor child's sake. It is evident that the woman was as unfit to live as she was to die, but I feel that it is all for the best. Now we won't have any difficulty about Dora." 
               "We," mentally echoed her brother, and he looked at his sister with affection beaming in his eyes. 
               "I don't exactly understand you," he said, equivocating. 
               "Yes you do, perfectly, Charles. You know as well as I do, that nothing would induce you to part with that child now, and I don't think I should let her go willingly. Rely upon it, brother, there has been something more than chance or accident in your finding her as you did. She don't look as if she was intended to go through the thorns and briars which beset the path of poverty in our city. One glance in those large, deep blue eyes, shows a soul far above the bitter, squalid, poverty-stricken wretch of last night-for my part, I think it would be a rebellion against the decrees of Providence to part with her-at all events, not until you have tried her. I don't think I am deceived," and Mrs. Edson spoke as if she did not wish, nor mean to be deceived. 
               "What shall we do with her?" said Mr. Barton, fidgetting upon his chair, and tapping restlessly upon the table-"What shall we do with her? What will"--and he colored as he left his sentence unfinished. 
               "What will Mrs. Grundy say?" replied his sister with a meaning smile. "That's what you were going to ask; but surely, Charles, you need not fear even Mrs. Grundy's tongue-you, honored, respected, and esteemed throughout the city-you, known as one whose purse is as open to the call of charity as his heart, and whose heart is never closed against an appeal from such a source-what will the world say? Let them say what they will, Charles." 
               "But sister"-- 
                
               "No buts, brother. If you won't, by your leave-for your know, Charles, I live on your kindness-I will. May I?" 
               "No, Bessy-she belongs to me; you have one now." 
               "Yes, but I think we can manage to provide for another," and she emphasised the we very energetically. 
               "You shall"-- 
               "Oh, mother!" exclaimed Clara, bounding into the room with a face radiant with happiness, and interrupting the sentence which her mother had just commenced, "What a darling little girl that is upstairs." 
               "Why, my child, have you awakened her already?" 
               "Oh, no, mother; I just peeped in to see if she was asleep, and she was laying there with her hands clasped over her eyes, and crying as if her heart was breaking; so I went in, and we've had a real nice talk-and oh! mother, oh! Uncle Charles, she is such a nice girl, and I do like her so much." 
               "You do; eh, pussy," said her uncle, patting her cheek, for she was already in her accustomed seat on his knee. "But you know she must go away by and by. I am thinking of taking her to the Juvenile Asylum." 
               "What for, Uncle? I am sure you would love her if you could only hear her talk as I did just now. Oh, Uncle, when she put her little thin arms around my neck and cried so, I wanted to tell her how much I loved her." 
               "And why did you not?" he queried. 
               "Well, I will now, I promise you," she said, and flying out of the room before they could check her, in an instant she was up stairs, by the bedside of the weeping, but happy Dora; and with arms around each others necks they mingled their tears, while Clara, in the fulness of her childish heart, poured out expressions of the new-born love she cherished for the friendless little stranger. 
               "Come, little folks, out of that," exclaimed Mr. Barton, who had silently opened the door, and was peering in upon this singular scene. "Come, we are waiting for you down stairs. Dora, darling," he continued, approaching the bed, "how do you find yourself now? Had a nice nap, eh?" and he looked into her face, now flushed with excitement, and her large eyes, which were beaming with exquisite happiness. 
               "Oh, I am so happy, sir," she said, stretching out her clasped hands towards her benefactor, which he seized, and pressed warmly. 
               Come, up with you. Clara, you can help her to fix herself. Hurry, for I must be off, and I want to see how she looks before I go down town." 
               But this scene has been already prolonged too much. 
               It was in this wise Dora Layton became Dora Barton, for that gentleman, very soon after his first meeting with the homeless stranger, had become so warmly attached to her, he had given her not only a home, but his name, having regularly adopted her as his own, though without consummating his kindness by any legal form. 
               And Mrs. Grundy had her say for a time, and many were the hints and innuendoes thrown out by the gossips, who had nothing to do but to manage the affairs of their neighbors and acquaintances. 
               But he lived down all; and when it was discovered that the rich Mr. Barton had actually adopted the friendless orphan, their conduct underwent an entire change; and she who had been the subject of their scornful remarks, soon became the object of their fulsome adulation. And there we will leave her for a time, and ask the reader to go back a few years. 
             
             
                
               Chapter IV. 
               Going Back a Few Years. 
               DR. THORNTON, a practitioner whose diploma as a physician had not yet attained a color by which to mark its age, was seated in the basement of the boarding-house in Houston street, which formed at once his sleeping room and office. 
               With his heels elevated at the angle of a thorough-bred American, and with a segar in his mouth, from which he drew long and lazy whiffs, he was engrossed in the perusal of a volume of medical jurisprudence then recently published. 
               The only movements he made were to shift his legs occasionally as they crossed, and to knock off with his little finger the ashes which gathered on the end of his Havana. 
               A rap at the door elicited from him a short "come in," and without changing his posture, he turned his face so as to catch a glimpse of the visitor without the necessity of other motion. 
                
               "Doctor, won't you come around to mother's," said the intruder, a ragged, little boy who had seen some twelve or fourteen summers, and as he spoke he doffed his cap, which was saturated with the rain, for it was pouring down in torrents. "There's a woman there very sick, and mother says if you don't come right away she's afraid she'll die." 
               "What's the matter, do you know?" queried the doctor, as he let himself down from his recumbent position, and stood before the fire in such close proximity as would have endangered the tails of his coat if they had not been widely drawn apart, so as to give to his person the unobstructed benefit of the heat. "What's the matter, I say?" 
               "I dun'no." 
               "Is she young or old?" 
               "Oh, there's two on em, but I dun'no which on 'em is the sick one. I know, mother said you'd better come at once." 
               "Well, I'll be there directly," and as he spoke the doctor dropped his coat tails, threw his segar into the fire, and with ill-concealed reluctance commenced his preparations for facing the storm. 
               His overcoat was buttoned up with deliberation, as if to prolong the comfort of his own cheerful fire as long as possible; the slouched hat was put on and taken off half a dozen times; and at length with one mighty effort, he seized an umbrella which stood in the corner, and dashed out into the street. 
               "Mother's" was not far off, as he well knew, for the little messenger, who was an errand boy, and the son of the woman who performed occasionally the general housework of the family who occupied the house in which he was now a boarder, had been there so frequently as to be quite well known to the doctor. 
               A hurried walk of a few minutes brought him to the house, an old-fashioned two story and attic dwelling in Greene street, not many blocks from Dr. Thornton's domicile. 
               His hurried ring at the door was answered by the occupant in person, a thin, vinegar-faced woman, with a voice which once heard could never be mistaken or forgotten. 
               "Oh! doctor, it's you, is it? Come in," she said, in a hoarse whisper, pointing significantly to the head of the stairs, as if to caution him against a too free use of his tongue; and having ushered him into the parlor, she closed the door, and before he had time to ask any questions, said in a very mysterious tone: 
                
               "They're very nice people, doctor-I'm sure they are; they only came into the house a few days ago, and took the whole second story without asking any questions, and, doctor, they've got money, too," and she said this by way of consolation to the doctor, who had paid many calls at the house to herself, and some of its inmates, without the most remote hope or prospect of ever receiving any compensation. "They paid me a month in advance, and they pay for everything they get." 
               "And, what is the matter?" queried the doctor, as if he had not heard what his interesting friend had said concerning the probable wealth of his patient. "It is an awful night to be out in." 
               "Yes, I know it is, but," and bending her mouth close to the doctor's ear, for she overtopped him by nearly a head, she whispered a few words. 
               "Oh! Well, you had better let them know that I am here." 
               "Certain, doctor-certain. I'm real glad, for your sake, they've got money, doctor, for you know"-- 
               "Never mind the money now, Mrs. Buffum-some other time will do for that. Please inform them that I am here, and ask if I shall come up." 
               "Certain, doctor, certain," and screwing her face into what was meant for a pleasant smile, Mrs. Buffum stole out of the room as if she was treading on eggs. 
               Doctor Thornton had barely time to throw off his wet overcoat and to divest himself of his overshoes and shawl, before Mrs. Buffum reappeared, and with a look meant to be very gracious, beckoned him to go up stairs. 
               "Front room, doctor-that's their parlor. You'll find the old lady there-a real lady, too, I know, doctor," and she stood at the foot of the stairs, following the receding form of the doctor with her eyes, until he disappeared at the turn of the landing. 
               A gentle tap at the door of the room designated, brought the occupant to answer his summons, and, as he entered with a bow, the door was closed gently behind him, and locked. 
               Doctor Thornton found himself face to face with a lady of advanced years, but of the most commanding and imposing mien and manner. Every look and motion bespoke the lady; and, as she motioned him to a seat, and drew a chair close to his side, he heard the faint moans of a female in distress proceeding from the adjoining room. 
               He started involuntarily from his seat, and, without out knowing what prompted him, except, perhaps, his professional instinct, which led him to respond instantly to the summons of distress, he arose as if to proceed to the relief of the sufferer, but his companion gently laid her hand upon his arm, and bowed him again to his seat. 
               "My daughter and myself, doctor, were on the road to the West to meet her husband, who has been sick there for some time, when she was seized with her present illness. She is very young for her situation, doctor, but she was married against, and without my consent, and many years before I thought she ought to have taken such a step. But she is my daughter, my only child, and I have forgiven her. We are very anxious to be on the road for the West, and your exertions in our behalf shall not go unrequited. Although you find us in this house, and in these circumstances, I am abundantly able to"-- 
               "Madam, I never ask any questions when I am sent for," said Dr. Thornton, interrupting her with a bow. "May I see my patient at once, for her moans sound very painfully on my ear." 
               "Certainly, doctor," and she ushered the physician into the back-room where her daughter lay; but the doctor noticed, as she approached the door, that an expression of pain, amounting almost to anguish, crossed her features. It was, however, quickly subdued, and gave place to one of the most terrible and chilling sternness. 
                
               "A fine girl, madam," said the doctor, as he placed the new-born infant in the ready arms of the elderly lady, who took it with an expression in which rage, hate, and mortification were most strangely blended. But, as she turned and caught sight of her suffering daughter, who lay there pale and inanimate as marble, her features softened, and something like a glance of compassion was bestowed upon her, but there was no affection in that look. 
               It was broad daylight when Dr. Thornton started on his return homewards, and so engrossed was he in his own thoughts, he did not even notice the pelting of the storm which had continued throughout the night in unabated fury. In truth, the vision of suffering loveliness which he had just left, haunted him continually. Those large, liquid blue eyes, which looked so imploringly on him, and which, when turned to her mother, wore such a strange expression of fear, were ever before him; and, by the time he reached his office, he had fully concluded cluded that he had never seen any one half so lovely as his patient, certainly no one in whom he had taken so deep an interest. 
               Daily his visits were continued, and daily his patient continued to improve. By her, he was ever received with an expression of the most undisguised pleasure, and by the mother, with the same air of frigid coldness which had from the first interview marked her intercourse with him. 
               Of his patient and her mother he knew absolutely nothing, for he had not felt at liberty to ask any questions, and indeed, had he been so inclined, he would have learned nothing, for the elderly lady never allowed him the opportunity of being alone with his patient a single instant, and he would as soon have attempted to draw warmth from an iceberg, as to question her. 
               He knew only that Mrs. Rushmore was the name of the mother, and that the daughter's name was Ellen. 
               One morning, in the fifth week of his professional visitations, he called as usual, and was met by Mrs. Buffum, who, in a manner which was unwontedly mysterious, even for her, beckoned him into the parlor, and closing the door, without any preface astounded him by saying: 
                
               "No need, doctor-they've gone." 
               "Gone!" echoed Dr. Thornton, with an air of bewilderment and ill-concealed chagrin. "Gone! Surely you are not in earnest?" 
               "Went off yesterday afternoon, gave me fifty dollars for my trouble, and left this for you;" and she handed a letter to the doctor, which he took mechanically, scarce knowing what he was doing, for his thoughts were wandering after his beautiful patient; and her large, deep, lustrous eyes seemed to beam upon him then-even in that moment of distress; for he was really pained and distressed at this sudden rupture of an intercourse which had brought him so much pleasure; for, poor fellow! he had actually basked in the light of those eyes so long, the idea of living without that light was almost insupportable. 
               He had supposed at first that Mrs. Rushmore's statement as to her daughter and her husband was correct; but from the fact that the husband's name was never mentioned, and that the daughter was called only Ellen, he suspected that there was some mystery attached to their present position, and though his profession, as well as his sense of honor, forbade him making any attempt to penetrate their secret, he had often wished in his heart that he might know something more of his fair patient and her history. 
               By giving way to these thoughts, he had finally become convinced that there was some mystery which enshrouded them; and before he was aware of it, his feelings had become intensely interested in his patient. 
               It was the sudden and unexpected breaking off of an intercourse for which he had been accustomed to look daily with anticipations of delight, which had so unmanned him now; and the assertion that he was astounded, was fully borne out by the feelings which oppressed him when Mrs. Buffum communicated the intelligence of their sudden departure. 
               "And the child?"-- 
               "Oh, madam has put that out to nurse until they come back from the West. She told me she should see me when they returned, and would engage me to look after it until she took it away." 
               "Do you know where she put it?" 
               "Haven't the furthest idee in the world. She never troubled me with any questions, and I'm sure I never troubled her. Come, doctor, see what's in your letter," she said, seeing that the doctor was fumbling it over and over, quite unconscious of what he was doing. 
                
               It was very brief: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "That your kind attention and considerate conduct, professionally and as a gentleman, are appreciated, may be best attested by the enclosure, which please receive from 
                           
                              "A GRATEFUL MOTHER."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               The enclosure was a bill for five hundred dollars, and large as it was-nay, needed as it was-Doctor Thornton would gladly have foregone the possession of it for one more glance at those eyes-for one more smile of welcome from that lovely face. 
               But she was gone; and thrusting the bill and letter loosely in his pocket, he took a very abrupt leave of Mrs. Buffum, without giving her time to ask any questions-a practice to which she was exceedingly addicted, when she felt that she had a proper subject, and such she had ever considered the doctor to be. 
             
             
                
               Chapter V. 
               Twelve Years After. 
               TWELVE years pass rapidly in the cycle of one's life, and when that life is one of monotonous sameness, they are scarcely noticed. 
               They have, however, wrought great changes in the character, habits, and feelings of those who have thus far been brought to the reader's notice. 
               Mr. Barton, of whose early life it is unnecessary to speak, but who, for reasons best known to himself, had resolved never to enter the bonds of matrimony, remained a bachelor, though he had hard work indeed to escape the many nets spread for him by those who were acquainted with his wealth and social position. 
               His business had grown and prospered, until he was, as many are with less propriety, ranked among the merchant princes of the city. He had left the residence into which Dora was first introduced, and now occupied an elegant mansion on one of the Avenues, which nature and art, as well as fashion, combined to render the most appropriate for those who by luck, chance, or energy had won the right to become its denizens. 
               Mrs. Edson, who was truly attached to him, so far as one so worldly minded as she was could be attached to any one, was at the head of his establishment, which was conducted on a scale commensurate with his means and standing; and her connection with her wealthy brother gave her an clat and position, for which she thought she was grateful, but which she did not fully appreciate. 
               As her brother had grown in wealth and distinction, her ideas of her own greatness had proportionally increased; and knowing that she and Clara were his only relatives, she cherished secretly the possibility of deriving advantages from that connection, which she would not have had him know on any consideration. 
               As for Dora, of whom a few words hereafter, she had grown jealous of her-jealous of the love which her brother evidently bore to her, and jealous of the attractions which so often put those of her own daughter in the shade. 
               She was, however, too politic to exhibit any outward ward manifestations of her feelings, and in the presence of her brother or of friends, treated Dora with an affability and seeming tenderness which to the pure-hearted, guileless, and unsophisticated girl, appeared to be the emanations of natural affection, and which, as it deceived every body, answered her purpose as fully as though the simulated feelings had been sincere. 
               Clara, whose delight at the first meeting with Dora may be fresh in the reader's recollection, had grown into a tall and stately girl. Gifted naturally with a large share of pride, the feelings which an impulse of childish tenderness had led her to express for Dora wore off as she grew up, and learned from her mother the full extent of her own expectations and of Dora's dependency. 
               These feelings grew with her growth and strengthened with her strength; and though she, like her mother, outwardly treated Dora with an appearance of affection which seemed to spring from the heart, she was in secret as much opposed to her and to her position in the family as was Mrs. Edson. 
               Taking her cue from her mother, she managed whenever opportunity afforded to speak of Dora as a charity girl-a foundling-a nobody's child, whom her dear uncle had picked up in the streets; and these remarks and innuendoes had of course their effect, as Dora perceived but too sensibly, by the altered manner and conduct of her school companions towards her, and which in the guilelessness of her heart she attributed to some personal defects of her own. 
               And yet they lived in comparative harmony, for Dora, ever keenly sensitive to her true position, and blessed with a gentle, yielding disposition, strove by every means to win the affection, not only of Mr. Barton, her kind benefactor, but of those who were so near and dear to him. 
               As for Mr. Barton, he loved her with a depth and intensity of affection of which few, who met him only as the business man, and who knew not how to penetrate the depths of his heart, deemed him capable. On one occasion he had heard of the unkind remarks made by his niece concerning his beloved protge, and as he knew her worth and prized her virtues, he spoke of them with a sternness which proved how deep was his affection for Dora, and how quickly he would resent any aspersion cast on her. 
               He forbade a repetition of them in terms which proved that Dora had the first place in his heart, and which showed Clara and her mother that it would be the worse for them if they continued such a course towards her. 
               And thus they had grown up. Mrs. Edson fully alive to her own position of utter dependence on her brother, and sensible that her own and Clara's high social position was due to his wealth, looked forward with apprehension to the time when his wealth might be apportioned; and this caused her to look upon Dora with a feeling almost of hatred, for she felt that his overweening affection for her might induce him to make her his heiress, to the exclusion of herself and Clara, and the consequent diminution of her importance in the eyes of the world. 
               Poor Dora, who had never given a thought to such things, was at times most unhappy by reason of this change in their feelings towards her; but conscious of no wrong, she pursued her course steadily, striving to prove her love and gratitude to her benefactor, and to win the affection of his relatives. 
               She was gentle, amiable-studiously attentive to every wish-obedient in all things-and had such winning ways, it was next to impossible not to love her. 
                
               And she had grown into most lovely womanhood, for nature had endowed her with a very large share of personal charms. 
               She was the centre of attraction wherever she went, often to the chagrin and mortification of Clara, who felt keenly the superiority, as well of personal charms as of mental qualities, of her adopted cousin-and many were the harsh words and thoughts vented upon the innocent cause of her annoyance. 
               Dora bore her reproaches with characteristic meekness; and as it generally occurred that Clara's better sense triumphed in the end, the coolnesses occasioned by these transient clouds soon passed away, and harmony was to all appearances fully restored. 
               Such, however, was not the case, for Clara had really a vindictive temper; and from at first thinking of Dora as an intruder, she at length grew into the conviction that she was so, and it required all her tact to keep her uncle from a discovery of her real sentiments. 
               Outwardly, and in the presence of friends, she was all affection, and bestowed on her endearing epithets with as much earnestness as though they sprang from the heart. Dora, however, was not so easily blinded. She could not help feeling how matters would end, and strove by every means in her power to win back the fading affection of one whom she really loved; and as she saw each effort grow less and less successful, her heart ached, as she thought of the possible consequences which such a state of things must eventually entail upon her. 
               As for Mr. Barton, he was actually wrapped up in Dora. He loved her with an intensity of affection which often compelled him to look into his own heart, and examine his true feelings; but he found nothing there except the love which a parent might bear for a darling child. There was so much disparity in their years. He was nearly forty-she not yet out of her teens; and though he looked as though he might have subtracted half a dozen years from the truth, and Dora's appearance and manners might have justified the belief that she could add half as many to her own, he felt that the distance between them was too great, and fancied that it was impossible for him to entertain any sentiments for Dora save those of a father. Such was the posture of affairs at the time our story recommences. 
               Clara's twentieth birthday was approaching, and Mr. Barton, who loved her much more than she really deserved, and with an earnestness of affection which she would not have gained had he known all of her character, determined to celebrate it by a party, and accordingly he gave Mrs. Edson carte blanche as to the arrangements. 
               Clara was in the most exuberant spirits at the idea, and could scarcely think or speak of anything else-while Dora, on the contrary, looked forward to it with any but pleasurable anticipations, for she feared some collision with Clara, whose jealousy of her charms and attractions had been too often 
                     and and
                     and
                   too palpably shown to be mistaken. 
               The eventful evening, however, arrived, and amid the bustle and excitement attendant upon the occasion, Dora half forgot her fears, and it was not until she went to her apartment to dress for the evening that her apprehensions again returned. 
               She chose her simplest attire, and dispensed with everything like ornament, save a simple bunch of white flowers in her glossy hair; and it was with a quiet smile of anticipated triumph that Clara heard her determination to appear in such attire, though she could not help feeling that with all her simplicity and modesty of dress, Dora was still a most dangerous rival. 
               Mr. Barton, as they passed before him for inspection tion, as he termed it, before the guests commenced to arrive, thought he had never seen Dora look so bewitchingly beautiful; and, with something very like a sigh, he turned to his magnificently attired niece, who, rustling in silk and dazzling with jewels, looked queenly indeed; but the proud curl of her lip, and the haughty flashing of her brilliant eyes, caused him to turn again with admiring gaze to his own loved Dora, and imprinting a kiss upon her marble forehead, he turned and left the room without a word of comment. 
               "Uncle don't feel in a very good humor to-night, I'm afraid," said Clara, as she walked to and fro in front of the pier glass, smoothing her rustling dress, and arranging a stray hair here and there across her temples. 
               "I am sure I never saw him out of humor in my life," said Dora, whose gaze was still fixed on the door which had just hidden him from her sight. 
               "Oh, fudge! You make him believe he is perfect, Dora. You can't make me think so, with all your art. I see through your manuvres." 
               "Art, Clara!" said Dora, crimsoning to the temples. "Art-my manuvres?" 
               "Yes, art, Miss. Dora Barton," and Clara turned upon her with a haughty glance, and a very perceptible tible sneer, as she uttered the name of Barton. "Art, and nothing but art. You know as well as I do, that he is sometimes as cross and crabbed as any he you ever saw, but you dare not say so. Now, I'm not afraid to speak what I think, and I don't think him perfection by a long, very long distance; and you don't either; but you have not the courage to say your soul is your own." 
               "Nor did I ever think him perfect, but I do know him to be noble, kind, generous and most affectionate," replied Dora, with warmth. 
               "Oh, yes," hastily interrupted Clara; "of course you are bound to say so, if you don't think so; but our positions are so very different," she said this with a scornful expression which brought the blood again to Dora's face, "there is some allowance to be made for you." 
               "You are unjust and unkind, Clara," said Dora, gently but firmly, "and I will not listen to you. I know my own heart, and I know that it is filled with boundless gratitude and the warmest affection for Mr. Barton." 
               "Oh, I don't doubt it at all, at all," Clara replied, with another scornful laugh. "I shouldn't wonder if you loved him well enough to make a husband of him." 
                
               "Clara, your language is shameful and insulting, and if I did not respect myself too much, I would repeat it to Mr. Barton, for I am confident he would put a stop to it. I am sure I have never done anything to deserve such treatment at your hands." 
               "Yes you have, a thousand things," said Clara, now fairly aroused so far as to forget her discretion. "Yes you have, a thousand things!" she repeated, with energy, stamping her foot, and facing Dora, with clenched hands and flashing eyes. "You have won his love from me, and you know very well if it hadn't been for you and your arts, I should always have been his favorite, and inherited his fortune; for everybody knows he will never marry." 
               "God forgive you, Clara, as I do," said Dora, as tears came to her eyes, forced there by the injustice and unkindness of these remarks. "I would not, Heaven knows, deprive you of one farthing of your inheritance, or of one particle of your uncle's love. I do love him most devotedly, and why should I not; for do I not, under God, owe everything of earthly happiness to him? Oh, Clara, I wish you could read my heart, you would see how very, very little it holds of the feelings which you attribute to me! I am grateful to him beyond my power of words to express; what my words cannot express, my actions must. Do not, dear Clara, do not so misjudge me. I never expect-I never wish one dollar of Mr. Barton's fortune. God spare him long to enjoy it, and keep him conscious of my deep gratitude and fervent devotion to him." 
               Clara looked doubtingly at the tearful speaker for an instant, and then, as if ashamed, or afraid of her own rashness, she approached her, and taking her hand, said with an air of supplication: 
               "I beg your pardon, Dora. I was wrong-I was rash to speak so, but-but"-- 
               "But what?" said Dora, retaining her hand, and clasping her taper waist with the other. "But what, dear Clara?" 
               "You are so very, very beautiful, and"-- 
               "And, is that all, Clara?" said Dora, her eye glistening with pleasure, as she gazed upon the beautiful and glowing face of the speaker. "Is that all? Surely that is not my fault; but, really, if I thought you sincere, I could almost wish to have an attack of the small-pox to put you out of your misery, and cure your insane jealousy." 
               "Come, forgive me, Dora-I will never speak so again," said Clara, earnestly, for she remembered the bitter reproof she had received on a former occasion from Mr. Barton, for speaking unkindly of Dora. 
               "Of course, I forgive you-how could I be offended at you? You have pained me, Clara; not offended me." 
               "Come, come girls, what are you doing here?" exclaimed the hearty voice of Mr. Barton, as he opened the door and saw them still there, when they should have been in the parlors assisting Mrs. Edson. And, with a gentle pressure of the hand, and a glance into each other's eyes which spoke reconciliation and renewed friendship, they followed him out of the room. 
               But he had heard every word spoken; and, as they left the room, he followed them with his eyes until the door closed upon them, and, with a deep sigh, he murmured gently: "Dear, good, affectionate girl, how I do love her!" 
             
             
                
               Chapter VI. 
               The Party and its Events. 
               SOON after the conversation detailed in the last chapter, the guests began to arrive, and the cousins became separated, each having abundance to do to receive and entertain the coming friends. 
               Mr. Barton moved about, with a smile and pleasant word for every one, but unconsciously his eyes wandered often in search of Dora; and as he saw her moving gracefully about, her face beaming with animation and wreathed in smiles, he thought he had never seen any one half so lovely or so fascinating. 
               While engaged in one of these reveries, and gazing upon the fair form of Dora, as she flitted about like a fairy, his arm was gently touched, and turning, he was accosted by one of his old friends, Mr. Chapman, a merchant in the lower part of the city, who was accompanied by a lady, and whom he introduced as Mrs. Arden-so, at least, Mr. Barton understood the name. 
               "My wife was not very well to-night, and as it was too late to send a regret, she begged our friend, who is on a visit at our house, from the West, to accompany me in her stead," said Mr. Chapman, in apologetic terms. 
               "Mrs. Chapman has sent a most lovely substitute," replied Mr. Barton, with a low bow; and he gazed with looks of undisguised admiration upon one of the most magnificent and queenly women he had ever beheld. 
               Tall, with a form which Cleopatra might have envied-features regular as if chiselled by the skill of a Praxiteles-a face beaming with animation and intelligence, she was, in truth, worthy of the admiration which she everywhere commanded, and which no one had ever yielded more promptly or more cheerfully than did Mr. Barton. 
               "Mrs. Arden, I am a bachelor, and alone; Mr. Chapman is a married gentleman, and has no business to gallant ladies about, especially when his wife is absent. Honor me;" and he extended his arm, which, with a graceful bow of thanks, was taken by the queenly beauty; and as they moved off together, a quiet, meaning smile crossed the features of Mr. Chapman. 
               Mr. Barton never felt more proud in his life than when, with this lovely woman on his arm, he promenaded his magnificent saloon, and introduced her successively to his friends. 
               He found her as intelligent and intellectual as she was beautiful, and before he was aware of it, he was completely fascinated. 
               As she had no other friend in the room except Mr. Chapman, to whom Mr. Barton resolutely refused to surrender his charge, on the plea that he was alone, they continued together, attracting the attention of all-Mrs. Arden by her surpassing beauty, and Mr. Barton by the assiduous attention which he paid to her. 
               The hours passed, and the time for supper was near at hand, when Mr. Barton, who still clung to his new-found friend, perceived at a distance a gentleman for whom he cherished a very warm regard, and who had evidently just arrived, as he had not seen him before. 
               "Allow me, madam, to leave you for one moment," he said, conducting Mrs. Arden to a vacant seat on a fauteuil close at hand. "I see a friend to whom I am most anxious to present you;" and he hastened off as fast as the crowded state of the room would permit, and grasped the hand of his old and cherished friend Dr. Thornton, whom he had just discovered. 
               "Late as usual, doctor-always late," he said, warmly shaking the extended hand of his friend. 
               "My time is not always my own, you know, Barton; but I have been here some time. By the way, who was that Juno you were walking with? I never saw any thing so lovely, nor any one so devoted as you were." 
               "Pshaw!" said Mr. Barton, with a forced smile, though he felt the color starting to his face. "She is a lady from the West. Chapman's wife is sick, and she came with him; she is on a visit at their house. She is a splendid woman. Come, I want to introduce you;" and linking arms, they moved to the seat where Mrs. Arden had been left. 
               The introduction was effected, and as Mr. Barton pronounced the name of his friend, Mrs. Arden gazed at him with a singular expression of countenance, as if striving to recall something connected with him, while a faint blush mantled her cheek. 
               "You have been remarkably successful this evening, Mrs. Arden," said the doctor, taking a seat just vacated by her side. 
                
               "I do not understand in what particular you mean," she said, turning upon him with an inquiring look, "though I must confess I have passed a remarkably pleasant evening." 
               "Not by the universal admiration you command, madam, for in that you always succeed," and she bowed to the compliment, "but in chaining my good friend so long. Why, Mrs. Arden," and he looked mischievously at Mr. Barton, whose mantling color told that he expected some of the doctor's home thrusts, "I have been in company with him before, and have seen him gallanting every lady in the room, and he had something pretty to say to every one; but here he has been the whole evening, I am told--" 
               "There, that will do, doctor," said Mr. Barton, actually blushing; "Mrs. Arden knows that, and I am sure if any one is entitled to being called successful it is myself, in being permitted to detain her so long from other and more pleasant society. Allow me to commend her to your attentions for a short time;" and he whispered, as Mrs. Arden turned her head for an instant to speak to Mr. Chapman, who had at that moment approached, "I hope you will come off as well as you think you will." 
               Doctor Thornton was an educated gentleman- polished in his manners-refined-gifted with rare conversational powers-and he had travelled much. It was, therefore, not difficult for him to be interesting, especially to one who, like himself, had travelled, and was refined, polished and educated. 
               They were soon engaged in animated conversation, heedless of all about them, and neither of them manifested any particular pleasure when the march played by the band gave the announcement for supper, and interrupted their conversation. Mr. Barton was on hand to escort Mrs. Arden, and Doctor Thornton yielded her to him with a grimace and shrug of the shoulder which caused a hearty laugh to both. 
               Dora and Clara had not passed unnoticed. Each had their little coterie of admirers, and for once there was no conflict between the cousins, for Clara did not see among Dora's admirers any whom she coveted, and she had in her own train some whom she thought Dora would gladly have chosen. 
               But in this she was mistaken, for Dora saw but one face in the room throughout the evening, and heard but one voice, and that belonged to Doctor Thornton's nephew, a young and promising lawyer, with whom she had long been acquainted, and between whom and herself there had grown up, without the aid of words, a sort of tacit understanding how much each thought of the other. 
               Mr. Randolph was an orphan-the only child of Dr. Thornton's sister, who had been adopted by him, and who had been educated under his especial direction. The world looked upon him as Doctor Thornton's heir; and as the doctor was acknowledged to be wealthy, and possessed a social position which commanded an entre into the first society, his nephew received all the benefit of these advantages, and profited by them, though they failed to cause any relaxation of effort in the pursuit of his profession. From his earliest acquaintance with Dora he had conceived a love for her which he intended to make known when he had placed himself in a position, by means of his profession, to justify such a step; and Dora, on her part, was not insensible to the attentions of the handsome, noble, and generous-hearted young man. In fact, there was a mutual understanding that they loved each other. 
               Doctor Thornton and Mr. Barton saw with pleasure the progress of this episode between the young people; and though the latter often sighed as he gazed upon his lovely protge, and perhaps wished he was younger, yet he had made up his mind fully, that in proper time they would find out each other's sentiments, and a happy union would follow. 
               Dora and Mr. Randolph had both observed the beautiful Mrs. Arden, and had equally noticed the devoted attention paid to her by Mr. Barton and the doctor. 
               "I am afraid Mr. Barton has found his match," said Dora, half laughing, as she watched their progress through the room. 
               "And I am sure my uncle has found his," replied her companion. "Come, Miss Dora, who shall have her?" 
               "Who shall get her, you mean," she replied archly. "Just look. Do you think she is not more likely to make her choice than either of them. It does not depend upon them, mark my words. If either of them get her it will be from her choosing." 
               "I wish, Dora," he continued, bending down, "you would make your choice, and let me know when you have decided," and he fixed upon her a look whose meaning she could not misconstrue, and which brought the blood to her face and brow. 
               She made no reply, but returned his look with one so full of meaning, his heart fairly bounded with joy, and with a gentle yet mutual pressure of the locked arms, they moved towards the spot where Mrs. Arden and Dr. Thornton were deeply engrossed in conversation. 
               "Allow me, Mrs. Arden," said the doctor, rising as they approached him. "This is Miss Dora, our host's adopted daughter, and this is my nephew, Mr."-- 
               "Sit down here, Dora," said Mrs. Arden, not waiting to hear the doctor finish his sentence, and rising, she seated Dora by her side. "Now, doctor," she said, with one of her most winning smiles, "I beg your pardon for interrupting you, but I was afraid this young lady would run away. I wanted to secure her to myself, and was so rude as to interrupt you. 
               "I don't think there is much danger of her running away, though there might be danger in staying." 
               "Not for her, surely," said Mrs. Arden, opening her eyes with well feigned astonishment. 
               "Not for her, madam," said the doctor, bowing very low, and looking at the speaker with an earnestness of admiration which drew a blush to her face in very spite of herself. 
             
             
                
               Chapter VII. 
               First Impressions. 
               "LET me finish the sentence," said Mr. Randolph, approaching and gently pushing the doctor aside. "Pray, do you not discover a strong family resemblance between us?" 
               "Very decided, I think," was the reply, as she scanned the features of the pair. 
               "Well, madam," he said, with a wicked smile at the doctor, who stood wondering what was coming next-"this is his invariable custom: when he desires to make an impression, he always manages to keep me away, for he knows that he would not stand half so good a chance if the lady should know that she had a son as old as I am." 
               "Why, you graceless vagabond," said the doctor, with ill-concealed vexation-"how dare you?-Miss Dora, I appeal to you!" but Dora, who caught the point of the mischievous joke, was ready to burst with laughter, and the explosion was only prevented by the application of her handkerchief to her mouth. 
               Mrs. Arden caught at the hint with a woman's promptness, and heightened the doctor's confusion by saying, as she looked at him with earnestness: "Why, doctor, you really don't look old enough to have a son like that," and she looked mischievously at Mr. Randolph, who appeared to enjoy his own triumph and his uncle's discomfiture amazingly. 
               "Arthur, you scamp!" said the doctor, now recovering his good nature, "this is not the first time you have played me this trick." 
               "Why, I am sure, doctor, there is no cause for offence. I really think he is a very fine-looking young gentleman, and you ought to be proud of him," said Mrs. Arden, quite seriously. 
               "Yes, madam," said Arthur, bowing with well affected meekness, "but think of the"-- 
               "Dora, if you don't stop that fellow," said the doctor, turning to the laughing girl, "I shall tell tales." 
               "No, you won't, sir," said Mrs. Arden, who had already read the tale in the crimson cheeks of the abashed girl. "There, go along, and settle the question of paternity between you. I want to see a little more of this young lady, than I am likely to do if you remain here. I can spare you a little while, doctor," and she looked so archly at him, he fairly blushed; and, after a vain attempt to stammer out something, retreated, followed by his mischievous and laughing nephew. 
               "Dora," said Mrs. Arden, gazing earnestly in the face of the lovely girl, "I am sure I shall love you." 
               "And, I am sure no one can help loving you," said Dora, returning her gaze. 
               "Come, come, my child, no foolish compliments between us. I read too much good sense in that frank, open countenance to think you mean mere flattery; and I am too old to bear with it, though I am compelled to hear enough of it. How old are you, Dora?" 
               "Nineteen and upwards," replied Dora, with a slight blush, for, not knowing her age, Mr. Barton had fixed it himself, and had set apart a birthday for her. 
               "You are very beautiful." 
               "Not half so beautiful as my Cousin Clara. Let me go and bring her to you," and she half arose to accomplish her proposal. 
               "No-sit down, unless you are already weary of me-I want to talk to you. I want to love you, and I want you to love me. Don't you know that we sometimes see persons who make an impression at first sight which lasts forever? I tell you, my child, it seems to me as if I love you already. Why, I cannot say, but I love you without knowing it," and she gazed long and earnestly upon the beautiful and blushing girl, who knew not what to make of this strange address. 
               But Dora gazed into the speaker's glowing countenance, and read such truth and sincerity in her beaming eyes, she could not doubt; and, placing her hand in that of the enthusiastic lady, she said: 
               "I really believe I love you, too." 
               "Oh, you will-I know you will-I felt it when you first approached me. Now, tell me"--but her sentence was interrupted by the advance of Mr. Barton, who approached, and seeing Dora seated by Mrs. Arden, said: 
               "I am ashamed, Mrs. Arden, to think that I have not sooner brought Dora to your notice. She is my adopted child, my heart's darling." 
               "I can well believe that, Mr. Barton," said Mrs. Arden, looking fondly at the beautiful girl. "If she is half so good as she is beautiful, you may well be proud of her." 
                
               "She is twice as good-but really, I quite forgot my niece. Upon my word, Mrs. Arden, I shall have to hold you responsible for a great many sins of omission and commission to-night." 
               "Well, if you think I deserve to bear the burden of your offences, I must submit, of course. But, Dora here, I am sure, will willingly bear a portion of my very heavy load." 
               "Indeed, and indeed I will," she said, with more earnestness than the remark called for; but in that very earnestness the practised eye of Mrs. Arden read the deep and abiding love and gratitude which prompted the words; and she honored her for their utterance. 
               "I would that I had one as ready to share my burdens," sighed Mrs. Arden, while something like an expression of pain crossed her fine features, and Mr. Barton thought she had never looked so lovely as when that slight shade of sadness crossed her face. 
               "How long since you adopted her, Mr. Barton?" queried Mrs. Arden, still holding Dora's unresisting hand. 
               "Dora, dear," said Mr. Barton, apparently not heeding the question, "there is Clara crossing the room; go call her-I want to introduce her to Mrs. Arden. It is my niece," he said, turning to Mrs. Arden as Dora rose to obey him; and Mrs. Arden, 
                     seing
                     seeing
                   the ruse to prevent any further questions on that point, discreetly and politely forebore; but she followed her retreating form until it was lost in the giddy throng which filled the parlors, and turning to Mr. Barton with a half sigh, changed the conversation into some commonplace channel. 
               Clara was very soon brought up and introduced to Mrs. Arden, who was not long in reading her character; and she saw with pain the ill-concealed jealousy and selfishness which animated her. 
               Clara strove to please and shine, and failed before the practised experience of Mrs. Arden; while Dora's gentleness, simplicity, and utter absence of all thought of self, won her warmest regard and affection. 
               "How widely different," she thought; "and how strange that my heart should have so leaped to this dear child;" and involuntarily she turned and met the gaze of Dora fixed upon her with an intensity of expression for which neither could account. 
               "You love me, Dora?" said Mrs. Arden, in tones so low they reached no ears but those for which they were intended. 
               "I really believe I do," was the reply, in the same tones; and a pressure of the hand attested the newborn sympathy so strangely felt between them. 
               "Oh, I thought you could not stay away long, Mr. Thornton," said Mrs. Arden, as young Randolph approached, his face actually beaming with happiness at the sight of Dora. 
               "No, no, Mrs. Arden, I did very wrong; and I am afraid I have offended my best and dearest friend. Randolph, madam-Arthur Randolph-at your service. Thornton was only borrowed for the moment." 
               "Not entirely at my service, if I am any judge of humanity," she said, with an arch look, and with a glance at Dora, whose blushes told the pleasure she enjoyed in his presence. "But come, I saw through your joke at first, and as I like a joke as well as any body, I thought I would humor it. So bring your uncle here; I will make your peace, never fear." 
               "I do not fear, if you undertake it," said Arthur, bowing. 
               "Why, you are as bad as he is," she said, laughing. 
               "That is half an admission, Mrs. Arden, and I can infer the rest," he said, with a look as arch as her own; and feeling that they were now quits, he left her to bring the not unwilling uncle to the shrine before which he had so readily and so devoutly worshipped all the evening. 
             
             
                
               Chapter VIII. 
               Renewing an Acquaintance. 
               ON the day following that of the party, Dr. Thornton was noticed to be particularly restless and uneasy. The morning hours devoted to the calls of office patients hung like lead on his hands, and he was glad of the relief which the ride in his carriage afforded him, for it enabled him to think; and he gave full sway to his thoughts, to judge from the frequent fits of abstraction of which he was accused during the day. 
               Fortunately for his reputation, he committed no grievous professional error, and as he pleaded late hours on the previous night, and a headache as his morning's penalty, he was readily excused any mistakes which he might have committed. 
               He hurried through his list of calls with as much speed as was consistent with common courtesy; and as his obedient coachman (for he had arrived at the dignity of a coach and driver) stopped in front of Mr. Chapman's house, he was obliged to acknowledge to himself that he experienced a sensation about the heart to which for many years he had been a stranger. 
               "Is Mrs. Arden within?" was his inquiry of the servant who answered his summons. 
               An affirmative answer being given, he directed the driver to return home, saying that he would make the remainder of his calls on foot. 
               He was ushered into the parlor, which was darkened by the drawing of the curtains; and he inwardly blessed the chance which thus enabled him to conceal the excitement under which he was laboring. 
               He was left to himself for a few moments, for which he found renewed cause of thankfulness, as it allowed him to regain his composure-a quality which he seemed to have been gradually losing as he neared the house, and which entirely deserted him when informed that Mrs. Arden was at home, and would receive him. 
               He passed the interval-and it seemed an age to him-in pacing the parlor; and he must have been deeply buried in thought indeed, for he did not notice the opening of the door, or hear the rustling of silk as she entered, but was aroused by a gentle touch on the arm, and turning, he stood face to face with Mrs. Arden. 
               For an instant his self-possession left him, and he stood mute and trembling before her. Yes, actually trembling, for the strong man was under the influence of a spell which none have ever yet successfully resisted. 
               The darkness of the apartment prevented Mrs. Arden from noticing his excessive agitation, or the deep flush which mantled his cheek; and accosting him gaily with some trifling taunt as to his want of gallantry in allowing her to enter the room unnoticed, she invited him to a seat by her side on the sofa. 
               In a few moments Dr. Thornton was himself once more, and again he showed himself the refined, polished, and educated gentleman. 
               "Really, Mrs. Arden," he said, after a few common-place salutations had passed, "I hardly know how to excuse myself for so unseasonable a call, except, indeed, I place it on professional grounds." 
               "I really do not see, doctor, how you can do that. You surely had no cause to fear for my health on the ground of any excesses committed last night. 
               "Indeed, madam, you have hit the very cause It was your very excesses which alarmed me; and I felt it my duty as your friend," and he bowed, "and as a friend of Mr. Barton's, to see that no one suffered from his hospitality." 
               "Really, I cannot conceive wherein I was guilty of any excess, doctor." 
               "Yes, madam," he replied, gravely, "you excited an excess of admiration, which is"-- 
               "My proper merit, I suppose you meant to say, doctor," she interrupted. "But don't; don't lower yourself by flattering me, nor me by thinking that I would receive it." 
               "Madam, you wrong us both. I was never more serious in my life; and to prove it, will you allow me to relate a little episode which occurred to me when I first commenced practice." 
               "I will listen with pleasure to anything that concerns you, doctor," said Mrs. Arden with earnestness, for her ready tact had showed her that he was very earnest. 
               "I was called many years ago-let me see," he said musingly, "it was nineteen years ago on the 27th of December"-- 
               "You are precise as to dates, doctor," said Mrs. Arden, with something like inquiry in her tone. 
               "It will best prove my earnestness, madam. I was called," he continued, "to visit a lady, residing then in-no matter what street-and I attended her daily for nearly five weeks. I saw that she was young, very, very beautiful, and, as I fancied, very unhappy. She was attended by her mother, who never suffered me to be alone with my patient for a single instant; but unconsciously I imbibed an interest for her, which grew and strengthened daily. On one occasion, when I entered her room, her mother had just been combing my patient's hair, and a quantity of it lay on the table near which I was seated. I managed unperceived to secrete it, and have that hair now. My patient left me suddenly-mysteriously; and although her mother left for me a fee which at that period of my professional existence seemed fabulous, I would gladly have dispensed with it for one more glance from those clear, deep blue eyes, which had entered my very heart, and left an impress there which nineteen years have failed to efface. You believe I can be earnest, madam." 
               "Go on, doctor," was all the reply she vouchsafed, and Doctor Thornton noticed that her voice was husky, and its tones tremulous. 
               "Madam, I caused that hair to be carefully cleaned and braided. I had it set in a locket. I have worn that locket next to my heart for nineteen years, and now I restore it to its rightful owner;" and suiting the action to the word, he took from beneath his vest a well-worn locket, and drawing the ribbon to which it was attached, from his neck, placed it in the hand of his auditor, as it lay outstretched upon the sofa. 
               The touch seemed to electrify her, for she sprang up as if startled by a galvanic shock, and clasping the locket, paced the room in an agony of excitement, exclaiming, "My God! my God! what does this mean?" 
               "Simply this, Mrs. Arden: that I recognised you last evening the moment my eyes fell upon your countenance, but I saw you failed to recall me." 
               "Time has wrought great changes, doctor," she said, extending her hand, and suffering him to lead her again to her seat." 
               "Not in my feelings, Mrs. Arden, though He has left some rough marks upon my face. You know me now." 
               "Know you," she said with energy; "know you! aye, and bless God that I have been spared to say to you in person how deep, how fervent, how abiding was, and is, my gratitude to you for your kindness, your attention, and your consoling sympathy in those most trying hours. Oh, Doctor Thornton, if you knew all I have suffered, all I have endured. And not the least of my suffering has been caused by the reflection that I did not even know your name, that I might at least have remembered it in my prayers." 
               "Not know my name, Mrs. Arden!" 
               "Not as Doctor Thornton. My mother simply called you doctor; and, as you well know, the opportunity was never afforded me to ask you a single question unheard by her." 
               "Ellen," said Dr. Thornton, in grave, but gentle accents, "may I retain that locket?" 
               "Take it, Doctor Thornton; and in receiving it from me take the most unwomanly assurance that you have never been forgotten;" and as she extended the hand which held the locket, he seized it, and pressing it respectfully to his lips, withdrew the charm which had been his companion through so many years, and replaced it in his bosom. 
               "You will spare me now further conversation on this subject. I have much, very much to tell you-much to ask you. See me to-morrow." 
               "Your words are law to me, Mrs. Arden," said the doctor respectfully; and rising, he took her unresisting hand, and again pressing it respectfully to his lips, was about to take his departure when, with an evident effort, she said, 
               "Doctor, I cannot permit you to leave me until I thank you for the considerate kindness you have displayed in delaying your discovery until now. It shall not, it cannot be forgotten." 
               "I am more than rewarded, madam," he said, with deep earnestness, "by the acknowledgment that I have been remembered during the many years of cheerless solitude which have passed over me;" and renewing his promise to call on the morrow, he took his departure. 
             
             
                
               Chapter IX. 
               The Philanthropist's End. 
               WHEN Doctor Thornton reached his office on his return from his call upon Mrs. Arden, he was surprised to find Mr. Barton seated there waiting for him, and with such evident anxiety and impatience depicted on his countenance, the worthy doctor could not forbear an expression of surprise. 
               "In truth, my dear friend," he said, in answer to the doctor's question as to the cause of his seeming anxiety, "I fear there is full cause for my appearance. Feel my pulse," and he stretched out his hand, which the doctor took, and before he had held it many seconds, his own countenance underwent a change almost as great as that which had come over Mr. Barton. 
               "I thought so, doctor," said Mr. Barton, with a very faint attempt at a smile; "and now I know it." 
               "Thought what," was the hasty reply of the doctor, dropping his friend's hand, and forcing his features into the most professional state of composure. 
               "You need not attempt to deceive me-I have feared it for some time. Last night I felt that it was true. Here," and he hastily unbuttoned his vest, "place your ear there. You can't frighten me now-I am prepared for anything. But one favor I ask, as an old and tried friend. Tell me the whole honest truth. You will?" 
               "On my honor I will," said the doctor, glad to conceal his face from his friend, as he stooped and placed his practised ear over the region of the heart. 
               A very few moments sufficed to convince him that Mr. Barton's worst fears were but terrible realities, and the sadness which covered his own features as he arose and faced Mr. Barton revealed the melancholy truth. He was afflicted with disease of the heart, of the worst and most desperate character, such as to crush all hope and defy all human skill. 
               His life hung upon a thread, and that might be snapped at any moment. 
               "How long have you felt this coming on?" 
               "Over a year," was the calm reply, as Mr. Barton buttoned up his vest, and smoothed the rumpled bosom of his shirt. 
                
               "And why, in heaven's name, did you not let me know it before?" 
               "I fancied it might have been some temporary trouble caused by the excitement of business, added to my passionate fondness for coffee, in which you know I indulged to excess. But is there immediate danger?" 
               "None immediate, unless provoked by some high excitement. You must," continued the doctor emphatically, "mind I say must, avoid everything that can excite or stimulate." 
               "I know it. It was the excitement of last night which brought me to the full consciousness of my real situation and condition. You may have missed me from the parlor for some time after supper?" said Mr. Barton inquiringly. 
               "I did so, but presumed that you were engaged in discharging your duties as host, and therefore took no special notice of your absence." 
               "I went to my room to procure a pocket handkerchief, as one of the ladies had wet mine with wine, and I ran up the stairs so rapidly, that when I reached my apartment, I fell forward, staggering into a chair. I must have fainted, for I have no recollection how long I remained there. I only know that when I awoke to consciousness, I felt a dreadful pain in the region of the heart, and every breath cost me an effort. I suppose there is no use in taking medicine," he added, as he closed his brief narrative with a deep sigh. 
               "I will give you an anodyne. The best medicine is to avoid excitement of every kind, and that, under every and any circumstance, you must do." 
               "I was building such castles last night, doctor," said Mr. Barton, and a sad smile crossed his face as he spoke, "when I first saw that beautiful widow, Mrs. Arden-and by the way, old friend, unless I am very much mistaken, I should have had a rival in you. That would have been funny, indeed; would it not, at our ages?" 
               Doctor Thornton looked at his friend for a moment in silence, as if framing his reply; but whatever it might have been, was interrupted by Mr. Barton, who said, with an expression of sadness really painful to his friend, 
               "Its no matter now, my dear friend; I have something more serious to attend to than love or marriage. I resign the field to you. Win her, if you can; and God give you long life and happiness," and tears actually sprang to his eyes as he spoke. 
               Doctor Thornton by a great effort forced back the tears from his own eyes, and said, "I wish you would not talk in that ridiculous strain. It will only throw you into a state of excitement, and what the consequence might be, heaven could only tell; besides, it is entirely uncalled for. If you will only take proper care of yourself you may have years of life and happiness before you." 
               "I am perfectly calm, my friend; and to prove it, I came especially to talk with you on the most serious matters. Situated as I now am, I feel that I should be guilty of a great wrong if I omitted to make my will. The first thing I did this morning, as I went down town, was to call on Mr. Lander, and give him instructions as to the disposal of my property. I have put upon you the trouble of the sole executorship, and the guardianship of Dora until she is married-and if I judge rightly, that won't be long delayed. What do you think, eh?" 
               "I think they love each other very devotedly," was the reply, for both evidently felt that Arthur Randolph was the selected husband of Dora. 
               "Has he ever spoken to you about it?" 
               "Often, Barton; often. His whole being is engrossed by her; and he pursues his profession with a perseverance which must ensure success, for he is resolved not to ask for her until he is in a position to support her without any aid from me." 
               "God bless her; she is a darling," said Mr. Barton, the tears again coming to his eyes as the thought of leaving for ever one who had so wound herself about his heart, crossed him. 
               "Amen to that; and God will bless her, for if there ever was a noble-hearted, pure-minded, and devoted girl on earth, Dora is the one. I have offered to settle on Arthur enough to make him independent, but he has absolutely refused it, and says it would deprive him of half his energy. He thinks he would enjoy a competence earned fairly and honorably far more than he would wealth given or inherited; and I won't do anything to discourage that idea. His success I consider certain." 
               "I have divided my property equally into two parts-half to Clara and Dora each; with an annuity sufficient for my sister's comfortable support. I have great fear for Clara, however; she is a rash, head-strong, impulsive girl, and unless I am much mistaken, has lately taken a great dislike to Dora-Heaven only knows why. Some time ago I was very much incensed against Clara on account of some things which I had noticed, and many which I had heard, and I made a different disposition of my property. But the instructions I have given to Lander will convey to you my present intentions. You will always be kind to Dora?" he queried, an expression of deep sadness crossing his face. 
               "My dear friend," said Dr. Thornton, rallying his spirits, "you talk like a dying man. Why, really, one would think you were bent upon suicide, or had made up your mind that you could not live another day. Now, please to act like a rational being. In the first place, I love Dora almost as well as you do, and if you had not left her one cent, I should have felt a pride in seeing that she should never want. Arthur loves her beyond every thing on earth, and there is another who thinks her near perfection." 
               "Indeed!" said Mr. Barton; "and who may that be? I did not know that her worth had been so truly appreciated." 
               "Mrs. Arden; she thinks she is the loveliest creature, mentally and physically, she ever saw, and almost fell in love with her last night. She will always be Dora's friend." 
               "And if you should win the widow, doctor, she will have two friends. You will be kind to her for my sake, won't you, my friend?" he repeated sorrowfully, as he thought again of leaving her. 
               "For yours and for her own, for I love her as well as though she were my own. Have no fear on that score. But come, don't talk so sadly now; stay and dine with me, and let us have a talk over old times-it will cheer you up." 
               "I cannot very well now; I have some private papers to arrange to-day at home. Do you come around and spend the evening, if you can, with us; you are always welcome." 
               "I will try, Barton; but I won't even make the attempt, unless you promise to forego all excitement, to avoid business, and to keep as calm and cool as possible. Here," and he hastily penned a prescription, "take that as directed-it will soothe you; and if I should not be able to come to you this evening, do you come here as you go down town in the morning;" and Mr. Barton took his departure, leaving the doctor in a most unhappy frame of mind. 
               On reaching home, Mr. Barton found the family assembled, each of whom noticed his unusual pallor, but neither spoke of it; and the conversation, which his entrance had interrupted, was recommenced. 
               They had been discussing the merits and demerits of their guests of the previous evening. 
               Clara was, as usual, bold, prompt, and reckless in her assertions. This one was a dowdy-the other was a fright; one was dressed to death-another not fit to be seen in decent company; and as for the gentlemen, there was but one in the whole room worth notice. 
               Mr. Barton sat still, and smiled as he listened to her comments, or rather criticisms, for she had seen no one to commend; and when she paused an instant for want of breath, he ventured to ask if she had noticed Mrs. Arden, to whom she had been introduced. 
               "What, that tall, coarse-looking, over-dressed woman, painted to hide her wrinkles, and with false hair-the one with whom you appeared to be so much taken, Uncle Charles?" 
               Mr. Barton made no reply, but looking at the speaker an instant with a sternness which made her fairly quail, he arose and left the room abruptly, evidently highly displeased. 
               "You have offended your uncle," said her mother, who saw that he was really hurt at the bold and reckless expressions her daughter had used. 
               "Who cares? He had no business to ask my opinion, if he didn't want me to say what I really thought. Any one could tell at half a glance what he thought of her. 
               "I really cannot conceive how you could think so of such a lovely woman," Dora remarked. "To my taste, she was incomparably the finest looking lady in the room, and certainly the most attractive." 
               "Not even excepting Miss Simplicity?" added Clara, sneeringly. 
               "Not even with that exception," responded Dora, mildly, but coloring deeply at the covert insinuation. 
               "Yes, I saw you paying your court, because Uncle Charles was so attentive to her. It was very well done, Miss Artful, and I dare say was properly appreciated." 
               "I am not artful, Clara, if I am simple," said Dora, energetically; "and I only say what I mean." 
               "You are artful, and don't say what you mean," was the reply, delivered in a tone of voice unnecessarily high. "You saw that Uncle Charles was very attentive to her, and so you, too, must push yourself in, and toady to her. It's just on a piece with"-- 
               "Clara!" said her mother in a deprecating tone, for she dreaded the outburst of passion on the part of her daughter which she foresaw was coming. 
               "I won't hush, mother-I will speak. I won't allow any charity girl to reprove me-a nobody-a nobody's child!" and she was so enraged, she actually lost the power of speech for the moment. 
                
               "God forgive you!" said Dora, meekly. "What have I done, that you should so abuse and reproach me?" 
               "What have you done! Haven't you tried, by every art, to win my uncle's love from me; as if I did not know it was for his money? Haven't you always put yourself forward, with your mock simplicity, whenever any gentleman was attentive to me? Haven't you done and said everything you could to worm your way into Uncle Charles's affections, and to turn him against me?" Clara said, or rather screamed, for she was so carried away by her passion that she was almost unconscious of what she said or did. 
               "As I hope for mercy, never!" exclaimed the aggrieved and insulted Dora. "I love him-oh! how deeply and truly, he cannot know; for did he not rescue me from a life of poverty and sorrow? Has he not been a father, brother, friend-everything on earth to me? And if I have striven to prove my deep and boundless gratitude to him, it has been because my heart and my sense of duty prompted me; and if I have endeavored to win his love, it was because I knew how earnestly I longed to deserve it. God forgive you for your deep injustice! and I pray that my dear kind friend and father may read my heart more truly than you have done, if you really believe what you have said." 
               "Believe it!-I know it!" exclaimed Clara, now enraged beyond all bounds; and, not knowing what she was saying or doing, she continued, in spite of her mother's entreaties and commands, to pour out a torrent of abuse and invective against the trembling, grief-stricken Dora, who could only listen and weep in sorrowful silence. 
               How long Clara would have continued, or what she might have said, must remain unknown; but her tirade was brought to a sudden close by the appearance of Mr. Barton, who for some minutes past had been an unseen auditor of her remarks. 
               "Silence!" he exclaimed, in a voice of thunder, as he threw open the partially closed door, which, while it concealed him, had enabled him to overhear every word uttered. 
               It was the last word he ever spoke on earth. A sudden pallor overspread his countenance-he threw up his arms, as if catching for support-and with a wild cry, which resounded through the house, sank back on the floor; but before he reached it he was dead!
                
             
             
                
               Chapter X. 
               The Chamber of Death. 
               A SHRIEK of horror rang through the room, and each of the inmates sprang forward to assist the fallen man. Mrs. Edson and Dora raised him gently and placed him on a sofa, while Clara stood still, wringing her hands and screaming at the top of her voice, without, however, knowing why, except perhaps that she was completely horror-struck at the event. 
               The screams and outcries of the affrighted ladies brought the servants to the apartment, and one of them was immediately dispatched for the nearest physician, while Mrs. Edson directed others to procure such restoratives as she had in the house. 
               Doctor Edsall, a near resident, was promptly at hand, but a glance and a brief examination sufficed to show him that Mr. Barton had passed beyond mortal help, and, with a few words of sympathy and condolence, he took his leave. 
               Mrs. Edson was completely prostrated by the suddenness of the awful shock, and was soon afterwards carried in a swooning state to her room, whither she was followed by her now subdued and awe-stricken daughter, while Dora was left alone with the remains of her kind friend and benefactor-her almost parent-whom she had so truly and devotedly loved. 
               Young as she was, she realized to the full the extent and weight of the terrible blow which had fallen upon her; and, approaching the pallid corpse, as it lay on the sofa, where, with the aid of Mrs. Edson, it had been placed, she threw herself on her knees beside it, and clasping the clay-cold hand, which could now no longer return the pressure of her own, kissed it again and again, and pressed it to her heart, as though she would have given her own vitality to have brought its owner again to consciousness. 
               "One word only-one single word, my only friend on earth! Oh, have you left me without one word? You know I loved you-oh, how truly!-how devotedly I loved you, my more than father! Do speak one word to me!" 
                
               But she spoke in vain, for the spirit of the noble, true-hearted, affectionate man had passed to another and a brighter world, and Dora was forced to the terrible consciousness that for him there was no hope on earth. And, oh! how saddening was the conviction forced upon her now of her own dreary solitude! 
               He had been her only earthly friend-her benefactor, her father! He it was who had rescued her from a life of suffering, sorrow, and poverty! He it was who had cared for and cherished her as a daughter! He it was to whom she had learned to cling with all the purity and fervor of a daughter's love; and he had loved her, she knew-nay, she felt in her inmost heart as though she had been, indeed, his own child. Oh! how could she part from him forever? 
               But he was gone now, and she should never more see him on earth. She could no more hear the glad welcome with which he greeted her upon each return from the business of the day-no more receive his warm caress-no more hear that voice, which was ever addressed to her in tones of love and kindness! She was alone-alone in the most dreary sense of that terrible word-for her heart could not resist the forebodings of the unhappy consequences which might be entailed on her by reason of the sentiments with which she had but too good cause to feel that Clara had long regarded her; and what might be Clara's influence upon her mother, she dared not attempt to anticipate. 
               How long she had remained with the corpse she knew not, but she was aroused by the gentle touch of a hand upon her shoulders, and, turning, she beheld the sad face of Doctor Thornton gazing tenderly and sorrowfully upon her. 
               With a faint exclamation of surprise, she sprang from her kneeling posture, and throwing herself into his extended arms, gave way to a passionate burst of grief; the hot tears falling like rain upon his shoulder. 
               "Come, my child," he said, soothingly, "compose yourself. It is a sad and awful calamity, but you cannot alter it by grieving," he added, straining her to his heart. 
               "I know it, doctor, I know it," she sobbed, essaying to check the tears which would fill her eyes, and speaking in a voice half choked by emotion. "I know it, doctor; but he was so good-so kind, and loved me so dearly, and God knows how truly I loved him! He was my only true friend on earth. Oh! what shall I do? Alone on earth," she added, with a sorrowful voice, raising her eyes to Heaven-"alone, alone!" 
               "Say not so, my dear Dora. He was my dearest friend, and, while I live, the one whom he loved-whom I know he loved-shall never say or feel that she is alone. Dora, my dear child, you are not alone." 
               "Oh, I know and deeply appreciate your kindness, doctor. I did not mean that, but," and approaching the body as it lay extended stark and stiff upon the sofa, she kissed the cold, clammy forehead again and again, "he was my own dear father, and who could ever fill his place to me? Who will ever love me as he did?" 
               "Dora, dear," said the doctor, with an effort to restrain his own tears, "you must be composed, and answer me one or two questions. How long had Mr. Barton been home before this terrible visitation?" he asked, in very earnest tones. 
               "Not much over an hour," she replied, wiping her streaming eyes. 
               "Was there any especial occurrence that you know of to annoy or worry him? Had anything occurred to excite him?" 
               Dora looked at him through her still moistened eyes, and shaking her head sorrowfully, replied: 
                
               "I would rather not say now, if you will excuse me. Please not ask me, doctor." 
               "And, why not, Dora? You do not fully understand how necessary and important it may be for me to know. He was at my office not many hours ago, and his very last words were of you; his last request was, that in case of any accident to him, I should take his place with you." 
               "Dear, dear father! Oh, why did you leave me?" she exclaimed, on hearing this renewed evidence of affection for her, and again she glued her lips to the cold forehead of him who had never before received her caresses without a return. 
               "There was a cause, doctor," she said, striving to keep down the tears which would come in spite of all her efforts, "there was a cause, doctor, and I will mention it for the dear sake of him who cannot hear me now. He died in the effort to protect me. Clara was heaping upon me the most unjust and offensive epithets, and accusing me of endeavoring to supplant her in his affections; but he had, unknown to us, overheard all of her remarks. He entered the room suddenly, and merely exclaimed: 'Silence!' when he fell back and expired," and her tears and sobs broke out afresh as she recited thus briefly the cause of the terrible calamity which had deprived her of her best friend. 
               "So, so-I can easily imagine what is to come," he muttered. "Now, Dora, another question-has Mr. Lander-you know him-been, or sent here since your father's return to-day?" 
               "He has not been here, I am sure. Whether he has sent or not, I cannot answer." 
               "Then, I must see if he has it about him," said the doctor, half aloud. "Pardon me, Dora," he said, turning to her, "I am acting for you now," and he proceeded to feel the pockets of his inanimate friend, but turned away with a sorrowful look of disappointment. 
               "Too late-too late-God help her, for I am afraid they won't," he muttered. "Come, Dora, you must retire now," he said, raising her with gentle violence. "As soon as I learned of this terrible dispensation, I sent for the coroner, as it is necessary that he should view the body. I expect him here every moment; and, as I do not wish him to know of the immediate excitement which caused his death, you had better not be present. My testimony will be abundant, for it was only this morning he called on me, and I discovered the dreadful malady which afflicted him, and which was the cause of his sudden death. Come, my dear," and he strove with gentle violence to remove her from the room; but with the most frantic exclamations of grief she threw herself on her knees beside the body, and clasping its neck, pressed the cold and senseless face to her beating, aching heart. 
               Doctor Thornton suffered her to exhaust herself; then gently disengaging her arms, he rang the bell, and gave her in charge of the servant who responded to his summons. 
               The coroner came-the view was had-and as Dr. Thornton had asserted, his evidence was deemed sufficient for the granting of the proper certificate, which done, that functionary took his leave with many and sincere expressions of regret at the sudden death of one so widely and so favorably known in the community. 
               "You will confer a very great favor on me, Mr. Coroner," said Dr. Thornton to that official as they stood at the front door, "if you will send word to Mr. Lander (I presume you know him) of this melancholy occurrence, and say I wish very much to see him at my residence this evening on urgent business." 
                
               "With pleasure, doctor. He has left a will, I suppose?" queried the official, but more as a casual than a personal question. 
               "That is the very thing I want to know. It was only this very day he told me he had given instructions to have his will drawn up, and he even mentioned all the contents to me, as I had been named sole executor." 
               "I hope, for the sake of all concerned, he had executed it before this terrible visitation. It may cause trouble if he has not." 
               "And I hope so, for the sake of one," the doctor muttered to himself. 
               But there is no need to dilate upon this melancholy occurrence, nor to speak of the grief of the afflicted family. 
               Mrs. Edson on the occasion seemed to be, and really was, bowed down with grief and awe; and Clara gave vent to the most hysterical sobs and tears; while Dora, with a countenance pale as marble, and features rigid as those of the beloved one whose remains she was so soon to follow to their last resting place, presented the very picture of despair. 
               The funeral was very largely attended, for Mr. Barton was widely known and universally honored, and his sudden death, in the very prime of life, had cast a gloom over a wide circle with whom he had been for years brought into daily contact, and who had learned to love him for his worth, and honor him for his virtues. 
               The last sad offices were mournfully performed. The last words were spoken, and in silence, broken only by the sobs and sighs of mourning friends, the remains of Charles Barton were consigned to their final resting-place. 
               The mourners moved sadly away; while the family, accompanied by Dr. Thornton, returned to their gloomy home. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XI. 
               A Change Occurs. 
               IT was the third day after the funeral. Mrs. Edson, dressed in the deepest of mourning, and wearing an expression of grief, was pacing slowly and thoughtfully to and fro in the magnificent parlors, which had so lately been the scene of so much gaiety and mirth. 
               She was evidently awaiting or expecting the arrival of some visitor, for at every turn she would pause and listen for an instant, then, resuming her measured walk, give way again to thought. 
               At length the door bell was rung, and throwing herself on the sofa, she awaited with ill concealed impatience the coming of the visitor, for she knew that it could be none other than the one she had expected, as she had appointed that hour for his call. 
               As the door of the parlor was opened she arose, and moved forward to salute the visitor. 
                
               "Madam, I salute you," was uttered in stentorian tones by a large, portly man, who advanced and took her outstretched hand. "Believe me, Mrs. Edson," he continued, as he led her to the sofa, and seated himself by her side, "I sympathize with you most truly in this afflicting dispensation." 
               A word as to the new comer. 
               It was Mr. Harding, a member of the New York bar-noted for his portly carriage-his stentorian voice-his unblushing impudence-and his brazen effrontery-each of which he used without stint to conceal his ignorance and lack of education. 
               He was pompous in his manners-slow and studied in his words-shrewd and cunning in every movement which he made in behalf of a client, and as he was perfectly reckless as to the use of any means by which his ends, or those of his clients, might be attained, he was thoroughly despised. 
               He had made the acquaintance of Mrs. Edson some two or three years previous to the occasion on which he is now just introduced to the reader, and had paid her most assiduous court, hoping through her influence to obtain the favor and business of Mr. Barton. Indeed it was surmised by many that he even aspired to claim Mrs. Edson as his own; but if such was his purpose, he had never avowed it to her, and she was forced to hear occasional innuendoes which she could not repel, as his conduct as well as her own gave a color to them, but which she could not dare to say had any foundation in reality, nor could she assert that there was no cause for them. 
               On her part, however, the admission must be made that she was completely fascinated, and would gladly have listened to his proposals, had he made any, for he was a widower without any children-and those who saw how far her feelings were engrossed (for she could not conceal them from even the most casual observer) wondered how a woman in her position and with her prospects, could fancy such an uncouth, unpolished man, though to her eyes he was the very personation and perfection of nobleness. 
               Such, in brief, was the visitor she had just received-such their relative positions. 
               "It was a terrible blow, Mr. Harding-so awfully sudden-so entirely unexpected, replied Mrs. Edson, hiding her face in her black-bordered handkerchief. 
               "And how does your darling Clara take it?" he inquired, in tones somewhat moderated, and which he intended should convey the most affectionate expression of sympathy with the suffering girl. 
               "Poor thing!" sighed the afflicted mother, "she is nearly crazed with grief. You know she was so passionately devoted to her uncle." 
               "And Miss Dora-of course she feels her loss?" and he laid a deep emphasis on the "her." 
               "Oh, of course. You know how peculiarly she was situated towards my dear brother; and it is very natural she should grieve-the change which it must make in her circumstances is so very great." 
               Mr. Harding elevated his eyebrows very slightly at these words; but he made no direct reply, contenting himself with bowing an assent to her remarks, and awaiting the further information which his shrewdness told him these words implied. 
               "I have taken the liberty of sending for you on professional business, Mr. Harding," she said, looking as intently at him as he would allow, for his face was partially turned from her; and he was revolving in his mind the possible meaning of the words she had just uttered respecting Dora. 
               "You honor me very much, my dear Mrs. Edson," he replied, with well affected warmth; "and I assure you I appreciate the kindness which has prompted you to consult me under such trying circumstances cumstances as those which now surround you. My services, personal and professional, are entirely at your command, as you know I have ever been;" and he bowed with an air which was meant for very courtly grace, but which any casual observer would have construed into the words "I am ready to serve you if it suits me." 
               "I felt assured of that, Mr. Harding, or I should not have ventured to consult you in the trying position in which I am now placed. You may not probably be aware that my dear brother died without having made any will?" 
               "And you are, if I am not mistaken, his only surviving relative?" he asked, in a very hurried manner, a new light evidently breaking upon him, and visions of future aggrandizement dancing rapidly before his bewildered vision. 
               "Except my daughter Clara and myself, he has no relatives on earth." 
               "Then of course, madam, you are his legal heir, and sole inheritor of his fortune. It was quite large, I believe?" he queried, endeavoring to conceal his anxiety on this particular point. 
               "On that point I am uninformed; and it was for the purpose of instituting the inquiries which may be necessary to establish my lawful rights, that I have sought your valuable aid." 
               "You could not have found one who would serve you with more devotion, I assure you, madam. You are sure he left no will?" he queried again, as if doubting what he had heard, yet evidently revolving something in his mind. 
               "On the very day of his sudden and awful death, he had given directions to Mr. Lander to draw up a will, which I have seen; but unfortunately he did not survive to execute it. It was sent home in the evening, while he was lying in the house a corpse." 
               "Um-ah!-not executed;" and he leaned his head upon one hand, stroking his massive chin with the other. "Perhaps you have that paper now?" he continued, in a tone of inquiry. 
               "No, I returned it to the clerk who brought it; but I remember the contents perfectly, although in my then excited state I only glanced at it very casually. He gave an annuity of a thousand dollars to myself, and the rest of the property, with one or two trifling exceptions, was equally divided between Clara and Dora. You know, I presume, that in early life he had adopted Dora as his daughter?" 
               "Were the necessary legal steps taken to render that adoption binding on him or her?" he queried, with an air of deep interest. 
               "No, I am sure there were none. I ought not to say sure, but none that I ever heard of. He took a great fancy to her, and used to tell every one who came that he had adopted her as his daughter; and gradually people came to look upon her as such, and she was treated accordingly. I know that it was by his choice she assumed his name." 
               "She has, then, no legal right to the name of Dora Barton?" 
               "None whatever, Mr. Harding, as far as I know." 
               "What, then, do you propose to do? What do you desire that I should do?" 
               "Act in everything for me. Ascertain where and in what my dear brother's property consists-what amount he has left; and then advise me as to the proper course to be pursued. If there be no will, I shall feel bound in honor to carry out what I have reason to believe were the intentions of my dear kind brother, and that at any sacrifice." 
               "You mean me, then, Mrs. Edson, to represent your interests? Is such your intention, and, if so, will you hold yourself bound by my opinions?" 
               "Entirely," was the reply, delivered with great emphasis. 
                
               "And I will discharge that high and honorable responsibility with zeal, fidelity, and devotion," he said, with a pompous wave of his hand. "But, as to this unexecuted will"-- 
               "What would you advise?" 
               "What is your purpose, my dear madam?" and he looked her steadily in the eye. 
               "Of course, you know how devotedly my poor, dear brother was attached to Dora, and very naturally I shall feel bound to carry out his wishes with regard to her." 
               "You have a daughter, Mrs. Edson?" and he spoke very earnestly, and with another pompous wave of his hand, as if to impress that conviction upon her more deeply. 
               "A dear, affectionate child, worthy my heart's warmest love," was the mother's earnest response. 
               "A young, beautiful, and accomplished girl"- 
               "She is so called by many who would flatter her mother." 
               "It is no flattery, madam. She is all and more than any mere compliment could convey. Knowing what I do, feeling as I do for you and yours," and here he grew so earnest he seized her hand, and pressing it warmly between both his own, "you ask my advice as to your course"-- 
                
               "I do not exactly comprehend you," she replied, withdrawing her hand, but so gently as to show she did not intend to give offence. "I must confess I do not see the drift of your remarks." 
               "You want me to aid you in doing an act of the grossest injustice to one of the most lovely and amiable of her sex? You ask me to aid you in giving effect to wishes unexpressed, and to carry out intentions which were never consummated? How do you know, madam, that your brother ever intended to sign that will?" 
               "Of course, I can only infer it from the fact of his having directed it to be drawn and sent home. At least I so presume, as I know that it was sent here by Mr. Lander, his lawyer." 
               "You have no right, Mrs. Edson, to draw inferences, when they bring such disastrous consequences to you and yours. You have no right to act in such an important matter as this, on mere inferences. Pray, my dear madam, can you tell me what possible claims Miss Dora-that's her name, I believe," and he spoke with a half-concealed sneer, "has to one-half of your brother's fortune?" 
               "No legal claim, I am perfectly aware; but I know that he was very fond of her. Everybody knew that." 
                
               "You have told me before of the manner in which she became an inmate of your family-but you have never told me who she was." 
               "I do not know, and, for the best of reasons, she did not even know herself. She went by the name of the woman who brought her up, or rather who suffered her to beg in the streets-Layton-until my poor dear brother adopted her and gave her his name." 
               "She knows nothing of her father or mother?" he said, inquiringly. 
               "She has not the most remote recollection of either." 
               "Then she was, undoubtedly, some foundling-some nobody's child. Really, my dear Mrs. Edson, I am surprised that a lady of your rare good sense should have felt the need of counsel in such a case;" and he spoke so earnestly, so warmly, and with such evident earnestness, the lady could not but feel that he was sincerely her friend. "One or two questions," he continued, acknowledging her nod of assent to his remarks by a very low bow; "they are necessary to elucidate my point." 
               "Certainly, Mr. Harding," replied Mrs. Edson, deferentially. 
               "Mr. Barton picked this waif, this nobody's daughter, up in the street? If my memory serves me, that was the manner in which she was introduced into your family?" 
               "He did. I remember the occurrence as distinctly as if it had taken place only yesterday." 
               "He brought her to his house?" 
               Mrs. Edson nodded assent. 
               "He has clothed, fed, and educated her from that time forward?" 
               Another nod from the lady. 
               "He has done for her all that a parent could have done for an only daughter?" 
               "She has had every advantage which money could procure, or affection lavish on her." 
               "And now, then, madam," he asked, with as much sternness as though he had some poor witness under cross-examination, "can you tell me of anything more which you think he ought to have done?" 
               "Nothing that I can think of," was the reply very meekly delivered, for she began to feel the weight of his deep arguments, and a sentiment approaching to awe was creeping over her, as she listened to his outburst of virtuous indignation at the thought of possible injustice being done to herself and Clara for the sake of a nameless stranger, who had no earthly claim on her brother. 
                
               "You admit, then, that he has clothed, and fed, and educated her-that he has given her every advantage which affection could dictate or money procure, and surely she could not ask more, considering the peculiarity of the circumstances which surrounded her." 
               "I agree with you, Mr. Harding," she said, glad to be convinced so much to her own advantage. 
               "Then why ask me, madam, in view of all these facts, to lend my aid in divesting yourself and your daughter of that which by right of blood and affection belongs to you, and you only? I would never, Mrs. Edson, consent to be a party to any such act of injustice, and I cannot give my approbation (pardon my using the word) to the well meant, but false sentiment which would prompt you to carry out what you imagine might have been the wishes of your deceased brother. Madam," he repeated, energetically, with an awful wave of the hand, "I never can!" 
               This was delivered in the most approved sentimental style, as adopted by Mr. Harding, and as it was invariably practised by him when he sought to make an impression-it had its effect upon Mrs. Edson. 
               "But, Mr. Harding, what would the world say? Everyone knows how devotedly fond my poor, dear brother was of Dora; she has everywhere passed as his daughter-everywhere been received as such-treated as such, and now to place her in a position of utter dependence"-- 
               "Oh, by no means, I did not counsel any such course as that. You can settle upon her a few hundred dollars-that would be more than she would ever have possessed, if chance had not thrown Mr. Barton in her way. Madam, be just before you are generous. This young woman has no earthly claim on you; and, if any sickly sentimentality is to influence you in her behalf, it can only result in gross injustice to your own lovely and accomplished daughter." 
               Mrs. Edson mused a few moments over these last remarks, and, without making any direct reply, for she was glad to shift the responsibility on her legal adviser, said: 
               "I leave you to take the necessary steps in my behalf, and desire that you should act for me in everything." 
               "It will be necessary for me to have your power of attorney, if I am to represent you in such an important matter." 
               "Any papers you think right and proper for me to sign, I will give you, as I have the fullest confidence in your integrity and ability." 
               "You only do me justice, madam. I will have the necessary papers made out at once, and call with them early to-morrow morning," and with a very warm shake of the hand, and a very earnest recommendation for her not to give way to her grief, he took his leave. 
               As he walked away from the house, his portly form seemed to expand-his gait grew more stately-his head was more erect, and he moved on as one conscious of his growing importance-one over whom the mantle of fate was about to throw a shadow of greatness-for he was fully conscious of his standing with Mrs. Edson, and felt sure of her; so sure, he did not intend to compromise himself by an abrupt declaration, until, by virtue of the powers about to be intrusted to him, he was convinced that no will was in existence, and that the property which she would inherit, would compensate him for the sacrifice he would be called on to make in uniting himself with her. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XII. 
               Mother and Daughter. 
               MRS. EDSON remained seated for a few minutes after Mr. Harding had left the room, evidently lost in thought. She tried very hard to reconcile the convictions of duty urged on her by her conscience, with the suggestions of her legal adviser. 
               She was now in law, if not in justice, entitled to the full possession of her deceased brother's large fortune. Dora had no claim upon any portion of it-none certainly which the law would recognize-and she was consequently thrown upon her charity. Yes, charity; she could find no other word for one who for so many years had been almost a daughter to her-in some things much more than her own daughter had been, for Dora had always been obedient, attentive, and affectionate. 
               Her meditations had not reached any culminating point, when they were interrupted by the entrance trance of Clara, who was attired in the deepest and most fashionable of mourning, ready for a promenade, for her grief at the loss of her best friend on earth, had not been so excessive as to drive from her thoughts the necessity of taking exercise; and consequently Madame--, who had the getting up of the mourning dresses for the family, had been compelled to employ additional hands to meet the pressing exactions of Miss Edson, the newly made heiress. 
               "What was that pompous old fool doing here, mother?" was the salutation, as she approached the mirror, and proceeded to give the finishing touch to her toilette. 
               Mrs. Edson's eyes opened widely at this remark, and she actually stared at her daughter, but without uttering one word; the power of speech was taken from her by the abruptness and impertinence of the question. 
               Clara, who saw in the glass the expression on her mother's countenance, pretended not to notice her look of astonishment, but repeated the question, and added, "I hope you are not going to allow him to visit our family?" 
               "Well, really, Clara," said her mother, having by this time recovered the use of her voice, "that is the most impertinent remark I have ever heard you make." 
               "Why, everybody says the same of him," she replied very quietly, half turning to her mother, but still continuing to arrange a curl, which had gone astray the tenth part of an inch from under her bonnet. 
               This was adding insult to injury, for it touched Mrs. Edson in her most tender spot-her vanity; and her eyes fairly flashed as she retorted, "every body is a fool; and if you will take good advice, you will learn to speak more respectfully of that gentleman. He is my legal adviser." 
               "Why, Uncle Charles would as soon have thought of admitting a barber to his house as allow that man to enter it. He is, and I repeat it, a pompous old fool; and if you weren't blinded by"-- 
               "That will do, miss," replied her mother tartly, interrupting the sentence. "You will please to remember that I am the legal representative of my dear brother, and the sole inheritor of his property. I can do as I please with my own, miss; and if you are not careful in your language, I may find it necessary to give you some hard lessons in good breeding." 
               Mrs. Edson spoke so very sternly, and looked so angry, and the threat held out was so very pointed, Clara wisely forbore to pursue the subject, but apologized to her mother for having spoken in such terms of her friend, and pacified her by the promise not only not to repeat them, but to treat him with the attention due to her mother's friend. 
               "You would feel more than ashamed, Clara," said her mother, "if you had heard the high terms in which he spoke of you this morning." 
               This flattered Clara's vanity; and when Mrs. Edson made known to her that Mr. Harding had spoken of her as "her lovely and accomplished daughter," her opinion of him underwent an entire change, and mother and daughter parted with feelings of complete reconciliation. 
               "I wonder if mother is going to marry that man," Clara muttered, as she closed the front door. "I shouldn't be surprised, I declare. Well, so be it; so long as he acts fairly to me, I don't care. But, oh dear, I don't want a stepfather over me. But what can't be cured must be endured-so I'll try to make the best of it, and court him for my own sake." And thus soliloquizing, she left the house to meet the sympathy and condolence of her many friends upon the afflicting bereavement which had been visited upon the family. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XIII. 
               Another Will. 
               DOCTOR THORNTON'S first care after returning from the chamber of death, was to pen a hasty note to Mrs. Arden, recounting the melancholy occurrence of the day, and begging to be excused from attendance on her, until he had performed the last sad offices for his deceased friend. 
               Mrs. Arden was inexpressibly shocked at the intelligence of Mr. Barton's awfully sudden death, and her first thought was of Dora. She, of course, knew nothing of Dora's position or circumstances, save that she was the adopted daughter of Mr. Barton, and she was now, more than ever, anxious to learn more of her history. 
               Courtesy, however, forbade that she, a stranger, should intrude on such an occasion, much as she longed to be there and comfort the mourner, and she therefore forbore to call upon her; but, if the warm-hearted lady could have known how Dora prayed and longed for her presence and sympathy she would have flown to her on wings of love. 
               The doctor's next business was to visit Mr. Lander's residence; for, in his anxiety to serve Dora, he could not wait until that gentleman had acted on the message delivered to him through the coroner. 
               He found him at home, and, after the first expressions of surprise and sadness at the sudden affliction which had befallen them, for both were old and attached friends of Mr. Barton, Doctor Thornton came at once to the purport of his visit. 
               "He was at my office this afternoon, and told me that, warned by the symptoms of the previous evening, he had sent instructions to you as to the drawing of his will." 
               "That is so, but I am sorry to say it was never executed. I sent it to the house by one of my clerks, but poor Barton was dead before it reached him." 
               "That is dreadful. I am very sorry for Dora." 
               "Of course, it won't make any difference to her. Mrs. Edson owes everything in the world to her brother, and she will feel in duty and in conscience bound to carry out what she knows to be his wishes -as expressed in that will, drawn up by his directions." 
               "Has she seen the will?" 
               "Yes, the clerk very unwisely handed it to her when he learned that Mr. Barton was dead, and, after she had read it, she handed it back to him, with orders to return it to me. By the way, I wonder what he did with his first will?" 
               "Good Heavens, Lander!" exclaimed the doctor, springing from his chair, in a high state of excitement, "you don't mean to say there was another will prior to this?" 
               "Why, surely, I thought you knew it. You and I were made executors, but I begged him so hard to excuse me, as I had so many pressing duties, he added a codicil revoking my executorship, and stating that it was done at my urgent request-but leaving you sole executor." 
               "You surprise me beyond measure, Mr. Lander," said the worthy doctor, reseating himself, and giving way to a fit of musing. "What was the nature of the first will?" he asked. 
               "Everything to Dora, except a thousand a year to his sister, and five hundred to her daughter; and to you he left his pictures and library. I remember ber, at the time he executed it, he told me he was very much offended at Clara's treatment of Dora, and at his sister for upholding her, as he believed." 
               "Poor Barton!" sighed the doctor, wiping the tear which this recital had forced to his eyes, "to be cut off just in the very prime of his life and usefulness, with everything so bright and fair before him. Truly, 'Death loves a shining mark.' It was so of a verity in his case. But that will? What do you suppose has become of it? Undoubtedly, he must have destroyed it, or he would not have given instructions to have another drawn. Mrs. Edson, I presume, will take out letters of administration now. Dear Dora! I am afraid hers is a poor chance, if that first will has unfortunately been destroyed. I"-- 
               "I have no doubt it has been, or he would not have been so precise in his directions as to this one. But, don't you think his sister will do what is fair towards Dora?" queried the lawyer, crossing his legs, and looking full in the doctor's face. 
               "That depends much on the influence brought to bear on her. I am inclined to think that she is fond of Dora, though I know that Clara hates her with a mortal hatred." 
               "And, for what earthly cause?" 
               "Jealousy. Dora was much the most beautiful, and drew many admirers from Clara; though I know that ever since she was aware she had a heart, it has been given to my nephew, Arthur, and she has not cared for the attentions of any one else. So Clara might have spared her jealousy on that score." 
               "Who will she employ, do you think?" 
               "Why, Harding, of course. He has been dancing attendance on her for two or three years, and any one with half an eye could see as plain as day that she was only waiting to be asked, to answer 'yes.'" 
               "Then Dora Barton's chances are poor, indeed. He is an unmitigated scamp-a disgrace to the profession, and has only managed to be known at all by means of his brazen effrontery and unparalleled impudence. He is thoroughly selfish and unprincipled; and, if what you say is true, and his attentions are likely to be appreciated by Mrs. Edson, Dora will never touch one cent of poor Barton's money:" 
               "Thank God, I have enough for her and myself, too, but I trust in Heaven she may receive, at least, simple justice!" 
               "Not from Harding, rest assured." 
               I think, if that is the case, I had better see Mrs. Edson at once, and appeal to her better feelings, before Harding gets hold of her. If I can wring a promise from her, I will make her keep it. I will call as soon after the funeral as propriety will permit. But that first will annoys me. If I only knew it had been destroyed, I should feel better satisfied." 
               "Oh, there is no use in worrying about that. He made it at the time he went South to collect that debt from Holmes and Barnett, fearing he might be delayed there, and be carried off by the fever, and I have no doubt that as soon as he returned, he destroyed it, else why have another drawn up, and one so different in its provisions? It was very thoughtless in me, however, not to have asked him about it, when he was conversing on that subject." 
               "I suppose, Lander, there is no use in trying to compel the execution of the will on her part by any legal process?" queried Doctor Thornton, as he arose and took his hat. 
               "None, whatever. It would be time and money thrown away. By the way, doctor, who was that queenly beauty at poor Barton's last night. I never saw such a magnificent woman!" 
               "Oh!" said the doctor, turning away to conceal the flush which arose to his cheek, "It is a lady from the West, who is staying with Mr. Chapman. Mrs. Arden, from some western city." 
               "Well, she is to the western ladies, me judice, so far as I have seen, what Cincinnati is to its cities-the Queen of the West. She is a perfect Juno. Why don't you move up to her, doctor? You are quite old enough to get married; and your practice, large as it is, would be amazingly increased by such a step. I almost wished there wasn't a Mrs. Lander, when I saw her." 
               "Good day, Lander," said the doctor hurriedly, for he felt the hot blood mantling his cheeks, and he could not at his age bear the idea of being bantered. "I will call on you again as soon as I have seen Mrs. Edson;" and without waiting for any reply, the doctor took his departure. 
               "Silly fellow!" laughed the lawyer, as the doctor closed the door, "as if anybody could not see that he was desperately in love with that Juno. Well, I wish him success-for I am sure any man on earth might be proud of her, and Doctor Thornton is good enough for any woman living. The deuce take that first will," he suddenly said, rubbing his forehead. "I wonder if Barton did destroy it. Oh, of course he must, or he wouldn't have caused this one to be drawn up. Let me see. He must have left nearly three hundred thousand dollars. Now, if Mrs. Edson is anything of a woman, and respects her brother's memory, she will give Dora at least one-third. Two hundred thousand ought to satisfy even that harpy, Harding, for I have no doubt he will have the fingering of it. Oh, bless that first will; it will run through my brain." 
               "Tea, eh?" he said, as his wife, entering his sanctum, interrupted his soliloquy by announcing that social meal; for Mr. Lander, though wealthy, had not grown so fast as to leave comfort behind, and he abominated those six o'clock dinners, which had just then come in vogue. "Do you know, Martha," he said, putting his arm around her waist and kissing her forehead, "I said something very naughty about you a moment ago to Doctor Thornton, who has just left." 
               "He didn't believe it, I know," she said, laughing, and parting his hair, on which time had begun to leave a few grey streaks, and kissing him in return. 
                
               "But he did though, I am sure." 
               "Then I fine you new dresses for Susan and Martha," she said, laughingly. 
               "And what for Susan and Martha's mother?" 
               "Oh, I'll take my pay now," and she kissed him again with all the warmth of unchanged love. 
               "I'll pay the fine and tell you what it was. You remember that noble looking woman at poor Barton's last night?" 
               "Of course I do. But why do you say poor Barton; I am sure he is rich enough to be happy, if wealth can confer happiness." 
               "Good God, Martha; I quite forgot to tell you Barton is dead." 
               "Dead, Robert!" exclaimed his wife aghast. "You cannot mean that." 
               "Sure as Gospel, my dear; I would not jest on such a topic. He was at my office this morning, and said that from certain symptoms he observed last night, he was confident he had disease of the heart, and might drop off very suddenly. With this apprehension before him he gave me directions to draw up his will, and bring or send it to his house this evening. I sent it before six o'clock, but it was too late. He had fallen dead an hour before it reached the house." 
                
               "Then, Mrs. Edson will inherit all of his large property." 
               "All she does not give to Dora." 
               "All she does not give!-All she does give, Robert, you may put in my thimble, if it depends on her." 
               "Do you really think so?" 
               "Let a woman alone to find out a woman's feelings. Why, Mrs. Edson idolizes Clara, and Clara perfectly hates Dora, and has shown it unmistakably for years past. Any one can see it is from mere jealousy of her beauty and superior attractions; but her hatred is so intense, she misses no opportunity of abusing her behind her back. Why, I have heard Clara in her mother's presence call her an upstart-a nobody-a nobody's child-a charity girl-and such names; and her mother made no attempt whatever to check her. No, no. Mark my words: when Clara Edson finds out, as she will, that the law makes her mother sole heiress, she will never give her consent that Dora shall receive one dollar to keep her from the Alms House. There, now you know my mind; tell me what it was you were saying of me." 
               "Upon my word, Martha, you have so frightened me about Dora, I hardly know what I said. What was I talking about?" 
                
               "Why, that you had been saying naughty things of me to Doctor Thornton, and that he believed them, and then I fined you dresses for Susan and Martha. There, is not that very brief and lawyerlike?" 
               "Very like a lawyer's wife. Well, I was speaking to Thornton of that splendid woman we saw at Barton's last night, Mrs. Arden; and I was joking him about her, for any one could see that she could lead him the world over with a hair; and I told him that when I saw her I almost wished there was no Mrs. Lander." 
               "Well, pay your fine and I forgive you; for I saw a gentleman there last night, and I used precisely the same expression, only I said I wished there was no Mr. Lander;" and with another kiss she led him to the tea-table, where Susan and Martha were promptly informed that early on the morrow she would take them to Stewart's, and allow them to select each a new dress. 
               "You don't think you are mistaken, Martha," said Mr. Lander, between his mouthfuls, "about Mrs. Edson?" 
               "Mistaken-of course not. You consult your law books, and find authorities there for your assertions-I consult the book of nature and the human heart, and need not look beyond. Why, if what I said of Clara was not true, as I know it to be, there's that lawyer, Harding. Mrs. Edson has been dying for him these two years, poor fool as she is; and now that she is rich, he will snap her up before any one has a chance to make an offer. Once he gets hold of her money, Dora's share will dwindle down to a point so fine you will need a very powerful microscope to discover it. Mark my words, Mr. Lawyer; and I will put my woman's wit against a lawyer's learning for anything you choose to venture." 
               "I hope you may be mistaken, Martha," he said sadly. "Dora is such a dear, good girl; and to see her thrust upon the world alone and unprotected would be terrible." 
               "She wouldn't remain alone and unprotected long. Arthur Randolph has been her devoted slave these two years, and he is too much of a man, and too much like his uncle, to desert his chosen one because misfortune may have overtaken her. Mark my words again, and have no fear for Dora, Mr. Lawyer, and I shall not charge you anything for my opinion." 
             
             
                
               Chapter XIV. 
               The Story of a Life. 
               ON the day following the funeral of Mr. Barton, Doctor Thornton, who had practised a large share of self-denial in not calling before, paid a visit to Mrs. Arden-and was received by her with a warmth and cordiality which led him to hope that the unwavering constancy of nineteen years had been properly appreciated, and might not go unrewarded. 
               "What a sad, awful visitation, doctor," she said, after the customary salutations had been exchanged. "I was shocked beyond measure on the receipt of your note." 
               "Yes, madam; and it only adds another to the daily and hourly evidences brought home to us, that in the midst of life we are in death. It seems that my poor friend had been partially aware of his condition for a long time, but laid his troubles to other causes, and therefore delayed taking medical advice until he was beyond the reach of human aid. He only realized the sad certainty on the night of the party, where we met for the second time," and he emphasized his last words very pointedly. 
               "What a terrible contrast it must have presented to his mind. The uncertainty of life to be thus forced upon him in the very midst of his gaiety and happiness. How truly it is said, 'we know not what a day may bring forth.' And how is dear Dora? You cannot imagine, doctor, how I seemed to be drawn in spite of myself to that lovely girl. Is she not truly a noble girl?" 
               "She is worthy of all your love, Mrs. Arden; and I much fear she will need friends now. Such friendship as I know you feel for her, will be most grateful to her under this affliction." 
               "Need friends! Why, doctor, she must always command friends! But surely Mr. Barton has made ample provision for her; he seemed devotedly attached to her." 
               "His last wish I know was to do so, for on the very morning of his death he had caused his will to be drawn up, bequeathing half of his entire fortune to her." 
               "And is not that enough for her largest wants?" 
                
               "Unfortunately, my poor friend did not live to execute that will; and as he died intestate, to use a lawyer's phrase, his sister, Mrs. Edson, as his only surviving relative, becomes heir at law, and comes into possession of the entire estate-and it is very large I know." 
               "That is unfortunate," she replied, half musingly. 
               "Do you think Dora would receive me," she continued, after a pause of a few moments, which Dr. Thornton had not interrupted. 
               "She would be more than delighted to see you, for I assure you that your kind feelings for her are reciprocated with all the warmth and earnestness of her pure and generous nature. She so longed for you before the funeral." 
               "I will call at the earliest opportunity. And now, doctor," she continued, a slight blush mantling her cheek, "since I saw you I have had ample time for reflection, and I find no cause to regret having offered to place you in possession of such portions of my history as you are entitled to know." 
               "I make no claims, Mrs. Arden," he said very earnestly, "except such as you may allow to nineteen years of unswerving fidelity to one object," and he drew forth the locket containing her hair." 
               A faint blush mantled Mrs. Arden's cheek, and a smile lighted up her beautiful features, for her woman's heart was not proof against such an evidence of constancy; but she made no direct reply to this remark. 
               "I will be very brief, doctor; and leave particular details for some more suitable occasion. 
               "Of my birth and early years it is unnecessary to go into details, except to say that in point of wealth and social standing my parents held the first rank in the city where I was born. My father died when I was not quite four years old, leaving his entire fortune to my mother, with reversion to myself after her death. 
               "At the age of sixteen, I was sent to a large boarding-school in an interior town of Kentucky, where there were some sixty young ladies, from every section of the country; and as it was soon ascertained that I had abundant means at my command, and was prospective heiress of a very large fortune, I had plenty of sycophants and admirers. 
               "I was naturally of a gay, reckless, impulsive disposition; and I was not long in discovering that I could do almost anything with impunity, as it was known that I was an heiress, with very large expectations. 
               "I was encouraged in many acts of mischief and downright rebellion by some of the older scholars, who ought to have known better, and I played many pranks, the remembrance of which in after years has caused me to blush, and of which I have been heartily ashamed, though I scarcely ought to blame myself, I was so led by others. 
               "I grew up thus absolutely wild, for no restraint which I heeded was put upon me; and although I learned all my lessons, and received high marks of approbation for my proficiency, I cannot but look back upon the time spent there, as worse than lost. 
               "It was a practice in the school to give musical soirees once a month, to which the leading families of the town were invited; and as I had always been passionately fond of music, I soon became a great proficient, and in fact stood as the acknowledged head of the school in that accomplishment. 
               "At one of these exhibitions, for I can only term them such, after I had concluded a favorite song, I was applauded to the echo, and one gentleman continued his manifestations of approval so long, I turned my eyes involuntarily to the quarter whence they proceeded, and I met the gaze of the gentleman, who in truth had attracted universal attention by the fervor of his applause, fixed upon me with an intensity which drew the color to my cheeks. 
                
               "I was compelled to repeat the song; and I can remember, even now, after the lapse of so many years, that my pride and vanity were so flattered by the applause bestowed upon me, I sang it infinitely better the second time than I did the first. 
               "After the musical performances had concluded, one of the teachers approached me, bringing with her the gentleman whose loud and long-continued applause had attracted my attention-as, indeed, it had that of every person in the room-and introduced him to me as Mr. Edward Armstrong; and, while he was acknowledging the introduction, she managed to whisper to me that he was the only son of a wealthy planter in Louisiana, and had begged the pleasure of my acquaintance. 
               "I felt my color come under the ardor of his gaze; and, as the teacher left us alone, we were soon engrossed in an animated conversation. 
               "He paid me the most fulsome compliments, and knowing apparently, or rather reading my disposition, he had not been half an hour in my company, before he boldly declared that he had never met a lady who had made so deep and lasting an impression upon him-that the moment he saw me, he felt that his destiny was fixed, and that he could never have left the town without telling me how much he longed to know me, and how he meant to strive to win me. 
               "I was only seventeen-young, ardent, impulsive, and impassioned. Mr. Armstrong was one of the handsomest men I had ever seen, and there was an earnestness, a sincerity in his passionate manner, which won me in spite of myself; and, if I did not by words give him any direct encouragement, I am sure I must have done so with my eyes, for, as he saw the party was about breaking up, he asked if he was not to be permitted to have the happiness of seeing me soon again? 
               "I told him that the scholars were restricted by certain rules, but that I walked out very often accompanied by the teacher who had introduced him to me, and that with her permission, he might see me when I was out with her. 
               "'Oh,' he said, laughing, 'I can manage your duenna, I dare say, now that I have your permission,' and, with a warm pressure of the hand, he took leave of me, and I saw him cross over to the teacher through whom he had been introduced; and he soon contrived to draw her aside and engage her in conversation, apart from the rest of the company. 
               "I knew well what was his object in accosting her, and, girl-like, admired his impetuous boldness, which I construed into an evidence of his ardent love; and, while he was conversing with her, my eyes were fixed upon him, and I gave way to the most delicious reveries. In fact, I had been wooed and won in the short space of one evening; for, so far as I knew my own feelings, every thought and impulse was given to the handsome and engaging stranger. 
               "Before we retired for the night, Miss Dubois (the teacher to whom I have referred), drew me aside on some trifling pretext, and rallying me on the rapid conquest I had made, said that Mr. Armstrong had been urging her to bring me out on the following evening; and, looking into my eyes with a singular expression on her countenance, she inquired, if I thought it would be prudent to grant his request? 
               "My heightened color and sparkling eyes, told her how gladly I heard and acceded to the proposition, and, without further remark, we parted for the night. 
               "On the next day, I found it impossible to fix my mind upon my studies, or, in fact, upon any thing or any one but my first-lover, for such I counted him. I was rallied every half hour during the day for my absent-mindedness, but I did not heed it, for I was thinking of Edward Armstrong. I loved him with all the intensity of my nature, and felt that I was beloved, and cared for nothing else. Remember, Doctor Thornton, I was an impetuous, ardent girl, and had never been taught or trained to restrain my feelings. I am telling sad truths, and I tell them without concealment, for you are entitled to my fullest confidence. 
               "Oh, how heavily the hours dragged! It seemed as if I had never passed so long a day, and my heart leaped for joy when the exercises of the school were over, and I could retire to my own room, and give free play to my thoughts. 
               "My whole heart-every feeling, thought, and impulse of my nature was engrossed by this new and absorbing passion, and I actually longed for the hour to arrive when I was to meet the burning gaze of Mr. Armstrong fixed upon me, and hear his soft voice pour out his tale of passionate love. 
               "We met, of course, for he was watching for me, and Miss Dubois was so considerate, for so I then construed her conduct (though I afterwards learned that she was heavily bribed to lend her aid) as to find some business in the village; and, excusing herself for leaving us, said she would be sure to overtake us before we had gone very far. 
               "And, now that we were entirely alone, Mr. Armstrong poured out his whole heart, and declared his passion for me. He had seen many-had known many, but had never loved, and now he loved me with an intensity which nothing could subdue-a devotion which nothing could change! He was earnest, impassioned, and so ardent-so wildly, madly passionate-so urgent in his appeals, I could not resist; and, on the second evening I had ever seen him, I told him that every feeling of his heart was warmly reciprocated by my own-that I loved him with a passion as strong as that which he declared for me, and was thenceforward his and his only for ever! 
               "He urged me to an immediate marriage. He said we knew each other's hearts as well now, as we ever should-that Providence had thrown us together-that each had read the other's heart-that our feelings, impulses, and sympathies harmonized from the first, and that a greater share of happiness would enure to those who had loved as we did, whose love sprang fresh from the heart, than ever fell to the lot of those whose love was fostered and cherished and nourished by years of acquaintance and daily intercourse. 
               "I told him it was madness-folly, to think of such a step, now-that I was but seventeen, and that we knew nothing of each other's tempers or dispositions-a year or two would enable us to study each other's characters-that I was but a half-educated school-girl, and that under no consideration would I consent to marry him without first consulting my only parent-much as I loved him. 
               "He argued, and urged, and pleaded. He accused me of trifling with him, swore I did not love him, and declared that if I did not consent to become his wife without delay, he would put an end to himself, for life without me would be of no value to him. 
               "In vain I urged that I knew my mother would never consent to a marriage with a perfect stranger, on such a short acquaintance, and my own heart, much as it was devoted to him, told me it would be madness; but when I resolutely persisted in refusing to unite myself to him until I had at least written to my mother, he stormed and raved, and swore he would destroy himself. 
               "At this juncture. Miss Dubois made her appearance ance, and Mr. Armstrong, with the practised ease of one who had large experience in the world, at once turned the conversation into common-place topics; but even these, to my charmed ear, he invested with the most marvellous interest. 
               "Immediately on reaching the school, I sat down in my room and penned a long letter to my mother, informing her of my meeting with Mr. Armstrong, and of his declaration of love for me. I did not tell her how often, or rather, how very little I had seen of him; but I added that every feeling of my heart was engrossed-that I loved him to desperation, and could never know an instant of happiness without him. I added, that from what I had heard, (Miss Dubois was my informant), I had every reason to believe that he was my equal in wealth, standing, and social position-being the only son of a wealthy Southern planter. I implored her to consent to my immediate marriage, as the happiness of my whole life depended on my union with the man to whom every feeling of my heart was given. 
               "This letter I dispatched to the office that very night, by one of the servants attached to the school, and retired to my bed to dream of Edward Armstrong and the happiness, which a union with him would ensure to me. 
                
               "On the next evening, Miss Dubois called me aside, and slily placed in my hand a letter. The sight of it kindled anew the slumbering fires of love within me, and, blushing, I hastily ran to my room to peruse it. 
               "Of course it was from Edward, and it breathed the most ardent protestations of undying love. He was sick at heart at the thought of having pained or offended me; and begged me, if I really loved him or valued his peace of mind, to grant him an interview that evening, alone. 
               "This last request he urged with the most passionate entreaties; and he added, that daring to confide in the strength of my love for him, he had arranged with Miss Dubois to be admitted into the garden after the household had retired. 
               "His perseverance-his devotion-his professions of passionate love for me, overcame all prudential scruples, and I blindly committed myself to the charge of Miss Dubois, to whom I communicated that portion of the letter which connected her with our intercourse. 
               "I met him at the lower end of the garden, Miss Dubois keeping watch at a distance, and again were his entreaties for an immediate marriage renewed. 
               "I told him that I had written to my mother, naming briefly the tenor of the letter, and if I had not been utterly blinded by the violence of my passion for him, the manner in which he received that intelligence would have opened my eyes to his true character. 
               "He turned pale, and bit his lips until the blood almost came, and half-muttered oaths escaped him. But he soon composed himself, and resumed his entreaties. 
               "Doctor Thornton, there is no use of dilating upon this portion of my history. My own wild, passionate love for him, aided by his arguments and pleadings, overcame my objections and conquered my scruples, and in an evil hour I consented to wed him on the following evening, on receiving his promise to keep our marriage secret until I had won my mother's consent, which I assured him I could secure, or at least fancied I could. 
               "To this he cheerfully assented, and pressing me to his heart, swore by the most terrible oaths, that he would ever prove worthy of my love and confidence. 
               "To make this short, Doctor, on the following evening, with a heart trembling between love and fear, for I could not feel that I was doing right, though I was completely carried away by my passion sion for him, I met Mr. Armstrong, and taking me to a house on the outskirts of the town, we were there married by a travelling Methodist minister, whom he had found, and whom he had bribed to perform the ceremony, without asking any questions. 
               "After the ceremony was performed, the minister handed me a certificate, and Miss Dubois, who had accompanied me as a witness, left, saying that she should return in the course of a couple of hours, and I was alone with my husband." 
             
             
                
               Chapter XV. 
               The Story of a Life-(continued). 
               "I MET my husband every evening, with the connivance and aid of Miss Dubois, and in his presence, and soothed by his caresses and protestations of unchangeable love, I forgot all the world beside. 
               "But I was aroused from my blissful dreams by the unexpected arrival of my mother. Instead of answering my letter, the moment she received it she packed a small trunk, and taking with her one of the old family servants-a favorite slave-started for the town where our school was located. 
               "Her first step as soon she reached the place, (and this I did not learn until long afterwards) was to call upon one of the leading gentlemen in the town, and to whom she was well-known by name and reputation. To him she made known that her daughter's affections had been engrossed by a stranger, and she desired him as a parent and as a gentleman, to make every inquiry concerning him, and to inform her by letter-a request with which he complied most faithfully and promptly. 
               "Her next visit was to the school, where she was received with all the courtesies and homage which were thought due to her wealth and standing; but, repelling them all with a cold hauteur, she desired to have me sent to her, and wished to be alone with me. 
               "Fortunately, the message reached me through Miss Dubois, and I was thus put upon my guard; and, in answer to her earnest entreaties not to betray her, and thus compel her to forfeit her situation, I not only promised to keep her share of the transaction a profound secret, but to reward her most liberally for the kindness she had manifested from first to last, when I was in a position to do so. 
               "Thus forewarned, I entered the parlor where my mother was seated; and, though conscious of my wrong-nay, my guilt-I strove to compose myself, and, as I opened the door, sprang forward to meet her embrace, which had never before been withheld. 
               "But she arose, with a stern, contemptuous look, such as I had never seen her wear; and, scanning me from head to foot, with a glance beneath which I quailed in conscious guilt, she sternly bade me be seated, an order with which I was too glad to comply, for I trembled so excessively, I could scarcely stand. 
               "'I received a letter from you a few days since.' 
               "'Yes, ma,' was all I could reply. 
               "'Have you seen that person since you wrote to me?' 
               "'Yes, ma,' I said, hanging down my head-for I felt that her searching glance was upon me, reading my very soul. 
               "'How often, miss?' 
               "'Very often, mother.' 
               "'Do you know anything concerning him more than you wrote?' 
               "'Nothing, mother, except that I know he loves me most devotedly, and I love him with all my heart.' 
               "'Pshaw!-go to your room-pack up your things, and be ready to return home with me this afternoon.' 
               "'Oh, mother!' I commenced, but she cut me short, simply saying: 
               "'Go, and do as you are bid. I will hear all you have to say when you reach home. Go,' and she arose and rang the bell, which was promptly answered by a servant. 'Tell Mrs. Gleason (the principal) I wish to see her,' and, turning to me, as I sat there mute and dumb-founded, she said: 'Did you hear me, Ellen? Go, pack up your things.' 
               "'Oh, mother, may I not see him before I go!' I exclaimed, bursting in tears. 
               "'No,' said my mother, less sternly, however, than before: 'No, my dear. Do as your mother bids you-she acts only for your good. 
               "'Won't you kiss me, mother,' I said, rising and approaching her, and without a word, though I saw that her frame trembled with emotion, she strained me to her breast, and then turning to conceal the tears which I felt were rising to her eyes, she said: 
               "'Go, my dear, and do as your mother bids you.' 
               "I left the room with more cheerfulness than I had entered it, for my mother had spoken kindly to me; and, on the way to my own apartment, I met Miss Dubois, who had been anxiously awaiting the result of the interview. 
               "'Come to my room,' I said, hastily, wiping my eyes, which were filled with tears, 'and I will tell you all. I want to see you.' 
               "She followed me to my room, under pretence of assisting me to pack up, and I communicated to her my mother's orders. I begged her to see Edward-to assure him of my unchangeable love, and to conjure him, as he valued my happiness, not to attempt to communicate with me until he heard from me, which would be done through her, as soon as I could possibly find the opportunity to write. 
               "She promised to execute my commands faithfully; and, renewing the assurance on my part, not to betray her agency as to my acquaintance and marriage with Edward, but to reward her most liberally for her faithful services, I gave her a thousand messages of love for my husband, and she left the room. 
               "I departed with my mother that afternoon, but my heart was filled with the saddest forebodings. My mother's sternness had measurably relaxed, but even her kindness failed to cheer me, and several times during the ride, tears involuntarily gathered in my eyes. 
               "We reached our home in safety, and my first duty was to communicate with Edward and Miss Dubois. To my husband I conveyed assurances of undying love, and bade him be of good cheer. I strove to comfort him by the assurance that my influence with my mother would bring everything thing to a happy termination; but I forbade him, under penalty of causing me the most bitter pain and sufferings, to make any present attempt to see me, or even to write to me, as any letters would surely be intercepted; and I wrote in the same strain to Miss Dubois. 
               "I managed to have these letters sent to the post-office undetected, but all subsequent attempts at correspondence were foiled by the watchfulness of my mother. 
               "Matters remained thus for several months, and I cannot depict the sufferings I underwent in that time. I had not received one word from my husband, nor from Miss Dubois, and I was in constant dread lest they had written, and their letters had fallen into my mother's hands. 
               "I passed the greater part of my time in tears and mourning, and often started up with the determination to make a full confession to my mother, to ask her pardon for my fault, and implore her to allow my husband to come and see me; but her sternness, her haughtiness, forbade the attempt, and I could only go back to my tears and sadness. 
               "My mother noticed my grief, and it touched her heart, for she strove to cheer and comfort me, assuring me that in time I would cease to think of him who, she now so plainly saw, filled all my thoughts-that I was so young, so unused to the world-I had seen so little of mankind-had been so little in society, I did not know my own mind or heart-and she was sure I would find some one more worthy of my affection. 
               "I could only answer, amid tears and sobs, that I loved Edward, and him only-that I knew him to be worthy of my love-and I assured her that she was killing me by inches by separating me from him. 
               "'You would not, you could not, truly love him, my daughter, if you knew him to be unworthy of you?' she inquired affectionately. 
               "'That could not be, mother-I know it could not. He is all that is noble, and generous, and honorable in man, and I feel that I can never love another.' 
               "'If I should prove to my daughter,' continued my mother, 'that Edward Armstrong was a gambler by profession, a rou and libertine by choice, and a man devoid of all principle, what would she say?' 
               "'That the proofs were manufactured, mother; for my heart could not receive them as truths.' 
               "'Then read that,' she said, drawing a letter from her pocket, 'and if your heart persists in its mad course, at least let self-respect have some sway over your conduct, for the sake of your name, your mother, and your family,' and she placed it in my outstretched, trembling hand. 
               "It was dated several weeks back, and was from the gentleman in the town where I had been at school, to whom she had first applied for evidence concerning the character of Mr. Armstrong. 
               "It declared him, as my mother had hinted, a gambler by profession, an unprincipled libertine, and a man generally of a character so notoriously bad, that no lady who had any respect for her reputation would be seen in his company. 
               "I read it through to the last word. I dared not disbelieve it-I would not believe it; and the conflicting emotions which excited me were too strong for me to bear in my then nervous and enfeebled state. The last thing I remembered was my mother gazing at me with looks in which sternness and compassion were strangely blended, and in another moment I fell upon the floor in a swoon. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XVI. 
               The Story of a Life, Concluded. 
               "BUT I know I must weary you, doctor," continued Mrs. Arden, wiping from her eyes the tears which the remembrance of her sorrows and sufferings had caused. "I will be brief with the remainder of what I have to narrate. 
               "I believed, of course, that this character of the man to whom I had given my heart and hand had been fabricated in order to wean me from him; but feeling in my heart that injustice had been committed, I loved him more than ever, for the very wrongs which I supposed had been done to him-and began to study how I could escape the vigilance of my mother, and communicate with my husband, for I so longed to be near him again, the world seemed blank without his presence. 
               "One day while I was seated in my room, seemingly employed in sewing, but in reality thinking o my husband, and vainly striving to devise some plan by which I might meet him once more, or at least communicate with him, my mother entered the apartment, and handing me a newspaper which she had just received, directed my attention to an article which she had marked; and with an expression of countenance which I could not then define, she turned, and left me to myself, without having uttered one word. 
               "Doctor Thornton, it was a corroboration of all my mother had heard, and which I had read. It was the narrative of a fight between the citizens of a town in Louisiana and some gamblers, in which many were wounded on both sides, and several of the gamblers had been killed. 
               "Among the list of those killed stood conspicuous the name of my husband, who was there described as a handsome, polished gentleman in appearance, but one known throughout that section of the country as one of the most desperate gamblers and unprincipled villains of the whole gang; and his death was the cause of special rejoicing on the part of the citizens, who looked upon him as a moral scourge. 
               "In order to dispel any doubt which might have rested on my mind as to his identity, the article cle mentioned the fact that he had a short time previously been engaged in an affray in Kentucky, (and the town was named where I had first met him,) in which he had mortally wounded a young gentleman who had offended him by refusing to gamble with him, alleging that he had cheated at play. 
               "I saw at once that this must be truth; and, oh, how my conscience smote me for the deceit I had practised upon my doting mother. 
               "I had but one course left. My whole nature was changed by the revelation thus strangely made to me. I loathed the very name of him who but an hour before had been enshrined as the idol of my heart. 
               "I did not falter or tremble, but with firm step and determined air I proceeded at once to my mother's room. 
               "Holding the paper at arm's length, I pointed to her the paragraph to which she had called my attention, and which had wrought such a fearful change in me, and simply saying, 
               "'Mother, that man was my husband,' I stood before her, awaiting her reply. 
               "She stared-no, doctor, she fairly glared at me for an instant, as if she would annihilate me; then turning from me, she gasped a moment for breath, and fell heavily to the floor in a fit of apoplexy. 
               "It was several weeks before she recovered sufficiently to converse with me, and then at her request I narrated everything from our first meeting to the subsequent and disastrous consequences which had followed it, not forgetting the complicity of Miss Dubois, by whom I felt I had been betrayed into a marriage with one whose character was well known to her. I never had a doubt that she had been heavily bribed to act as she had done. 
               "My mother threw her arms around my neck, and poured out her very soul in tears. She was a proud and haughty woman, doctor; and the idea of having such a disgrace, as her daughter's marriage with a notorious gambler, entailed upon her family, almost crushed her. 
               "She rose superior, however, to her feelings; and exacted from me a promise that I would be guided by her for the future in all things. But when I told her that I expected to become a mother, her excitement and anger were so great I feared she would relapse into another fit. 
               "It passed over, however; and from that hour her whole course towards me changed. She was not less affectionate at heart, but she was so imperious rious, so haughty, so commanding, I almost dreaded to come into her presence. 
               "Without giving me any notice of her intentions, she ordered me to pack my things, and in a few days I found myself in New York. While there I was directed to keep myself closely secluded, and for the whole time I resided in this city, I never once crossed the threshold of the door of the house in which I dwelt, and even its inmates were scarcely ever permitted to see me. 
               "You know when my babe was born, doctor; and you had an opportunity of judging something of my mother's character and temper. You remarked, as you have told me, that she would never permit you to be alone with me one moment. You knew her only as Mrs. Rushmore, and myself as her daughter Ellen. 
               "I noticed the interest you seemed to take in me from the first, and longed for the opportunity of thanking you for your kind and considerate attention; and I certainly should have done so but that your name never passed my mother's lips, and I never had the opportunity to ask you, nor dared I ask her, so much did I stand in dread of her. When my child was about five weeks old, my mother took her from me, and left the house saying she had found a nurse to take charge of it; and from the moment I saw her depart with the infant in her arms until the present hour I have never seen nor heard of her." 
               Here Mrs. Arden gave way to a violent burst of tears, which Dr. Thornton made no effort to repress, for he could well imagine what emotions such remembrances would naturally excite. 
               "On the day following," she continued, "we started homewards, and in answer to all my inquiries for my child, my mother only responded, that it would doubtless be well cared for, and that I ought to feel but too grateful to her for having saved me from the shame I had brought upon myself, and the disgrace which would have been entailed upon our name and family had my marriage with such an infamous character been publicly known. 
               "Soon after our return home we received information that Miss Dubois had been drowned, while on a sailing excursion, and thus the only living witness to my marriage was removed. On learning this, my mother, who had seen my certificate of marriage, demanded it of me, and when I tremblingly handed it to her, she tore it into a thousand shreds, and exclaimed, 'thus perish every memento of my daughter's folly and shame!' 
                
               "My mother survived these events only two years, and in her last sickness, I entreated her as she hoped for mercy to give me some tidings of my babe, but she died resolute in her refusal to make any communication concerning her. 
               "I have hoped, and wished, and prayed, that Heaven would grant me a sight of her once more if living, or that I might know if she was dead, and, oh, Doctor, you would pity me, if you could but know what I have suffered-what remorse I have endured on her account; and you will believe me when I say that I have made every earthly effort, aided by money freely spent, to discover her, if living, or to ascertain if she had died." 
               "I do from my inmost heart pity and sympathize with you, my dear madam," replied the doctor, earnestly. "But, pray tell me, how I find you Mrs. Arden, when your husband's name was Armstrong?" 
               "You did not understand aright, doctor. I was introduced as Miss Arden, but I suppose you thought from my age that I must be married or a widow, and so gave me the more appropriate appellation. As I had never changed my name after my marriage with Mr. Armstrong, I retained it after his death. 
                
               "And now, doctor, you are the only living soul who knows thus much of my history. I thank you from my heart for the consideration which kept you from disclosing yourself on the evening of our first meeting. It was nobly, generously done, and in perfect keeping with your entire conduct towards me. How can I ever repay you?" 
               "By permitting me to hope, Miss Arden, that the interest so constantly felt for you, for nineteen years, may be appreciated, and by allowing me to look forward to the possible realization of the dream I have so long cherished. Miss Arden, the feelings I entertain for you are of no common order. They have urged and stimulated me for many years, and now that success has crowned my efforts-now that I find myself at last your social equal, let me look forward to the time when you will feel that you may reward my constancy, as you only can reward it." 
               "Doctor Thornton," she said, placing her hand in his own, with noble frankness, and gazing kindly in his face, "you are worthy a better wife than I can ever be to you. But I should be less than human if I failed to appreciate such fidelity and devotion. I may not say I love you, for at my age love is a feeling which does not spring spontaneously from the heart, as with ardent and impulsive youth; but I honor, respect, and esteem you; and with those feelings, receive my pledge to become your wife, if you continue to feel that I am necessary to your happiness. But do not misjudge me for being so frank on so short an acquaintance." 
               "Short, dear lady," said the now happy doctor, imprinting a kiss upon her hand, which he still retained; "I do not think nineteen years a very short courtship. Remember," and drawing forth the locket, he held it up to her view, "that for nineteen years this has been worn next my heart, and that the image of her, which was stamped there then, is unfadingly fresh as it was the day the first impression was made. I take you at your word, Miss Arden, and when you feel me worthy of the high boon I ask, I will claim it." 
               "There, then," she said, as he again saluted her hand, "that will do. Now, as your business is settled, a few words as to mine and Dora's. In the first place, you will have a great deal of care on my account, as my property is very large, and widely scattered throughout the West." 
               "I will try and manage that." 
               "Then there is Dora. I can say to you now in perfect frankness, I never saw a young person in whom I was so deeply interested as I have been in her from the moment I saw her." 
               "I can't condemn you for that, I'm sure; for I know her to be worthy of all the love you could bestow upon her. A more loving, faithful, dutiful, obedient and devoted child never lived than she has been to Mr. Barton, and she was to him as the very apple of his eye. But do you know that I have great fears for her?" 
               "In what regard?" 
               "Mr. Barton died intestate, and of course, by law, his large estate goes entirely to his sister, Mrs. Edson." 
               "What the mother of Clara?" 
               "Yes." 
               "I am sorry for that; for if I dare express any opinion on so short an opportunity for observation, I should say that Dora has no friend in Miss Edson." 
               "I have long feared so; but, as Mrs. Edson knows what Mr. Barton's wishes were, for she has seen the will drawn up by his order on the very day of his death, it is possible that her sense of the obligations she owes to him, may prompt her to carry them into effect." 
               "And what if she should not?" 
               "I must ask your consent that Dora become an inmate of my, that is of course, our home, until Arthur and she are married, for such I know is their hope and intention." 
               "Why, I should have preferred that very request to you, doctor; so we are perfectly agreed." 
               "Thank you, Miss Arden. We have agreed so well upon the first point, I don't doubt we shall get along very harmoniously. Anything else?" 
               "Not immediately. I must return to the West in the course of a few days, and I may have occasion for your services before I leave." 
               "You will allow my nephew to wait upon you?" 
               "Are you not afraid to trust me with him?" 
               "Um! I don't know as it would be exactly safe," the doctor replied, very seriously; "I will consult him, and hear what he has to say. By your leave, I shall see you to-morrow." 
               "I am afraid you would pay little attention to my wishes in that respect. But, come-joking apart-you are ever warmly welcome, Doctor Thornton. You have awakened a new life within me, and I am not ashamed to own it." 
               "And you have given me a new lease of life; which God grant I may long enjoy!" 
               Many things more were said, which do not of right belong to the public, and therefore passing over them, and leaving them to the imagination of the reader, we turn to Dora Barton and her troubles. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XVII. 
               Honors Change Manners. 
               DURING the time the remains of Mr. Barton were in the house, preparatory to the funeral, the inmates had very little intercourse with each other. Each seemed to be bowed down with deep grief, and the few words spoken were uttered in whispered tones. 
               Dora kept her room nearly all the time, going occasionally to look at the cold remains of him who was so dear to her. Her face was wan and pale, and her eyes swollen with continual weeping. The servants who knew how fondly Mr. Barton loved her, and who loved her for her gentle, amiable manners, and considerate kindness, never passed her without words of sympathy and compassion. 
               Mrs. Edson and her daughter sat in the room occupied by the former. The mother was seated in a luxurious rocking-chair, while Clara was stretched at full length upon a sofa. They were engaged in conversation, but it was carried on in subdued tones. 
               "You read the will, you say, mother?" asked Clara, half raising from her recumbent posture. 
               "Yes, I just glanced over it. The clerk who brought it was so dumbfounded when I told him what had happened, he hardly knew what he was doing, and handed it to me, I suppose, without thinking." 
               "But, it wasn't signed?" she queried. 
               "No, it was not," replied Mrs. Edson, with marked emphasis. 
               "And, of course, everything goes to you?" Clara asked, leaning upon her elbow, and looking her mother steadily in the face. 
               "I do not know; but, I believe by law it does, as I am his only surviving relative, except yourself." 
               "I wonder how Miss Barton will take that," said Clara, with an expression of scornful triumph. "I shouldn't wonder if she found things different from what she has of late years," and her eyes sparkled with a malignant expression. 
               "Hush! don't talk so now, child-it is very improper and unkind; and, just at this moment, too!" 
                
               "Well, I may think as much as I choose," and the grief-stricken young lady turned over on the sofa, giving free play to her thoughts; and visions of independence and grandeur flitted through her busy, scheming brain. Even in that hour, when her heart should have been bowed down with grief, it was filled with the most rancorous hatred and jealousy of Dora, and she found a spiteful pleasure in imagining how she would triumph over her when it was known that her mother was the sole heiress of Mr. Barton. 
               Poor Dora, she little knew what troubles were hovering over her! 
               As it was well known that Mr. Barton was very rich, so rich that his property, if equally divided between the three, would make them all wealthy, many were the sympathizing calls made by their dear friends, who came to offer condolence upon the occasion of this melancholy bereavement. 
               To each, Mrs. Edson was particular to mention, as well as her tears and overpowering grief would allow, that her poor, dear, departed brother had died without making a will. 
               This news spread with the most wonderful rapidity among her friends, and, after the first day, it was only those who had not heard the news, who asked after Dora at all; and, in answer to their kind inquiries, Mrs. Edson, with the most sympathizing and patronizing air, said: 
               "Poor thing! she don't feel like seeing any one. The change in her circumstances is so great, she is completely overcome." 
               This, of course, led to questions, and Mrs. Edson was thus enabled to inform them of the unfortunate failure on the part of her poor, dear brother to execute any will. 
               It was wonderful to note the change which these few words produced upon her hearers. "Poor, dear Dora," was dropped, and all the sympathy was doled out to the unhappy and bereaved sister, and the grief-stricken Clara, whom everybody knew the dear deceased had loved so devotedly. 
               After this became generally known, the conduct of those who attended the funeral, was equally marked. Dora was passed by with a bow of cold recognition, while the sympathizing friends clung around Mrs. Edson and Clara, and strove by every means in their power to encourage them in bearing up against this overwhelming affliction. 
               Dora, heart-stricken as she was, could not fail to notice this conduct, but in her innocence and guilelessness, she very naturally felt that, as his immediate diate and only relatives, they had the best claim to sympathy, though her heart told her that even they could not have loved him more devotedly than she had done. 
               On the day after the funeral, Mrs. Edson and Clara had a long consultation, in which the future was duly canvassed. Mrs. Edson asserted her intention of carrying out the wishes of Mr. Barton, but Clara opposed it with all the vehemence of hatred and jealousy. What right had she to give to a nameless nobody her share of her uncle's fortune? It was quite enough, she urged, that Uncle Charles had picked her out of the streets, and had clothed, and fed, and educated her, and had done his best to make a lady of her. And, wasn't she always putting herself forward-didn't she always try and interfere when any one praised or admired her (Clara)? She hated her!-she hated her from her inmost heart; and she would never consent that a charity girl, picked out of the street, should receive her uncle's fortune-no, not one dollar of it! 
               Mrs. Edson strove in vain to overcome her daughter's prejudices; for, while she naturally desired to have as large a share of that which the law gave her as was consistent with fairness and honor, she could not but feel that Dora was entitled to some consideration, for she knew how devotedly her brother loved her, and this was evidenced by the fact that he had intended to leave her one half of his entire property. 
               But Clara would listen to no compromises, and made it a point that Dora should go as she came. Mrs. Edson absolutely refused to be a party to such rank injustice, but promised to consult her legal adviser, and accordingly Mr. Harding, as has been stated, was invited to call around. 
               The result of his first visit has already been made known. 
               In the evening of the day on which he made his call, in pursuance of Mrs. Edson's invitation, the family was assembled in the parlor, and Mrs. Edson broached the subject of erecting a proper monument to the memory of her brother, declaring her intention, at the same time, of procuring the most elegant and expensive one she could have made, but was uncertain to whom she should apply for the composition of an epitaph. 
               Dora suggested that a monument, simple yet massive, would best comport with his life and character; but Clara turned upon her, almost fiercely, stopping in the middle of her walk (for, while Dora was speaking, she had been nervously pacing the floor), and said in tones of insulting defiance, which she made no attempt to disguise: 
               "I wonder, Miss Pert, who gave you any right to say anything about it? Who asked your opinion?" 
               "Clara!" said her mother, imploringly. 
               But Clara's temper was up, and she paid no heed to her mother. 
               "Yes, Miss Simplicity, you have had your day, and it's my turn now; you have lorded it over us long enough, but you've got to learn that you'll have a mistress now." 
               "Clara, be silent; I command you," said her mother, rising from her easy-chair, and approaching her incensed daughter, who had paused before the affrighted Dora. 
               "I won't be silent!" Clara fairly screamed, giving free vent to her long pent-up feelings. "I'll give her a piece of my mind, and she'll have to hear it. A charity girl-a street beggar, to come here and dare to put herself on a par with me! I suppose you expected to be a rich lady one of these days, and I rather think you'll find yourself mightily mistaken. Your dear father, as you had the impudence to call him, didn't think so much of you after all. You've got to learn, Miss Artfulness, that my mother is the sole heir to his property; and if you don't keep a very civil tongue in your head, you'll have to go back where you came from. I don't think it will hurt you much to be a little humbled," and she strode away with the air and dignity of a tragedy queen. 
               Poor Dora, who had never given a thought to the fortune of her dear friend and benefactor, and whose heart was filled with a grief as deep and sincere as it was merited by the love and kindness he had ever bestowed upon her, was completely overpowered by this unexpected and most unmerited assault. She could not reply, but with tears in her eyes looked imploringly at Mrs. Edson, as if to solicit her protection. 
               "My dear Dora," she said soothingly, "don't pay any attention to her. She does not know what she is saying." 
               "Don't she, indeed!" repeated Clara, approaching her mother, with flashing eyes. "I tell you, mother, I have borne her impertinence and interference long enough, and I won't submit to it any longer. I've seen her manuvres. Don't shake your head at me," she continued, as Dora, with streaming eyes, shook her head in silent contradiction of the foul accusation. 
                
               "I tell you, mother, I won't submit to it any longer; and if she stays in this house, I don't-I won't, when I am not obliged to do so, associate with a street beggar, who doesn't even know her own mother or father. Who are you? What are you?" she almost screamed, approaching so close to the trembling Dora their faces nearly met. "You beggar brat-you nobody's child-who are you, I say?" 
               Dora's tears were actually forced back by this cruel speech, and rising with all the majesty and dignity of insulted innocence, she said, "I was loved by your best friend, and I feel that I was worthy of that love; and that elevates me so far above your insults, they pass me by as the idle wind. May God forgive your cruelty and injustice as freely as I do now." 
               "Oh, you forgive me, do you-you meek Christian-you pretty saint; your meekness won't serve you now. I know you-your hypocrisy won't serve you any longer. I see what you are looking at-you think you will get your share, forsooth, of my uncle's property." 
               "Oh, spare me, Clara-dear Clara!" exclaimed the stricken Dora, completely subdued by such terrible and unmerited assaults. 
                
               "Don't dare to call me Clara-my name is Miss Edson; and if I ever suffered you to call me by such a familiar name, it was only from respect to my dear departed uncle, who was so foolish as to believe you loved him for himself. You will please be more respectful hereafter, at least while you are in our house," and she laid a terrible emphasis on the "our." 
               Dora had no words to urge against such a tirade of abuse, and bowing her head in meek submission to such an unmerited attack, she left the room in silence and in tears. 
               "Clara, I am perfectly ashamed of you!" said her mother. "Your conduct was absolutely inhuman. How could you speak so?" 
               "How could I speak so! I wonder how I have kept in as long as I have. If you knew all I know, you would speak too, I think. If you knew the arts she has used to draw gentlemen away from me, and all the time she seemed so meek and mild, as if she was the twin sister of simplicity. I tell you, mother, she has set herself against me for two years past, and has done more to wound and hurt my feelings than any person living. I would not have borne it from any other person on earth, and I would not have submitted to it from her, but for Uncle Charles' sake, as I saw he was so wrapped up in her. He was blind to her faults; and I do believe that if Providence had not removed him from her influence as it did, he would have been taught by her to hate me, and to believe me as bad as she actually is herself." 
               Poor Dora! your troubles have commenced very soon. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XVIII. 
               The Legal Adviser. 
               PUNCTUAL to his promise, Mr. Harding was at the house of Mrs. Edson, on the morning after his first interview with her, and that he had not been idle meantime, was evidenced, not alone by the quantity of papers he had brought, but by the extent of the information he had gathered. 
               He was received by Mrs. Edson with a warmth of welcome which assured him that his own suit was in no danger, as far as he was concerned, and her manner was so cordial, he felt equally assured that his influence would be paramount as to the management of her affairs. His mind was made up as to the disposal of Miss Dora; and he had little doubt that in due course of time, he would have the control of the vast property left by Mr. Barton. 
               "I have not been idle, as you see, madam," he said, holding forth the papers he had prepared for her signature, and he laid them on the table; then, taking a seat by her side, proceeded to enlighten her as to the amount of her brother's property, so far as his limited time had allowed him to make inquiries. 
               "It cannot be far from three hundred thousand dollars, Mrs. Edson," and his words almost took away her breath, so little was she prepared to hear that she was the sole heiress of a sum so vast. 
               "I trust, madam, you have reflected upon what I said on the occasion of our last interview," and rising, he approached the table on which he had laid the papers, and proceeded with a deliberation fully in keeping with his portly, pompous appearance, to open and spread them out separately. 
               "Here, madam," he said, "is the power of attorney which will enable me to act in your stead, and on your behalf in everything. Here," and he held forth another, "is the form of application for letters of administration. And here," and approaching Mrs. Edson, he handed to her another, "is the settlement I have drawn up for Miss Dora. I have no doubt she will thank you for your liberality, for I cannot but feel that in consideration of the peculiar circumstances under which she is placed, she ought to be grateful to you for the very smallest favor." 
               "Be pleased to read it, Mr. Harding," said Mrs. Edson, handing it back to him, and settling herself back on the sofa, in an attitude of attention. 
               He proceeded, in accordance with her request, and read, in his most pompous and sonorous voice, the deed of settlement which, as the representative of Mrs. Edson, he proposed to make on her who had been brought up under her own eye-had been the chosen daughter of her brother's heart, and to whom she knew he had contemplated leaving the half of his fortune. 
               It proposed to settle upon her for life the magnificent sum of three hundred dollars; but even to this a condition was annexed, and it was, that she should forthwith drop the name of Barton, to which she had no legal right, and resume that by which she was known when Mr. Barton first encountered her. 
               "I would willingly make it five hundred, if she would accede to those conditions," said Mrs. Edson, when he had finished the perusal of that important document. 
               "If she does not accede to them, I shall, as your selected legal adviser, insist that she receive nothing whatever. You owe it to the memory of your brother, than whom our city held no more valuable or honored citizen, that his name should no longer be connected with that of an unknown street beggar, whom, in his charity and benevolence, he rescued from starvation, and of whom no one knows any more than himself. Madam, you owe thus much to his memory; and if I am to continue your adviser, I must insist that my counsel be adhered to. Besides, madam, reflect that censorious people might find occasion to make remarks derogatory to his character; and that, I am sure, you would not allow." 
               "Make it five hundred dollars, Mr. Harding," said Mrs. Edson, whose conscience smote her, as she thought of the miserable stipend which it was proposed to allow to one who, according to her brother's express design, was to have inherited his large fortune equally with her daughter. 
               "I could not think of binding you legally, Mrs. Edson, to pay any more than the sum named. The property of your brother may not reach so large an amount as that which I have named, and which I mentioned after very partial inquiries; and, besides, you are bound to consider your daughter. She is your lawful heir, and you have no right, Mrs. Edson, to deprive your only child of any portion of that which the world will look upon as her inheritance, for the benefit of one who has no claims, of blood or affinity, upon you, and who, everybody knows, had no claim on your departed brother." 
                
               The solemn pomposity with which this was delivered, was too much for Mrs. Edson, and she yielded as gracefully as she could, though her conscience did smite her for the manifest act of injustice which she felt she was perpetrating. 
               "Be pleased, madam, to sign this," and Mrs. Edson, rising, rang the bell, and directed the attending servant to bring pen and ink. 
               This important document was duly signed and witnessed by Mr. Harding, and the other papers having been signed, and attested by one of the servants summoned for the purpose, Mr. Harding folded them carefully up, and put them in his breast pocket. 
               "Mr. Harding," said Mrs. Edson, when she had thus placed herself and her fortune under the control and management of the crafty lawyer, "it will be a very hard and trying task for me to communicate to Dora, the result of our deliberations. It will be so far beneath what I believe to be her expectations." 
               "That shall be my duty, madam-and, disagreeable though it be, still, as your friend, your best friend, and as your legal adviser, I will discharge it. I do not wonder that you shrink from it; I have no doubt that she has expected to inherit fully the half, possibly the whole of your brother's fortune, and I can well feel for the disappointment she must experience, when she learns how utterly dependent she is upon the goodness of your heart." 
               "Allow me to send her to you," said Mrs. Edson, glad to escape such a trying interview; "and I will see you further after you have communicated with her," and, with a smile and graceful courtesy, she swept out of the room; while Mr. Harding rang the bell, and directed the servant to send Miss Dora into the parlor. 
               In a few moments Dora, who was entirely unprepared for the summons, and little dreamed of its purpose, made her appearance, and, pausing in his walk, Mr. Harding waved her to a seat with a gesture whose lordly dignity ought to have awed her; but, as she had not yet learned the bitter lesson that she was no longer at home, she mistook it for his mode of exhibiting his politeness, and obeyed. 
               Before he had time to open upon her the battery of his grandiloquence, the bell of the front door was rung; and, as Mr. Harding heard the servant passing towards the front door to answer it, he opened the parlor door, and with an air of authority, said: 
                
               "If it is any one for the family, show them into the third room." 
               Dora's eyes actually expanded with astonishment at hearing orders given in such pompous and peremptory tones, by one for whom she cherished the most supreme contempt, in the house where she had always been accustomed to at least partial rule; and, starting from her chair, she sprang to the door, and, seeing the servant in the act of opening the door, said: 
               "William, if any one asks for me, show them in the parlor." 
               "Miss Dora!" said Mr. Harding, in his most magnificent tones, and with an air of remonstrance. 
               But she heeded him not, for she had caught a glimpse of the visitor as the front door was opened. It was Doctor Thornton; and, with a scream of joy, she sprang forward, and in an instant was clinging around his neck. 
               "God bless you, doctor! I am so glad, so very glad to see you! Come in-come in; you are here just in time, I fear," and she led him into the parlor. "Mr. Harding, my friend, and the friend of my protector and benefactor, Doctor Thornton," and, seating herself, she drew the doctor close to her on the sofa, as if in his presence she felt assurance of safety and protection. 
               "I am happy to see any friend of Mr. Barton's," said Mr. Harding, with a pompous wave of the hand, as if desirous of impressing the gentleman with a proper sense of the honor conferred by the acknowledgment; but Doctor Thornton took it as a matter of course, and did not deign to reply to it, except by a very civil bow. "I had just summoned Miss Dora, for the purpose of making a communication to her on behalf of Mrs. Edson, and"-- 
               "Oh!" interrupted Doctor Thornton, "I am glad I happened in so opportunely. I stand here in the light of Miss Dora's father and friend, and you can have nothing to communicate to her which I may not hear." 
               "Thank you, doctor," murmured Dora, and a gentle pressure of the hand still clasped in his own, added to the earnestness of her words. 
               "Ahem!" said Mr. Harding, a little nonplussed; for, with all his impudence and effrontery, he could not fail to feel his vast inferiority in the presence of such a gentleman as Doctor Thornton-"I don't exactly see the propriety of your presence on such an occasion." 
                
               "No matter what you see, sir!" said Doctor Thornton, very curtly. "Proceed with your communication. "Miss Dora Barton, I know, would listen to nothing from you or any other person which I have no right to hear, and you have no right to presume upon her position. Go on, sir!" 
               "Really, doctor-doctor!" said Mr. Harding, hesitatingly, as if he had forgotten the name, though it was in reality only a ruse to gain a little time, for he saw he was likely to find his match in Dora's friend. 
               "Thornton, sir, and you know it very well. I was a witness, not a month ago, in a case you had in the District Court, and you have good cause to remember my name. So, go on, and don't waste my time, for I wish to see Dora alone on business of as much importance, as anything you can have to communicate." 
               "Well, then, Miss Dora"-- 
               "One word, sir," interrupted Doctor Thornton, "do you appear for yourself, or do you represent Mrs. Edson on this occasion?" 
               "I have had the honor," he replied, with his most pompous air, laying his hand on the place where the human heart is supposed to be located, "to be selected as the confidential adviser of Mrs. Edson; and I appear in this instance as her counsel, and act by her authority, as you may see if you will take the trouble to examine these papers," and he proceeded very deliberately to draw forth and open the papers which Mrs. Edson had signed a few moments before. 
               "You need not trouble yourself, Mr. Harding. I will take your word on this occasion," said Doctor Thornton, with an expression so nearly approaching a sneer, that the brazen-faced lawyer was half subdued, and pondered for an instant whether he would or would not be safe in making a personal matter of it. His discretion, however, came to his aid, and, with a very low and very distant bow, he proceeded to open the business upon which he had summoned Dora before him. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XIX. 
               The Doctor and the Lawyer. 
               MR. HARDING proceeded, therefore, with a flourish, which was intended to be very impressive, to open the document, which placed Dora Barton in possession of the magnificent income of three hundred dollars yearly, on condition of dropping the name of Barton, and commenced to read it very slowly, very deliberately, and with marked emphasis upon such words as in his opinion ought to impress his hearers most deeply. 
               As he progressed, Dora leaned forward with pale face, and eyes strained to their utmost tension, as if doubting whether what she saw and heard was reality-while Doctor Thornton gave no evidence of emotion except by a slight quivering of the lip, and the moisture which had gathered in his eye. 
               When Mr. Harding had concluded, Dora sank back on the sofa, and leaning her head on Doctor Thornton's shoulder, gave way to an irrepressible burst of tears. 
               Doctor Thornton blew his nose with tremendous vehemence, and gently disengaging Dora, who threw herself upon the arm of the sofa, rose and approached Mr. Harding, who, sooth to say, was quite surprised at the manner in which this formidable document had been received. 
               "Do I understand you to say, Mr. Harding," said Dr. Thornton, very earnestly, "that the paper you have just read is duly signed and attested by Mrs. Edson?" 
               "Be pleased to examine for yourself," said the imperturbable advocate, and he tendered the paper for the inspection of the doctor. Doctor Thornton merely glanced at the seal and signatures. They were indubitably correct, and everything had been consummated with due formality. 
               "Am I right in my understanding, that you are the legal adviser of Mrs. Edson?" 
               "I am honored by holding that position." 
               "And may I ask, if your advice has operated on Mrs. Edson to an extent sufficient to induce her to sign that paper?" 
               "I am proud to say that I was listened to with attention, and my advice followed to the letter. Mrs. Edson was willing to have made the annuity five hundred dollars, but in view of the peculiar situation of the young woman"-- 
               "Lady, sir," said Dr. Thornton, with flashing eyes, and in tones which startled even Mr. Harding. 
               "Lady, sir, if you insist; but"-- 
               "I do insist, and without any buts. Now, go on." 
               "Well, sir, as I was saying, Mrs. Edson was willing to make the annuity five hundred dollars; but in view of the peculiar position of the young lady, and the fact that Mr. Barton had rescued her from absolute poverty, and had clothed, fed, and educated her for thirteen years, I insisted that she had received all she had a right to expect, and that any thing which Mrs. Edson chose to give must be received in the light of charity," and he paused, as if wanting words to finish his sentence. 
               "Go on, sir," said Dr. Thornton, through his clenched teeth. 
               "Well, I thought further that she had no right to take from her daughter, a blood relation, any more than was absolutely necessary for the support of one who had no earthly claim upon her." 
               "Mr. Harding," said Doctor Thornton, with forced emphasis, though he was ready to burst with ill-concealed rage, "you are accustomed, I believe, in the course of your profession, to hear very plain speaking; in fact, you rather like it?" 
               "Decidedly; then I know where to find my man." 
               "Well, sir, then listen to me. You are, as you say, the legal adviser of Mrs. Edson?" 
               "I have so said, and the lady will confirm it." 
               "And it was at your suggestion that Mrs. Edson has tendered to Miss Barton, her brother's adopted daughter, the contemptible pittance named in this paper?" 
               "I cannot agree with you, sir, in your use of terms, in view of the peculiar circumstances in which the young wo--lady, I mean-is placed. In fact, Mrs. Edson was at first seriously inclined to carry out what she imagined to be the wishes of Mr. Barton, and divide the property between her daughter and Miss Dora; but I could not consent to become a party to such an act of injustice, and I am proud to say that the arguments I used had their due effect." 
               "And this paper," said the doctor, pointing to it, is the result of your arguments and advice?" 
               "Precisely, doctor," replied the lawyer, with an expression of triumph. 
               "Now, then, let me say, Mr. Harding," continued Doctor Thornton, approaching close to the "legal adviser," "that I consider you a most unmitigated scoundrel-a base, designing, scheming villain." 
               "Sir," said the lawyer, not at all abashed, but swelling out until his portly form seemed on the point of bursting-and he prolonged the "sir" with a terrible roulade of r-r-r's, which might have frightened some men, for his voice rose to a roar as he uttered the word. 
               Doctor Thornton, however, knew his man. "Perhaps," continued the doctor, with a coolness and nonchalance quite equal to that of the lawyer in his most brazen mood, "I did not make myself sufficiently understood. I said I considered you a most unmitigated scoundrel-a base, designing, scheming villain; and I will thank you to let me finish my sentence without interruption. I am fully aware of the purposes you had in view in giving to Mrs. Edson such advice; and I am only surprised that the lady is so blinded as not to be able to discover the foulness and impurity of the source from whence she derives her aid and counsel. I am glad, however, to know that Mrs. Edson had some appreciation of what was due to her brother's wishes, and what she owed to his bounty. As for you, if I did not feel how much I should pollute myself, I would wring your nose for your impertinent interference." 
               "Sir," said the lawyer, bristling up, "I will have you to understand that I am here as the legal adviser of Mrs. Edson"-- 
               "'Pshaw-sit down, you bloated fool," said the doctor, going to the bell and ringing it; "go tell Mrs. Edson that Doctor Thornton wishes to see her," he said to the servant who entered the room, and as Mr. Harding stepped forward, as if to countermand the order, the doctor said sternly, "not one word, sir, at your peril; you are not master here, yet. Dora, my darling, there has been most foul wrong done to you, and if Mrs. Edson confirms it, I shall lose all faith in humanity." 
               "Mr.--Doctor Thornton, I must say I am surprised at such language from one professional gentleman to another," said Mr. Harding, whose self-possession was almost overturned. 
               "Faugh! gentleman! You never had the most remote conception of the word. Stick to what you do know-scheming, venality, rascality, and fraud"-- 
               What more he would have said was interrupted by the entrance of Mrs. Edson, who, little dreaming of the interview which had just been held between the doctor and her legal adviser, and utterly unconscious that the former was acquainted with her treatment of Dora, approached him with her wonted familiarity and with outstretched hands. 
               "Mrs. Edson," said the doctor, taking her hands, and holding them in such a position that she was compelled to look directly in his face, or to avoid it by turning her head on one side, "this man," and he nodded his head towards Mr. Harding, "has just read to me a paper bearing your signature, which deeply concerns Miss Barton. Is that paper your voluntary act?" 
               "Why, really, doctor," she replied, encouraged by the presence of her legal adviser, who managed to inspire her with confidence by sundry winks and mysterious nods, "I am not aware that any person has a right to question my motives, or criticise my conduct; and really, I think your question very extraordinary." 
               "Your pardon, madam. I have that right. I claim it as the intimate bosom friend of him to whom you, equally with Dora, owed everything on earth. I remember well, madam, when your kind hearted brother rescued you from the poverty and distress into which you had been plunged by your drunken vagrant of a husband. I remember the time, madam, when but for him you, too, would have been begging your bread in the streets, and your daughter might have walked long and wearily before she found such a friend as Dora found in your brother-such a friend as Dora deserved. And now, madam, how dare you, because Providence, in its wisdom, has seen fit to afflict you with sudden wealth, for I consider it an 
                     afflction
                     affliction
                  , since it seems to have removed all traces of humanity from you-how dare you presume to make such an offer to this child? She was the darling of the brother who raised you from poverty to ease, from ease to luxury. He loved her for her virtues and her worth; and you know-your heart tells you-that if he could rise from his cold grave, he would reproach you as my words do now. Madam, what has Dora Barton done to deserve this at your hands? Are you not content with the bountiful provision which he intended to make for you and yours? Have either of you, by love, or attention, deserved more?" 
               "If you please, doctor"-said Mr. Harding, approaching the pair as they thus stood face to face. 
               "If you say one word, I will throw you out of the window," said the doctor, now fully aroused, turning to Mr. Harding as he approached, but not losing his hold on the hands of Mrs. Edson. 
                
               "Mrs. Edson, I ask you again," he continued, "do you really mean to perpetrate this act of wickedness-of injustice, of cruelty, to one who never harmed you in thought, word, or deed?" 
               "Doctor Thornton," said Mrs. Edson, firmly, for as she spoke she was looking at Mr. Harding, who stood directly behind the doctor, "I must say, I think your language extremely imprudent, to call it by its mildest name. This young woman had no claim of blood or affinity on my brother, and I do not feel called upon to sacrifice my daughter's prospects to advance those of one in whom we have no earthly interest." 
               "And is this your answer, madam?" 
               Mr. Harding nodded to Mrs. Edson in the affirmative; and she, still keeping her eyes fixed on her legal adviser, answered in a firm voice, that it was. 
               "Dora, my dear," said the doctor, in his usual calm voice, "go and put on your hat and shawl," and as Dora, without knowing what he meant, arose and left the room, he dropped the hands of Mrs. Edson, and, standing before her, said: 
               "Madam, you may think you are doing right now, but I won't disgrace your sex by believing that you feel you are. You are acting under the influence of a blind infatuation, from which you will awaken some day, to experience all the pangs of the most bitter remorse. This fellow, it seems, acts for you. I act and speak for Dora Barton. She shall not accept your contemptible pittance-she shall not discard the name given to her through the affection of him whose memory and services to you, are already forgotten! You think you will enjoy your ill-gotten wealth, but you will not. Heaven will not look upon such conduct without visiting upon it the punishment it merits; and, so surely as you live, so surely will you bitterly rue the day you suffered yourself to commit an act of such infamous injustice. You may think your wealth will command friends, but I tell you that all who know you will despise you, and that the hour will come when you will wish on your knees to ask pardon of the dear, injured girl whom you have discarded." 
               "Come, Dora," he said, as she entered the room, with her hat and shawl on, "this is no place for you now. You may keep that paper, Mrs. Edson-we don't want it; and I wish you much joy of that accession to your fortune," and, without vouchsafing another word, he placed Dora's arm within his own, and, turning to Mr. Harding, said: "I shall send to-morrow for the clothing and other articles which belong to this young lady. Do you, as the legal adviser of this precious family, see that everything is sent; and, if one single article, no matter how trifling, which belongs to her, is missing, neither your legal attainments, nor your professional standing, shall save you from the consequences!" and, without awaiting a reply, he left the house arm in arm with Dora-who, as she left the parlor, turned again and again, as if to catch the eye of Mrs. Edson; and, had she seen there one single expression of love or pity, she would have returned, and, throwing herself upon her neck, begged her to remember how much she had loved her, and how grateful she was for the past. 
               She met no such look, and they parted in silence. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XX. 
               Another Change. 
               "WELL, thank Heaven, she's gone!" exclaimed Mrs. Edson, drawing a long breath, as if relieved by the absence of Dora. 
               "Did you ever hear of such vile ingratitude? To think that one whom you have fostered, and nourished, and cared for, almost from infancy, could have turned from you so coldly, and received your kind offers in such a spirit. Really, my dear Mrs. Edson, I was not conscious of all the excellent traits in your character before. I had flattered myself that I knew you, for you have been the study of my life for years past," and he bowed with an air which she interpreted as he meant she should; "but such forbearance-such meekness-such submission-such Christian forgiveness under insult and injury, are almost beyond belief! Had it not been for the melancholy circumstances which surround you, and the fear of attracting public attention, I should have punished that fellow on the spot for his impertinence to you; for, of course, I could not, as a gentleman, pay any attention to what was said to me." 
               "Thank you, Mr. Harding, for your good intentions; but I had no fear for myself. I must say, however, that I am disappointed in Dora. I have fostered and cared for her for many years, as you have justly said. She has been treated, in every respect, the same as my own daughter. No wish of her heart has been ungratified; and now, when circumstances have placed me in the position to prove the sincerity of my friendship, she turns from me, and leaves me without one word of thanks or kindness. Oh! ingratitude is almost unpardonable! I could forgive anything but that! And, to think what I would have done for her, notwithstanding the manner in which she has treated Clara!" and, burying her face in her black-bordered handkerchief, she gave way to a burst of tears. 
               "What!" exclaimed the legal adviser, in tones of sympathy, "what an ingrate she must be, and how thankful you ought to be that you are rid of her. Upon my word, madam, in all my experience rience-and I assure you I have had much-I have never met the equal of that young woman." 
               But, we must leave Mrs. Edson and her legal adviser. They had a long and interesting conversation, in which the past was freely discussed, and the future as freely canvassed; and, when they parted, the one was convinced that she had acted the part of a high-minded, honorable Christian woman, while the other was equally convinced that his words and advice had been potential. 
               Doctor Thornton and Dora walked nearly a block in silence, which was at length broken by the latter, who said: 
               "This is very hard to bear, Doctor Thornton." 
               "Never mind, my child; brighter hours will come. Providence will set all things right yet, and you will come out just where you ought. I wonder what Arthur will say to all this?" 
               "Please, doctor, spare me that now," said Dora, a crimson blush rising to her cheek, though he could not perceive it. 
               "Pardon me, my dear; I was thinking aloud-I didn't mean to say that. But, Dora, I suppose you are aware that you are my ward now. Such, I know, was one of the provisions of your father's will, and I mean to carry that out, at all events." 
                
               "I am grateful for your kindness, doctor, and will do all you desire or command, to prove my gratitude." 
               "For the present, I am going to place you in the house of a friend, where you will be well cared for, and, when I have time to turn around, I will see what is to be done. I could not have suffered you to remain in that house another hour on any earthly consideration, after the insults heaped upon you." 
               "How I wish I could see Mrs. Arden," sighed Dora. 
               "Miss Arden, Dora; she is not married." 
               "I thought she was a widow, doctor," said Dora, looking in his face with an air of surprise. 
               "Umph," muttered the doctor; but he replied, "You misunderstood, as I did when I was introduced to her. She is Miss Arden. And you want to see her?" he queried. 
               "I don't know why, but in all this sadness and sorrow I have wished for her more than for any other human being." 
               "And she for you, Dora; and was only kept away, I know, by the fear that she might, as a stranger, have been considered intrusive." 
               "Oh, dear, I wish she had come, I have been so sad and so lonesome; and it seemed as if my heart turned instinctively to her in the midst of my troubles." 
               "By Jove, I'll try it," said the doctor, and he suddenly turned round, going back in the same route by which they had come. "I'll try it, any how. Come, Dora, let us see if there is any faith to be placed in humanity at all." 
               "Where are you going to take me, doctor?" she queried, as she obeyed him, and retraced her steps, wondering, however, what this sudden change might mean. 
               "You will know when you get there, my darling," he said playfully. "All in good time;" and they walked on in silence, he revolving in his own mind the possible reception he might meet at the hands of Miss Arden, for he had suddenly determined to take Dora to her, and place her in that lady's charge-and she, wondering what he could mean by such a sudden alteration of purpose, as was evinced by the change in his destination from that which he had seemingly adopted when he left the house of Mrs. Edson. 
               When he ascended the steps of Mr. Chapman's residence, Dora asked whither he was conducting her; but with a quiet smile he bade her fear nothing, adding, that though he did not intend to put her on three hundred a year, nor compel her to change her name, he would take good care of her. 
               The door being opened, in answer to his summons, he led her into the third room, and closing the door, bade her remain quiet until he should summon her; then telling the servant, in a low voice, to inform Miss Arden that he wished to see her, he entered the front parlor to await her appearance. 
               He was not kept long in waiting, for she hastened down, and greeted him with a warmth and cordiality which convinced him that she was quite reconciled to abide by the decision she had so recently made. 
               "You were just in time, doctor; I was packing up to be off to-morrow." 
               "What, so soon!" he exclaimed. "Surely you would not have left the city without seeing me," and he looked dubiously at her. 
               "You quite forget that you were here yesterday evening, and that I told you I was going off to-day." 
               The doctor blushed, for he had forgotten it; but he was excusable, for he had been much engrossed since they last parted. 
               "Could you not postpone your visit a day or two?" 
                
               "Not very readily." 
               "Could you do so to serve Dora?" he queried, looking earnestly at her. 
               "Of course I could, and would do so cheerfully. I would let things at the West take their chance to serve her. But why do you ask that question?" 
               "Now listen one moment, and please forget your woman's prerogative of talking. It has turned out just as I expected," he continued, not heeding her mischievous look as he uttered the last words. "Mr. Barton, you know, died without having executed his will. Mrs. Edson is the sole inheritor of his property, and in her generosity has offered to Dora"-- 
               "The third, of course, of his estate," exclaimed the generous-hearted woman. 
               "Yes, the paupers' third. She offers her an income of three hundred dollars a year, provided she will drop the name of Barton." 
               Miss Arden said nothing, but springing up with flushed cheeks, and eyes fairly flashing with anger, rang the bell with a violence which brought the servant in haste to the parlor. 
               "Go up stairs, and tell Jane to bring down my hat and shawl;" and turning to the doctor, she said, very calmly, "Excuse me. Go on, doctor. What did Dora say?" 
               "Nothing." 
               "Nothing at all?" 
               "Not one word. I spoke for her, for I was present when the offer was made." 
               "You dear, good soul," said Miss Arden, laying her hand on his. "How could I think otherwise? What then did you say for her?" 
               "I absolutely and positively declined to accept the contemptible offer." 
               "Well, and what then?" 
               "Nothing." 
               "And what of Dora?" 
               "What should become of her?" 
               "Why, you brute, you ought to have taken her from the house at once. She should not be allowed to stay there another hour. How stupid you men are." 
               "What on earth would I have done with her? You know I am a bachelor-I have my rooms and offices, but I have no wife to take charge of her." 
               "You have acted with uncommon and unpardonable stupidity," said Miss Arden, with an appearance of real anger, "for a man of your sense. You should have brought her here. You know I loved the child the moment I saw her, and goodness knows I have enough to keep us both. I am perfectly surprised at you, doctor;" and her foot patted the velvet carpet very nervously. 
               "Yes; but you are going West, you know, in the morning?" he partly queried, with a singular expression of countenance. 
               "But could I not easily postpone my visit there for a few days? Ah, here is my hat and shawl; I will go and bring her myself. I wonder you had not more thought than to leave her in that house, when you knew how they felt and acted towards her. Come, sir," and she commenced nervously to put on her hat, "help me on with this shawl;" but the doctor sat still, a quiet smile stealing over his face. 
               "Doctor Thornton, you are very provoking," she said, stamping her foot, "I am sure you know my feelings towards that girl, and you ought to have consulted them better, sir. To leave her in that house! I am perfectly surprised at you." 
               "I will surprise you more, Ellen," he said, taking her hand and kissing it-then going to the third room, he threw open the glass doors, and led forth the weeping Dora, who in another instant was clasped in Miss Arden's warm embrace. 
                
               "I beg your pardon, doctor," she said, smiling through her tears, "you are not at all stupid, nor inconsiderate, but the wisest and most thoughtful of men"-and she extended one hand to the doctor, which he seized, and saluted with a respectful kiss. 
               "Now, Dora," said the warm-hearted lady, wiping her own eyes, "wipe your eyes, and don't let me see any more tears in them. I love you-Doctor Thornton loves you-everybody who knows you loves you, and you must not be unhappy. We'll adopt her between us, won't we, doctor? You shall have a little of her-a very little-and I'll have the rest-may I not, Dora?" 
               Dora's heart was too full for words. She could not reply to such kindness-the contrast between the affectionate warmth of comparative strangers, and the harshness and insult which she had but now received at the hands of those with whom were associated her earliest and most cherished recollections, was too great, and leaning her head upon the arm of the sofa on which she had been sitting, she gave way to the tears and sobs which she could no longer restrain. 
               "Come, come, darling," said Miss Arden, affectionately, "you must not give way now to your grief. You are with friends-with those who love you, and who will never forsake you under any circumstances." 
               "Dora, darling," said Doctor Thornton, approaching her, and laying his hand gently on her head, "you must not grieve so. I honor the feelings which animate you, but you must be more composed. You know me as your best friend, next to him whom you have lost, and you must heed what I say." 
               "God help me, Doctor Thornton," said the afflicted girl, rising from her recumbent posture, "but I know not where to look. Oh, how he loved me, and they would not even let me love him-they would not let me say I loved him. Dear, dear friend-how gladly I would have died to save you!" 
               "My darling," said Miss Arden, seating herself on the sofa, and drawing the unresisting girl towards her, until Dora's head lay upon her bosom, "you must not grieve so. You make us, as well as yourself, very unhappy. We love you-you know we do-and all that love can prompt, we will do, to make you forget the past. Try and forget that which has made you unhappy, and find your comfort in our affection, for you know we love you," and she looked appealingly at Dr. Thornton as she uttered the word "we." 
                
               "With all our hearts, Dora, dear-as well for your own sake as for the sake of him whom I so truly honored and esteemed. Dora, my darling, you know I have another claim on you," and he looked significantly at her-"you must heed us, and for our sakes try and forget the great wrong inflicted on you." 
               Dora, even amid her tears, blushed as she heard these words, for she well knew to whom he alluded, and hastily dashing the tears from her eyes, she extended her hand to Dr. Thornton, and said, "God bless you, doctor-do what you choose with me; and, Mrs. Arden," and she placed the other hand in the ready palm of the lady appealed to, "I will try and prove my gratitude to you." 
               "Fudge! gratitude," said Miss Arden, as she wiped from her eyes the tears which the loving earnestness of Dora had called there-"I love you, and you know I do-and I half believe that you love me. So"-- 
               "Love you!" interrupted Dora, happy beyond measure to have found one sympathizing heart-"Love you! Oh, dear Mrs. Arden, I wish you knew how much I loved you, and how my heart thanks you now." 
               "Doctor Thornton, will you please leave this young lady with me?" queried Miss Arden, as she clasped Dora to her heart-"I think I can comfort her almost as well as you could." 
               "I am not quite certain that she is safe with you," he replied, with a meaning smile, "but I will take the risk. Dora, darling," he said, approaching and taking her unresisting hand, "you are mine now by every tie of honor, love, and friendship. Henceforth you are my daughter, and"-- 
               "God grant me life and power to prove how truly I appreciate your kindness," she said, interrupting his sentence, and, rising from Miss Arden's bosom, strove to clasp his hand-"Oh, doctor! oh, Mrs. Arden! how have I deserved such kindness?" 
               "Never mind that, Dora," said Miss Arden, drawing her again close to her heart; "we will take your merits on trust. Come, doctor, are you not afraid some of your patients will suffer from your neglect?" 
               Doctor Thornton colored slightly at this rebuke, so very gently administered, but he had no reply to make. Dora was in good hands, and with a low bow to Miss Arden, which she alone could rightly interpret, and a paternal kiss imprinted on Dora's forehead, as she lay weeping and sobbing in Miss Arden's arms, he took his departure, quite convinced that he had performed at least his duty. 
               "Now, my dear child," said Miss Arden, as the door closed upon the retreating form of the worthy doctor, "you must compose yourself, and try, in remembering the love we bear you," and instinctively she colored as the we was uttered, "to forget the love you have lost. And, by the way, my dear, you must not call me out of my name any more. Don't you hear Dr. Thornton call me Miss Arden?" 
               "And are you Miss Arden?" asked Dora, looking up with an air of surprise, the current of her thoughts being for the moment changed by this remark. "You are surely too good and too beautiful to be Miss," she said, innocently. 
               "Oh, you judge me by yourself," replied Miss Arden, coloring as the recollection of the past flashed across her mind; "I am Miss-so, please, darling, don't spoil my market any more." 
               Dora smiled, even through her tears, at these words, and merely saying "I will not forget," the conversation was changed. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXI. 
               A New Friend. 
               "NOT in! Oh, I am sure she is." 
               "Indeed, madam, she is not." 
               "Mary, my good girl, I am sorry to betray you; but I will take all the blame, and expiate the sin. I am in to the owner of that voice," said Miss Arden, springing from the sofa, on which, with Dora in her arms, she had been reclining. "I am always at home to her," and she fairly rushed into the entry for fear that the lady to whom she had been denied might have left. 
               "My dear Mrs. Pollard," she exclaimed, hastening to the front door, "you must pardon the white lie I bade Mary tell. I was not 'at home' to-day, and so told her to say; but the sound of your ever welcome voice compelled me to betray myself. Will you pardon me, and make me happy by being the exception?" 
                
               "With all my heart, my dear," said the lady addressed, as she turned to the waiting maid with a smile, which said, as plain as words could speak, "I knew she would be at home to me," and they entered the parlor together. 
               "You are always welcome, my dear Mrs. Pollard," said Miss Arden earnestly. "When my dear Dora came in with Dr. Thornton, I gave orders to the servant to deny me to everybody, not expecting this pleasure, and, Mrs. Pollard, when I say pleasure, you know I mean it. Dora dear, Mrs. Pollard-an old friend of mine." 
               "And Dora is a dear friend of mine," said Mrs. Pollard, "for I have long known and loved her. I have known her ever since she was so many years old," she added, as she held her hands up to illustrate the age of her of whom she was speaking. "We do not need an introduction. Do we, Dora?" 
               "We do not, indeed," said Dora, wiping her eyes, still moist with tears. "I am most happy to see you." 
               "I am almost sorry you were not here a few minutes since, Mrs. Pollard," said Miss Arden, as she motioned her friend to a seat, "you would have seen Dr. Thornton. Of course you have heard of Mr. Barton's sudden death?" 
                
               "My dear Miss Arden, I know all about that. I have heard everything from Mr. Pollard, for he and my husband were very intimate friends." 
               "Then I presume you have heard everything?" queried Miss Arden. 
               "Oh, yes," replied her friend, with a very meaning smile. "Mrs. Edson took particular pains to impress upon me-as indeed she did on every one who has called on her-the fact that her 'poor dear brother' died without having executed a will; leaving me of course to infer that she, as his only relative, would inherit his estate." 
               "Now, Dora, my dear," she continued, turning to Dora, "when I left home, I started with the intention of calling at your house, and inviting you to pass a few weeks with us in the country. You know we always go out very early in the season, and I thought the change of air and scene would benefit you." 
               "You are very, very kind, to interest yourself for me," replied Dora; "but"--and she turned to look at Miss Arden, who, interpreting the expression of her face, promptly replied, 
               "It will, I think, be decidedly the best thing you could do. You must know, Mrs. Pollard, that we," and she blushed as she checked herself, "I mean Dr. Thornton, has adopted Dora. He was named her guardian in that unfortunate will-and he, at least, means to carry out the kind intentions of Mr. Barton, so far as lies in his power." 
               "I don't really understand what you mean by saying, he means to carry out Mr. Barton's wishes. Of course, ample provision will be made for her." 
               "Such was Mr. Barton's intention, but the suddenness of his death prevented the execution of his will; and Mrs. Edson has offered to Dora the magnificent income of three hundred dollars, on condition that she drops the name of her 'poor, dear brother.' You know, of course, that she is sole heir." 
               "What an infamous shame!" exclaimed Mrs. Pollard, reddening with anger at the inhumanity of one who could claim the title of womanhood. "Now, then, Dora, I shall the more urgently press my request to have you come and pass some time with me, since I have learned thus much. Of course, you can never again wish to live with Mrs. Edson, after such treatment." 
               "Of course, she never shall!" warmly replied Miss Arden. "This is her home for the present, unless, indeed, she avails herself of your kindness-and I would advise her to do so. I know she appreciates and is grateful for your attention at such a time; and I think it will be the best for her. I am compelled to leave the city for the West, to be absent for some time on business; and I had intended to take Dora with me, instead of leaving her with my friend Mrs. Chapman, though I know how heartily she would be welcomed. What do you say, my dear?" she asked, turning to Dora. 
               "I am truly grateful for Mrs. Pollard's kindness, and, if I was not afraid I"-- 
               "There, you need not finish that sentence," interrupted the kind-hearted lady. "You were going to add, you feared you would give trouble-no such thing. I shall be delighted to have your company, and so will the girls and boys; and I am sure the change will be of service to you. So that is settled. We shall leave about the middle of next week, and I count upon your company." 
               Again, Dora thanked her friend warmly for the kind interest manifested for a comparative stranger, and, after some further conversation on the melancholy occurrence which had brought her there, Mrs. Pollard took her leave. 
               "I wonder who would have done the same for Clara, had she been placed in your circumstances?" said Miss Arden, looking fondly in Dora's face, and gently smoothing her glossy hair. "Ah! well, it's all for the best, I am sure; so dry your eyes, my pet, and try to compose yourself. Remember, you are with friends who truly love you, and who will do everything to fill the place of the dear friend whose loss we all mourn so grievously. I will postpone my visit to the West, until you are ready to leave with Mrs. Pollard. I shall be absent, a couple of months or more, perhaps, and, when I return, I trust the roses will have come back to your cheeks, and that I shall see only your bright smiles." 
               "My heart must always smile in your presence, dear Miss Arden," replied Dora, warmly, "though my face may wear a cloud of sadness. "If I had not loved you before, your present kindness would have won the deepest and warmest feelings of my heart." 
               Miss Arden kissed her new protge affectionately, and, divesting her of her hat and shawl, led her to the apartment occupied by herself, where they passed the morning in conversation, which, if not cheerful, was adroitly led by the more experienced lady, so as to divert the thoughts of the hapless orphan from her present grief. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXII. 
               Dora's New Home. 
               WHEN Doctor Thornton returned in the evening, and heard from Miss Arden the arrangement for Dora's comfort, which the kind-hearted and sympathizing Mrs. Pollard had proposed, he was delighted, and warmly approved of her acceptance of the invitation. 
               "Why, darling," he said, "it is, without exception, I presume, the most extensive and magnificent private establishment in the Northern States. For thirty years Mr. Pollard, who is one of our wealthiest bankers, has added to and improved and ornamented it, until it is, I really believe, without a parallel in extent or completeness. You can't fail to enjoy yourself there, if anywhere. And he is such a fine, hospitable gentleman, and Mrs. Pollard, the model, according to my ideas, of a wife and mother. Indeed, I do not know a lady in my circle of acquaintance better suited than she is to be at the head of such an establishment. The family is large, but so united-so harmonious-so happy in themselves, you can't help loving them. Oh! go, by all means, and tell me, when you return, if I have said more than I ought." 
               "I shall be glad to know more of a lady who comes up to your standard of a model wife and mother, doctor," said Miss Arden, with a very faint blush, and a rather mischievous smile, for she had spoken without thinking of Dora's presence; "I have no doubt I shall profit by the acquaintance. Do you not think so?" 
               Doctor Thornton looked at her with a mirthful expression; and, after a momentary pause, replied: "I will give you my opinion on that point on some future occasion," and Miss Arden was forced to turn aside her face to conceal the blush and the smile which her question and the apt reply had called to her face. Pretending not to notice her confusion, he turned to Dora, and said: "I have just given directions to James to go to Mrs. Edson for your wardrobe, and everything that belongs to you. They will be brought here, and you will, doubtless, find occupation in arranging and preparing for your trip to the country." 
                
               Doctor Thornton remained as long as courtesy would permit; and, in the presence of two such warm and devoted friends, Dora forgot for the time one-half of her griefs. 
               The events of the few days which passed between these interviews, and Dora's departure with Mrs. Pollard, may be mentioned very briefly. 
               Both the ladies found occupation in arranging and in packing their trunks for their respective journeys; and, as many purchases had to be made by both, they found their time fully engrossed. 
               The day at length arrived on which the friends were to part, and amid tears, and kisses, and mutual blessings, they separated, Miss Arden for her residence in the West, accompanied by Arthur Randolph, and Dora for the new home so kindly proffered by Mrs. Pollard. 
               Doctor Thornton was particularly sad on that occasion, for he bade adieu at the same time to the two persons to whom he was most attached on earth; but, recalling to himself the fact that their parting would be only of short duration, and that when they met again, it would be never to separate, he brought his stoicism to his aid, and resumed the pursuit of his profession with his wonted skill and success. 
                
               A couple of hours' rapid riding in the cars, carried Dora and Mrs. Pollard to the dpt, where they were to stop; and, as the family carriage was there in waiting to convey them to Mr. Pollard's mansion, they were soon whirled away towards their destination. 
               The drive was most lovely, and in her admiration of the beautiful country through which they passed, Dora forgot for the time her present griefs; but, when they reached the entrance of Mr. Pollard's elegant residence, and the carriage was driven through the gateway arched with evergreens, she was completely carried away by the loveliness of the scenery surrounding her. 
               At every turn of the road, some new beauty attracted her observation; and, between wood, and lawn, and grove, and meadow, so lavishly spread out before her, she found so much to engross her attention, she forgot for the moment the terrible ordeal through which she had been called to pass, and thought only of the kindness of those who, though comparative strangers to her, had proved the sincerity of their friendship by enabling her to enjoy such pleasure. 
               The carriage halted in front of the palatial mansion occupied by Mr. Pollard; and, as Dora alighted, followed by Mrs. Pollard, she turned to take another look at the magnificence which surrounded her. 
               Woods, lawns, meadows, groves, and walks, extending for miles apparently, were spread out before her; and, turning from the view with a sigh, she inwardly wished that her dearest and best friend had been spared to enjoy it with her. 
               "Come, Dora, I will show you the room I have assigned to you," said Mrs. Pollard, as they ascended the steps of the portico, "and, I think you will say I have made a good choice," and, without waiting for any reply, she ascended to the second story, followed by the surprised and delighted Dora. Opening the door, she ushered her guest into a large corner room, from the windows of which a view of almost the entire estate could be commanded. 
               "How very, very lovely," murmured Dora, as she approached the window, and grazed out upon the splendor of the landscape spread before her; but Mrs. Pollard, who had grown up with the place, and was familiar with every nook and corner, and had learned every one of its beauties by heart, smiled complacently at the enthusiasm of her young friend. 
               "Do you like it?" she asked, as Dora stood at the window, drinking in the glorious beauties of the landscape. 
               "Like it, Mrs. Pollard! Why, even in my wildest dreams, I have never conceived anything like this. I have no words to describe my feelings." 
               "Well-you will find words enough before you have been here many days. But I am glad you like the place. We take great pride in it, and Mr. Pollard loves to have our friends appreciate it. 
               "Now, then, Dora," continued Mrs. Pollard, as the servants brought her trunks in the room, "get ready for dinner. For a few days we shall be alone, with the exception of the girls. When we get fairly settled, Mr. Pollard and the boys will come up to dinner every day, and we shall try to make your stay pleasant." 
               "I see something which I know will make it pleasant, even without your studied kindness," said Dora, and she looked meaningly towards the door of the apartment in which they were standing. 
               "Why, Nellie!" exclaimed Mrs. Pollard, half reproachfully, turning to the quarter indicated by Dora's looks, "I declare I am ashamed of you." 
               This was spoken to a bright, active child of some ten or eleven years, who had been peering into the room while Mrs. Pollard and Dora were conversing versing, and who was evidently watching the new comer with great interest. 
               "Come in, Miss Curiosity," added the loving mother, with a faint attempt to frown, "come in now. Dora, my dear, this is the baby of the family," and she drew forward the petted child-"there, Dora-there she is-our last and worst." 
               "Come here, darling," said Dora, moving towards the child; and taking her unresisting hand, she gazed earnestly in her clear, deep blue eyes for a moment, and said, "I am going to love you-what is your name?" 
               "I don't know that I have any name. Brothers call me Pug, and father calls me Pussy; mother sometimes calls me Nellie, but I believe that is a nickname," and she looked so mischievously at her mother, the fond lady had to turn aside to conceal the broad smile which had been called forth by the apt replies of the pert little minx. 
               "Well, Pug, Pussy, or Nellie, I shall claim you," said Dora, passing her hand gently over the flowing curls of the lovely child. "You and I will be friends, I know," she added, emphatically, and Mrs. Pollard answered only by a very emphatic "ahem!" 
               But it is not necessary for the purposes of this story to attempt any description of Mr. Pollard's beautiful place, or of the manner in which Dora Barton passed her time. 
               She was as happy as she could be, in view of the trials through which she had been called to pass, and surrounded as she was by every luxury and comfort, and treated with a delicate kindness and attention which won her warmest gratitude, she partially forgot her past griefs, and revelled in the happiness which everything around her encouraged her to enjoy. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXIII. 
               Another Nobody's Child. 
               IT was not very difficult for a young, warmhearted, and enthusiastic girl, such as was Dora Barton, to find happiness, situated as she now was. 
               Art, taste, and wealth had combined to make the place everything to be desired, and Dora found full vent for her enthusiasm in the daily discovery of new beauties which challenged her admiration. 
               And she was treated so kindly, so tenderly, so affectionately, by every member of the family, it would have been almost a wrong to feel unhappy in such society, and almost in spite of herself, she half forgot her past griefs, in the enjoyment of her present pleasures-and nothing contributed more to that enjoyment, than the perfect harmony which pervaded the family of Mr. Pollard, large as it was. 
               For Mrs. Pollard, her children exhibited an affection amounting almost to veneration, while to the father was extended that respectful attention and ready obedience which belonged, as well to his kindness as a parent, as to his worth as a man and a gentleman. Everything around the estate was conducted on a scale of magnificence commensurate with the wealth of the proprietor, and on the second week of her arrival, a pet pony, the property of the youngest son, who was off at boarding-school, was placed at her disposal, for her exclusive use. 
               The sons went daily to the city in company with their father, and Dora was therefore left with Mrs. Pollard and her daughters, one aged about sixteen, the other, Miss Nellie, who has been already introduced to the reader. As for Nellie, or Pug, or Pussy, as she called herself, she became so much attached to Dora, that whenever she was missed, it was only necessary to search for Dora, and Nellie was sure to be found. 
               One day, very soon after her arrival, while strolling about alone, she noticed a youth working in one of the beautiful groves which were scattered over the place, whom she had not before seen, and as it was evident that he was employed there, she approached the spot where he was working, and accosting him pleasantly, they soon fell into conversation, and leaving his work, he joined her in her walk. He was a bright, pleasant-looking lad, who had probably seen seventeen summers, and whenever Mr. Pollard's name was mentioned, his eye kindled, his face brightened up with pleasure, and his words came out so earnestly, Dora surmised that there must be some special cause for the exhibition of such deep feelings. 
               "You love Mr. Pollard very much, Edward?" she queried. 
               "Love him, miss! That word, strong as it is, cannot half express my feelings for him. I am sometimes afraid I worship him," replied the lad, his very soul speaking through his flashing eyes. 
               "Indeed!" said Dora, with a pleased look at the ardent young speaker, and her glance seemed to encourage him to continue his remarks, for he added warmly- 
               "If I did not love him with all my heart and soul, I should be the most ungrateful of beings." 
               "Are you in anywise related to him?" asked his companion, with an air of deep interest. 
               "Not at all," he replied earnestly, "though I am sure no relation can love him better than I do. Why, I owe everything on earth to him, and ought I not to love him?" 
                
               "Indeed, you ought," replied Dora, in a voice trembling with emotion, for in the few words thus far uttered by her companion, she had discovered the strong similarity in their positions. 
               "Why, Miss"--and he looked inquiringly at her, pausing at the same time, as if awaiting her answer. 
               "Dora," she said, rightly reading his meaning. 
               "Miss Dora," he continued, with glistening eyes and glowing cheeks, "a few years ago I was a poor, houseless, homeless, friendless orphan, without one human being on earth to care whether I lived or died. I passed my whole time in roving the streets, staying at night in such places, the remembrance of them makes me shudder. One day-when I was about twelve years of age I suppose, for I don't know really how old I am-I was injured, while playing about a train of cars. Mr. Pollard happened to witness the accident; and what do you think he did?" he added, with an expression in which such deep gratitude shone forth, the tears actually started to Dora's eyes, and she could only shake her head in reply. 
               "Why, he had me brought up here, and he had me cared for and nursed as if I had been one of his own. And not only that," he continued, with, if possible, increased earnestness, "but he has kept me ever since-he has given me a good education-and has secured a place for me as soon as I am capable of filling it. And don't I love him; and ought I not, Miss Dora?" 
               By this time, Dora's eyes were running over; and Edward now, for the first time, noticed her excessive agitation. The parallel between their positions was so marked, it went to her inmost heart, and she poured forth her tribute of tears to the memory of the dear friend and benefactor who had taken her to his heart and home when she, too, was a friendless outcast. 
               Edward looked at her for some moments in surprise, then said respectfully, "I hope, miss, I have not said anything to offend you." 
               "Oh, no, no," she eagerly replied; "wait one moment, and I will talk with you," and burying her face in her hands, she gave way to the tears and sobs she could no longer restrain. 
               They walked on, side by side, in silence for some distance, until Dora had become more composed, when, wiping her eyes, she extended her hand to her companion, and said, with a sad, sweet smile, "Your words affected me very much, Edward. I, too, was a poor, friendless, homeless outcast, when I was found by just such a friend as Mr. Pollard has been to you." 
               "And you love him just as I love Mr. Pollard?" he queried. "Then you know how I feel," and his very soul seemed to speak through his eyes. 
               "I did love him, but,"-and here her sobs and tears broke out afresh, and her lips could utter no sound. 
               "I do beg your pardon, Miss Dora," said Edward earnestly, as he now noticed her deep mourning. 
               "You need not, Edward; I did not require your words to recall to my heart him who was my best friend and benefactor. But come," she said, wiping her eyes, and forcing herself into composure, "do not let us speak of this again. We will be friends; will we not?" 
               "I will do anything on earth for you, miss; for you can understand me, I know, and won't blame me for loving Mr. Pollard." 
               "Blame you for loving him!" she exclaimed, looking at him with an expression of surprise. 
               "You need not look so astonished, Miss Dora. There are plenty who say I only pretend to love him, because I expect favors from him." 
               "There-please don't say any more, Edward," said Dora, with a strong effort forcing back the tears which these words, reminding her so truly of her own past, had brought again to her eyes in spite of herself. "Talk about something else;" and guided by him, she strolled through the groves, and lanes, and by-paths of the estate, he pointing out whatever he thought would attract or interest his companion, until, looking at her watch, she found that it was nearly dinner time, and turning back they hastened towards the house. 
               As she ascended the broad steps of the portico, which ran the whole length of the house, Edward stood gazing at her with an expression of the most earnest admiration; and as the closing of the front door shut her from his sight, he murmured, "God bless that girl-she has a heart, I know;" and turning away, he went back to the place where Dora had found him, and resumed the work on which he was engaged when accosted by her. 
               "You have been crying, Dora," said Nellie, looking into Dora's flushed face and red eyes, as she took her seat at the table; and this remark drew Mrs. Pollard's attention to her. 
               "Excuse my looks, Mrs. Pollard," said Dora, with some emotion, "but I chanced to meet a young lad while I was strolling about, and we fell into conversation. His words forced upon me the consciousness of my sad position." 
               "I can readily imagine the rest, my dear," said the kind matron, who justly imagined that she had met Edward, and that he had been talking in his usual strain of high eulogy of Mr. Pollard to Dora, and that his words had awakened the reminiscence of her departed friend. 
               "He is a good, truthful boy," she said earnestly; "and if ever any one was truly grateful for a kindness, he is. You may like him, Dora, as much as you please; he is a great favorite throughout the family, and deservedly so. I really believe he would lay down his life to serve us." 
               "Yes, he is a good boy," said Mr. Pollard, (for he and his sons came now regularly home to dinner, as the trains from the city allowed them ample time after the close of business hours for that purpose); "he is rather too enthusiastic; but his heart is in the right place. I think he will be something in course of time." 
               "It was really pleasant," said Dora, to whom this remark had been addressed, "to see gratitude so warmly expressed. It actually seemed as if words could not suffice to tell me how devotedly he was attached to you." 
                
               "Yes, of course," said the banker, who, having no motive save that of humanity in his care of the friendless orphan, could not realize the propriety of such high praise and such boundless devotion for the performance of that, which his heart told him was a simple duty, and which he had discharged without any thought, save that of doing unto others as he would have wished others to do unto him. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXIV. 
               The Heiress in Possession. 
               BUT turn we now to Mrs. Edson, her "lovely and accomplished daughter," and her "legal adviser," for that was the term invariably applied to himself by Mr. Harding, when Mrs. Edson's name was uttered in his presence. 
               Armed as the pompous lawyer had been with plenipotentiary powers, from the sole heiress of the wealthy Mr. Barton, he found very little difficulty in substantiating her claims to his estate-in fact, none at all, save such as were thrown in his way by the necessity of the proper legal publications. His connection with Mrs. Edson, and his prospective control of her estate, enhanced very considerably his importance, if not in the eyes of his brethren at the bar, certainly in his own, and he moved around among such as chose to pay deference to his assumed greatness, a perfect whale among the minnows. 
               The proper legal forms had been complied with. Mrs. Edson was entitled to, and had received letters of administration upon her brother's estate, for there was no opposition, and she entered into full possession of a fortune, large beyond her most boundless ambition, yet one to which she was not entitled, save as it had been committed to her by the sudden dispensation that called Mr. Barton away from earth. 
               Doctor Thornton and Mr. Lander had many earnest consultations upon the subject, but no scheme could be devised by which the due course of law could be delayed, and they saw with undisguised sorrow, Mrs. Edson take possession of the large property left by Mr. Barton. 
               Mr. Harding, now satisfied that there could be no mistake as to Mrs. Edson's position, and, of course, fully acquainted with the exact amount of the property to which she had so unexpectedly fallen heiress, renewed the suit which he had formerly paid to her, and with entire success, for in addition to her preconceived attachment for him, his conduct throughout, since the death of her brother, convinced her that there was no person who could with such perfect propriety, be intrusted with the management of her affairs. She did not know that the law in due course would have put her in full possession of her rights, without the important aid rendered by her legal adviser, and he took good care to impress upon her the value of the services he had rendered. 
               The result may be readily anticipated, for she promised to intrust to him, not only the care of her fortune, but of her happiness, as a wife, after a sufficient time had elapsed to comport with propriety. Meanwhile, everything was left to his management, and he found so much to engage him in looking after the affairs of his future wife, he partially neglected his extensive practice in the Marine, and other courts of equal dignity and importance. 
               From the day in which Mrs. Edson was, by the process of the law, put in full possession of her property, an entire change came over her. Until everything had been duly arranged, she kept herself measurably aloof from society, and moved about in her circle of acquaintances, in a quiet, unpretending manner, speaking everywhere, and upon every possible occasion, of her "dear brother," in terms of the most exalted eulogy, and acting to perfection the grief-stricken mourner. 
                
               Of Dora she spoke (for she was often compelled to answer questions concerning her) in terms of the warmest affection, and of mild reproval. 
               "Dora was a good girl, no doubt, but it was a great pity she had not properly understood her position. Her 'dear brother,' she was afraid, had so spoiled her by his indulgence, she would never be of any service to herself or others. She (Mrs. Edson) had offered to her a very handsome annuity, but the ungrateful girl had actually spurned it, and insisted upon half the fortune of her dear brother, claiming that he intended to have bequeathed it to her." 
               There were many among those who worshipped Mammon alone, who chimed in with Mrs. Edson in condemning Dora for her ingratitude and selfishness, but there were also many who could not be made to believe that Dora, in losing a fortune which she had certainly a right to expect, had lost her worth or her virtues, and while they honored and esteemed her, they gave her also their pity and sympathy. 
               As for Clara, her delight at the change in her position was unbounded, for in one sense she was now independent, as she could easily rule her mother, either by coaxing or flattery. The change in her manners towards most of her old friends disgusted them, for they could not but feel that it was solely on account of her wealth she assumed such airs of superiority and patronage. 
               Some she cut directly; others she treated so coldly they were glad to avoid her; and having weeded her list of acquaintances to her own satisfaction, she commenced to make new ones, and as she selected them solely on account of their wealth and the position which that wealth gave them, it will readily be imagined that she had not secured many friends.
                
               Her mother's well known wealth-for the whole fashionable world had heard of Mrs. Edson's sudden accession to Mr. Barton's large fortune-drew around her many admirers, and her vanity was gratified to her heart's content. The flatteries poured into her willing ear rendered her, if possible, vainer than ever, and her manners grew so haughty, so imperious, and she was so unmistakably selfish in all her requirements, that gradually even her oldest and best friends dropped off from her, and she had really in the whole world, no one to whom she could look for heart sympathy or true friendship. 
               Mrs. Edson, immediately after being put in possession of her brother's property, changed her course entirely-and from being the grief-stricken mourner, ever speaking of her "dear brother" in tones of most affectionate warmth, now rarely ever mentioned his name, or if forced to hear it recalled to her by some of those who, knowing her past dependence, took delight in quietly but pointedly recalling it to her upon every available occasion-she turned the conversation into some other channel, and invariably cut the speakers thereafter. 
               She had set up her carriage, with a coachman and footman, dressed in the deepest of mourning livery, and as an added testimony of her deep grief at the loss of her dear brother, her coach was trimmed with black inside. It was kept in constant service by mother or daughter, and this was the only recompense they could find for being compelled to decline the many invitations sent to them, for they could not so far violate the rules of propriety, as to go into company so soon after the death of their only near relative. However, as has been said, they found some compensation for this deprivation, in the daily exhibition of their new and really elegant equipage on Broadway at all hours of the day, and in the admiration which it excited. 
               It had been arranged between Mrs. Edson and her "legal adviser," that it would comport much better with their wealth and position to make a wedding tour to Europe, than to remain in the city after the ceremony, and to that end it was, on consultation, deemed advisable to sell off the furniture and rent the house, taking up their residence meanwhile at a hotel. 
               Everything was, of course, left to Mr. Harding's management, and, in due time, he had secured apartments for the family (including, of course, himself) at the--Hotel, then the most fashionable, as well as the most expensive in the country. 
               Clara was perfectly delighted at the idea of hotel life, and her happiness was completed, when she found herself installed with her mother in a suite of rooms, furnished in the most luxurious manner, and with an army of waiters at her command. 
               Mr. Harding, of course, engaged an apartment at the same hotel, but his whole time, when not compelled to attend to his legal business, was given to Mrs. Edson and Clara; and he was always to be found in their parlor, where he seemed to be, as he really was, at home, as much as the regular occupants. 
               The furniture of the house in which Mrs. Edson had passed so many years, was duly advertised for sale, as that of a "family about leaving for Europe;" and the sale being intrusted to the auctioneer of the city who held the first rank in his business, was heralded with all the pomp and ceremony for which he had made himself so famous. 
               The advertisement of the sale attracted the attention of Arthur Randolph, who drew Doctor Thornton's notice to it, and his first comment upon perusing it was a very expressive "Umph!" 
               "I wonder what next?" queried Arthur. 
               "Put a beggar on horseback, etc.," replied the doctor, moving restlessly in his chair-"I tell you what, Arthur, the library and pictures are mine by right, if not by law, for I know that they were intended for me. I want you to attend the sale, and purchase all the pictures and the entire library, even to the smallest volume. I will have something to remind me of my best friend." 
               "Would not Dora like something, too?" queried Arthur, slightly coloring as he mentioned the name of her who was so dear to him. 
               "I am glad you thought of that. I remember, I often used to find her seated by the side of Barton of an evening, when he was at his secretary, looking over his papers. Now, I think that secretary would please her better than anything else. Buy that, at any price, and I'll have it placed in my office; and she will see her old friend in her new friend's house, when she returns from the country. On second thoughts, perhaps you had better not go to the sale-at least, not to bid; for, if that precious scamp, Harding, finds that you or I are seeking anything, he will run it up to double its value. Better get some person who is posted in such things, and tell him what to buy. You can be there, and pay for them." 
               "Won't it be grand to get ahead of that vagabond!" said Arthur, rubbing his hands in joyful anticipation. 
               "I tell you what, Arthur," replied his uncle, "when the secretary is bid off, do you be sure and announce Dora as the purchaser-and give the full name; you understand?" 
               "Perfectly, uncle. I will guarantee that every person in the room shall hear her name. That is a grand idea," he continued, half aloud. "How it will make that rascally lawyer squirm!" and he chuckled at the thought. 
               "Do you remind me on the day before the sale, and I will give you a check for all you will be likely to purchase," said the doctor, turning to his table, and resuming the perusal of the work on which he had been engaged, when interrupted by his nephew. 
               "All, except the secretary," said Arthur, quietly. 
               "Oh!-ah!-of course," replied the doctor, with a pleased expression, for he knew that Arthur wished to purchase that himself, and present it to Dora. 
               The sale of Mr. Barton's furniture took place in a few days after the conversation just detailed, and Doctor Thornton's directions were scrupulously obeyed. As only Arthur attended the sale, and, as he was almost unknown to Mr. Harding, who was present, it was not known, until after the close of the auctioneer's duties, who had become the owner of the library and pictures; but, when Mr. Harding was informed that Doctor Thornton had purchased the entire lot, he was absolutely mortified and angered to think that he had not been shrewd enough to suspect it, and make him pay well for them. But, it was too late now; and, consoling himself with the reflection that, as it was, every dollar paid in was clear gain to Mrs. Edson, and, of course, to himself, he submitted with the best grace he could. 
               The books and pictures were removed on the day following the sale to Doctor Thornton's residence dence, and the secretary was placed in his office; and, as Arthur looked at it, he wondered if his darling Dora would take as much pleasure in receiving such a memento of her dearest and best friend, as he derived in presenting it. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXV. 
               Dora's New Friends. 
               ON Mr. Pollard's beautiful place there was one particular spot, remarkable as well for its uniqueness as for its marvellous beauty. 
               It was a small, circular grove, composed of every kind of tree which could be acclimated; and although it was some hundred feet in diameter, the trees and shrubs had become so interwoven, the sunlight could not illuminate its recesses; and though anything but gloomy, it was even in midday so dark, it almost cost an effort of the eyes to distinguish the features of those within its beautiful inclosure. It was a favorite resort of Dora, as indeed it was of every guest who visited the place, and no doubt many a tale of love had been breathed within its shades. 
               Dora had been domesticated nearly two months with this happy family, and, thanks to the kindness and sympathy of all by whom she was surrounded, had measurably recovered from the shock which the loss of her friend and benefactor had caused. 
               With Edward she had long and pleasant strolls, and she took as much delight in listening to his warm praises of his generous patron, as she did in speaking of him who had made the world so bright to her when he was living, and whose death had cast such a dark shadow across her pathway. 
               Dora often retired to this grove to indulge in thought, and seated on one of the rustic couches which were placed within, she passed hours in sad solitude: for, surrounded as she was by every comfort and luxury, and blessed as she was by the kind sympathy of those who loved her for herself, she could not forget him to whom she owed even the present luxury of grief-him who had so wound himself about her heart, life itself seemed a blank without his presence and his love. 
               She had thrown herself one day after dinner on one of the couches in the grove, and was ruminating upon the sad past and possible future, when the sound of voices entering the grove aroused her, and springing up, she started towards the only spot through which entrance or exit might be had. 
               "Is that you, Dora?" was asked in tones which she knew well were those of Mrs. Pollard, who was accompanied by some one whose features in the darkness she could not recognize. 
               "Yes, madam; I was about to return to the house." 
               "Come back with me, I have something to say to you. Oh, you need not draw back, Charley; you must come in, too, and face the music-I believe that is the term;" and as she spoke, Dora knew that Mrs. Pollard's companion was her eldest son, a fine, well bred, and handsome youth of some two and twenty summers. 
               "Oh, mother, this is too bad!" he said, half reproachfully. 
               "It will be worse, Charley, if you don't mind me. Do you think I am going to listen to such things when I know how false they are? Come, sir, in with you, and finish your sentence in Dora's hearing and presence"-and seizing his arm, she dragged him reluctantly enough to the centre of the grove, where she compelled him to be seated-and then going towards Dora, who stood in the entrance, wondering what this might portend, she drew her unresistingly forward, and quietly forcing her to a seat on the rustic bench opposite her son, she seated herself by her side, and turning to him, said very composedly, "Now you can go on, Charley?" 
               "I declare, mother, this is too bad!" exclaimed the young gentleman blushing, though his companions could not perceive it. 
               "Go on, sir, and finish your story," said his mother composedly, taking a hand of Dora, who sat there mute and trembling, wondering what was coming next. 
               "Miss Barton, of course you will excuse me?" he queried, addressing Dora. "It is mother's fault," and he turned appealingly to Mrs. Pollard. 
               "Of course, sir; I can excuse anything you may do, for I cannot conceive that you would do or say anything requiring an apology." 
               "There, Charley-do you hear that?" said Mrs. Pollard, turning to her son. "You don't deserve such a compliment as that-so thank Dora by completing your story, as I bid you." 
               "Miss Dora, it concerns you," he said, bowing; "and if any one but my mother had bidden me to repeat it, I should have refused. Her word is my law," and he turned with an air of reverence to her who well deserved that mark of respect. 
               "Of course, Mr. Pollard"-- 
               "Oh, stop there, Miss Dora. If you call me. Mr. Pollard I shall call you Miss Barton. No, no; we are too good friends, I trust, for such formality." 
               "Well, then, Charley, go on," said Dora, her eyes gathering moisture as such kind words saluted her ears. 
               "Well, then, Miss Dora, you are the party most interested; and as mother orders, I will finish what I had just commenced saying. I was dining yesterday at the--Hotel, and I chanced to overhear your name mentioned. I suppose it was not very polite, mother, to listen-but knowing she was our guest, I could not help it. The speaker was a young lady, who, with her mother, and a very portly, pompous gentleman, was seated near me. I heard your name coupled with epithets which made my blood boil, and when the laugh was raised at your expense I felt that, but for the possibility of compromising you, I should certainly have got into trouble." 
               Dora knew but too well to whom he alluded, and burying her face in her hands, gave way to tears and sobs, which could not be restrained. 
               "Now, Dora, I won't allow this," said Mrs. Pollard, earnestly. "I know all about it, and it has no more effect upon me than the idle wind. Charley," she said, suddenly turning upon her son, who was gazing upon Dora, and striving through the gloom to discover why she was so much affected-"how old are you, Charley? Let me see-twenty-two." 
               "Pretty near," responded her son, wondering what was to come next. 
               "I wish she was a man," said Mrs. Pollard, half aloud, but loud enough for her son and Dora to hear, and both turned to her with inquiring looks. 
               "And why, mother?" asked her son, in wonderment. 
               "So that my son might punish her slander as it deserves. I tell you, my son," said Mrs. Pollard, with all the energy of an honest, earnest heart, "if Doctor Thornton had not adopted Dora, I do believe I would have done so. That is my answer to all you have heard." 
               "Thank you, mother. I did not need your commendations to make me honor Miss Dora. I am only sorry I mentioned the matter at all." 
               "You have made me very happy by doing so, Mr. Pollard," replied Dora. 
               "There you go again," said the young gentleman, interrupting her. "Mr. Pollard is at the house, smoking his cigar." 
                
               "I beg your pardon, Charley. I do not deserve such kindness"-- 
               "There, that will do, Dora," said Mrs. Pollard, interrupting her. "Clara Edson, Clara Edson's mother, and their combined slanders, can never change my opinion of you. Come, Dora, go up to the house; I have something to say to Charley," and she took Dora's hand so warmly, so affectionately, the dear girl's tears started afresh, but she wiped them away, and leaving the mother and son alone, started for the house. 
               When about half-way towards the mansion, she was startled by a voice at her elbow, but recognizing on the instant the tones of Edward, she saluted him kindly, and asked him to accompany her, as it was now quite dark, and she feared she might be lost amid the labyrinth of lanes, lawn, and groves, through which she would have to pass. 
               "I heard every word," Edward said earnestly, as he walked by her side. 
               "Edward, that was very wrong; you did very wrong to listen." 
               "I know I did," he almost sighed, "but I heard your name mentioned as I was passing the grove, and I could not resist. I am sorry," he said, half musingly, as he thought of the wrong he had done, for he felt keenly the reproach from Dora; "but I am glad, too," he added in his natural tones. "Now, let me tell you something. Charley is desperately in love with you." 
               "Hush, Edward; that is worse than the other. You must not talk so," and she felt the crimson blush starting to her cheeks. 
               "I can't help it. He has seen how kind you have been to notice me, and I half think that he spoke to me on purpose that I might repeat what he said to you; and so he has hinted, and hinted and spoke so much about you, that I ventured to ask him once"-- 
               "Edward, you must stop; you have no right to speak thus, nor I to listen to you. You have done very wrong." 
               "It can't be worse if I finish my sentence, and I will. He said he would give all the world if he could make you his wife!" 
               "Edward!" said Dora, bursting in tears, "you have pained and grieved me. I did think you knew me better than to think that I could discard"-- 
               "Edward!" shouted a voice in the path ahead of them, and both recognized it as that of Charley. 
               Edward, who knew that he had left the young gentleman with his mother far away in the grove, could not account for his presence so far ahead of them, but with a bow, and a few deprecatory words, he left Dora, and hastened to answer the summons. 
               Dora walked along slowly, revolving in her mind what she had heard within the past few minutes; but, before she had time to collect her wandering thoughts, she was again startled by the voice of Charley, who, by some means or other, had managed to intercept her on her return to the house. 
               "Miss Barton," he said, respectfully, "I hope you will pardon me." 
               "Certainly, Mr. Pollard, if Miss Barton can have anything to forgive to such kind friends." 
               "I won't say it again, Dora-Miss Dora-dear Dora!" 
               "Stop, Charley-not one other word." 
               "But, oh! Dora, let me say what I think, and feel, and dare to hope!" 
               "Not one word, Charley, or I must leave this forever. Let me speak as plainly as you would, if I would allow you. I know-nay, Charley, I feel, what you wish to say to me, and to which I cannot listen. It is impossible-hopelessly, and utterly impossible! Now, Charley, let us be friends. You understand me?" she asked, earnestly, laying her hand gently on her companion's arm. "Let me say more, and end this subject as between us forever: I love another so well, I could not love even you." 
               "Thank you, Dora, for your candor. It has only made me regret the more that I did not know you before." 
               "Come, come, Charley, you are young, very young yet. A whole life is before you, and you will forget this in time, and thank me for being so truly your friend. Now, Charley, give me your arm, for I am tired, and don't say a word of this to any one, unless you want me to leave a place where I have been so happy." 
               "I wish she was a man only for one day," muttered Charley, but loud enough to be heard by Dora. 
               "There, never mind her. I have heard such things as that for a long time from her, and you see I don't mind it; and, I am sure, if you are my friend, you will never notice it." 
               "Well, I won't, of course, because I have no right to; but Dora, I can't help wishing she was a man," and Charley's hands were closed very tightly, though he did not know it. 
                
               "You couldn't marry her if she was," said Dora, thus adroitly changing the subject; and by the time they reached the house, Charley, who was young, ardent, and enthusiastic, had been so calmed by the superior mind of his companion, he almost forgot that he was a rejected suitor; but he loved Dora with a true love, for all. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXVI. 
               Approaching a Crisis. 
               IT is not necessary to go into a detail of the occurrences which transpired during the few months after the parting of Miss Arden, Doctor Thornton, and Dora. 
               The former lady had disposed of her property in the West, and returned to New York towards the close of the summer, taking up her residence with Mr. Chapman's family, until, by becoming the wife of Doctor Thornton, she should acquire a permanent home. 
               Dora was still at Mrs. Pollard's when Miss Arden returned from the West, and, in compliance with the banker's urgent request, backed by the pressing entreaties of his amiable and kind-hearted lady, Miss Arden consented to pass a few days with those who had proved themselves such warm and true friends; and the time passed so pleasantly, it was almost with a sigh of regret she took her leave to return to the city. 
               As for Dora, there was a general crying spell when she had to take leave of her hospitable friends, and Edward, who loved her with all the intensity of youth and enthusiasm, would not be consoled, while Nellie wandered about for several days, sorrowful and lonesome. 
               In truth, the dear girl had so wound herself around the hearts of the whole family, there was not one member of it who would not gladly have hailed her permanent stay among them with delight. 
               On Dora's return to the city, she was installed as the present head of Doctor Thornton's establishment; for, in anticipation of his marriage, he had purchased an elegant house, and furnished it in a style commensurate with his means and standing. 
               Arthur Randolph, who had managed during Dora's absence to pay a visit at Mrs. Pollard's place once in each week, had, after a great deal of persuading and coaxing, obtained her consent to be married at the same time that Miss Arden and the doctor united their fortunes; and, as it now lacked but a few weeks of the time set for that ceremony, she found abundant occupation in making the necessary preparations. She was daily with Miss Arden on their shopping excursions, and, in fact, when she was not at Mrs. Chapman's, Miss Arden was at the doctor's house with her. They were inseparable; and the love which had sprung so suddenly in their hearts on the occasion of their first meeting, had by this time attained full, vigorous growth-and they were perfectly happy in each other's society, and equally happy in anticipation of the future. 
               As for Clara, her delight at the change in her position and circumstances knew no bounds. She was surrounded by a throng of idle butterflies, who, readily discovering her weak points, so flattered her, and so encouraged her self-love, she had no room in her heart for any other feeling. 
               Settled in the magnificent apartments selected for them by Mr. Harding, she had nothing to do but to dress, flirt, and exhibit herself daily on Broadway, and she found her pleasure and happiness in the adulation so freely poured out from her bevy of admirers, who, having ascertained the precise extent of her expectations, were perfectly willing to sacrifice themselves upon the shrine of Mammon. 
               Mr. Harding, who, with all his ignorance, was a shrewd observer of human nature, was quite content tent to allow Clara to follow unchecked the bent of her inclinations, for he foresaw, that the more she flirted and coquetted, the smaller grew her chances of being married, and this was a consummation which he did not wish to see fulfilled, for it would involve the necessity on the part of her mother of making a suitable marriage provision for her, and consequently withdrawing from himself a portion of the fortune which she had so providentially inherited, and which, in his opinion, 
                     wasn
                     wasn't
                   one too large for his comfort or enjoyment. 
               He, therefore, encouraged and stimulated her vanity and self-importance, until she grew so insufferably proud and vain, he was satisfied that she would never consent to link herself and her fortune with any one under the rank of a Duke or Marquis. 
               There was one, however, who had carried by storm the heart-no, not the heart, for Clara Edson had no longer a heart, but the preferences of the prospective heiress, and before her mother or her "legal adviser" dreamed of such a consummation, she had actually pledged herself to him, and had granted him permission to accompany them on their contemplated tour, promising that if she did not find there any one whom she liked better than himself, she would become his wife. 
                
               The gentleman who had received such decided marks of preference, was a young Cuban adventurer, whose chief merits consisted in his splendid black moustache, his silky whiskers, his brilliant eyes, and his consummate impudence. 
               He was a boarder at the hotel, and the lavishness of his expenditure (Clara did not know how much he owed, nor what terrible efforts it cost him to keep up appearances), assured her that he was wealthy, and she built a thousand castles, based upon the happiness she would enjoy when surrounded by the luxuries which her intended had promised should be hers when they reached his home in the Queen of the Antilles. 
               Mr. Harding was considerably annoyed when Mrs. Edson communicated to him the fact that the young Spaniard, whose attentions to Clara had often attracted his attention, was to form one of their party in their European tour, but he was not then so situated as to venture a remonstrance, and contented himself by expressing the hope that she had made a selection worthy of her rank, wealth, and station. 
               Meanwhile, preparations for the double marriage of Dr. Thornton and his nephew were proceeding harmoniously. Every day Dora and Miss Arden were out on shopping excursions, making purchases of the dresses, and thousand et ceteras, which ladies about to be married find so indispensable. 
               Occasionally they encountered, in these excursions, Mrs. Edson and Clara, who were engaged on a similar expedition. The latter invariably refused to recognize Dora, and she so far forgot what was due to herself as a lady, as to point her out when they chanced to meet, and with sneers to whisper loud enough to be heard by all in her vicinity, that there was the charity girl, picked up in the streets by her dear Uncle Charles. 
               Dora's good sense enabled her to bear up under these inflictions, and, cheered by the love of Doctor Thornton and Miss Arden, who seemed actually to grow into her very heart, she moved on happily and steadily, turning neither to the right nor the left, but content to feel that she was treading in the path of duty. 
               A very trifling circumstance, however, which transpired very shortly before the period appointed for the nuptials of Mrs. Edson, changed very materially the aspect of matters so far as she and her daughter were concerned. 
               One morning the servant, in cleaning out the office of Doctor Thornton, accidentally overturned his heavy rocking-chair, and in falling, it struck one of the doors in the bottom of the secretary which had been purchased for Dora at the sale of Mr. Barton's furniture, and broke it in two. 
               The servant, who knew the attachment with which Dora regarded that piece of furniture, was excessively frightened at the mishap; but as it was purely accidental, Dora forbore to chide her, and consoled her by the assurance that it could easily be repaired, and made as good as it was before. 
               When the doctor returned home in the evening Dora was waiting to receive him, and first exacting from him a promise not to scold the servant, she showed him the fractured door, and with a "pooh, pooh," he told her not to mind it, as he would have it mended at once. 
               Accordingly he dispatched a servant to the shop of a German cabinet maker who resided in the next street, with a request that he would come round in the evening, as he wished some repairs to be done to a piece of furniture. 
               The man made his appearance while the doctor and Dora were at dinner, for Arthur had not yet returned from his business, and was shown into the office, whither he was soon followed by the doctor. 
               "You see what is to be done?" he queried, as the man stooped down to examine the extent of the damage. "You can mend that without taking the secretary away?" 
               "Oh, yes," he replied, "I can make a new door at the shop, but I must take the old one off for a pattern." 
               "Certainly; take it off," replied the doctor. 
               "That is a nice piece of furniture you have there, doctor," said the workman, as he proceeded to unscrew the remains of the broken door. 
               "It looks to be well made." 
               "It is well made, sir. I made that myself for Mr. Barton. There is not another in the city like it." 
               "You are sure of that? You made it for Mr. Barton?" 
               "I ought to be sure of it, sir. Why, the secret drawers in that book case cost me a week of good hard labor." 
               "Secret drawers! Why, I never knew of any. Mr. Barton was my dearest friend, but he never spoke to me of any such thing. Show them to me." 
               "Certainly, doctor;" and stooping down, he opened the uninjured door, and putting his hand to the extreme end of the desk, touched a spring, and that which had seemed to be scroll work on the side of the drawer above the doors, sprang out, and disclosed a long, narrow drawer, divided into compartments, and in the extreme end arranged in pigeon holes. 
               "There is one on the other side," resumed the man, and touching a spring on the other side of the desk, a drawer similar to the first was exhibited. 
               Doctor Thornton, who had approached the desk in surprise and astonishment at this discovery, pulled both drawers out to their extreme length, and perceiving some papers in one of the pigeon holes, took them out carelessly, and proceeded to examine them, while the workman was still engaged in unscrewing the broken door. 
               Three or four unimportant papers were hastily looked at and thrown aside, but one of them seemed to command the doctor's earnest attention. Hastily glancing at the heading, he tore it open, and one look seemed to suffice him, for he put it into his pocket without a word of comment, but with a singular smile upon his face; and drawing forth a gold piece, tendered it to the astonished workman, saying, "There, my good fellow, take that; I am obliged to you more than you can realize, for showing me those private drawers. Now show me how to open and close them, and then you can finish the job afterwards." 
                
               The man did as he was desired, and the doctor having watched him in silence until the door was unscrewed and borne off, took from his pocket the paper which had been found in the secret drawer, and perused it with evident interest and attention. 
               Replacing it in his pocket, he took up his hat, and sending word to Dora that he would be home in the course of an hour or so, and bidding her tell Arthur not to go out until he returned (little need was there of that while Dora was at home), he left the house, and wended his way, directly and with rapid steps to the residence of Mr. Lander. 
               That gentleman was at home, and the doctor was ushered into the library, where he was cordially greeted by his friend. 
               "Why, doctor, what on earth is the matter with you? You look as if you had just won your lady-love, or killed a patient!" and, truly, the doctor's appearance fully justified that or any other supposition; for his face was flushed, and his eyes shone with a most wicked, mischievous expression. 
               "I have not lost anything, but I have found something-there, look at that!" and he threw on the table before him, the paper which had been discovered in the secret drawer of Mr. Barton's secretary. "Perhaps you know that handwriting." 
                
               "I ought to know it," he said, carelessly taking up the paper, and glancing at it. "I have seen it for forty--Why, holloa! doctor, where in the name of justice and honesty did this come from?" and he fairly sprang from the chair, as he held the paper in his extended hand. 
               "Never mind where. I found it where it was put. It's all right, isn't it?" 
               "Right as seals and signatures can make it." 
               "And, it's valid, ain't it?" queried the doctor, earnestly. 
               "All the lawyers in the State could not set it aside." 
               "And Dora comes out right, after all?" 
               "And Mrs. Edson won't come out with such high honors. Oh! won't I be glad to pull down that vagabond, Harding. I'll be at him to-morrow." 
               "No, you won't. I have a better plan than that. If you let him know that the first will is found (for such, in truth, was the discovery made by the doctor), he will never marry his charmer. No, no-listen to me," and, in a low voice, the worthy doctor proceeded to unfold his plans, which seemed to please the lawyer very much, for he rubbed his hands with great glee, and promised to lend his aid to the doctor in carrying them out to the letter. 
                
               The doctor's next visit was to Miss Arden, where, of course, he was welcomed with real warmth. 
               "Now, my dear lady, I want very much to make you happy," said the doctor, his eyes actually brimming with pleasure. 
               "It is not quite time yet," she said, archly, as she withdrew her hand from his earnest grasp. "I believe that the 18th of next month was the day settled on." 
               "You need not remind me of that," he said, with a smile. "I should not be apt to forget it, I am sure. But, I am in very earnest, Ellen. I have something to communicate which will make you very happy, but I can only tell it on one condition, and I scarcely think you will be able to comply with that." 
               "Suppose you try me." 
               "It involves a desperate effort, and the practice of much self-denial on your part." 
               "I can make the one, and practise the other, if either will afford you pleasure, Doctor Thornton," she said, looking him full in the face, and with an expression which he could not withstand. 
               "I'll trust you, if you are a woman." 
               "Thank you, at the expense of my sex," she said, very demurely. 
                
               "Well, then, Ellen, I have found Mr. Barton's will." 
               "Honest?" 
               "Upon my honor! The secretary which was bought for Dora, was broken this morning by accident, and I sent for a German cabinet-maker, around the corner from my house, to fix it, as I knew how highly Dora prized it. He, it appears, had made that very piece of furniture for my dear friend Barton, and showed me two secret drawers, of which I had never heard or dreamed, and in one of those I found the will." 
               "And what are the contents?" 
               "I thought I had mentioned to you before that he had made a will some three or four years ago, when he went South on business." 
               "You never named it." 
               "It was because we thought it was not in existence." 
               "We!-pray, who do you mean by we?" 
               "Oh! you need not be jealous, Ellen-there is only one we in the world-I mean Mr. Lander, my friend's counsel. It gives all to Dora, except annuities of a thousand a year to Mrs. Edson, and five hundred to Clara." 
               "And, what else!" 
                
               "Why, the pictures and library which I purchased, to me." 
               "Good! You want me to keep that a secret?" 
               "I do." 
               "And, why?" 
               "Because, I have my own plans to carry out, and I am sure you will approve of them." 
               "Suppose you tell me what they are; you might as well trust me with the whole; I shall be better able to judge whether I ought to keep the secret or not." 
               "I don't think you a very good judge, so I shall hold you to an unconditional promise," and he proceeded to detail his plans as arranged between himself and Mr. Lander. 
               "You are a good soul, doctor, and I don't believe I shall ever repent the sacrifice I have promised to make," she said, when he had concluded. 
               "It is a sacrifice, I admit, but it is made on an altar, at which we all worship," replied the doctor, gallantly; and, having urged upon her the necessity of the most profound secrecy, so as not to foil his plans, he took his leave. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXVII. 
               Operations of the Law. 
               THE day fixed on for the wedding of Mr. Harding and Mrs. Edson was rapidly approaching. Invitations had been sent out by hundreds, and the proprietors of the hotel at which they were boarding had received instructions not to spare any expense, and they promised to make the affair one of the most brilliant and recherch of the season, if not of the city; a promise which was abundantly fulfilled, if the expressions of admiration from the guests were any test. 
               And they were married-Clara and Mr. Cordeba (her Cuban admirer) acted as bridesmaid and groomsman upon the occasion, and many were the remarks made upon the appropriateness of the match between the young couple, which every one considered as a settled thing, and many were the expressions of wonder that both weddings had not taken place at once. 
               Mrs. Edson was merged into Mrs. Harding, and a proud and happy bride she was, or seemed to be, while Clara, thinking only of the pleasures in store for her in view of their European tour, quite overlooked the influence which her new father might exercise over her actions as well as her fortunes. 
               She was thoughtful only for the present, and found ample occupation in receiving the congratulations of her mother's guests, and in displaying the magnificence of her own attire and the splendor of her jewelry. 
               The new-married couple had engaged state-rooms on board the steamer which was to leave for Liverpool on the second week after their marriage, and preparations for the journey had been nearly completed. 
               On the morning of the day appointed for the sailing of the steamer, the family were seated at the breakfast table in the hotel, and they were so late that there were very few present in the saloon except themselves. 
               Mr. Harding was now in his element. He was, if possible, more pompous than ever. His voice sounded like the tones of a brazen trumpet, and every word he uttered was heard from one end of the immense hall to the other. 
               "A gentleman to see me!" he said, swelling out until the waiter who made the announcement feared he would burst-"Set another plate, and show him up. Some one from the steamer, I presume, my dear," he said, with a smile, to his new-made bride, who, in all the luxury of laces, jewelry, and bridal finery, was enjoying her triumph. 
               The plate was set, and the servant retired to usher in the visitor whom he had announced. 
               At sight of him every one arose. Mrs. Harding with something like contempt on her countenance; Clara with an absolute sneer, and Mr. Harding with his stolid, brazen look, which seemed to defy opposition-for he was now master of Mrs. Edson and of her fortune. 
               It was Doctor Thornton, and with a courtly bow he approached the party, holding in his extended hand some folded papers, having very much the appearance of legal documents. 
               "For you, Mr. Harding," he said, tendering to him one paper, "and this for you, madam," he said to Mrs. Harding, as he extended the other to the lady, who took it, without exactly knowing what she was doing, looking at the same time at her new-made husband, as if to ask what was the meaning of this ceremony. 
               "What's all this, sir?" said Mr. Harding, in a loud, blustering voice, for he had glanced casually over the contents of the paper, and its purport was recognized by him at once-"What's all this, sir? Some forgery, I have no doubt;" and he put on one of his fiercest looks. 
               "Stop, sir!" said the doctor, with an air of dignity which actually overawed the questioner-"You must not forget to whom you address such language." 
               "I did not accuse you, sir," said the lawyer, regaining his impudence and composure, for both had been sadly disturbed by the perusal of the document handed to him by Dr. Thornton. 
               "It was well you did not," was all the reply vouchsafed by the doctor, who had begun to exhibit some symptoms of anger at the manner in which he had been received, though the recollection of the triumph which he knew he would soon enjoy, enabled him to conquer his feelings, and to smile upon the feeble attempts of the dumbfoundered lawyer to annoy him. 
               "I should like to know what this means," said Mrs. Harding, who had been perusing the document ment handed to her, while her husband and the doctor were conversing, which, from its technicalities, was in truth quite incomprehensible to her. "This is all a mystery to me. I am sure I don't know anything about it." 
               "Your legal adviser, there," replied the doctor, with a very marked expression of contempt, "will inform you fully on the subject, I have no doubt. For the present, I wish you a very good day, and prompt digestion;" and with a very low bow, and with an expression of the most absolute defiance, the doctor took his leave of the astounded family, wearing a most unmistakable look of triumph. 
               "What did that horrid doctor want?" lisped Clara, for she had acquired the very rational accomplishment of torturing her words so as to be scarcely intelligible when she spoke. 
               "Never mind that child, Mr. Harding," said his bride, with a meaning look. "Clara, go to your room, and see that everything is properly arranged. We have to be on board the steamer by half-past eleven, you know. Come, go along, my dear," she repeated, seeing that Clara paid no attention to her directions, for she dared not give positive orders. 
               "I think we will all retire to the parlor," said Mr. Harding, who, while his wife was speaking, had been carefully perusing the document handed to him by the doctor-and his face wore such an aspect of seriousness and disappointment that Clara took alarm, and hastened off; while Mrs. Harding, rising and approaching her husband, put her hand gently on his shoulder, and queried- 
               "What does it mean, my dear? What on earth brought that horrid doctor here?" 
               "Mean, madam!" he said in stentorian tones. "Mean! It means, madam-my dear, I beg your pardon," he interrupted, seeing that his harshness had brought the blood to the face of his new-made bride. "The fact is, this silly imposture has almost thrown even me off my guard," and offering his arm, which she took without any further remark, for she noticed that their conversation had been overheard by all in the dining room, he led her silently towards their parlor. 
               When they reached their apartments, which were strewed with trunks, bandboxes, shawls, and the omne genus of a female traveller, the porter of the hotel was in waiting to collect the baggage, for the purpose of taking it to Jersey City, whence the steamer was to sail. 
               "Please, sir," he said, respectfully, "there's so much, I thought we had better get ahead an hour or so, and then you would be sure to have it all on board." 
               "I'll do the thinking," replied Mr. Harding, with rather more than his wonted pomposity. "The baggage is not ready yet. I will ring when I am prepared to have it dispatched," and he waved the man out of the room. 
               "Now, then, my dear," said his wife, seeing that they were alone, for Clara had retired to her own room to collect her scattered et ceteras-"please to tell me what this means." 
               "Why, simply this, my darling," he replied, with a very wry face, and an air anything but affectionate as contrasted with his words. "It means that this is what we members of the bar, call a citation to yourself, as sole heir, and myself, as your husband, to appear at the office of the surrogate, and show cause, if any there be, why a certain instrument purporting to be the last will and testament of Charles Barton, gentleman, deceased, should not be admitted to probate. 
               "I don't understand your long words, Mr. Harding," she replied, with more of tartness than well became so new a bride. "So please to make your meaning more intelligible, and speak so that I may know what you mean." 
                
               "My meaning, then, is simply this," he replied, with something of asperity in his tones, "that there has been a prior will, it seems, made by Mr. Barton, your deceased brother, the existence of which was unknown to you or to anybody else; and from the tenor of these papers I have no doubt that will has been found." 
               "Some forgery, anybody might know. Why it is as well known as that my dear brother died, that he died without leaving any will," and she tapped the floor nervously with her delicately slippered foot. 
               "And that you, as his sole, surviving relative, took possession as heir-at-law of his effects, real and personal," continued her husband, with a dignified wave of the hand; for as yet he was the master of Mrs. Edson that had been, and had the control, by virtue of his power of attorney, of her large fortune. 
               "A gentleman to see you, sir," said an obsequious waiter, throwing open the parlor door, and a short, genteelly dressed, and rather handsome man, whose nose was ornamented by a pair of gold spectacles, was ushered in. 
               "Have I the honor of speaking to Mr. and Mrs. Harding?" he said, in courteous tones, and with a bow that would have graced the court of the Louvre, though he knew Mr. Harding as well as he knew himself or any one else. 
               "You have that honor," said the legal adviser of the late Mrs. Edson, putting a thumb in either arm of his waistcoat, for he was well acquainted with the face and character of the intruder. 
               "Allow me, sir-allow me, madam," and drawing forth a large pocket book from his breast pocket, he extracted from it two portentous looking papers, one of which he handed to either party addressed; and exhibiting to each a third paper of similar dimensions and appearance, he held it open for their inspection, and simply saying, "this is the original," he bowed again with the grace of a courtier, and retired. 
               "Well, I declare," said Mr. Harding, glancing at the contents of the document which he held in his hand. "He has not omitted anything-exceedingly well and correctly done, upon my word. He has evidently had good legal advice." 
               "Well, Mr. Harding, and what is this?" said his wife, extending towards him the document which she had received from the courtly official. 
               "Well, my dear, to spare long words, it is very simply an injunction restraining each of us from disposing in any manner of any portion of the estate, real or personal, of your deceased brother." 
               "What does that mean?" 
               "So very much, my dear, that we shall have to postpone our trip to Europe for the present, at least." 
               "My dear!" exclaimed, or rather gasped his wife, for she was almost dumb-struck, "what does all this mean?" 
               "I dare not say, until I have been to the surrogate's office. There is evidently something serious in this, or that doctor would never have taken such measures as he has. There is something more than you or I dream of." 
               "But, are you earnest about our European trip?" 
               "Most earnest," he replied, very energetically, and with an air of the most woeful disappointment. 
               "Can you not leave your matters in the hands of proper parties to attend to them for you during our absence?" queried his wife, now seriously alarmed by his manner. 
               "I have no doubt, my dear," replied Mr. Harding, extending to her the paper which had created such confusion, "that this very excellent doctor has served a document precisely similar to this on the bankers from whom I procured our letters of credit, as well as on the bank where your money is deposited." 
               "This is some ridiculous scheme of his to frighten me into an arrangement with that beggar's brat, Dora! I'll see her starving first!" replied Mrs. Harding, with clenched hands and flashing eyes. 
               "Better wait and see what will be the end of it," replied the lawyer, very coolly. "This trip must be abandoned now. The steamer sails at twelve, and it is impossible for me, even if he has not stopped the letters of credit at the banker's, which I am quite confident he has, to employ any one to attend to such matters. Besides, my dear," and he grew a little more affectionate, "where your interests are concerned, it is my duty to attend to them in person. We must forfeit our passage money." 
               "Are you in earnest, Mr. Harding?" 
               "In very sober earnest." 
               At this juncture, Clara entered the parlor where this conversation had been held, loaded down with shawls, and other paraphernalia of travelling; and, as she threw them on the piano, turned to her mother with a flushed and angry face, saying: 
               "I am sure you might have sent the maid to do that." 
               "The maid may undo it all," said her step-father, authoritatively. "There will not be any need of them at present." 
               Clara made no reply, but stood mute and aghast. 
               "You did not hear me, perhaps," he said, in tones meant to convey a very unmistakable meaning; "let me repeat my words: the maid may undo them all-there will not be any necessity for them at present." 
               "I don't know what you mean," she said, turning to her mother, with a look of amazement. 
               "It is as Mr. Harding has said. There will be no present need of them, Clara. Circumstances have transpired which will render it impossible for us to take our trip to Europe at present-certainly not by the steamer of to-day." 
               Clara made no reply, but bursting into an agony of tears, partly of rage, partly of mortification, threw herself at length on the sofa, and sobbed, as if she had met some hidden grief. 
               "There, go to your room, and don't make a fool of yourself," said her mother, in harsh and commanding tones; and, for a wonder, Clara, without pausing to ask any questions, arose and obeyed. 
               "Now, then, my dear, I must go down to the surrogate's office at once, and see what all this means. It is either some prodigious fraud, or there is more in it than we dream of." 
               "I have no doubt there is some fraud about it. Everybody knows that my dear brother died without a will, and the idea of trumping one up now, is simply ridiculous. No, no!-that doctor has chosen this time, when we were about to leave the country, to frighten me into some settlement on Dora. But go, my dear, and hurry back; I want to hear what all this means-if, indeed, there is any real meaning in it." 
               Mr. Harding awaited no further urging, for he was as anxious as was his wife to learn the true state of the case, but left the room without another word, while Mrs. Harding proceeded to join her daughter in her own chamber, whither she had retired. 
               "Clara," she said, "don't make a fool of yourself. The idea of crying like a child, because of a little disappointment"-- 
               "Little-little!" she exclaimed, drying her tears. "You call this little? Well, it's very unfeeling in you, mother, after all the preparations and expectations; and Juan is on board now, waiting for us." 
               "Juan had better come back, then, as quickly as possible," said her mother, with the slightest perceptible ceptible sneer, "or he may lose a wife, and you may lose a husband." 
               "You talk like a fool!" was the reply of the affectionate daughter, and then commenced a scene of crimination and recrimination much more common than polite, and which it is unnecessary to repeat. 
               It was interrupted by the return of Mr. Harding, who appeared with a very long and sombre face, for he had been to the office of the surrogate, and had been favored with a perusal of the will discovered by Doctor Thornton, the contents of which Mr. Lander had so faithfully remembered. 
               "Well, my dear, what is it?" queried his wife, nervously. 
               "It does not look much like a forgery," was his reply. "It was drawn up three years ago, and is witnessed by Lander and two of his clerks." 
               "Yes-I remember. He went South about three years ago, but he never said anything to me about a will." 
               "I have no doubt of that. But the will is in Lander's writing, and is perfect in every respect." 
               "Well, what does it say?" 
               "Five hundred a year to Clara, and a thousand to you," he replied, with something very like a groan. 
               "And the rest?" 
                
               "All to Dora, but the books and pictures." 
               "And those?" 
               "To Doctor Thornton; and he is appointed Dora's guardian." 
               "Well, and what next?" 
               "That's all-and I think it quite enough for one day." 
               "You hear that, you undutiful minx," said Mrs. Harding, turning to her daughter, who had remained silently drinking in every word uttered by her new father. 
               "Five hundred dollars a year to me!" 
               "And one thousand to your mother," he replied, with a very low bow to his new wife. 
               "Oh," said Mrs. Harding, with ill-concealed agitation, "this is some monstrous fraud. I appeal to you as my husband, as my counsel, to protect my rights." 
               "My dear, from present appearances, your rights will be well cared for. The will is perfectly regular, the witnesses are living and can prove it, and the only thing to be at all relied upon, is the lateness of the period at which it is brought to light and the manner of its discovery." 
               "Of course, you will not allow it to go on without attending to my rights?" 
                
               "Of course, I shall do no such thing. If the will is, as I suppose, perfectly regular, all the lawyers in New York would fail to upset it, and I cannot in conscience recommend you to incur any expense in contesting it; especially as I can see no grounds for opposition." 
               "One thousand dollars a year to me"-- 
               "And five hundred to me," said Clara, interrupting her mother. 
               "That's just the sum I wanted to allow Dora," said Mrs. Harding, with something like self-reproach. 
               But it is needless to prolong this scene. Mr. Harding, who was acute enough to discover that he had fallen into a trap, saw that his only present course was to make the best of it, for he found some comfort in the consciousness that an income of a thousand dollars a year was not to be despised, even though encumbered with a wife, and a shrewish daughter. The one he knew he could manage, the other he determined he would-and there we leave this interesting family. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXVIII. 
               A Discovery. 
               THE day appointed for the nuptials of Doctor Thornton and Arthur Randolph was rapidly approaching, and as yet the secret intrusted to Miss Arden had been faithfully preserved, though the good doctor kept her fully informed as to every step he had taken in the matter. 
               Mr. Harding had turned and twisted the matter over in his mind a thousand times, but he saw no hope of escape from the certainty that the fortune which he had married would pass from his grasp. There was no doubt that the will which had been discovered was genuine-no doubt that it was duly attested, because he knew personally every one of the witnesses-and equally no doubt that any hope of contesting it would be fruitless, and involve unnecessary expense, which in his present mood he felt no inclination to incur. He therefore, as the legal adviser of his wife, counselled her to submit with the best grace she could, especially as such a course would avoid any present public exposure; and Doctor Thornton found himself duly installed without any opposition as sole executor of his dear friend's last will, by which his friend's adopted daughter came at length into possession of her rights, and he became her legal guardian. 
               Dora had been kept in blissful ignorance of this whole transaction, and it was the doctor's purpose to reserve the information at his command, until the proper time and occasion warranted him in making it known. 
               Mr. Harding yielded with the best grace he could, to proofs which could not be invalidated; and the doctor enjoyed his greatest triumph in forgiving him the amount he had already spent of Mr. Barton's fortune, the restoration of which Dora could have enforced by law-and the pompous lawyer's expression of thankfulness for the considerate kindness of Miss Dora (to quote his own words) was a grateful tribute to the worthy doctor, who felt and acted for his ward. 
               Doctor Thornton positively declined any interview with Mrs. Harding or Clara; for their cold-heartedness, to call it by no harsher name, had impressed him so unfavorably towards them, even if their conduct to Dora in past times had not, he could not bring himself to consent to an interview with them. It was sufficient that, as Dora's guardian, he forgave them the sums they had squandered, which, of right belonged to her; and with the promise to carry out faithfully the provisions of Mr. Barton's will, he declined most emphatically any communication with them. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Harding, as soon as it was certain that the will of Mr. Barton, which had been so singularly discovered, was legal and binding, removed quietly from the hotel, and had, much to Clara's mortification, established themselves in a small two-story house which had been hired in Grove street, where, upon the income derived from Mr. H.'s profession and the thousand a year bequeathed to his wife, they could manage to live in comfort. 
               Clara suffered more mortification than her mother or her stepfather; for her Juan-her devoted-had not only gone to Europe without her, but had gone with money borrowed on the strength of his approaching marriage with her, though of this she was happily ignorant at the time. 
               None of the admirers whom she had attracted at the hotel, followed her to her new and humble abode, and she was for a season left alone to mourn over her departed glory. 
               It lacked a few days only of the time which had been appointed for the double nuptials of the doctor and his nephew, and early in the afternoon Arthur sent word to Dora that he would call for her in a light wagon to take a ride, requesting her to be in readiness at the hour named. 
               They started in high spirits, unknown to the doctor, whose calls had kept him out quite late, so late that he had not been at home to dine. 
               On his return, towards the close of the day, he was a little annoyed at finding his house deserted, but on hearing the cause, grunted out some remark, but whether of approbation or disapprobation, the servant, who chanced to be the bearer of the information, could not exactly understand. 
               He sat in his office, after finishing his solitary meal, grumbling and discontented, for he could scarcely bear Dora out of his sight when he was at home, quite forgetting how long he was away from home each day. 
               While thus engrossed, if engrossed he was, the sound of a carriage pausing in front of his door caused him to look up, and supposing it to be some passing call upon one of his neighbors, his attention tion was not further attracted, but in another moment a hurried ring at the office bell aroused him, and he went to the door himself. 
               To his great surprise Arthur stood there, with anxiety and pain on his countenance; and before the doctor had time to ask any questions, the young man broke out in incoherent exclamations, "Oh, she's killed! Dora, uncle!"-and the good doctor, without waiting for the conclusion of his sentence, rushed out to the carriage, which was standing in front of his house, and thrusting his head in, discovered Dora reclining on the back seat. 
               "Dear doctor, he was unnecessarily alarmed, I am not much hurt, I assure you," she said, smiling faintly. 
               Thus reassured, the doctor entered the carriage, and seating himself by her side, commenced to question her as to the cause of her injuries, but was interrupted by the appearance of Arthur, who had followed him out, and begged him, for Heaven's sake, to take her right in the house. 
               "Please to go about your business, young man," said the doctor, very coolly; "this is my affair. You have had your fun. It is my turn now." 
               "Dear Arthur," said Dora, holding out her hand with a bright smile, "I assure you I am not much hurt-not at all, in fact; I was only frightened, and I suppose you thought, because I fainted, I was seriously injured." 
               "Come, Dora, can you walk?" said the doctor, rising. "Please to stand aside, you break-neck rascal," he added, turning to Arthur, who stood at the door of the coach. "Now, Dora, try," and the doctor, alighting from the carriage, stood at the door ready to receive his precious charge. 
               "Oh yes, don't you see?" and she arose and stepped from the coach; but as each movement caused an expression of pain to cross her features, the doctor motioned to Arthur, and gently lifting her between them, they bore her into the house and up stairs into her own chamber, where, having deposited her carefully on the bed, the doctor questioned Arthur as to the how, and when, and where of the accident. 
               "The hind wheel of the wagon came off just as we reached the pavement, on our return, and Dora fell out head first. Fortunately, the horse stood still, or she might have been killed." 
               "Now, Arthur, you can go down stairs, and stay there until I call you. Send Jane up here, and Martha." 
               Arthur sulked a little at this command, but Dora beckoned to him, and drawing his head down close to her own, whispered something which brought a bright smile to his face, and with a soft kiss, he stole out of the room, turning back, however, at every other step. 
               "You don't deserve that, you vagabond," said the doctor, with something of a grunt; but Arthur did not hear him, or if he did, not care. It was too late now. 
               Jane and Martha were promptly in attendance, and while they were disrobing her, the doctor was questioning her as to the locality of her injuries. 
               "Oh, doctor, I was only a little bruised, and very much frightened. I don't think I am really hurt at all. Arthur was much more alarmed than was necessary." 
               "Oh, of course not-not enough to render a postponement of the"--but seeing the blood mount to her cheek and brow, he forbore to finish the sentence, which she rightly interpreted. 
               "Where do you feel the most pain?" he queried, as the servants, having removed her clothing, placed her in the bed. 
               "I think the most serious injury is here," she said, pointing to her left shoulder. "I fell on that side. I feel considerable pain there." 
                
               "You can move your arms? Oh, yes, I remember; I saw you move them both when Arthur was by your side, "he said, with a comical expression. 
               "Fie, doctor!" said the blushing girl, "I did not-I only raised one arm." 
               "Well, let me raise the other;" and he proceeded gently to examine the wounded limb. It was discolored, but there was evidently no dislocation or fracture, and the doctor was about to rise, when she said, placing her hand lower down on the arm, "I feel a great deal of pain there," and in an instant the arm was bared to the spot pointed out by her. 
               There was a small bruise there on the muscles, but nothing of consequence, and the doctor so pronounced it; but there was something else which attracted his attention, and which excited an unusual degree of emotion in one so staid and composed as Doctor Thornton generally was. 
               It was a perfectly defined strawberry, on the outer portion of the arm, just below the mark left by vaccination. It was clear, well defined, and distinct, and it was that which had attracted his attention. 
               "Let me see your other arm, Dora," said the doctor, with an air of anxiety which, under the circumstances, might have seemed singular, and withdrawing drawing it from her side, Dora held up for the doctor's examination the beautifully moulded and rounded limb. In nearly the same spot on the other arm, was a small red spot, formed, apparently, by an aneurism of the veins. It had evidently been there from her birth. 
               "That is enough," said the doctor, bending down and kissing her with a warmth unusual even in him. "You won't die from these injuries, my dear. Jane," and as Jane approached, he gave her directions as to the treatment of the wounded shoulder, promising that if his commands were faithfully obeyed, his patient would be perfectly recovered by morning, and there would be nothing left to remind her of the accident, but the ugly black spot left by the bruise on her delicate skin. 
               "There, now, lay quiet-mind what I tell you, and if you are a very good girl, I shan't forbid your getting married-when your time comes." 
               "Thank you, dear doctor," she said, with a blush and a smile, holding out her hand, which he took, and as he did so, he said with deep earnestness- 
               "You may have to thank me for more than this, Dora. But never mind now. Lay still-mind the doctor, and to-morrow morning you will be up, as bright and well as ever. Would you like to see Arthur, now?" 
               She made no reply, but the love-beaming eyes, and the bright blush which overspread her face, were sufficient answers to his question, and going to the door, he was about to summon that gentleman, but he was spared the trouble, for Arthur, who had taken a chair from one of the bedrooms, had posted himself as close to the door of Dora's room as he could get. 
               "Umph!" said the doctor, smiling, "you can go in now," and before the words were fairly out of his mouth, the young gentleman had dodged past him, and was at Dora's side. 
               The doctor turned for an instant, and with a low chuckle retired to his office. 
               "Well, I declare," said the worthy doctor, as he threw himself into a chair, "what will come next? I cannot be mistaken now. I can never forget those marks. Let me see," and going to his secretary, he searched around for some time, and at length discovered the object for which he was looking-a small, half-bound book, in which he had kept his diary in the early days of his profession; a practice to which he had faithfully adhered up to the present hour. 
                
               Turning over the leaves carefully, he came at length to the page which he had been seeking, and as he read, he sprang from the chair with an exclamation of joyful surprise, and folding down the leaf where he had been reading, threw the book on the table, and commenced to pace the floor with rapid strides, muttering to himself; but the only words which could be heard were-" marvellous-wonderful-how very singular-and just at this time!" 
               Doctor Thornton was evidently in a high state of excitement, and it was, perhaps, fortunate that his attention was drawn from the subject which had so aroused him, by a call which demanded his immediate attendance. 
               Placing the book carefully in the private drawer which had been the depository of a secret so important to his dear friend's adopted child, he put on his hat and coat, and left the office, muttering, "It won't spoil by keeping, and I'll bide the right time." 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXIX. 
               The Test of Love. 
               TRUE to his promise, on the following day Doctor Thornton permitted Dora to leave her room and join him at the dinner table, for she had entirely recovered from the effects of the accident of the previous day, which had left no marks save the trifling bruise on her arm. 
               Doctor Thornton thought he had never seen her look so lovely, and he gazed upon her with an expression which more than once caused her to ask why he looked at her so intently. 
               "Only because I suppose I love you to-day more than I did yesterday," he replied, smiling. 
               "I am sure I cannot see why, doctor. Have I grown very much better to-day than I was yesterday?" 
               "Well, I think you have. At all events, you look better in my eyes to-day, than you ever did before," and he emphasized the "ever" very pointedly. 
               "That is very strange," she said; "however, I am glad to please you at all times. But there is certainly something singular in your looks to-day, which I cannot understand." 
               "Dora, dear, there is something singular on my mind to-day, and it concerns you. Perhaps that is the reason why I look so at you." 
               "Me? Doctor Thornton?" 
               "Me, Doctor Thornton!" he replied, mimicking her voice and expression. "Yes, you, Miss Barton-that was what I said." 
               "Perhaps you will tell me what it is?" she queried, with an arch expression. 
               "I am very certain that I won't--at all events at present," he replied, with a pause between the words. 
               "And I am very certain I can wait. Ah, here is Arthur," she said, rising and moving towards the door. 
               "I don't see him," said the doctor, laughing. 
               "I hear him," she said, gaily, and blushing crimson at this detection of her weakness, she left the room. 
               In a few moments Arthur Randolph entered alone, and greeting his uncle cordially, took a seat, making at the time some passing remarks on the topics of the day. 
               "Where is Dora?" inquired the doctor, rather abruptly. 
               "Gone to her room," was the reply. 
               "Come down to the office with me," said the doctor, rising, and moving towards the door, and he was followed by Arthur, who wondered what his uncle meant, for his face bore a very serious aspect. 
               As soon as they had entered the apartment, Doctor Thornton locked the door, and seating himself, bade his nephew take a chair. 
               Arthur looked at him with surprise, but obeyed without any remark, though he thought his uncle's conduct very singular. 
               "Sit down, Arthur," said the doctor, kindly, as he noticed his nephew's look of surprise; "I have something important to communicate." 
               "Does it concern me, Uncle John?" 
               "Well, I think it will pretty soon, if it does not now. You love our Dora?" 
               Arthur made no reply in words. The question was so strange, so sudden, so unexpected, and so very unnecessary, he could only answer by a stare of supreme astonishment. 
                
               "Well, I take your answer for granted," said the doctor, laughing at his amazed looks. "I suppose you do love her. At all events, you are about to give a very strong proof of it by marrying her. I have something to communicate concerning her, and as I have reason to think you a rational being, I shall expect you to receive it in a rational manner, and act accordingly;" and he looked earnestly at his nephew, but received no reply. 
               "I know you love Dora," continued the doctor, "but I want to ask you, Arthur, if a very great change in her circumstances would make any alteration in your feelings for her?" 
               "Nothing you or any living being might communicate, could change my opinion of her, nor my feelings towards her. You may rest perfectly assured of that." 
               "I believe you-at least, I believe you think and feel so now," replied the doctor. "But answer me one or two questions. You know, of course, that Dora has no fortune?" 
               "Thank God, I don't care for money, for I can earn enough by my profession for our comfort, and you know that. I never sought her for her fortune-and you know that, too. So, go on, Uncle John." 
                
               "I believe you, firmly. But, Arthur, you know there is a cloud over her birth, and"-- 
               "Uncle, you have said as much before. I have known it from my first acquaintance with her, but I love her the same, notwithstanding." 
               "Suppose, Arthur, that by a singular, I might say a providential chain of circumstances, the real origin of her birth should have been discovered. Suppose that it should turn out that she is socially, and in every other sense, your inferior?"-- 
               "My dear uncle," said Arthur, rising, and laying his hand upon his uncle's arm, interrupting his sentence-"My dear uncle, I knew from the first, for you told me, the history of Dora's connection with Mr. Barton. I knew that she had no name save that which his affection gave her. I knew that she was ignorant of her birth or parentage. I knew that she was, as that envious Clara has so often called her, a charity girl-a nobody's child-but I loved her for her worth and virtues. I never, for one instant-and that you know, Uncle John-dreamed of her fortune, for I have resolutely refrained from speaking my wishes to her, until I felt independent, even of your kindness. She has the same worth now, in my eyes. She possesses the same virtues, I know, and there is nothing which you could say, except that which might implicate her character and conduct, which could alter my determination to make her my wife. I know her, I know myself, and, God willing, she shall be my wife at the appointed time." 
               "Suppose, Arthur," said his uncle, with a smile, which it would have been difficult to interpret-"Suppose, Arthur, that this circumstance, or, as I said before, this providential interference, should prove her to be utterly unworthy of you in a social position?" 
               "I would cast such consideration aside, and prove the sincerity of my affections, and my appreciation of her virtues and her worth, by fulfilling my promise to her. She may be what you say, or rather hint, but she is to me Dora Barton-worthy of any man on earth-and I shall feel proud and happy in the hour that makes her mine. If she was the daughter of a street-sweeper, she would be Dora Barton to me." 
               "Arthur, my dear boy," said the doctor, with affectionate earnestness, "you are very young. You have scarcely had opportunities to know your own mind." 
               "Uncle John, I don't know what you are driving at. You cannot doubt me, for I say it earnestly-I say it meaningly-I say it in the spirit of many independence, for, thank God, I am independent-I love Dora Barton with all my heart and soul. I know her-I love her. No matter what her antecedents may be-she knows nothing of them-she has not been guided or controlled by them, and they cannot affect her so far as I am concerned." 
               "My dear Arthur," said the doctor, with great earnestness, "I honor your manly independence, and your adherence to what you believe to be right, but there are circumstances which may operate-nay, ought to operate, on you in your selection of a wife, and it is my duty as your only relative and best friend to make them known to you." 
               "Uncle John," said Arthur, with an earnestness quite equal to that of his uncle, "if you know anything which may affect Dora's conduct, or which can impeach her character, you are bound in duty to me to name it. If you only know that which may prove her to be inferior to me in birth, I shall not heed it, even at the expense of your displeasure. You will bear me witness that I have resolutely refused your kind offers to make a settlement on me when you knew my wishes with regard to her. You know that I have refrained from any definite arrangement for our future, until I felt that my own exertions and my own talents, properly exercised, would secure our certain comfort. I have attained that position, and unless you know something which may directly affect her character, I shall marry her on the day appointed, as truly as the sun rises." 
               "Arthur, you can keep a secret?" said the doctor, in tones of inquiry. 
               "I have been often tried, professionally, Uncle John," replied Arthur, very composedly. 
               "Yes, Arthur; but this is personal, and I must exact your promise, that what I have now to communicate shall be kept profoundly secret, until I permit you to divulge it." 
               "I can promise that with safety, for I know you will not communicate anything which can impugn Dora's character, or change my feelings for her." 
               "I have your promise, then?" 
               "On my honor." 
               "Arthur, you love Dora truly and devotedly, I know," said the doctor, approaching his nephew and laying his hand on his shoulder-"you loved her when you had reason to believe she was rich-you loved her when the world believed she was poor." 
               The doctor paused for a reply, but Arthur merely bowed assent, and he continued- 
                
               "Her father, or rather Mr. Barton, who had adopted her as his child, died, as you have heard, intestate, and his sister inherited his estate." 
               Arthur again bowed assent. 
               "There was a prior will made, which it was thought had been destroyed"-- 
               "Go on," said Arthur, with a simple nod, as his uncle paused to watch the effect his words might have on his listener. 
               "That will has been found, and it makes her the sole heiress of his fortune," said the doctor, and he watched his nephew narrowly, to discover the effect of his words. 
               "Thank God, she has had justice done to her at last!" Arthur exclaimed, with hearty energy. 
               "I am her guardian, and the sole executor of Mr. Barton's estate," continued the doctor. 
               "She is in very good hands, and I have no doubt the estate will be prudently managed. But that makes no difference to me. Poor or rich, she is Dora Barton, still-the only woman I have ever loved-the only woman I ever can love. That is my answer, Uncle John." 
               "Well-that is her good fortune. Now hear the rest, and it concerns her much more nearly than the mere inheritance of a fortune. Many years ago, when I first commenced practice, I was called on to attend a person in child-birth"-- 
               "Uncle John," said Arthur, with earnestness, "I see now what you are driving at. You may-nay, I dare say you have discovered, for I judge only from the fact of your speaking in this strain, the secret of Dora's birth. Keep it. I do not want to know it; and I ask you, as a personal favor, not to make it known to me. Nay, more-I will not hear it. She is my chosen wife, and if she was the offspring of the lowest creature on earth, I could not be insensible to her worth or her virtues, and would wed her for herself alone. I ask you, as a favor, not to say one word on that subject." 
               "Suppose, Arthur"-- 
               "Please, Uncle John, if you have any regard for my feelings, say no more," interrupted his nephew. "What you know, keep to yourself. It may-it might make me unhappy for a time. I tell you, and I say it in all the sincerity of my heart, you cannot say anything to change my love for Dora." 
               "As you choose, Arthur," said his uncle, warmly and affectionately; "I will say no more. The consequences be on your own head. You refuse to hear me, and I can only add, that knowing what I do, I am perfectly prepared to accord my sanction to your marriage with Dora." 
               "I can't understand you, Uncle John," said Arthur, with an appealing look. "In one breath you strive to excite my suspicions, and in the next you dissolve them. What does it mean?" 
               "Never mind; you will find out in time. I can only repeat, you have my free and full consent to your marriage with Dora, and my hearty wishes for all the happiness you anticipate. God bless you, Arthur-you are a noble fellow, and deserve all the happiness you hope to enjoy. You will hear strange things ere you are many days older; but I assure you, on my honor, they will not detract from your pleasure or happiness." 
               "I declare, Uncle John," said Arthur, "I am almost sorry to hear that Dora is rich. I was so happy in the consciousness that I had proved my love to her by"-- 
               "By loving her in spite of yourself. No, no, Arthur," said the doctor, laughing, "don't take any credit to yourself for that. I have had some experience," and the doctor, reflecting that he might say something which might commit another than himself, blushingly cut his sentence short. 
                
               "When am I to know your great secret?" asked Arthur, with a quiet smile. 
               "When I am ready to make it known," replied the doctor, with a very ceremonious bow, and the conference ended. 
               Arthur retired from the office, full of wonderment as to the possible meaning of his uncle's words, but utterly unable to frame even the remotest conjecture, while the doctor remained seated in his easy-chair, chuckling over the pleasurable surprise which he intended to communicate when the proper time had come. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXX. 
               Nineteen Years After. 
               IT lacked only one day from the time named for the double marriage of Dr. Thornton and his nephew. Every preparation had been made, but much to the doctor's chagrin, he was enjoined to have the ceremony conducted as privately as was consistent with propriety. 
               Invitations were, therefore, sent to those only who were counted friends, and first among them, and this by Dora's choice, was Mr. Pollard and his family, who had contributed, by their kindness so much to her happiness, at a period when kindness was so grateful. 
               The only other invited guests were those who might be classed as intimates, and these arrangements having been perfected, the expectant bridegrooms had only to await the hour which was to complete their happiness. Miss. Arden, as well as Dora, positively refused to allow any public reception, at least for the present; Dora, from respect to the memory of her deceased friend, and Miss Arden from respect to Dora's feelings. Both of the gentlemen acquiesced in this arrangement with a very bad grace, but as they were not masters yet, they were forced to submit, and it was arranged that after the ceremony, which was to be performed at the residence of Mr. Chapman, the party were to adjourn to the house of Dr. Thornton, and partake of the refreshments which he had provided. 
               On the morning before the eventful day, Doctor Thornton was, of course, at Miss Arden's. She received him as in duty bound (and in love, for she had learned to love him, in spite of her protestations to the contrary), but there was a cloud upon her face, which the practised eye of the doctor soon discovered. 
               "I suppose my call is mal-apropos, Ellen," he said, earnestly, "for I have no doubt you have many preparations to make with which I am interfering." 
               "Oh, not at all, doctor," said Miss Arden, with her lips, though her countenance belied her words. "You know you are always welcome." 
               "Yes; when I don't interfere with a lady's prerogatives gatives. But come, I shall be excused, I know, before I leave. Try and forget dressmakers and milliners, and listen to me for a few moments. Sit down, Ellen, I have something to say to you." 
               "Well, you are very cool about it, doctor, considering that you know nothing of what you are speaking. The idea of a lady forgetting milliners and dressmakers!" 
               "Sit down, Ellen," and he led her to the sofa, on which she took a seat, but with an air of reluctance which drew a smile from her companion, "I have something very important to say to you." 
               "Oh, you always commence in that strain, doctor, when you have nothing to say. I am not your patient yet, and you can't frighten me into a fit of sickness. I suppose you want to tell me I look pale and haggard." 
               "Well, now that I look more closely at you, I think you do; but, really, I had not observed it. Are you ill?" 
               "Come, doctor, no trifling. If I am pale and haggard, and look wan, you know I have a cause for it. I have not forgotten the past, nor its consequences." 
               "Ah, now you talk sensibly. Ellen, I should not have intruded upon you to-day, but that I have something to say to you which will require all your nerve and courage. Give me your hand," and as she extended it to him, and he placed his fingers on her pulse, she drew it away with something of irritation in her manner. 
               "There, that will do. Now, listen to me. Ellen, I have recently communicated to you a secret concerning Dora, which I am pleased to know has been most faithfully kept." 
               "Well, and was that very astonishing?" she asked, turning upon him, and opening her eyes in well-feigned wonder. 
               "Rather so to me, who know the sex so well," he replied, maliciously. "Can you keep another, concerning yourself, until I think proper to release you from your promise?" 
               "What, more secrets? Why, doctor, you will become a perfect myth, if you go on at this rate. Well, I will try. Go on." 
               "I think I told you, some months since, that it was a little more than nineteen years ago, since I first met you," said Doctor Thornton, fastening his eyes on those of his companion. 
               "And I remarked then, doctor, that you had a very extraordinary memory for dates," responded Miss Arden, with a deep blush. 
                
               "There was so very much to impress that circumstance on my mind, I should have been recreant to the best feelings of my heart, if I had forgotten it," and he imprinted a kiss upon her hand, which he had taken when he first commenced to address her. 
               "That, I know, concerns me, doctor," said Miss Arden, with a sigh. "Go on." 
               "Some few months ago, when you honored me by your confidence, you mentioned that your mother had resolutely refused, even in her dying moments, to afford you any information as to your child, and that in spite of every effort, and of money lavishly spent, you had been unable to ascertain whether she was living or dead." 
               "In the name of Heaven, doctor, what do you mean?" said Miss Arden, half starting from her seat, but he drew her back, retaining her hand in his own, and continued in the same calm voice- 
               "I have reasons-strong reasons to believe that your daughter is living." 
               "Doctor Thornton!" exclaimed Miss Arden, springing up, and snatching her hand from his own, and as she spoke, her whole frame was convulsed with emotion, "you are too much of a man-too much of a gentleman, to trifle with me on a subject so sacred as that." 
               "Sit down, Ellen," said the doctor, composedly, "and listen to me," and he drew her again to his side, she looking at him the while as though she would read his very soul. 
               "Now, my dear Ellen," he continued, taking her hand again, "I know you are a woman of strong sense. You must not give way to any unnecessary excitement, for I am here to tell you that I have good reasons to believe your daughter is living, and"-- 
               "Oh, doctor-dear doctor!" exclaimed Miss Arden, rising, and throwing herself on her knees before him, she clasped both his hands in her own "in the name of God, tell me where she is? Let me see her-let me tell her how miserable I have been these twenty years. Let me tell her what I have suffered on her account. Let me tell her the agony, the remorse, the anguish, which have wrung my heart, least she should have been taught to believe that her mother had willfully abandoned her." 
               "Rise, my dear Ellen," he said, tenderly, and placing an arm around her waist he seated her again by his side. "Try and compose yourself, or I shall have to keep half of my secret from you." 
               "Oh, doctor-no matter what she is-where she is-only let me see her. Let me"-- 
               "My dear Ellen," interrupted the doctor, deprecatingly, "I shall have to stop, unless you control your feelings better. I have nothing unpleasant to tell you. On the contrary, I can add more to your happiness than I had believed within the range of possibility; but I dare not do it, unless you are prepared to listen to me more calmly than you do. You must not give way to such excitement." 
               "How can I-how can I be calm, doctor, when you speak to me of that which has been on my heart like a dead weight for so many years? Oh, dear doctor! if you love me, tell me what you know of her. Is she happy?" 
               "Ellen, such questions cannot be answered now. You either assumed too much, or I was too abrupt. I only said I had good reasons to believe that I had discovered your daughter." 
               "You would not have spoken thus without good grounds," she said, trying to restrain the sobs and tears which his first words had called forth. "Doctor Thornton, as you love me, tell me, do you know she lives?" 
                
               "Ellen, my dear wife, that will so soon be, I do." 
               "Bless you! bless you!" she murmured, laying her head on his shoulder and sobbing, but she had no voice for further words. 
               "Now, Ellen, if you will compose yourself and listen to me, I will tell you as much now as I think it prudent to intrust to your keeping. I have told you that I had good reasons to believe I had discovered her. I now say, I know beyond peradventure-that I have seen her, and know her." 
               "Know her, doctor! God help me, but I should not, if she was to stand before me now." 
               "I will ease your mind, by telling you that Providence threw her in early life among friends. That she is loved and lovely-surrounded now by every comfort that affection can bestow. She is beautiful, accomplished, amiable, and all that a parent's heart could wish." 
               "Doctor Thornton, is she happy?" 
               "As happy as the love of all who know her can render her." 
               "God be praised for his goodness to her," she said, clasping her hands and raising them to Heaven with devout thankfulness. "I have no right to know more, though the Lord knows my child has never been absent from my thoughts, and that my prayers have been offered up daily for her." 
               "I am going to promise you something more, Ellen," said the doctor, with a smile, "seeing that you have partially recovered your senses. If you will promise to be very good indeed, you shall be made happy to-day by seeing her." 
               "To-day-to-day! doctor?" she exclaimed, the blood rushing to her face and neck. 
               "This very day. I have chosen this day to bring you face to face, because I wished to add to your happiness, and in doing so increase my own. I have known this only a few days, but have chosen to keep it from you until now, for reasons which I am sure you will approve." 
               "It seems like a dream, doctor," she said, rubbing her hand slowly across her forehead, as if to collect her thoughts. "I can scarcely realize what you have been saying." 
               "Let me repeat it, Ellen," he said, placing one arm around her waist, and taking one of her hands in his own. "I have seen and conversed with your daughter. I know her to be your child by evidences which cannot be controverted, and if you promise me to behave very well, you shall see her this day, as I have just told you." 
                
               "Yes-yes," she murmured, dropping her head on his shoulder, "I am not dreaming. I see it now. God bless you, doctor, and make you as happy as I shall strive to do. You said to-day, doctor?" she queried, raising her head, and looking at him with a smile of love and hope. 
               "This very day, Ellen; within a few hours I shall bring you face to face." 
               "Does she know anything of"-- 
               "Not one word has passed my lips," said the doctor, interrupting her sentence, "and she has no more idea of seeing a mother, than you had an hour ago of seeing a daughter." 
               "May I ask you some questions?" said Miss Arden, looking confidingly in his face. 
               "Any you choose-but, of course, that does not involve the promise of an answer to them." 
               "She is beautiful?" said, or rather queried, Miss Arden. 
               "Very beautiful, indeed," was the response. 
               "And happy?" 
               "As happy, I said, Ellen, as the love of all who know her can make her. She is engaged to be married." 
               "God forbid that she should"-- 
               "Don't finish that sentence, Ellen. I happen to know the one to whom her faith is plighted, and I can assure you that he is in all respects worthy of her." 
               "And she loves him?" 
               "They have known each other many years, and have ever loved each other." 
               "Doctor," said Miss Arden, her countenance assuming a shade of sadness, "she has rights as well as myself. With all my wishing, my longings, my prayers for her, I would, even with the information you have imparted to me, forego the bliss of having her know me, if you think it would cost her one pang." 
               "Pang!" echoed the doctor, "it will make her the happiest of created beings, and I know"-but fearing least he might prematurely betray his secret, he abruptly checked himself. 
               "Go on," said Miss Arden, with a meaning smile, for she noticed his embarrassment. 
               "Never mind," replied the doctor, recovering his self-possession. "You shall see her very shortly. By the way, Ellen, Dora is so soon to become one of our family in reality, do you not think she ought to know something of the past? She is a high minded, noble-hearted girl, and her own sorrowful experience has, I am sure, taught her to look upon things as they really are, and not as they seem to be." 
               "Do you think so?" queried Miss Arden, musingly. 
               "I really do. You know how devotedly she loves you, and the very fact of your having been unhappy in your earlier years, will, from very sympathy, bring her closer to you-if, indeed, that is possible." 
               "Well, doctor, you have proved so often that you know so much more of the world and its ways than I do, and you have been such a dear, good, considerate man"-- 
               "And constant, Ellen," he interrupted. 
               "And constant," echoed his companion, with earnestness, "as any woman could desire. I will do just as you say." 
               "Then put aside your millinery for a few minutes. Put on your hat and shawl, and let us go around and tell Dora as much as is proper for her to know. You must remember, Ellen, that to-morrow she becomes your niece, and it would never do for her to hear anything concerning you, except from yourself." 
               "You dear, good soul!" exclaimed Miss Arden, rising, "I don't believe I shall ever make you half so happy as you deserve to be," and she gaily ran out of the room to conceal the blushes her own remarks had called to her face. 
               A very few moments elapsed before she returned hatted and shawled, and taking his arm, they started for the doctor's house, for the purpose of communicating to Dora the important information which they had just decided it was proper she should know. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXXI. 
               The Revelation. 
               OF course Dora was delighted to see Miss Arden, and after the regular ceremony of kissing and embracing had been gone through with, the doctor said very composedly-"Come, now, suppose we proceed to business." 
               Dora's eyes opened very wide at these words, but as the doctor was often in the habit of quizzing and teasing her, the emotions which his words had excited passed quickly away, and she said, with a smile and a very demure courtesy-"Proceed, doctor." 
               "Ahem!" said the doctor, very emphatically, and he thought to himself, "perhaps you won't be so cool about it, before I have done." 
               "Well, then, Dora, as you are about to become the niece of Miss Arden that is, Mrs. Thornton that is so soon to be, I have thought it advisable that you should know something of her earlier history, for she has a history." 
               Dora looked surprised, but said nothing, and the doctor continued- 
               "She has a history, Dora, and one as full of romance as your own. In the first place, my dear, I am going to be very brief. Miss Arden has been married, although you and I know her as Miss Arden. I know the circumstances of her marriage. It was unfortunate in many respects." 
               "You know, doctor!"exclaimed Dora with an air of surprise. 
               "Yes; I know-and now is the proper time to tell you that I have known Miss Arden for twenty years. We are very old friends-are we not, Ellen?" and he turned to Miss Arden. 
               That lady, however, could not reply. She was thinking of the past and present-for the doctor's words at Mr. Chapman's had set her thoughts going, and she could not stop their current. She, therefore, only nodded an affirmative reply to his question. 
               "She had a daughter who was born in this city," and Dora, at these words, sprang from her chair, exclaiming, almost unconsciously, she was so excited, "Oh, where is she? How I will love her!" 
                
               "One moment, my dear; be calm;" and Dora reseated herself, though as to being calm, that was out of the question. 
               "She had a daughter, but owing to circumstances over which she had no control, she has never seen that child since she was five weeks old. 
               "There, Ellen, don't weep. It must be told," he said, turning to Miss Arden, whose tears and sobs had broken out afresh at this recital. "There is no use in crying. Well," and he resumed his narrative, turning to Dora, "she has made every effort to discover that child She has spent money freely, and has done all that a mother could do." 
               "And has she never heard of her?" queried Dora, turning to Miss Arden, with streaming eyes and pitying looks. 
               "Never. But I have, Dora. I have reason to remember that child," and he looked at Miss Arden, but she did not notice him, for her face was buried in her handkerchief. "A few days since I discovered her by a mere accident. The child had peculiar marks on her person, which I noted in my diary at the time of her birth; for I, Dora, was present, professionally, when she was born." 
               "Oh, why don't you bring her here, doctor?" exclaimed Dora; "how I would love her!" 
                
               "I mean to do so, Dora, very soon," he said, with a very meaning expression. "That child has grown up to be a beautiful, accomplished, and lovely woman. Every one who knows her, loves her." 
               "How happy she will be!" murmured Dora, in very low tones, but they reached the doctor's ears. "Oh, when will you bring her, doctor?" 
               "I shall not have to go very far for her," replied the doctor, nerving himself for the last effort- 
               "Dora-Ellen-as the Lord is my judge, you are mother and daughter." 
               Doctor Thornton had expected, and was prepared for a scene, but he was disappointed for the moment. The announcement had been so sudden, that neither of those most directly interested could realize it, and they sat gazing at each other, mute and motionless. 
               Doctor Thornton turned from one to the other in amazement, and, for a moment, he expected that he would be called on professionally. But he was happily disappointed; for, after gazing at each other for a few moments, Dora and Miss Arden sprang forward with a wild cry of ecstatic joy, and throwing themselves into each other's arms, gave way to tears and sobs; but they were tears of the most exquisite happiness. 
                
               "Well," said the worthy doctor, when he had allowed, as he thought, sufficient time for the expression of their new happiness, "suppose you say a word to me, now," and he wiped from his eyes the tears which the scene had called there. 
               "Dear-dear doctor," said Miss Arden, releasing Dora from her embrace, but still clasping her waist with one arm, and approaching him as he sat in apparent composure on the sofa, "how can I ever thank you enough? How can I ever prove my boundless gratitude?" 
               "I am not quite sure that I deserve all of your thanks, nor all of your gratitude," he said, rising; "now, sit down, and try to be quiet for a moment, if you can," and drawing Miss Arden to one end of the sofa, he attempted to place Dora on the other, intending to take a seat between them; but before he could seat himself, Dora had moved close to her mother, Miss Arden no longer, and with her head nestled on her bosom, looked at him with a face wearing a smile of such ineffable happiness, he had not the heart to find fault, but with a very emphatic "umph!" he seated himself by the side of Dora. 
               "Go on, doctor-we are quite ready now," said Miss Arden, gently smoothing the glossy hair of her new-found daughter, no longer the charity girl, the nobody's child. "Go on-we are quite ready for anything you may have to say." 
               "What was I saying?" queried the doctor, with an air of abstraction, which brought a smile to the face of his future wife. 
               "Something about not deserving thanks, or some such nonsense." 
               "Oh! ah! yes-I remember. The fact is, Arthur is entitled to half the credit of this discovery." 
               "Arthur?" queried Dora, half rising from her mother's arms-"Arthur?" 
               "Yes, Arthur-is that so wonderful? But no thanks to his professional skill. You remember taking a ride a few days since, Miss Barton?" he said, "or rather, Miss"-- 
               "No, doctor, not now," interrupted Miss Arden, "that must come from me alone." 
               "Then, Dora dear, the accident which befell you on the occasion of that ride, led to the discovery which has just been announced. It has always been my practice, ever since I entered upon my profession, to keep a diary, in which I enter anything of interest. When you were born, for I was present then, I noticed two marks, which attracted my especial attention, and in addition to the entry of your birth in my diary, I noted those marks. When you exhibited your arm to me, on the occasion of your accident, I remarked them. They were so peculiar, I knew I could not be mistaken, and, to make assurance doubly sure, I consulted my diary. So, you may thank Arthur and his break-neck ride, and not myself." 
               "God works in a mysterious way," said Miss Arden, for such we must continue to call her, "and He has blessed me beyond my fondest hopes," and she clasped Dora again to her heart, and the happy girl nestled there, as if it had been her resting-place from infancy. 
               "How very, very strange!" murmured Dora, raising her eyes to her mother's face. 
               "Nothing is strange to me, now, darling," replied the happy mother; "Doctor Thornton has"-- 
               "There-that will do, if you please," interrupted the doctor, whose eyes were filled with tears, which he tried to conceal. "Never mind the doctor, now. His time has yet to come. But, Dora," and wiping his eyes, the doctor continued, "I have a secret to confide to you. Can you keep it until to-morrow? After that, you know, I shall have no control over you," and he looked significantly at Miss Arden. 
               "I will try, doctor," she said, with a blush, for she anticipated something concerning her approaching nuptials. 
               "On second thoughts, I believe I had better keep it to myself. Dora, my darling-Ellen, my chosen one, I leave you together. God in his goodness has made me the instrument of bringing together those who never should have been separated. Thank Him only, for He works in his own mysterious way. Ellen, have I kept my word?" and he turned to Miss Arden, with an appealing look. 
               "Doctor Thornton, you are the best and noblest of men," she said, extending her hand to him. "You have no thought of yourself, and I owe so much to you, I shall have no thought beyond you." 
               "Never mind that, now, Ellen. To-morrow, you know, is to be a very eventful day with some persons," and he looked mischievously at her; "I know you have your dressmaker, and your"-- 
               "There-that will do," said Miss Arden, with a blush and a bright smile; "I can find plenty of time for those things." 
               "I suppose, as you and Dora have not seen each other for so long a time, you have a great deal to talk about, so I will leave you. In fact, I must. Now you can tell her all you choose, and I will make it my business to tell Master Randolph. But, Dora, don't forget that I have a secret to communicate to you, and as I do not expect it to be sacredly kept, I shall not exact any promise from you. So, good-day, ladies-we shall meet again very soon, I trust." 
               "Doctor Thornton," exclaimed Miss Arden, rising, but not loosing her clasp on Dora, "how can I ever thank you?" 
               "Really, I don't know," be said, with an air of apparent musing. "Let me see"-- 
               "Let me thank him for you, dear mother," said Dora, and as she spoke, she threw her arms around the doctor's neck, and covered his face with kisses, exclaiming, between each salute, "dear-dear-good friend!" 
               "Young lady, be pleased to remember that I am engaged to be married to Miss Arden," said the doctor, trying to smile, though his eyes were filled with tears, "and she may not like this peculiar method of manifesting your happiness." 
               "Oh, Doctor Thornton!" exclaimed Miss Arden, and she, too, flung her arms about his neck, and showered kisses upon him, while tears of happiness were streaming from her eyes. 
               "There-that will do, good people," said the doctor, struggling to free himself; "I have business to attend to-my patients"-but he could say no more. His own sympathizing heart was too full for words-least of all, words of trifling-and with a warm salute to those whom he had made so happy, he took his leave, and mother and daughter were left alone. 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXXII. 
               Drawing to an End. 
               THE morning of the eventful day which was to change the destinies for life, of Miss Arden and Dora Barton arrived, and with the aid of a minister of God, they became the happy wives of happy husbands. 
               In compliance with Dora's urgent request, and from respect to her feelings, the ceremony was conducted with as much privacy as possible, there being none present, save the most intimate friends of the families. Mr. Lander and his family were there, of course, and the good-hearted lawyer rubbed his hands, and chuckled with glee, as he thought of the pleasant surprise which he knew Dora would receive, when she learned as much as he knew. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Pollard, with all their family, were there; Edward was there, and Nellie was there, and of all in the room, these last seemed to take most to heart the loss of Dora, for they considered her marriage a loss to them. 
               As for Edward, when the words were pronounced, which converted Dora Barton into Mrs. Randolph, he turned away with tears and sobs which he could no longer repress. But his emotions were joyful, for he had learned to love Dora-so learned to appreciate her worth and virtues, it really seemed to him as if in her happiness he found an addition to his own. 
               But Nellie absolutely refused to be comforted. The idea of losing Dora was more than she could sustain, and she was only restored to comparative peace and quiet, by the assurance from Dora, and the promise exacted from her mother, that she should spend as much time with her as she chose. 
               "Come, good people," said Dr. Thornton, "when you have done kissing our wives, the carriages are waiting; we will adjourn to our house," and he turned with a significant look to his new bride. "I have something to communicate which I prefer to leave unsaid until we reach our own home," and he turned with a meaning glance to Mr. Lander, who stood there smiling and laughing, and apparently almost as happy as the doctor himself. 
               The parties entered the carriages which were in waiting, and, in a few moments, were conveyed to the residence of the happy doctor. 
               "My dear," said Doctor Thornton, saluting his wife, as he led her into his magnificently furnished parlors, "I welcome you to our home. Dora, darling, you have always been welcome. I need not say more to you, now. 
               "Good friends," said the new-made bridegroom, "I want you to listen a moment or two. I am not accustomed to make speeches, but I have one to make now, and you must pardon all my imperfections. Mrs. Randolph," he said, turning to Dora, who stood by her husband's side. 
               "Doctor!" she said, turning to him with an expression of astonishment. 
               "Yes-Mrs. Randolph. You shall be Dora forever hereafter; now, you must be Mrs. Randolph; and be pleased to listen to me, and do not interrupt me. 
               "You all know, my friends," he continued, addressing the wondering friends who stood about, "that Mr. Barton died without having executed his will, and that in consequence, his sister, Mrs. Edson, inherited his entire property. You do not know, perhaps, that there had been a will previously executed, nor did I know it until Providence disclosed it to me in a mysterious way. 
               "It was my good fortune to discover that will. Arthur Randolph, it is your good fortune that I discovered it; Mrs. Randolph, it is your good fortune, also, that I discovered it; for, with the exception of two trifling legacies, it makes you sole heiress of Mr. Barton's fortune, and me your guardian. Arthur, from the moment you saluted her as your wife, my duties as guardian ceased; and I transfer to your care the property which, of right, belonged to Dora." 
               Mrs. Thornton (we shall find it hard to call her Mrs. Thornton, after knowing her so long as Miss Arden) of course knew this before, as the reader is well aware, for the doctor had communicated it to her, under the injunction of secrecy. Mr. Lander, who had also known it, had religiously kept the secret, even from his wife and children, and the surprise of all but those to whom the secret had been intrusted, was not greater than their joy, in being able to congratulate Dora upon this accession to her rights. 
               As for Dora, she had no voice for words. Her heart was too full, and she could only give vent to her emotions by throwing herself upon her husband's neck, and sobbing with very excess of joy. "Oh, Arthur," she murmured, "I am so happy; it was so noble, so generous in you to wed me when you thought I was poor and friendless." 
               "Never friendless, Dora," interrupted Mrs. Thornton, "never friendless! Never friendless, my darling, from the moment I laid my eyes upon you." 
               "How shall I ever thank you, Doctor Thornton?" said Dora, extending her hand to him, while her eyes were suffused with tears, "how shall I ever thank you?" 
               "By being a good wife to my graceless young nephew, and by loving me. Now, my friends, you have the great secret. I have made my speech, and I will thank you for your applause." 
               The applause came, but it was of a character entirely different from that which the doctor anticipated, for it was all given to Dora, in the shape of kisses, embraces, and congratulations, which she received more as a tribute to the doctor's kindness than to her own worth. 
               "Now, then, my friends," said the doctor, "as this matter is all arranged, we will adjourn to the dining-room, and drink the health of our new wives, and the new-made heiress." 
               Of course that was a pleasant gathering. Edward forgot his griefs, Nellie forgot hers, and perhaps no happier party was ever assembled within the walls of any house in the city, than was gathered in that room on that occasion. 
               "Dear doctor," said Dora, after their friends had left, "my good, kind friend, why did you not tell me of this before? It would have made me so happy! Oh, if he were only here!" and tears rose to her eyes, as she thought of the kind friend and benefactor, now no more, whose generosity had contributed so much to her happiness. 
               "Because, my dear, I thought it best to keep it from you until after you were married. I made it known to Arthur only yesterday; and it was solely upon his assurance that he would marry you, whether I liked it or not," and he turned with an arch look upon Arthur, "that I communicated it to him. He, it appears, did not care much whether you were rich or poor. But when I told him that you were rich, what do you suppose he said?" 
               "I am sure, I cannot imagine," said Dora, turning with a look of affection to her husband, on whose arm she was leaning. 
                
               "He only said, 'God bless her. I am glad justice has been done to her at last.'" 
               "I wonder if Clara is as happy as I am?" said Dora, turning to Mrs. Thornton. 
               "No, my dear; she can never be happy with her disposition," was the mother's response. "I pity her from my heart; not because she is poorer than you were before, but because she does not know how to submit to circumstances." 
               "By the way, Arthur," said Doctor Thornton, turning to his nephew, "I have a secret which I have not communicated even to you. My wife knows it; your wife knows it; and I am almost afraid to trust them longer with it; so, I think I will make it known now to you. Miss Dora cannot keep it long from you, I am sure. I beg your pardon, Mrs. Randolph," and the doctor looked archly at her. 
               "You must know, Arthur, that my wife that is now," and he turned with a look of fondness to his blooming bride, "was married many years ago and had a daughter. Circumstances rendered it necessary that her marriage should be kept profoundly secret. That daughter was lost in early infancy. Dora will explain that to you some other time. That daughter has been recently found. I know all the circumstances. Arthur, I will confide now my great secret to you, and tell you, that her daughter is now your wife." 
               "Good God! Uncle, what do you mean!" exclaimed Arthur, turning to Dora with a look of amazement, and from her to his uncle. 
               "I mean just what I say, my dear boy. Dora Barton that was, Dora Randolph that is, is my wife's daughter, and my daughter now. So, I will thank you to remember that, and treat her well, now she is your wife," and the doctor tried to laugh, but the subject was too serious, and tears rose to his eyes as the remembrance of the nineteen years which had passed, since he first saw Dora's mother, crossed his mind. 
               "That is so," said Mrs. Thornton, to whom Arthur had turned with an appealing look. "Doctor Thornton speaks solemn, but happy truth; she is my darling-my heart's treasure-my own daughter. My dear, good husband-I suppose I must learn to call him husband now," she said, turning to the doctor with a look in which smiles and tears were strangely blended, "made me happy only yesterday by communicating this fact to me. My heart sprung to Dora at our first interview, from some cause for which I could not then account; but it is all accounted for now. Is it not, darling?" and turning to Dora their eyes met, and, unable to resist the impulse, Dora sprang from her husband's side, and threw herself into her mother's arms. 
               "Well, Uncle John, really you deal in mysteries," said Arthur, wiping his eyes, into which tears had come unbidden, "I did not think that anything could add to my felicity, after I saluted Dora as my wife, but I must say that I have derived added happiness from what you have just told me. I do not know, though," he said, turning to Mrs. Thornton, "that I shall yield any of my rights to you. If you are her mother, she is my wife." 
               "But I have the first claim upon her," said Mrs. Thornton, extending her hand to him. "Now, Arthur Randolph, make one promise to me, as her mother, and I promise never to exact another." 
               "I do not know that I dare to," said Arthur, turning to Dora with a look of deepest love. 
               "Oh yes, you may, with perfect safety; I know it will make Dora happy-it will make me happy-it will make us all happy." 
               "Well, I don't think you are an unreasonable lady, and although it is not very professional to make an unconditional promise, I will do so." 
               "Promise, then, never to take Dora from me." 
                
               "You need never have asked that, Mrs. Thornton," said Arthur, "I would not interfere so much with her happiness, as to think of separating you; more especially now that I know what claims you have upon her." 
             
             
                
               Chapter XXXIII. 
               Conclusion. 
               AND Dora was no longer Nobody's Child. She was happy as her heart could desire-happy in the boundless love of her new-found mother-happy in the warm affection of Doctor Thornton, and happy, of course, as the wife of him who had proved so truly his love for her. 
               It is not necessary to follow her fortunes further. Surrounded by all the appliances of comfort and luxury, she never forgot her own sad past, and no appeal from poverty was ever unheeded by her. Her friends, those who know her, love, honor, and esteem her for her worth and virtues. Her husband idolizes her, and next to her, a little miniature likeness of his wife, which has been christened Dora, and which is in a very fair way of being spoiled. 
               Mr. Harding, with his wife and Clara, left the city for the West, soon after Dora's marriage, having previously sold out the annuities bequeathed to them by Mr. Barton for ready money, Doctor Thornton becoming the purchaser. 
               Clara sought an interview with Dora before their departure, but her husband and Doctor Thornton insisted that Dora should not grant it. The conduct of Clara had been unjustifiable, and while they were quite willing that Dora should forgive, they would not allow her to meet one who had so wronged and abused her. 
               Mr. Harding will undoubtedly make a mark in the new sphere to which he has been called. He will certainly make a noise, and as for Clara, she is in a fair way of remaining Clara Edson for the rest of her days. The reverse of fortune has so soured her temper, and so embittered her against all mankind, she would scarcely accept a suitor if Providence should throw one in her way. At least, she says she intends to remain an old maid, and there are no present indications that she is willing to change her mind. 
               Edward Arthur, Mr. Pollard's protg, has been long in the situation provided for him by his generous benefactor, and has serious thoughts of matrimony, but he has been waiting to find one as near like Dora as possible. He has not succeeded thus far, but time and perseverance will conquer all obstacles, and he may yet attain his end. 
               Nellie has grown into a tall, handsome girl, but time has not changed her love for Dora. They are close and constant friends, and the promise which was exacted from her mother on Dora's wedding day, has been faithfully adhered to, for she passes fully one half her time as Dora's guest and friend. 
             
            FINIS. 
         
       
   
