
    ----CITATION----
        Bowline, Charley.. The Iron Tomb, or, The Mock Count of New York .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5850 wright2-0327
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE IRON TOMB,
               OR THE MOCK COUNT OF NEW YORK.
               A LOCAL TALE.
               WRITTEN IN SCENES, WITH A FREE HAND, ESPECIALLY FOR THE READERS OF THE 'UNCLE SAM,' AND TO THEM RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED,
            
            BY CHARLEY BOWLINE.
            
            
               BOSTON:
               PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY GEO. H. WILLIAMS, AT THE OFFICE OF 'THE UNCLE SAM,' No. 52, WASHINGTON STREET.
            
         
         
         
            
               [Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1852, by Geo. H. Williams, in the Clerk's Office, in the District Court of the District of Massachusetts.]
            
         
      
      
         
            The iron tomb, or, The mock count of New York
            
               THE IRON TOMB.
               
                  SCENE FIRST.
                  A PRIVATE ROOM in the Astor House. Time-three o'clock in the afternoon of the fourth of August, 1851. Characters discovered-Conrad Daring, a dissipated young man, whose appearance can be best represented by the initials of his name, 'C. D.;' and 'Count le Chandau,' as his card informs us, but who is in reality a penniless adventure, who late escaped from the French galleys where he had been committed for highway robbery. They are seated near the window-the Count perfectly at ease far as his body is concerned, as the law will not allow his creditors to retain that for debt; while the other is carelessly puffing a cigar presented by his companion, and gazing forth into mystical Broadway, Park Row and the Park; and occasionally glancing at the greenys; alias, unsophisticated gents, who are entering Barnum's 
                        Musuem
                        Museum
                     .
                  Both appear to be absorbed in a reverie, and the silence remains undisturbed for several moments, during which time the Count watches his companion narrowly, and unobservedly; for Daring is to much 
                        occuped
                        occupied
                      by his own thoughts to notice his scrutiny. Such being the position of the parties, we will detain the reader long enough to notice their personal appearance.
                  'Count le Chandau,' as we must style him, is one of the most strikingly handsome men that one ever meets. He is of medium height, possesses a fine form, and deports himself commandingly, as a Count should deport himself; and there is an air of ease and refinement in his manners and conversation, which, coupled with his prepossessing appearance, causes his society to be much sought for by the ladies, and himself admired. His complexion is rather dark-his eyes black and piercing; and he sports a glossy mustache and imperial. His voice is in keeping with his looks-soft, mild, and as musical as that of a woman; and a quiet smile of self assurance and self possession ever lurks around his lips. He is too much of a villian to laugh heartily very often,-most certainly not unless something unusually pleasing scenes. At times there is an expression upon his countenance that betrays a desperate and reckless soul; but this is never seen in society. Viewed as he is, he seems just the person to be a polished villian, and such he is,-a fact that will soon become obvious to our friends.
                  Daring was born in the interior of the State of New York, of wealthy, but respectable parents, who indulged him in everything until he became perfectly unmanageable. He was then sent to college: but his parents died soon after; and their wealth vanished with them-the executor having secured all that remained after settling up the estate. At about the same time young Daring was expelled from college for being concerned in a disgraceful riot. From thence, by the influence of the few friends he possessed, he went to India as supercargo of a merchantman, commanded by an old friend of his father; but his intemperate habits increased so fast that he was soon discharged from this station; and descending step by step in his downward career, he at last reached the situation in which we find him-i. e. the hostler of a wealthy merchant who will soon appear upon the stage.
                  Having thus noticed their appearance and character, we will listen to the words of the latter, for the spell of his reverie is broken and he speaks:-
                  'I have mused upon the matter, and think I understand it. You desire to marry Carolina,-have told her as much: but do not receive but little encouragement. You have heard that she has another lover, and desire to know whether the rumor is true or not?'
                  'It was for the purpose of gaining this information that I requested your presence here. You are in the employ of her father, and all more likely than any one else to know whether my suspicions are true or not.'
                  '
                        Farely
                        Fairly
                      spoken-and I do possess the knowledge you desire to gain; but I must have some object in imparting it, even as you have in desiring its possession!'
                  The meaning thus conveyed was understood. 'You shall be liberally rewarded as we proceed-here's a fifty for the present!' responded the Count, handing over a bank note of the amount named. Daring's eyes sparkled with satisfaction as he observed it.
                  'That's the ticket!-a sure passport to my services,' he muttered half aloud.
                  'But only a portion of the reward your aid will bring you if you serve my interests faithfully. When I am the husband of Mr. Raymond's daughter-'
                  'And I her servant!' interrupted his companion, bitterly.
                  'I shall be able, as she is sole heiress of her father's immense, wealth to recompense you as a friend, and thank you for your assistance as such.'
                  'You will, indeed?'
                  'Yes; and now, with these prefatory remarks, let us proceed to business. Am I right in my conjectures,-has she another lover?'
                  'Most certainly?'
                  'And who may the fortunate gentleman be?' he asked, while a hot flush overspread his brow.
                  'A question easily asked, but not so easily answered. I have seen him several times-he is a physician I believe-but I have not the good fortune to know his name. It can readily be learned, however.'
                  'By you more readily than by myself. It is very essential that I know him by name, that I may take measures to ascertain the extent of the danger to be apprehended from him as my rival.'
                  'You will have much to encounter in your suit, in my opinion, for I have seen enough to convince me that she loves him.'
                  'It must not, cannot be!' muttered the Count, nervously. 'If she really loves him, my hopes will soon be completely ruined.'
                  'And mine,' echoed Daring, who thought he saw in the plans of the man before him an avenue that would lead to something capable of paying better than his present avocation.
                  'You are right. Your interests are now 
                        indentified
                        identified
                      with mine. If I succeed, it will be 
                        qeneficial
                        beneficial
                      to you as well as myself; and this fact renders it an object for you to aid me all you possibly can.'
                  'True again; and I am yours in the cause until she is your husband. My first duty is to ascertain your rival's name. This done, we must contrive to keep him out of her society, by circulating evil reports against him, or something of that kind; and in the meantime you must press your suit with ardor.-She cannot pause long to deliberate when a wealthy Count is the suitor for her hand.'
                  'Unless she is already in love,' he responded, half abstractedly, and a scarcely perceptible mocking smile flitted over his handsome features at the mention of his title. Then he continued,-
                  'Meet me here to-morrow evening, and in the intervening time, leave no means untried to find out his real name. I shall not be thwarted in this game by no common opposition.'
                  And a dark shade was visible for a moment upon his face as he spoke thus determinedly.
                  'I have set my heart upon seeing Carolina Raymond my bride-and such she must be. To the advancement of this project let your energies all tend. And remember, secresy must be observed-a single word from you would blast all my hopes of happiness in that quarter.'
                  'I am aware of that, but you need not doubt me. Is it not for my interest to serve you? Most assuredly-and, besides, Conrad Daring is not the man to break his word of honor.'
                  'I do not doubt you. You would not have known anything in reference to the matter had I not had confidence in your ability and silence. Do not fail to keep me apprised of all that occurs in Mr. R.'s family; and be sure to speak a commendatory word of me, every time you have an opportunity.'
                  'I will obey you.'
                  'Enough-the business is arranged for the present. A week will tell me whether I succeed or not.'
                  With this truthful remark, he arose and began to pace to and fro in his room. Daring thrust the note he had received into his vest pocket, and bowing to his patron, withdrew, leaving the Count de Chandau alone.
                  'He will be an excellent tool to carve out my fortune,' he soliloquised, after the footsteps of his late companion had ceased to echo in the hall. 'He is just the help I require,-always ready, active and faithful.-But curse this rival of mine! I wonder who he is. He is treading on dangerous ground if he comes between the lady and myself, for I am rendered desperate by desperate circumstances. It will be impossible for me to keep ap appearances much longer, unless I can soon realize a portion of the cash she will eventually inherit. This marriage is all that can save me-and it shall succeed!'
               
               
                  SCENE SECOND.
                  WAS enacted a few hours previous in one of the parlors of a mansion that stands a short distance below Trinity Church. The Count and the beautiful daughter of Edgar Raymond, Esq., the owner of this splendid residence, and a wealthy merchant-are the actors.
                  The former is kneeling at the feet of the lovely woman, holding her tiny right hand in his own, and his appearance readily convinces you that he has thrown himself there to pour forth a declaration of love.
                  The lady appears to be conscious that she is about to appear in a trying scene, and thrice has she bidden her enraptured admirer to arise to his feet.
                  But the command is all unheeded, and he soon exclaims,-
                  'No, Mademoiselle! let me remain at your feet until I have told you all, and know my fate-until I know that you consent to be the star of my destiny, or that I am doomed to the fearful agonies of despair and unrequited love! Oh, Miss Raymond! I must speak of my love, or this heart of mine will burst with the emotions which have been lately aroused therein-this heart, at whose shrine the wealthiest and loveliest maidens of la belle France have worshipped, and which has so long withstood the smiles and love bestowed upon it by so many fair ones. At last it has to own thee as its idol. Yes; I love you with all the fervor of my heart-can you, do you love me in return?'
                  The Count paused, much agitated, but more on account of his violent gestures and assumed excitement than from the effect of love.
                  The lady blushed deeply, and looked modestly down upon one of the prettiest little feet in the world, which was drumming upon the carpet; but her embarrassment soon partly passed away, and glancing timidly at the kneeling one, said,-
                  'I-really-this confession is so sudden, so unexpected, withal, that I am not capable of replying properly at present. I must ask for time to consider the subject.'
                  And here we may add-what is already apparent-that Carolina does not love the Count.
                  He moves in the first circles, and many are the heiresses-some of an uncertain age, and others in reduced circumstances-who have set their hearts upon becoming the wife of Count de Chandau; but than personage overlooks them all, he having discovered that Mr. Raymond has more money to bestow upon his daughter than any two of the others possess.
                  The maiden did not suspect that the Count was insincere in his professions, much less, that he only sought her for the wealth she was supposed to inherit; and as she had been dazzled by his reputed wealth, appearance and rank, she did not desire to dismiss him at once, and thus forbid the consummation of a match that seemed so extremely fortunate.
                  She felt-as any 
                        woman woman
                        woman
                      would have done under the circumstances-that it was no common triumph, no common tribute to her worth and beauty, to have a Count kneel at her feet.
                  Flattered by the preference he had shown her over a host of others, and governed by the considerations we have named, she could not summon up resolution enough to tell him the true position of affairs, and discard his attentions.
                  The Count looked up earnestly into her face at the conclusion of the remarks, and exclaimed,-
                  'But tell me, I implore you, do you love me?-do you encourage my passion?-can you bid me hope to call you mine?'
                  She looked coyly down upon the floor as she blushed again and replied,-
                  'Our acquaintance has been, thus far, I must confess, very agreeable to me. I enjoy myself in your society, and in listening to your narratives of men and things to be met with in foreign lands, and my opinion of your character is very favorable, indeed.-Animated by the respect and esteem I bear you, I do not hesitate to say that I may, in time, when we become better acquainted, feel authorised to offer you some encouragement.'
                  'May God bless your noble heart for this,' ejaculated her admirer, in seeming raptures, as he pressed the hand he held to his lips.
                  She had flattered his pride skillfully, and gratified his hopes; and in her blushes and confusion, he fancied he read a tale of concealed love.
                  'Please arise and be seated. It does not seem right for such an one to kneel to-'
                  'The noblest prince that ever existed would hardly be worthy of kneeling at the feet of one so good and beautiful,' interrupted the Count.
                  He arose, however, and seated himself before her.
                  'You flatter me,' observed the lady, 'but I suppose it must be excused under these circumstances.' And she looked archly up into his face.
                  ''Tis not flattery, but the honest sentiments of my heart. From the first moment of our acquaintance I loved you, and often have I determined to reveal my passion to you, but as often have I been repulsed by the thought that you would refuse to accept of me in the character of a suitor for your hand.'
                  'No one who has known you as favorably as I have could scarcely do that, unless otherwise engaged.'
                  'Oh, lady, you know not how happy you have made me, and I feel my inability to repay your kindness, but if a life-time of love and devotion can in any degree requite the debt, it shall be yours.'
                  But, having seen the aim of both parties, we need not pause to detail their conversation. De Chandau at last took his departure having received from Mr. Raymond, through Carolina, and invitation to call and take dinner with the Raymond, in just a week from that day; at which time, the maiden hinted, his proposal would be more fully considered, as she would, in the meantime confer with her parents upon the subject.
                  As he passed up Broadway towards 
                        the the
                        the
                      Astor House, he muttered to himself,-
                  'Thus far I have succeeded as well as could reasonably be expected. She confesses I am not indifferent to her-and here is an invitation to dine with the old gent., with whom I must then contrive to work the c to advantage. In the meantime I must endeavor to learn whether she has another favored lover or not; for I have had such an intimation breathed to me. I must look v to my laurels, or this Doctor-Doctor What's-his-name-who the devil is he, will win the prize. Ha! Daring would be apt to know him, and Daring I will see. Perhaps I can secure his services as a spy.'
                  And, as good luck would have it, when he was opposite the Museum, he saw the very person he desired to see, approaching.
                  Pausing for an instant he requested Daring to call at his room in the course of the afternoon, as he wished to see him on urgent business; and he strictly enjoined him to keep the appointment a secret.
                  He agreed to do so, and, with this, they separated.
                  We have seen the result of that interview and will therefore drop the curtain upon this scene, turning to another.
               
               
                  SCENE THIRD.
                  THE same parlor. It is brilliantly lighted-for it is evening-evening of the day that witnessed the previous scenes. You behold furniture that would grace a palace. The little clock upon the mantle-piece has just struck nine.
                  The shadow lamp upon the centre-table reveals Carolina, and, by her side, a noble-looking young man, with whom she seemed more familiar than with the lover of a few hours before.
                  In fact, we 
                        are are
                        are
                      soon convinced that she really loves her present companion, and this conviction is very just. She has long known Elbert Richland, M.D., as a very worthy young man, and has shown for himself and society a decided preference, though, as love steals on unawares, she is hardly conscious of this fact.
                  But Elbert was poor. His education had cost him the few thousands he inherited from his father, and he knew that several years must yet elapse ere he could attain wealth and practice sufficient to satisfy Carolina's father that he was worthy of his daughter and able to support her.
                  Perhaps he never would have been admitted into her presence at all, had he not once, by his skill and energy saved Mr. Raymond's life.
                  This fact caused the parents to regard him in a more favorable light than they otherwise would have done, and when he solicited their permission to pay his addresses to their daughter, they could not refuse to grant it, so long as his visits were agreeable to the latter.
                  Still, Mr. R. told him frankly that this permission must result in nothing serious, as he could not for an instant think of receiving a son-in-law who did not possess wealth and a name.
                  Wealth and a name!
                  How those words echoed in the heart of the young physician.
                  That he loved Carolina with all the intensity of love founded on few hopes, is a fact we cannot deny. Nerved by her flattering deportment towards him, and the words of her father, he toiled steadily on for three years, at the end of which time he was the possessor of an extensive practice, and about eight thousand dollars in cash.
                  During this period he had occasionally called to spend an evening with the Raymond family; and his love had increased with each visit, until it prompted a determination to confess all and know his fate; and for this purpose had he sought her at the time we find him in her presence.
                  He was about five and twenty years of age, with features which, if they were not actually handsome, were rendered such to the beholder by the look of 
                        intellgence
                        intelligence
                      and manliness that rested thereon. His reputation and address were good-such as to readily admit him into any society, and he was, wherever known, much loved and respected.
                  And here a word in reference to the lady may not be uninteresting.
                  She had lately witnessed her 
                        seventeeth
                        seventeenth
                      birth-day. Though so young, as it were, she was a woman, in every sense of the word. The beauty of her 
                        peson
                        person
                      could not have been rivalled by many of her sex; for each year of her life had added to its charms. It was not of that cold and haughty stamp which is more likely to command admiration than love; but mild and gentle, even as the soul reflected therein, and many were the number of the opposite sex who had felt and 
                        acknowled
                        acknowledged
                      its power.
                  Some women are capable of winning love, rather than commanding it, and of this class was Carolina Raymond.
                  But young Richland had loved her more for the goodness of her heart than for the beauties of her person. He knew that the latter were liable to pass away, but the former must live on to the close of life. With love thus founded, there could be no change.
                  But let us notice them more particularly. As before intimated, Elbert has determined to know his fate. He is a shade paler than usual, and a shade of deep anxiety is visible upon his face. He seems to dread the course he is about to pursue, even as if a fear that he would be rejected had crossed his heart, but at length he masters the strange thoughts which exist in his heart, and thus breaks the silence,-
                  'Carolina!'
                  The maiden looks up, but her eyes are soon cast down again, for his agitation and his trembling voice, and the strange energy with which he uttered that single word, caused her heart to thrill with an emotion never before experienced, and she too trembled, even like a frightened doe.
                  'Carolina, it has been something over three years since we met. It was at the bedside of your father, who stood in need of my services as a physician. To me you then seemed like a ministering angel, watching by him with a daughter's tenderness and care; and from that time to the present, you have been the sole companion of my thoughts, the idol of my dreams, the object of my aspirations; and as I was so fortunate as to gain permission to visit you, I have dared, I hardly know why, to hope that the future would be shared between us. God only knows how I have toiled, how I have struggled on amidst many trials, cheered by this hope-how I have endeavored to gain wealth and fame, to render myself worthy of thee, when I might safely offer you the purest love of my heart. The affection, the spark, as it were, of years ago, has increased to an uncontrollable flame, which must be forever extinguished or hence-forth allowed its sway. Carolina! I love you! Must we part for ever, or is my love returned?'
                  The words were eloquent with love, and they gave her a deeper insight into her own heart than she had ever before gained. Her emotion increased with each sentence, and for full thirty seconds after he paused, she looked into the face before her with an almost vacant expression, as if she did not realize her situation-then tears came to her relief, and leaning forward into the arms of her lover, she leaned her head upon his bosom, and their lips met in a fervent kiss-the register of vows silently spoken!
                  Words were not needed-the tale was told!
               
               
                  SCENE FOURTH.
                  A DINING ROOM. 'Tis in the mansion of the Raymonds. A week has passed. The merchant, his wife, daughter, and the Count, have just set down to the dinner to which the latter had received a special invitation, as we have previously seen.
                  The waiter serves them, but none appear to be hungry. It seems more a matter of ceremony than aught else. The thoughts of each are concentrated on something of more importance. Time passes on. Ever and anon the Count glances across the table to Carolina in a manner meant to be very loving and affectionate; but she does not seem disposed to show him any marked attention. He notices this fact with pain. His heart almost betrays him, so fearful is he of losing the prize which seems almost within his grasp. Her parents notice the deportment of both, and it requires no skillful eye to see that they are disturbed.
                  They think their daughter now has an opportunity to form a splendid alliance, while the lady herself cannot think of it,-she having promised Mr. Richland to wed him, and him alone.
                  And here we may add that when she gave the Count what he easily construed into encouragement, she did not know her own heart. The declaration of her real love was an important event in both of their lines, in as much as it told her the depth of the love she bore him.
                  'I will write the Count a letter-telling him that he can never be more than a friend to me!' she thought. 'I never loved him-but when his title and acquaintance was new to me, I was somewhat dazzled thereby, and permitted myself to be influenced in his favour. He is not like Elbert;-there is something mysterious about him, that I do not understand!'
                  Wine is standing before the gentlemen, and both do it justice,-the elder particularly so, for he is much gratified by the thought of having a Count for a son-in-law. His wife-as all good wives do-has given him a 
                        cauntioning
                        cautioning
                      look several times, but he heeds it not,-again his glass is filled.
                  At this juncture the ladies retire, escorted into the parlor by the gentlemen, who return to the table as Mr. Raymond hints that he has something to communicate and arrange. It is evident that he has already drank as much as is consistent with the reputation of a man supposed to be temperate. Such a man he undoubtedly is-but be can hardly command his feelings of happiness on this occasion.
                  He praised the Count's splendid appearance, his wife, daughter, the weather, himself, in fact, everything that came into his mind; while the other praised his wine and the ladies who had just left the table, adding that he considered wine and women alike in this respect-the greater your familiarity the better you like them.
                  'A fact!' responded the merchant, who did not see the exact meaning of the remark however. I see you are as witty as handsome. Fill up your glass and we will talk over a matter in which we are both interested-my daughter's happiness!'
                  Again did they fill up their glasses, and then the elder rests his elbows upon the table, and his head upon his hands. He had evidently drank enough to render such a support necessary, for his head was uncommonly heavy. Having thus guarded against accidents, he looked up with a semi-comic air, and remarked-speaking somewhat confusedly,-
                  'My daughter informs me, Monshoe le Chandau Count,-I mean, Count le Chandau,-that you have tendered a proposal of marriage to her!'
                  'She has informed you rightly,' was the reply, 'and my object in accepting your invitation to dine with you was to have an opportunity to speak to you concerning the matter,-ask your consent to our union,-and settle any other preliminary arrangement that may 
                        arrise
                        arise
                     . I should have spoken of this sooner, had-'
                  'Never mind the reasons, Count,-I understand it all. There's yet time enough!'
                  'I have doted upon my daughter, as she is my only child. I have always supported her in an elegant and expensive style, and would not under any circumstances whatever, allow her to marry a man whose income or means would not allow him to support her as well as I have done, and give her as good a home. In short I would not allow her to marry a man who has not a fortune at command!'
                  'Most certainly not!' remarked his companion abstractedly, and he glanced uneasily across the table, as if he feared from the drift of the other's remarks, that he had been detested as an impostor.
                  'And do you know,' continued Mr. Raymond, 'that I shall bestow a marriage fortune of a hundred thousand dollars upon her?'
                  The tone in which this was said reassured the Count. His eyes sparkled with joy, for this sum exceeded his fondest desires. A smile darted over his face, but he did not allow it to be seen. He assumed an appearance of carelessness and indifference as he replied:
                  'This is the first intimation I have had of any such intention-'
                  'But the knowledge does not pain you, eh?' said the merchant with a chuckle.
                  'Why, no. Money never comes amiss. Still to me at least it is no object. I should love your daughter just as well were she poor!'
                  'That's the way you lovers always talk. It is perfectly natural, however, and there fore must be excused!' replied Mr. Raymond. Then he added in a matter of fact voice! 'I see you are not 
                        displeasted
                        displeased
                      with my intentions. Of course not. It is always pleasing to a young husband to know that his wife has a fortune of her own. I know this, Sir Count, from experience. I like you-I may own this without equivocation-and I think you are all I could ask as the husband of Carolina. I shall therefore give my consent to the union, and her marriage fortune will be the amount named-though there is this provisal:-the settlement of fifty thousand dollars upon her as a marriage gift!'
                  If the hopes of the listener had been aroused by the beginning of these remarks, they were correspondingly depressed by the conclusion, inasmuch as he, with debts paid, was not worth a dollar. But he knew it would not answer to dispute the terms, or plead his inability; and he replied, satisfactorily, stating that the amount, and more if required, should he ready at any time.
                  'Very well-this matter is successfully and happily arranged!' replied the merchant, grasping his hand. 'Call upon me at my office any time you are at leisure, and I will accompany you to a lawyer's to make out the proper papers. Or, if you desire it, I will attend to the affair this afternoon!'
                  'I am in no haste. We can settle this in due time. I have an engagement this afternoon.'
                  'There is another matter of which I ought to apprise you!' continued the merchant, after a momentary pause. 'Some three years ago, my daughter contracted an acquaintence with a Dr. Richland, a young man whom I employed, I being very ill with the fever; and I am sorry to say that she has formed an attachment for him-sorry, I say, for though he is a person of unexceptionably character, and much respected, he is poor, having nothing but his daily practice to depend upon. Now I cannot think of accepting him with his present income, as a son-in-law; and it must necessarily be several years before he will be able to marry, although I must confess, he is rapidly advancing to wealth and notoriety. Still I do not desire my daughter to wed against her will, much as I desire to see her your wife. Her love-such I must term it-for this young physician, causes her to regard you in a different light than she otherwise would. Indeed she does not seem to wish to recognize you as a lover at present; but I trust this feeling will soon give way, if you continue your attentions then you can claim her as your own!'
                  It is impossible to reveal the Count's feelings, for this was the first intimation he had had of the truth of his suspicions. Daring had learned nothing during the week that had elapsed-neither had his partner in iniquity, and therefore he was taken of surprise.
                  'Your daughter treated me, the last time I was here, in a manner that lead me to hope!' he at last remarked.
                  'Since that time come new manifestation of Richland's intentions has influenced her in his favor, if I interpret her deportment rightly, for she has given me no explanation upon the subject. I think this feeling can soon be banished, however, or I should not have spoken to you so plainly. I have no doubt but that you love my child and are well worthy of her; but I am convinced that she will not willingly-and therefore not at all-wed you, as long as the present understanding exists between her and her lover, your rival. But compose yourself and take courage,' he added seeing his companion was pale and agitated. 'I know these remarks cause you painful thoughts, but still it is better that you should now know the difficulties you have to encounter, and also conquer to win. I believe perseverance will soon attain you aims. I am your friend, and you may count upon my best services to bring about the desired end!'
                  'Thank you. I believe you are! responded the Count, with an attempt to throw off his gloomy fears. But his heart was sad and heavy. He felt that the dangers which lay in his path were not to be easily conquered; but he determined to persevere.
                  'You must manage to be in Carolina's society as much as possible,' continued the merchant. Convince her of the sincerity of your love, of your attentions, and of your worth and goodness. You will, without doubt, soon banish your rival from her mind. They say that love is gifted with tenacity, but all of us must gain the cause for you at last!'
                  Much more advice of a similar nature was given, which we need not narrate. The Count finally bade Mr. Raymond good day, and left him. As he was passing through the hall to the front door, a 
                        servent
                        servant
                      came out of the parlor and placed a note in his hand.
                  'From Carolina!' muttered, half audibly, the receiver of it, and with a 
                        forboding
                        foreboding
                      of its unwelcome contents, he hurried from the house.
               
               
                  SCENE FIFTH.
                  THE Count in his room, as he appeared some ten minutes later. He was seated in a chair by the window. He drew the note from his vest pocket and broke it open. His hand trembled with the excess of his anxiety. It was dated the day previous, and read as follows:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              COUNT LE CHANDAU: Circumstances have lately transpired that force me to retract the encouragement, if such it was, I gave you at the time of your proposal of marriage. My heart is unchangebly engaged to another, and therefore I can never become your wife, or receive you as a suitor for my hand. If I have ever caused you an unhappy thought, or if such is the influence of this note, I ask your forgiveness. I am not insensible to your worthiness, and if we had sooner met, I might have loved. As it is I can meet you henceforth but as a friend. With many wishes for your health and prosperity, and hoping that you will be blessed with all the enjoyments of life, I am, with much respect, your friend,
                              
                                 CAROLINA A. RAYMOND.'
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  Not a single word or exclamation escaped his lips, as read those words. From the moment he glanced at the address, the paleness of his countenance had been increasing, and as he read the signature, the last shade of color fled from his cheeks. He felt that his hopes were crushed-that the assurances of her father amounted to nothing, as he had spoken thus without being aware of her exact feelings. Thoughts-wild, tumultuous, terrible thoughts sprang into existence. A smile wreathed his lips, but its bitterness expressed more than the darkest from. He clenched his hands convulsively together-his eyes gleamed with an almost supernatural fury-his form trembled like the leaves of an aspen; and then forth from his quivering lips came a low hissing whisper of 'REVENGE!'
               
               
                  SCENE SIXTH.
                  THE battery. A man is standing there leaning over the railing. He is dressed in the hight of fashion, sports a gold headed cane, and is easily recognized as Count le Chandau. It is about ten o'clock in the forenoon of the day succeeding the occurrence of the previous scene.
                  The sun is shining with splendor, and as it is the twelfth day of August, its rays are rather too warm to be agreeable. Not a cloud can be seen. Above, the sky seems to stretch far, far away, gradually descending, until it completes the horizon; while in front of our actor, the waves of the bay curl gently up upon the rocks and gravel at the base of the Battery wall. Boats, steam-tugs, schooners and larger vessels are plying here and there, forming a scene of life and activity upon which but few could gaze without experiencing sensations of satisfaction.
                  The Count has evidently paused here to pass a few moments, and so absorbed is he in watching the movements of a brig, which has gotten under-way, and is standing on down the bay past castle Garden, that he does not notice, that he is closely watched by a man who is listlessly leaning against the flag-staff, from the truck of which the ever glorious American flag is unrolled to the breeze.
                  The watcher is dressed in the garb of a sailor, and his form and appearance would justify us in asserting that he is the possessor of more physical power than the generality of men are endowed with; and another glance assures us that he is well qualified by agility and the hardships of a sea-faring life. He appears to be about thirty-five years of age-some five years older than the man whom he is watching.
                  His countenance presents a strange medly of human passions, even as would a panorama of life from the cradle to the grave: for it is continually changing in its expression. We will pause to notice some of the most prominent. First, an expression of anxiety steals over his face, plainly revealing his desire to know whether the person before him has been rightly 
                        indentified
                        identified
                      or not. Then caution is deeply seated there, as though he has no desire to be seen until he is sure, sure! that he has not sought in vain. Next, an expression of intense hate appears; and this is followed, the next instant, by one of firmness, as if some new resolution had arisen in his heart.
                  At this moment the Count pulls up each corner of an 'elevated standee,' and twirling his cane rapidly, and with some skill, upon the ends of his fingers, he walks up the path towards Broadway, humming a duett he had learned sometime before to play in the presence of Miss Raymond.
                  He does not go unwatched.
                  The sailor-such we must call, as such he appears to be-remained motionless by the flag-staff long enough to convince himself that he had not been noticed, and until the other had passed out of the Battery gate into the street, when he slowly followed him, though in a manner that would not be likely to attract attention or lead to suspicion.
                  The Count is too aristocratic to encounter the jams, squeezes, kicks and other dangers and delights of a ride up Broadway in an omnibus,-especially as all very near are full enough for convenience-and therefore he saunters 
                        leasurely
                        leisurely
                      along, congratulating himself upon the 'dem'd foine' appearance he makes, and the attention and admiring glances he receives from many of the fair ones he meets. The sailor still follows him a few rods behind, but on the opposite side of the street.
                  In about fifteen minutes from the time of his leaving the Battery, the Count passed up the steps of the Astor House, and at the very same instant his mysterious watcher crossed over, seemingly with the intention of following him still farther. As he had rightly conjectured, the former passed in and up several pair of stairs to his room. He was musing upon some scene of bye-gone days, and did not notice that the sailor had gradually increased his speed, until, as he turned the key of his room and entered, he brushed past him and moved on as if seeking an apartment farther down the Hall.
                  Le Chandau closed the door, and the next instant the sailor, who had passed on only a few steps, retraced them, earnestly noticing the number of the room as he passed. A few steps farther on, he was met by a waiter, of whom he inquired the name of the occupant of it.
                  'Count le Chandau!' was the reply.
                  'That may be his alias!' he muttered in a musing mood. Then a resolution seemed to spring up suddenly in his mind, and as the other started to move on, he motioned him to remain, saying that he wished to send a message to the Count. Drawing a pencil and slip of paper from his vest pocket, he wrote a few words thereon, and bade the waiter deliver it.
                  That functionary hastened to obey. Knocking at the door he was bidden to enter, and passed in.
                  The sailor moved noiselessly forward, and as the door swung back, he placed his foot upon the sill in such a manner as to prevent it from quite closing.
                  He then listened. He heard the waiter move across the room to the window where the Count was seated-heard his brief,-'Here's a note, sir!' and then, for an instant, all was still.
                  The man was waiting to see if there would be any reply, and to give, if requested, the particulars of its reception.
                  'Great God! he has tracked me even here,' was the next sentence which came to the ears of the excited listener, and the hurried, startling exclamation was succeeded by the sound of a heavy fall.
                  'He's fainted!' shouted the waiter, unconsciously in accents of wonder and alarm.
                  'At last!' muttered the sailor, with a peculiar emphasis, and, as a dark shade of satisfaction flitted over his visage, he darted away.
                  The Count had indeed fainted and fallen to the floor the instant he read the note.-Wondering at the effect of those hurriedly traced words, the waiter picked up the paper which the other, in his consternation, had dropped.
                  Intently he observed it; hut it afforded no clue, no explanation. All was a mystery, and wondering still, he abstractedly repeated the words written thereon,-
                  
                     'The Avenger of Iola!'
                  
               
               
                  SCENE SEVENTH.
                  The same-changed by the withdrawal of the waiter, and the lapse of a few moments.
                  The Count has arisen, and a strange appearance does he present, as he stands there with that strange note in his hand. His face is pale and haggard, his eyes are wild and glittering in their expression, and seem starting from their sockets, and his form trembles with agitation.
                  Strange thoughts are passing within. He is evidently endeavoring to unravel the mystery, but he muses in vain. He only knows the terrible truth revealed by those four words. All else is shadowy and unintelligible.
                  'There is some warning mystery here,' he soliloquised, wiping the cold sweat from his brow with a hand that trembled with fear.-Again his eyes reverted to the paper, and after reading aloud several times that mystical sentence, he continued,-
                  'I know of only one person who could possibly write that sentence, and that one is Jean Harra. Can he be in America? It cannot be, for I was informed before I left France, that he was dead. Still he may be alive-this note almost proves that such is the case-and if so he is on my track again, like a Cuban blood-bound on the trail of a fugitive negro. It is strange that my disguise has been thus penetrated, and my character revealed.
                  'There is another thing which adds to the mystery of the affair,-if it had really been Jean, he 
                        wovld
                        would
                      have been most likely to enter at once and accomplish his vengeance. I know not what to think, or what to expect, but I will be ever on my guard!'
                  His next movement was to tear the note to atoms, strewing it on the floor. He then unlocked his trunk 
                        aed
                        and
                      took from the bottom of it a pair of revolvers and a heavy knife.-He loaded the former with a dexterity that showed he was no novice in their use, and placed them, as well as the knife, in two inside pockets of his coat.
                  'Fate seems conspiring against me,' he muttered, from between his compressed lips. Everything I undertake is crushed ere I have to execute it. That proud beauty is lost to me beyond hopes of 
                        redrmption
                        redemption
                     , as well as the thousands I intended she should bring me; but there is yet time for vengeance.-The last words of her father in my presence were to bid me hope, and I must see him once more before I quite despair. Then if she continues to scorn me, I will take measures to show her my power, and the devilish nature of my heart! I will render her life a living hell-ha, ha!
                  'Besides that trouble, here is a man whom I supposed dead, or, at least, upon the opposite side of the Atlantic, threatening my life, so dark and unseen the while, that I do not know when or from whence to expect the danger. But I am no coward!'-and the savage light that flashed in his dark eyes would have proved the tenth of his words to an observer-'and if the worst comes, whether my foe is Jean Harra or Satan, he will find me a dangerous and desperate man. I am not to be trifled with in my present mood.
                  'Dangers thicken around me, but I must summon up energy enough to meet them, and overcome my foes whether secret or open. But at present-let me see,-how shall I pass the day?
                  'First, I will go up to the Appollo Rooms-try my skill there-and 
                        see see
                        see
                      if I am qualified thereby to go over to Hoboken with my enemies. Then I will see HER father, and see whether all is over in that quarter or not. Next, to-night, I will drop in at Pat Hearn's gambling saloon and try my luck at those unlucky, infernal cards!'
                  With this programme of a day's occupation in his mind, the Count might have been seen, a few moments later, sauntering up Broadway.
               
               
                  SCENE EIGHTH.
                  THE Appollo pistol gallery.
                  It is twenty minutes later, and Count le Chandau is testing his skill. He is indeed a good shot. Four times out of five does he 'ring the bell'-then five times in succession.
                  The proprietor congratulates him on his skill, and the few spectators mutter their approval.
                  There is one among them who has been observing the Count with a strange interest ever since he entered. He is a large, powerful man, with o dark eye, and bronzed countenance, which is adorned, or, at least, nearly concealed by a flowing, bushy beard, dark as night.
                  His hand rests upon a pistol in his bosom, and his form slightly trembles with some secret emotion.
                  He suddenly moves forward. He stands before the object of his particular attention.
                  'You 
                        have have
                        have
                      made a series of beautiful shots, sir,' he remarked.
                  The other bows affirmatively.
                  'But I will bet you ten dollars that I can 'ring the bell' more times in succession than yourself-you using your weapon, and I mine!'
                  'Done!' is the instant response; 'hand the stakes over to the Proprietor, who will be a witness for both.'
                  It is done, and the Count commences.-Again and again does he repeat his shots, ten times in succession-and then he fails.
                  The stranger's revolver is loaded-he takes his position, and discharges every barrel, one after another, in rapid succession. He seems to take little or no aim, firing, as the observers think, very carelessly-but every shot speeds to the exact centre of the mark.
                  The pistol is again loaded-again he takes his position-and again he rings the bell six times in succession! The spectators look on with wonder.
                  The stakes are handed over to the winner.
                  'I am fairly beaten-I acknowledge you are my superior in this pastime,' said the Count, turning towards him.
                  'It is not so much in my skill as in the pistol. To that I owe my success. As you will observe, it is a peculiar one,' and he thrust it before the face of the other.
                  He recoiled with a wild shout of horror.-His eyes glared wildly upon the features before him for a moment-he reeled to and fro-his knees tottered under him, and he seemed about to faint and fall to the floor.
                  'That weapon!-God of Heaven, it is the same!'
                  And staggering forward, he sank down at the feet of the stranger, who had just time enough to bend down and hiss the single word, 'Iola!' in his ear, ere he was insensible.
                  Again had the Count's mysterious foe filled his heart with horrors too fearful to be endured, and again had he fainted.
                  The observers looked towards the stranger as if demanding an explanation, but he calmly replaced the pistol in his pocket, and bowing to the company, slowly retired.
                  Several of them moved forward to restore the fallen Count to consciousness, and their efforts were soon crowned with success.-With their assistance he arose to his feet, but he was so weak that he could hardly stand.
                  A terrible change had been wrought in his appearance by the events of the last few moments. He was pale, nervous and excited.
                  'You are sick, Count; shall I not call a carriage to take you down to your rooms?' asked the proprietor of the gallery, as the other moved away.
                  'No; 'tis nothing but a sudden faintness,' he responded. 'I shall feel better as soon as I get out into the air.
                  And bidding him adieu, Le Chandau descended the stairs to the street.
                  'That pistol!' he muttered, in a voice of terrible emotion. 'It is the same with which I shot, many years ago, the one who now possesses it! God! my brain is on fire! I shall go mad with this terrible mystery!'
                  With slow and tottering steps he moved down Broadway.
                  And here we will drop the curtain upon the actor and the scene.
               
               
                  SCENE NINTH.
                  MR. RAYMOND in his sitting room. It is an hour later. He is leaning back in his chair, his feet encased in slippers, resting on the sofa before him, while he enjoys the flavor of a cigar. He is evidently in a musing mood.
                  Carolina has just revealed the extent of her passion for Dr. Richland, and also the vows which have passed between them.
                  A knock upon the door at length disturbs his reflections.
                  It is immediately opened, and the servant ushers in the gentleman whom we saw make such shots in the pistol gallery.
                  The merchant bows and asks him to be seated.
                  This invitation is politely accepted, and then the stranger proceeds to business.
                  'We are strangers to each other, and such I desire to remain, further than this interview. It matters not who I am, so long as I am a friend of right. I have heard-rather indirectly, it is true, that a certain impostor, an escaped convict from the French galleys, who calls himself Count le Chandau, has been paying his 
                        addressess
                        addresses
                      to your daughter, and I have called upon you at this time to give you an insight into his character!'
                  'An impostor?-a convict?' muttered the other, exhibiting the deepest surprise.
                  'Such he is,' replied the unknown, calmly, 'as I can readily prove. He is one of the most unprincipled scoundrels that ever existed; and knowing this, I deemed it my duty to warn yourself and daughter to beware of him.'
                  'But who are you?'
                  'One who never warns unwittingly.'
                  'Your story is plausible enough, but it may be the unfounded idle talk of an enemy, calculated to injure the Count for revenge.'
                  'It is the story of an enemy!' responded the other, fiercely, 'but one as true as the records of Heaven! I have told you the truth, and again warn you to beware of the mock Count. I could tell you more, but this must suffice for the present, as I am in a hurry. Good day!'
                  
                     Exit stranger.
                  Mr. Raymond, (soliloquising),-'Who can that strange being be? Why didn't he wait until I had time to learn his name? And this story-it is an important one, and it looks to me like truth. I am inclined to credit it. He could not exhibit such emotions unless he was telling me a personal fact, and one that comes home with strange power to his heart. I will confer with Mrs. R. and Carolina upon the subject.'
                  At this moment, as he arose to enter the parlor, the door leading from the hall was again opened by the servant, who ushered in the Mock Count of New York.
                  'The Count!' exclaims the merchant, staring at him abstractedly. Ah?-the devil! I did not expect you-but be seated. You come just in time. I have a little matter on my mind, to talk over with you.'
                  Le Chandau began to tremble. He saw that something to his disadvantage had occurred, or the other would not speak with such a peculiar emphasis-regarding him with such strange interest the while.
                  He had not yet recovered from the fright he received in the pistol gallery, and was very pale and nervous when he entered. He gradually became more so.
                  'What has happened?' he at length stammered out, with a foreboding of evil.
                  'You are ruined,' responded the merchant, looking him steadily in the eye. 'I have just received a visit from a stranger, who assures me that you are an impostor, an escaped convict from France-that you are not a Count, but an unprincipled-'
                  'Enough, sir!' exclaimed the other, and his lips quivered with emotion, 
                        whilh
                        while
                      his breath came short and heavy. 'It is all true-I will not endeavor to dispute it-but I do, here, in your own room, curse him and you.'
                  As he said this, he hurriedly arose and rushed from the house, muttering curses and imprecations upon his secret enemy.
                  'The heartless villain!' muttered the enraged raged merchant. 'If he had remained a moment longer, I would have had the pleasure of seeing him kicked into the street. Vagabond! to talk to me thus in my own house. Never mind! it will not seriously injure me. Thank God! we all have escaped being duped by his infernal schemes. Carolina was right when she said he wasn't so good as he seemed-that she didn't consider him so wealthy and noble as he appeared. God bless the girl! I will go and kiss her, and ask her to overlook my attempt to find her a husband.
               
               
                  SCENE TENTH.
                  AGAIN do we behold the discomfited Count in his room. He is gloomily pacing to and fro. A shade of anxiety rests upon his face, and it deepens almost to a frown as he views the clouds which have lowered upon the horizon of his existence.
                  The day has rolled away, and it is evening-the one succeeding the date of the previous scene-the hour, nine.
                  A light stands upon the table, revealing the movements and appearance of the occupant of the apartment.
                  'Darker, darker, yet! Everything, both living and inanimate, seems conspiring for my ruin-and death. With character discovered, Carolina lost, funds nearly 
                        exhaused
                        exhausted
                     -by heavens! I am fast heading for a lee-shore.-Ha! Daring has kept his appointment.'
                  The last exclamation was caused by hearing footsteps in the hall, which he readily recognised as those of his accomplice, who instantly entered.
                  'I am glad you have come,' exclaimed the former, hurriedly. 'The most disastrous events have occurred since morning. Please be seated and I will tell you all.'
                  Daring took the proffered chair, and listened attentively to the other's narrative of the incidents that had befallen him during the day.
                  'Things do indeed look very unfavorable,' was his response, after the Count had concluded.
                  'You cannot help but think so, although I have only sketched you the outline of affairs. I have lost all hopes of marrying her; but you can rest 
                        assurred
                        assured
                      that I do not see my hopes thus blighted for nothing. I will play the very devil in the camp ere I resign myself to the loss. Listen, I will tell you some thing concerning my intentions,-
                  'I am going out soon to try my hand as gaming. Whether I succeed or not, is more than I know or care for. To-morrow morning I shall visit Madame Genlin's, and shall purchase a vial of-you will know what in due time-and I shall desire your services in reference to it. I trust you will serve me?'
                  'I will endeavor to. As yet I have not had an opportunity, but if you show me one it shall be improved.'
                  'Thanks. I will confer upon this subject more fully to-morrow evening, if you'll meet me here. Do not fail.'
                  'I will not,' was the response; and understanding that the other was about to go out, Daring bowed and retired.
                  'If possible, he shall be the tool to accomplish my plans for revenge,' was the soliloquy of the Count, as he placed his pistols in his bosom and extinguished the light. A moment later he left the room, locking the door behind him.
               
               
                  SCENE ELEVENTH.
                  AN apartment 'up stairs' in Pat Hearn's gambling saloon. An hour has passed since we left the Count, and we now find him seated here, before a mahogany table, covered with green baize. Several packs of cards are lying thereon.
                  The table is one of many observable in that saloon. We behold but few persons, and these may be denominated 'out-siders,' who do not care to play for a great amount. These will soon retire and then the 'gentry' will commence operations.
                  Our actor pays but little attention to those around him, as he is musing upon the events of the day.
                  Time passes on.
                  Again is he watched by a 'mysterious stranger.' An elderly man, with grey hair and beard, is seated at one of the tables near him, attentively but slily observing his every movement.
                  The Count does not heed his scrutiny. He is 
                        unconsciovs
                        unconscious
                      that the dreaded avenger is again on his track.
                  He at last looks up from his reverie and seems to be wondering why those who have engaged to meet him do not come. His eyes roam searchingly around the room, as if to assure himself that the objects of his thoughts have not been overlooked.
                  As the stranger notes this movement, he seems determined to try his luck in a game with the other, and arising, he approaches him, inquiring,-
                  'Would you not like to play a game or two with me, stranger?'
                  'Twill serve to banish these gloomy thoughts, even if I lose,' muttered the Count to himself-then responding aloud to the question, he said,-
                  'If agreeable to you, I have no objections, though I cannot play heavily at present.'
                  'Nor I; a few deals, just for amusement, is all I desire. We need not 
                        stade
                        stake
                      more than a 'V,' said the stranger taking a seat opposite him. 'What shall be the game?'
                  'Anything you please,' was the careless remark.
                  'Let it be bluff, then-five dollars ante,' said the stranger, shuffling the cards.
                  'Agreed,' said the Count, laconically, as he shoved the money into the centre of the table.
                  We need not detail the particulars of the game. When men become excited at the gaming table, they are dead to all reason or common sense, especially if they lose. Such now appeared to be the case with the stranger. To appearance, he gradually became excited, and such was the carelessness with which he played, that the Count won nearly every game, as he remained calm and collected.
                  The stakes were, from time to time, increased, and the stranger continued to bet high on indifferent hands, losing the while. The game progressed-in half an hour he announced that he had lost his last dollar.
                  The winner received his announcement with a smile, and raked the pile of gold, silver, and bank notes he had won towards him.
                  'Yes, you have won all-no, not all: for here is a gold ring I will stake against ten dollars-the ownership of both to be decided by the one who possesses the best bluff hand, dealing as heretofore.
                  'Agreed!' responded the Count, shoving two half-eagles across the table, and shuffling the cards.
                  The stranger drew a ring of peculiar and antique appearance from the little finger of his right hand, and laid it down beside the money.
                  The Count proceeded to deal, without so much as a glance at it, seeming to understand from his movements that all was honestly and fairly conducted-as indeed it was.
                  A moment passed in silence-both showed their hands, and the cards showed that the unknown had won.
                  Luck seemed to have turned in his favor, and withdrawing the ring, he expressed a desire to repeat the same game. It was done, and again he was the winner.
                  He let the money remain, and the Count 'covered' it with two gold eagles, when the deal was again repeated, again proving him to be the loser.
                  'Curse the luck! Your fortune has turned, and you will win it all back again,' he exclaimed, with a smile of seeming indifference.
                  An answering smile from the stranger was the only response, and the game proceeded. They now began to bet but limitedly. Both played with caution-particularly the unknown.
                  He seemed to be sure of winning all he had lost, and a quiet smile now lurked upon his countenance.
                  The Count noticed it, and after losing several more games, he began to grow excited.
                  There was something in the other's movements and appearance, now that he noticed him more earnestly, that he did not like.-Still the game progressed.
                  'You have already won more than you lost,' muttered the Count, at length.
                  That strange, meaning smile was the only reply.
                  It rendered the observer still more excited. He played recklessly, and his hand trembled strangely every time he dealt-he still continued to lose.
                  The moments sped on. The parties were now surrounded by several spectators, who had been attracted by their excited voices and hurried movements.
                  A few intensely exciting moments passed, and then the Count dropped the hand he held and sank back in his chair-he had lost every dollar.
                  The winner drew the pile towards him and calmly placed it in his pocket.
                  'You play like one favored by Satan,' muttered the excited loser.
                  'It is to the ring upon which my fortune turned that I owe this success,' was the reply, and the speaker bent a look upon the man before him, which caused him to tremble with excitement, as a strange, maddening suspicion arose in his heart.
                  'The ring?' exclaimed several, inquiringly.
                  'Ay, this ring!' repeated the stranger, as he held it up to their view.
                  All eyes were instantly bent upon it.
                  The Count, with the rest, leaned forward to examine it. He gazed upon it as he would have done upon an apparition from the dead.
                  'That ring!' and the words came from his lips in a low, hissing whisper, which soon died away in his throat to an indistinct 
                        mur-murmur
                        murmur
                     .
                  'That ring!' he at last repeated. 'Oh, God! it was once worn by Iola!'
                  And even as that word was hissed in his ear by the stranger, he again sank down upon the floor insensible; and even as the group turned towards him for a solution of the mystery, a grim smile flitted over his face and he hurried away.
                  Again had the horrors of a studied avengement darkened the 
                        Countjs
                        Count's
                      guilty soul.
               
               
                  SCENE TWELFTH.
                  THE Avenger in his room at the American Hotel-an hour later. We have an opportunity to note his personal appearance, as he is now divested of the false beard and wig he wore in the gambling saloon.
                  He is much like a sailor-a true-blue, robust bust, hearty, and honest American Jack-tar, I mean-but those small white hands show that he has not lately, if ever, performed a sailor's duties.
                  From the appearance of his dress, and the gold watch, pencil and chain, as well as silver-mounted revolvers, lying upon the table, we would infer that he is wealthy-an inference that is very correct.
                  Of his life and history we shall know more hereafter.
                  He is gazing upon a beautiful miniature, set in a gold case. It is that of a young lady of apparently not more than seventeen summers, but one whose beauties are as charming and glorious as the beauties of gifted woman, in the freshness of youth, possibly can be.
                  The possessor continues to gaze abstractedly upon it, and it must be that painful remembrances are conjured up by it, for tear after tear steals slowly down each cheek.
                  'Iola!' he murmured, in a low, bitter voice, 'thou art gone, and I have yet to avenge thee. God only knows what an effort it has cost me to spare him until now; but I have adhered to my resolution, to have method, as well as malignancy in my vengeance. Worse than death shall be the tortures of his mind, before his blood atones for his crimes. My hate, my desires for revenge, are refined by cruelty, or I would not spare him another hour.'
                  He drew his chair up to the table, upon which lay writing materials, and hastily penned this note,-
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Iola is dead! Your wrongs sealed her doom; but she is soon to be avenged. In just nine days from the hour you met me in the gambling saloon, you will be a corpse.
                              
                                 THE AVENGING FOE.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  'Only nine days will I spare him!' came in a vengeful whisper from his lips, as he laid down the pen; 'but during this time I will render his existence a curse. More than once will he pray for death, ere it comes to his relief.'
                  As he spoke, he chanced to see the reflection of his features in the mirror before him.
                  'Yes, I am sadly changed!' he added, with a bitter smile. 'These feelings, these passions have changed my heart, and it is no wonder that they thus affect the expression of my face.'
                  For a moment, while reviewing the note, he was silent, but he soon continued,-
                  'He shall receive this to-morrow, and, I think, from the hand of Madame Genlin, as I must see her in the morning. It will add a deluge to the ocean of his misery.'
                  Thus speaking, he threw himself upon his couch, and sought forgetfulness amidst the vagaries of dream-land-but sough in vain.
               
               
                  SCENE THIRTEENTH.
                  THE boudoir of Madame Genlin, the noted fortune-teller, oracle, sybil and humbug:-It is a front apartment upon the second floor of one of the most elegant mansions in Broadway-a fact many of my New York readers know by personal observation and experience, as she is a real character, and this an actual scene. A strange one it is, too, and may give you an insight into one of the many city mysteries.
                  The room is fitted up in a style that would not demean a palace-even one of those in which, many centuries ago, the Doges of Venice resided, The wall next to the street is literally covered with oil paintings, most of them of the old school, and reflecting some of the most thrilling events of history. The wall opposite them is ornamented with a variety of strange and mystical emblems, such as skulls, stuffed serpents, wands, shells, uncouth animals, and other articles, the whole of which are calculated to impress every one who enters, with awe and solemnity. In this mystification, and the cunning of the woman, lies the whole secret of her success as a fortune-teller. The third wall is hidden from view by a series of massive sparkling mirrors, which reflect every object in the room, thus adding a grandeur to the scene which must be seen to be realized.
                  Upon the morning after the last scene transpired, Madame Genlin was alone in her magnificent boudoir.
                  She is about forty years of age, with features quite handsome, and which have retained their beauty uncommonly well. Her brow is high and would convince you at a glance that she is very intelligent and shrewd.
                  Her eyes 
                        aie
                        are
                      dark and piercing, and when bent upon an object, seem to search its very depths. She is deeply versed in reading human nature in others by their appearance, the expression of their features, &c.; and it is no difficult matter for her to give all searchers for the hidden events of the future, a good fortune, after she has been informed of their age, nature and condition in life.
                  Robed in a black dress of silk, she was reclining upon a luxurious sofa, at one 
                        extrmity
                        extremity
                      of the room. The curtains were lowered, so much so, that there was not light enough to reveal the objects in the room with distinctness. A dreamy, mystical air seemed to pervade it, and perhaps this was conductive to a musing mood, or reverie, as her thoughts seemed to be thus employed, if we may judge from the vacant expression which rests upon her face.
                  It is suddenly interrupted. The door opens and her servant ushers in the unknown, the Count's mysterious foe.
                  He is politely received, and seating himself, he produces a note, which he presents to the woman, saying,-
                  "I understand the Count le Chandau intends visiting you this morning, and if so, I desire to have you deliver this to him. No explanation in reference to its reception will be needed: it will be readily understood."
                  "I shall be happy to serve you!" she responded with much 
                        sauvity
                        suavity
                      of manner.
                  The stranger bows and retires.
                  "Why does he bring it here to be delivered, or how does he know that he is calculating to visit me? There appears to be some mystery here. Ah! it is slightly sealed, and the wafer is yet wet: I wonder if I could'nt break it open, and thus learn something of my visitor's character. I will try!"
                  She did try, and succeeded so well that a moment later she held the note open in her jewelled fingers, reading it. We have already learned the contents of the missive, and probably without being so much surprised as was Madame Genlin, as we possess a more extensive clue to the mystery.
                  She wondered at its mysteries, more than she ever did over those of the 'Chaldean art revived! It was most certainly vague and indefinite, to all except he who wrote it, and the one for whom it was destined.
                  "It appears that this Count has, at some period of the past seduced a lady by the name of Iola; and that this "Foe"-most probably the person who first came in-intends to revenge her. Nine days!-his threatenings are couched in strong terms for this age; but perhaps he is capable of executing them. If he comes, the knowledge I have gained from this will enable me to read his character, and foretell the future with greater facility. But he may arrive soon-I must seal this again, and have it ready!"
                  Hardly was this done, ere the servant ushered in "Count le Candau." As soon as he was seated, she handed him the note. His hand trembled as he received it and broke the seal. The woman watched him as attentively as the tiger does its prey; but so slily that he did not notice it. With eyes blood-shot and gleaming-features haggard and contracted with horror-and quivering frame, he read those words. No words can express his terror and excitement. He 
                        recled
                        reclined
                      in his chair, and it seemed a great effort for him to prevent falling to the floor.
                  "You seem to be surprised!" remarked Madame Genlin, still regarding him.
                  "No, not that. "Tis but the weakness of a moment I am liable to these nervous fits!" he stammered.
                  "Will you not have something done-a physician called-a-"
                  "Thank you-I shall soon be better. There is no occasion for it!" he replied, endeavoring to command his emotion. Thrusting the note in his vest, he turned towards the window and gazed forth into Broadway.
                  "To be thus pursued, hunted down, and finally murdered!" he murmured to himself. "Doomed-doomed!-I feel the damning truth of those words! Only nine days!
                  
                  He soon moved towards the woman, and asked her when and where she received the note. She gave him the desired information; and it seemed to add to the load that already weighed down his heart.
                  "He is constantly watching me, and guesses my intentions and aims as well as I do! Courage! coward heart!"-and the energy brought into existence by the thought gave a savage glare to his eyes." Take courage, and prepare to conquer. After my vengeance upon her is completed, I will escape to some distant city, where my enemy cannot find me out!"
                  Then he continued aloud, addressing the fortune-teller:
                  "I desire to know what the future has in store for me: Will you foretell it?"
                  "Certainly. Draw your chair up nearer, and I will consult the magic stone!"
                  He obeyed, and she then produced a small red stone, which seemed to be almost transparent, but which was irregularly formed. The Count felt a strange feeling of awe and dread stealing over him, as he observed it. The woman looked at it intently for a few moments, and then, while a strange shade came over her features, she remarked:
                  "Believe me, sir, you had better not have the future revealed to you. The evil predominates over the good. A terrible storm is gathering!"
                  "My forebodings are realized-I expected some such ill fortune!" exclaimed the Count nervously. "But proceed. Keep me not in this suspense-I would know all!"
                  "Be it so!" calmly replied the woman, again fixing her gaze upon the stone. He watched her with an anxiety we need not endeavor to express. He saw a shade of surprise pass over her features. It was succeeded by one of excitement. Then he him self became strangely excited. A series of painful fears floated before his mental vision. It was no difficult matter for him to understand that the expression of her countenance was ominous of evil. She suddenly lowered the stone, and regarding him with a strange look, said:
                  "Again I warn you that these mysteries had better remain untold! Did you know what I am even now aware of, you would cry forbear. The future to you presents an appalling picture!"
                  "Proceed! I must know my fate!" he murmured faintly, and an ashy paleness overspread his visage.
                  "Then nerve yourself for a fearful revelation was her response, as she again bestowed her attention upon the magic "foreteller of future events.'
                  The Count endeavored to be calm. He called up all his stoicism and firmness; but it was no avail: he could not quietly await the words he expected to hear. The excitement of both increased. An exclamation of alarm escaped the woman's lips. She seemed about to give utterance to the thoughts within. "Speak!" said the Count, excitedly, grasping her by the arm. "Listen!"-and solemnity appeared to be born of her words,-"listen! There's blood here!" and with trembling finger she pointed at several little deep-red spots which had appeared upon the stone!
                  "There is-there is!" he assented. Oh, God what can be the interpretation of that mystical hue!"
                  "A violent death!" was the instant response. "Thus will your career on earth be ended!"
                  The wretched man almost groaned in his agony. "I expected this!" he at last observed. "But tell me when and where and how!"
                  The stone fell from the woman's hands, and sinking back in her chair, she exclaimed,-
                  "By heavens! what a thrilling, terrible series of mysteries! 
                        Aed
                        And
                      yet how soon will they be enacted!"
                  The Count looked up for an explanation of her words. "No!" was the response to this mute inquiry, and she shook her head mysteriously:-"I must tell you no more! your destiny is sealed, and it is impossible for human agency to avert its course! "But must I expect a violent death?"
                  "You must, and ever be on your guard against it. The hour is nigh!"
                  "Will it come in the course of nine days?" There was an intonation of terrible anxiety in his voice, as he asked this question, and almost breathlessly he paused for an answer. A moment elapsed ere it came.
                  "I do not deem it proper to reveal any more. It would only distract you and render you miserable-"
                  A ghastly smile flitted across his countenance, as he interrupted her with-
                  "Could the misery I am now enduring be added to by any further revelations?"
                  "Perhaps not, but still it would be no advantage to you to know the rest. It is predestined-foreordained-and must come to pass."
                  "Mysterious woman-do you know my plans for vengeance?"
                  She bowed affirmatively.
                  "Then in God's name tell me whether they will succeed or not!"
                  "I must not!" she replied firmly, and her tone and manner convinced him that it was useless to urge her.
                  "Another question. If you know my plans, you know that my object in visiting you was to secure your services in their fulfilment. Will you aid me?"
                  "If properly required, I will!"
                  "I trust to your honor not to betray the secret I repose in you. I intend to poison Carolina Raymond."
                  "I am aware of this. You will accomplish some purpose by means of an accomplice. Further than this I am not at liberty to say. For fifty dollars you can have the poison for which you came here."
                  "Thanks. Place it in my possession-I will immediately count the money to you!"
                  The woman arose, a smile upon her features, and moved across the room to a small door. This she opened, and passed into another apartment, but one much smaller than the other. In one corner stood a trunk, which she unlocked with a key she produced, and then raising the lid, a goodly quantity of vials and bottles was revealed to her view.-These were all numbered and properly labelled. After searching among them a moment, she selected one, a half-ounce vial,
                        CAROLINA RAYMOND.
                     
                      and returned to the Count.
                  "You must never reveal the fact that I furnish this to you. Observe secrecy. Use it cautiously and carefully-for it is one of the most deadly poisons human ingenuity and subtility ever gave birth to. It cannot fail, if given according to a directions.
                  Six drops will kill a healthy man within a week after it is given. Half that quantity will put a man into a death-like sleep, which will continue several days, but he will 
                        eventally
                        eventually
                      recover. Ten drops is sure death within three days. This is the portion I would advise you give!"
                  With these words she placed the vial in his hand, and after securing it in his coat pocket, he paid her the price agreed upon, bade her good morning, and left the room.
                  "Little does he suspect the strange events in which he is soon to figure, or the death whose shadow is even now upon him!" muttered Madame Genlin, as she turned to receive another visitor, who was at that moment entering.
               
               
                  SCENE FOURTEENTH.
                  A PORTION of Broadway-some ten minutes later.
                  We behold the Count moving on towards the Astor, in the midst of the mass who are hurrying up and down the pavement. He is absorbed in a reverie concerning his visit to the fortune-teller, and passes slowly on, unheeding and unheeded.
                  No! we were mistaken. A few rods behind we observe two well-dressed gentlemen, police officers they are, though their 'stars' are hidden-who seem to be following the Count, with the intention of arresting him. One has just pointed him out to the other.
                  "But are you sure that he is our man?" asked the taller of the two.
                  "I am. The stranger gave me an exact description of the man before us. Besides, I have seen him before. He is well known among the 'upper ten' as the Count le Candau,-one of his many aliases. Our informer has given us a hard account of his villiany; but perhaps he will be able to prove himself innocent. Let us move on a little faster, so as to 'nab' him the moment he ascends the steps!"
                  "Ha! he has eluded us!-I do not see him now!"
                  "No, he does not suspect us-perhaps does not notice us at all. I see him-there he is-just in front of that fat gentleman and lady."
                  He raised his hand to point him out to his companion; but being too much occupied in watching the object of his thoughts to notice things or persons near him, his hand struck a man who was just at that moment passing him full in the face. It was not a severe blow, but as the receiver of it chanced to be one of the 'B'hoys,' and accompanied by a comrade, he resented it by knocking the policeman down. 'Star' 2nd made a rush at him, when a blow from the other 'B'hoy,' dexteriously given, prostrated him also; and the trio gave expression to their exultation over the two officers by certain slang phrases which we will permit the reader to imagine, and sundry movements of their 'five points' in the air.
                  The officers soon sprang up, however, and maddened by the treatment they had received, they determined to arrest the 'B'hoys,' or give them an unmerciful beating-in such cases many of the New York policemen are not particular which, if they cannot attain both. With this resolution uppermost, they renewed the fray, while a crowd of several hundred collected around them in the course of three minutes. They soon succeeded in overpowering the rowdies, who were handcuffed and marched off, to answer to the charge of 'assaulting police officers in the street,' and have their cash and combativeness lessened by a fine.
                  This incident prevented the arrest of our friend, the Count, and he soon reached his room in safety. The officers would have sought him there in the course of the day, had the charge against him not been withdrawn by the one who preferred it-Jean Harra!
               
               
                  SCENE FIFTEENTH.
                  DR. RICHLAND in his office. It was at the same hour in which the previous scene recurred. He was seated before his book case, his elbows resting upon the shelf upon which it stood and it was evident that he was musing upon something that painfully enchained his mind.
                  Such was indeed the case. He was intending to visit. Carolina on the ensuing evening, and was now reflecting upon the practibility of asking her father's consent to their marriage.
                  While he was in the midst of reflections conjured up by this subject, an elegant equipage drew up to his door, causing him to glance forth from the window; and he instantly recognised it as that of Mr. Raymond.
                  A moment later Mr. R. himself descended therefrom, and came hastily up the steps.
                  The physician's heart beat fast with anxiety, inasmuch as he knew no common cause would thus bring him there.
                  Mr. Raymond entered. The smile with which he greeted our hero reassured him, and warmly welcoming him, he asked him to be seated.
                  Soon as both were in their chairs opposite each other, the elder said,-
                  I need not pause to introduce the few words I have to say by an apology, and will at once come to the subject. I have discovered that you have made such good use of the permission once granted you to visit Carolina, that you have won her love. She confesses that you are dearer to her than life; can you conscientiously say as much of her?'
                  'God knows I can!' was the reply of the agitated lover. 'I love your daughter as fondly and sincerly as man ever loved.'
                  'Then there shall be no opposition to your love!'
                  Dr. Richland looked up in astonishment and the blood coursed wildly through his veins.
                  'You may be somewhat surprised, considering the views I have formerly expressed on this subject, but I assure you that I am now in earnest. Like all others, I am liable to have my opinions changed. A few days ago I deemed Count le Chandau the most worthy and befitting person I could choose for my daughter's husband; but I now know him to be a cheat, an impostor, a penniless convict from the galleys of France.'
                  'Ha! can it be possible that he has thus deceived so, many in reference to his real character?'
                  'Yes, but he now stands unmasked. The consciousness of this fact is sufficient punishment for his villainy. But let him be effaced from remembrance and regard. I've sought you to-day to take you by the hand, welcome you as my future son-in-law, and bid you go on with energy a year or two longer, when you shall be the husband of Carolina.'
                  He took the physician by the hand, and shook it warmly.
                  With the dawning of this joy upon his heart, we will turn to another scene, leaving Mr. R. to explain himself more fully, and the other to express his gratitude and thanks.
               
               
                  SCENE SIXTEENTH.
                  AND one of interest, both to the reader and our drama, is revealed in Count le Chandau's apartment at the Astor. The day has been added to oblivion, again night-has settled upon the gay metropolis of the western world. The hour is ten.
                  The Count is bending over his trunk, the contents of which are undergoing a thorough examination.
                  Thus he soliloquises-
                  'Matters are approaching a crisis. The proceeds of the last 'crib' I assisted in 'cracking' before I left London, have dwindled down to a thousand dollars-a mere thousand, and this while I am cutting such a swell here as 'my friend, the Count!' This sum will hardly be sufficient to carry my plans of vengeance into execution. I shall have to pay Daring well, and deceive him in reference to the nature of the poison, or he will not administer it. I think he will second my wishes for the sake of gold. That will cause him to do anything.
                  A step in the hall without was heard, and thinking his partner in crime had come, 
                        acaording
                        according
                      to his agreement, he hastily closed the trunk, arose and seated himself. Contrary to his expectation, the door was not immediately opened. The person without seemed to have passed on or retired. He listened. For a few moments all 
                        wns
                        was
                      quiet and still, and then, even as he arose to glance into the hall, there was a knock upon the door.
                  "Daring!" whispered that personage through the key-hole.
                  "Ah! you are here!" muttered the Count, as he turned the key, admitting him.
                  "Here as you see. I am always punctual to my agreements and engagements, whatever they may be, as I make it a rule to promise no more than I can perform."
                  "Be seated. Have you heard any especial news to-day?"
                  "No; at least nothing that will interest you very much. Mr. Raymond did order up the horses, and drive 'round to see Dr. Richland to accept of him as a suitor for her hand, and take back the hard words he formerly received him with. The last clause of this information was given me by the cook. She says it will eventually be a match-"
                  "Yes, I understand all of that!" interrupted the other, adding a half uttered curse." It will be a match, but-" The threat was not uttered, for he remembered that it might cause the other to be cautious,-so much so as to destroy the possibility there was of vengeance. "Let them be married," he continued carelessly, a moment later;" I shall not mourn for Carolina when there are so many equally beauteous and wealthy, who covet the honor she has refused. I shall turn my thoughts upon more wealthy, and one more capable of appreciating such a gentleman as myself."
                  "Mr. Raymond said as how you are not a Count, but an impostor. Thinks I to myself if he aint, he pays like one-so its all the same. But I s'pose you won't want my services any more; and so the hopes I had of making something are all annihilated!"
                  "Yes, I shall desire to keep you in my service,-you may soon have an opportunity of performing an important trust. I shall pay you well as we proceed; and I get settled as husband of one of the wealthiest heiresses in New York city, you may depend your fortune is made!"
                  "I believe it!" replied Daring, his eyes sparkling at the 
                        ithought
                        thought
                     -"and hope that happy day will soon arrive."
                  The Count now raised the lid of his trunk and took up the vial of poison he had purchased of 
                        Maadamo
                        Madame
                      Genlin. He had taken the precaution to tear off the label, as it was his intention to 'blind' the other as to the nature of its content.
                  'Do you see that?' he asked holding it up to the light.
                  'Most certainly I do.'
                  'Well, listen, and I will tell you what it is-I visited a fortune-teller this morning, and she gave me this 'love lotion,' assuring me, that if I gave Carolina a little of it 
                        occasionanlly
                        occasionally
                     , she would soon love me. Isn't that a strange idea?'
                  'It is; but I have heard of such things before. They say it is a fact that the affections of the gentler sex can be thus won. I do not doubt it.'
                  'I do not believe it is efficacious; but then she urged its powers and qualities so earnestly that I could do no less than buy it. Do you think you could manage to give her a little in her food or drink? You know that it would be of immense advantage to both of us, should it really cause her to love me; and if it fails there will be no injury done.'
                  'I presume I can. There can be no harm in trying, unless I manage so 
                        unikillfully
                        unskillfully
                      as to be detected.'
                  'I will give you another 'fifty,' if you will administer about ten drops of this to her in the course of two or three days.'
                  'I will do it, if possible.'
                  'But you must be careful. It will not answer to be detected,' said the Count, as he handed him the vial-a strange expression of cunning revenge gleaming in his eyes the while.
                  'Rest assured I shall be cautious, if not successful,' was the quiet 
                        respouse
                        response
                     , as Daring concealed the vial.
                  'All is settled, then-here's your money, and don't fail to earn it.'
                  'You can trust me,' responded he, as he received the note and arose. 'I will meet you in three days from this hour, if desirable, and report my success.'
                  'Do so, but be sure to enter unobservedly, as I do not desire to have it known that you are leagued with me in this matter.'
                  'All shall be as you desire.'
                  And, with this remark, Daring bowed-in a manner that exemplified the respect of poverty to wealth-and retired.
                  Strange was the smile that appeared upon the Count's features, as the silence in the hall without assured him that his accomplice was out of hearing. It was the smile of crime in desperation.
                  'Love lotion! ha, ha!' he chuckled exultingly, as he wiped the sweat from his face, in a manner denoting satisfaction at the success of his plans. 'Little does he suspect that six drops of that liquid will make him a murderer!-that six drops will render that proud beauty as cold and lifeless as the pavement 
                        npon
                        upon
                      which he is now treading.'
                  A slight noise at the door caused him to pause and turn his eyes in that direction. A shriek of horror escaped him, and he reeled in his chair.
                  'Norand le Chandau,' said a low, deep voice, one of calm, yet fearful malignancy, and one that caused that trembling listener to start as if bitten by a deadly serpent.-'Norand le Chandau! I would advise you not to whisper the secrets of your heart to every one who chooses to listen, especially when you are planning a cold-blooded murder. It may result in no good. I have listened to every word that has passed between you and the person who has just now departed.'
                  'You?-YOU!' he shrieked, staring wildly at the intruder, while every lineament of his countenance became as pale as a shrouded corpse. 'O God! I am eternally ruined, for my aim is detected and will soon be revealed.'
                  'And yourself punished for your damnable ble villainy, transacted both here and in France!' added his merciless foe, while his dark eyes gleamed with the very concentration of passionate hatred.
                  'This visit!-God of mercy! it is the harbinger of my doom.'
                  'Again have your fears endowed your words with the truth of prophecy; for, on earth, you pass only those nine days,' hissed back his dreaded enemy, as a mocking smile darted over his menacing visage, and he shook his long, bony finger at the Count.-'Remember your fate-and HER avengement!'
                  And with 
                        enother
                        another
                      threatening movement of his hand, he turned upon his heel and calmly departed.
                  Moments passed ere the Count recovered the use of his faculties, but at last he arose and securely locked the door, murmuring to himself,-
                  'I am cursed by fatality and warned of its power.'
                  He sank back into a chair, and silence brooded upon the scene. The miserable wretch was alone.
               
               
                  SCENE SEVENTEENTH.
                  THE side-walk in front of 
                        Frinity
                        Trinity
                      Church. It is an hour later, and we now discover Daring reeling slowly along, with steps and gestures that satisfy us that he has been 'indulging.'
                  In fact, this personage was so much elated at receiving fifty dollars for so slight a service as he was about to endeavor to render the Count, that he could not refrain from entering one of the many saloons to be found between his present locality and the Astor, and expending twenty-five cents in smashers in the course of half as many minutes. These, four in number, conspired to place him on a rather equivocal footing.
                  'I wish I was a member of Corn-gress,' he soliloquised, interspersing an indefinite quantity of 'hics' into his remarks, and reeling up to the fence in front of the church, he grasped a bar in both hands to steady himself.
                  'Now cuss me if I don't! I should then have some influence, and I would use it-in a petition to the Legislature to have Broadway straightened. I allers thought its ways were crooked, and now I know it am a fact. Any fool can see, with half an eye, and that shut up, that the Trinity Corch Churp-a-rashun sat set this ere iron fence as crooked as a ram's horn-half of it jutting out clear across the pavement into the street, and the rest of it jutting as far t'other way-the whole forming a positive impediment to the progress of all who are under the necessity of passing along here. In short, it is impossible to get along at all, unless a fellar keeps 'tinually dodging, first this way and then that.
                  'Things are coming to a lamentable pass, if there is no law to prevent such proceedings-such an infringement of the rights of those who predestinate about the streets. By Barnum's great Meejeee Fur-I-made!'-and here he looked apprehensively up at the spire above him, bracing himself against the railing, while a shade of surprise and alarm appeared upon his visage-'may I be shot as dead as Pharioh's cat, if that are steeple hasn't warped most dreadfully out of shape since it was first erected! Ann drew Jack's son! how it reels to and fro, describing ponderous arches, like the mighty pendulum of some mighter clock. I rather kinder reckon and calkilate that a feller's head would swim like a June shad if he was up in the top of the steeple now,
                  'Daring, my boy, this is what you may call a scene of safety and sumblimity. It must be one of those phenomanys that you read about. I will report it to somebody that understands such matters, if I can find him! This fence can't hold still long enough for me to sketch it, or the steeple either, or I would get my porter-fool-you of materials, and draw it.
                  'By the way! get your mouth ready to laugh, Mr. Lamp Post, for I am going to say something funny-by the way! it strikes me that a man would have to be stronger than a hundred elephants to draw Trinity Church! Now, I should like to know-'
                  'Hallo, Daring! what in the name of coach whips and fast nags are you driving at?' said a young man by his side, who had been listening to his remarks for a moment, and who was evidently an old friend.
                  'Studying the curiosities of nature,' was the reply; and turning, he 
                        recognixed
                        recognized
                      his chum, who was also an hostler. 'Is this you, Bill, or do my eyes mistake me?'
                  'It's me, or my ghostly representative and I am glad to meet you again. Why, curse it, Daring! I have been endeavoring to get a glimpse of you for full three weeks, and have been everywhere that I thought you were likely to be; but you are always gone. But you have been 'smiling,' he added, as the other leaned rather heavily upon him.
                  'All for joy, Bill; I have been most fortunate lately.'
                  'How so? Has the old man raised your wages?'
                  'Far from it. But I've made a cool hundred by a little job which don't amount to an hour's work.'
                  'You are 'gassy.' Even if true, it would be nothing strange or worthy of much of a 'blow out.' Why, man, I made three 
                        hun-hundred
                        hundred
                      dollars in cash, in one night last week.'
                  'Pshaw! tell me none of your stories, Bill. You think I am lying, and desire to out-'chausen Munchausen, but I swear to you it is a positive fact.'
                  'I do not doubt it; and I give you the same assurance-I actually earned the sum I've named last Wednesday night.'
                  'I am convinced. But that goes a leetle ahead of California. Just tell me how it was done.'
                  'I will, as soon as we get into some place where we can be more retired-there are too many folks passing here to render it a safe proceeding for me to tell you how it was done, at present. Come with me.'
                  'Where are you going to drive to now?' asked Daring, as he took the arm of his friend, and both slowly moved away.
                  'To Mrs. Selgin's.'
                  'Very good-touch up the leader. But halt!'
                  And he suddenly paused.
                  'What's broke now?'
                  'I desire to ask you one question.'
                  'Out with it, then.'
                  'Why are you like an article worn by many at the present day?'
                  'I couldn't guess that if I was to be shot for it.'
                  'This is the answer,-because you are a supporter!'
                  And he leaned heavily upon him, fearing he wouldn't 'take' his meaning.
                  'Gas! You needn't undertake to be witty-come along.
                  (Scene closes with a view of the twain, as they stagger down Broadway.)
               
               
                  SCENE EIGHTEENTH.
                  A little room in the rear of Mrs. Selgin's groggery-to be found near Beck's slip.
                  A low, dirty room, ten feet square, and furnished with a few old chairs, a greasy, pine table, two dirty tumblers, a wooden spittoon, which forms a prolific encampment of 'old sogers,' and a few tattered engravings tacked against the walls-the whole indistinctly revealed by the flickering rays of a candle, standing in an iron candlestick upon the center of the table, constitutes the main outlines of the enchanting picture.
                  It is ten minutes later, and Daring and his companion have just entered.
                  'Now, Bill,' said the former, as they seated themselves, 'let us hold forth upon the events of the last three weeks.'
                  'What will you have to drink, gentlemen?' asked Mrs. Selgin, a repulsive looking woman, appearing at the door.
                  'Rum and water, half-and-half, sweetened,' was Bill's reply, and his companion echoed it.
                  The liquor was soon brought, and after they had emptied their glasses, Daring, who had now become somewhat sobered, resumed the conversation by saying,-
                  'Now, go on, and tell me how you made so much money last week. I am impatient to learn the secret.'
                  The other did not seem to pay any attention to his remarks. A vacant expression rested upon his face, showing that his thoughts were far away, and his eyes rested upon the floor.
                  Our dissipated young man repeated his desire to gain possession of the money-making mystery; and it partly aroused the one who is known to us as Bill. He started up suddenly, and asked in an energetic tone-
                  'Do you feel brave, courageous-as if you could face Satan himself?'
                  A curse of impatience escaped the listener's lips, as he replied:
                  'Yes. I can face anything, whether human or inhuman, bodily or spiritual! But what has that question to do with the subject now before us?'
                  'Much. If you are not afraid, we will now visit a scene which will, more readily than my words, explain the good fortune I have been blessed with.'
                  As he said this, he moved forward and took up the light.
                  'Where are you going?' asked Daring, exhibiting much interest in the other's movements: for he saw by the strange expression of intelligence upon his features that something of importance was about to be revealed.
                  'You will soon seen. Please hold the light, while I raise the trap-door, which is to be 
                        fouud
                        found
                      under the table!
                  Daring took the light, and the other immediately moved the table away from its usual position, when a scuttle three feet square was disclosed in the floor beneath the spot it had occupied.
                  A small ring, fixed in one end of it, was also discernible; and seizing hold of this, Bill removed the scuttle, while his companion gazed down through the aperture, holding his light in such a manner that its rays were thrown into the subterranean apartment thus disclosed.
                  A damp, disagreeable effluvia ascended therefrom, and as Daring saw Bill preparing to descend, he started back, exclaiming:-
                  'What! are you going to descend into this pit? Is smells like a charnel 
                        honse
                        house
                     , or the sick bay of a vessel in which the plague is raging!'
                  'Yes. Hold your light a little lower, so that I can see to get my foot upon the top round of the ladder.'
                  He was obeyed, and continuing to descend he soon disappeared beneath the floor. Daring knelt down at the edge of the trap, and held the candle as far down in the cellar as he could, while he strove to make out its outlines; but he could see nothing save the impenetrable darkness and gloom that hung over the spot.
                  Bill descended in silence, and a moment later, announced that he was upon the ground, the bottom of the cellar.
                  
                  His voice echoed drearily throughout its extent, and it sent a thrill to Daring's heart, who could not help but compare the scene before him to the interior of some old time-shriven 
                        masolem
                        mausoleum
                      of the dead!
                  'Can you come down on the ladder?' he asked of Daring.
                  'I can undoubtedly, but had rather not-at least not until I know my object in doing so."
                  'Oh, that will soon become apparent enough. You know I would not lead you into any danger. Set the light down upon the edge of the floor, until you get a secure footing upon the ladder, and then come down, bringing the light with you. It is as dark as Satan's kingdom here!'
                  'I think as much; and I do not relish the idea of visiting such a place at this hour of the night. Only think of it-it is nearly midnight!'
                  'Well, that need not terrify you. The present hour is the proper one to transact such business. Are you coming?'
                  Daring made no reply, but slowly lowered himself down. After he had secured a firm hold upon the rounds, he took the candle in his right hand, and proceeded down to the ground. The distance between that and the floor was some fourteen or fifteen feet.
                  By the time he had reached his companion's side, Mrs. Selgin entered from the front part of the groggery.
                  'Have you safely descended?' she inquired, glancing down upon them.
                  'We have,' replied Bill, 'and now please move the scuttle back, so as to prevent us from being interrupted.'
                  The request was obeyed, and the next moment the twain seemed cut off from all communication with the world, groping along in the gloom that seemed to hang over the spot, like the pall over a coffin!
               
               
                  SCENE NINETEENTH.
                  ONE of the darkest, dampest and displeasing underground apartments that can be imagined. Could the reader gaze upon it, he would hardly believe it possible for such a place to exist in a Christian city in the nineteenth century.
                  It is but a moment later.
                  Bill and his wondering companion have moved along in the vault until they are some seven rods from the spot where they descended.
                  The flickering rays of the light fall upon a strange scene, and dance with noiseless harmony in ten thousand fantastic shapes upon the damp, cold walls upon either side of them.
                  The passage was about twenty feet in width, and ran back from the scuttle full one hundred and fifty feet. The floor was of stone; and it was now covered with dampness and mildew, as were the walls.
                  "Curse our present position, say I,' 
                        muttured
                        muttered
                      Daring: 'I wish we were well out of it!' and the words were strangely echoed in the interior of a vaulted room before him, which seemed to rise up to his view like some yawning cavern.
                  'You are not familiar with such night adventures as this,' quietly responded Bill, as he paused and snuffed the candle: 'When you are, you will treat them as coldly as I do. Come on-we have nearly reached our journey's end!'
                  With this remark, he passed through the door of the apartment we have alluded to.
                  Daring trembled; and had the light revealed his 
                        contenance
                        countenance
                      to the other, he would have seen that it was very pale. The sickly, fetid odor that issued from the dark recess of the vault Bill was entering, caused his companion to shrink back, while he exclaimed,-
                  'I have seen enough!-let us retire as we came! Money will never be any temptation to me, if I have to meet such scenes as this to come in possession of it. It is no part of my nature to be gratified with wandering in such scenes as this, especially when I can see no earthly benefit to be derived therefrom!'
                  'Keep up your courage a few moments longer-as long as I am near, what have you to fear?' responded Bill, and a slight intonation of irony rankled in his voice.
                  Daring was somewhat reassured by the fearless manner of the other, and slowly followed him into the vault, though it was evident that he did so reluctantly.
                  All beyond the radius of the circle illuminated by the light, was as dark and cheerless as the grave. The ominous silence that rested upon the spot was disturbed only by their echoing footsteps; and the nature of the scene, when taken in connection with the lateness of the hour, was quite sufficient to conjure up a nameless dread in a braver heart than Daring's.
                  He suddenly paused-staring wildly at some object indistinctly seen in the darkness before him, while a wild cry of horror wildly left his lips.
                  'God of Mercy!-what is THAT!' he shrieked; and with trembling fingers, while his countenance blanched with fear, he pointed out the cause of his alarm, which became more fully revealed as they advanced.
                  Well might he exhibit such emotion: for the rays of the candle borne aloft in the hand of his companion, fell full upon a ghastly skeleton, which was suspended by a cord to a staple driven into the masonry above them!
                  A careless laugh from Bill disturbed the appalling silence that succeeded the exclamation of the other, and he remarked;-
                  'Don't be frightened, my dear fellow; that is nothing but a skeleton, and will not harm you!'
                  The sweat oozed out from Daring's brow,-his eyes wandered excitedly around.
                  'Let us leave this place as soon as possible!' he muttered, grasping his friend by the arm, and staying his progress.
                  'Wait a few moments if you please. I will not detain you long!' responded Bill, moving on towards one corner of the vault.
                  'But I do not!'-the remonstrance thus began was not finished; for at this moment he stumbled over some object he had failed to notice, and which precipitated him to the ground.
                  'What have we here?' was his inquiry, as he arose.
                  Bill was somewhat in advance, and as he held the light before him, the object was not discerned until he turned towards the speaker.
                  A single look told Daring that he had fallen over a coffin!
                  There it stood in all its hideous repulsiveness, destitute of a lid; and a second glance told the terrified observer that it was not empty!
                  No! for between the folds of the snowy shroud, the edges of which were hanging over the sides of the coffin, he saw the cold and stiff remains of a man!
                  The sight caused him to gasp for breath, and reeling to the other's side, he grasped his arm for support.
                  'In God's name!' he exclaimed, in a husky whisper-'tell me where we are? Am I the victim of a horrid phantasy?-or are we really in some cavernous tomb?'
                  'Neither. Pay attention while I inform you where you are. You are now standing in the secret rendezvous of the body-snatchers of New York!'
                  Daring started back, and pressed his hand to his brow, as if the revelation had almost overpowered him.
                  'Will you not sit down?' asked Bill as he 
                        cooly
                        coolly
                      seated himself on the lid of a second coffin.
                  'No. Let us return-I cannot endure this unwholesome stench!' replied the other, moving towards the passage which had admitted them into the vault.
                  'Stay. Do not leave me until I give you the information you were inquiring for a few moments since. Besides that, I desire to have you look upon a scene closely connected with this, and one that is seen but by few.'
                  Daring retraced his steps.
                  'Now proceed a few paces further on with me, and then you will understand the matter as well as I do,' continued Bill, arising and moving on. He was closely followed by his somewhat timid friend, who had summoned up courage and a resolution to witness the wonders alluded to.
                  Bill suddenly stopped.
                  'Hark!' he ejaculated in a whisper. Bubo is at work, as I expected.'
                  'What mean you?'
                  The reply to this question was a 
                        premptory
                        peremptory
                      'listen!'
                  And listen they did-to a hoarse voice that came faintly to their ears evidently proceeding from another vault still farther on. For a moment the voice was heard chanting a negro melody, and then silence resumed its away.
                  'What in the name of mystery can it be?' asked Daring in a tone of awe.
                  'We will soon see!' replied Bill, moving forward. A few steps brought him to an iron door, which was securely locked, and evidently guarded the entrance to another such a vault as they were in.
                  'There must be a light within,' muttered Daring, 'for I see its rays gleaming through an 
                        insterstice
                        interstice
                      in the wall, a few feet to the left of you.'
                  Bill moved in the direction indicated, and bent down before the aperture. It was about four inches square, and extended through the wall, which was full eighteen inches in thickness. A smile appeared upon his face, as he gazed upon some object within, and the next moment he blew out the light, when total darkness reigned over all portions of the vault, save that near the hole through which he was gazing.
                  Daring drew near to his side.
                  'Look' said Bill, at length, in a whisper, at the same instant moving back, so as to give him an opportunity to peer through upon the scene which interested him so much.
                  A terrible sight was that presented to his view. A gigantic negro, black as the regions of darkness, was standing near a large kettle, filled with flesh and bones, and liquid, the whole boiling together over an intensely hot fire; and in his right hand he held an iron rod, with which he, from time to time, stirred the contents of that boiling caldron.
                  The light of the furnace glowed strangely upon his countenance, the hideousness and repulsiveness of which it would be impossible to describe. His black arms were bare to the elbows-his hair was matted down over his low, ill-shapen forehead-his eyes were endowed with a sickly, almost unearthly whiteness-and such was his general appearance, when thus viewed, that it was not strange that Daring should liken him to a demon.
                  'What is he doing?' was his inquiry at length. He spoke in a low whisper, and turned his face towards his companion.
                  'Can you not guess?' said Bill, while a strange smile rested upon his visage.
                  'No. He seems to be-'
                  'Hist!' whispered Bill, glancing through the aperture. 'He is coming this way!'
                  'The negro?'
                  'Yes. We must conceal ourselves in this recess to the left of us, and you will soon see what his present occupation is!'
                  Taking the hand of his friend, Bill guided him to a niche in the wall near them.
                  Hardly was this accomplished, ere a key was placed in the lock of the door which had claimed their attention but a moment before, and turned.
                  The next instant, it swung back upon its rusty hinges, which creaked mournfully, and the negro came out, bearing in his hand a light.
                  He moved off into one corner of the vault without bestowing a single look in the direction of the niche in which the intruders had taken temporary refuge; and seeing this, Bill suddenly arose and darted through the open door, motioning his friend to follow him.
                  Daring obeyed, and in a moment both stood within the vault which was indistinctly lighted by the furnace.
                  'Quick! come this way, and we will secret ourselves for a few moments. He will return soon.'
                  As he said this, he stepped into the entrance of a passage, that led still farther on, and which he knew would effectually conceal him from the observation of the negro. Daring was by his side: for he had kept hold of his hand, that he might guide him amidst the intricacies of this subterranean passage.
                  Scarcely an instant passed ere they witnessed a startling scene, and one that filled Daring with horror.
                  For the negro returned into the vault, dragging with him the coffin over which the former had fallen, and pausing not until it was ranged beside the kettle.
                  'Look?' muttered Daring in a thrilling whisper, 'By heavens! what is he about to do?'
                  Bill smiled-he was evidently familiar with such scenes.
                  The negro 
                        cooly
                        coolly
                      raised the corpse in his stout hands, and thrust it into the caldron!
                  Daring covered his face with his hands-the sight was too horrid and too repulsive to his feelings for him to gaze upon it unmoved.
                  'You are doubtless surprised at the scenes we have witnessed during the last hour,' said Bill, who had now become unusually communicative; 'but you will think nothing of the matter when you have learned to look upon it as a business. We-that is, the body-snatchers-make a living by digging up bodies, and making skeletons which are sold to doctors and others interested all over the United States. It will surprise you to learn the extent of the "business" thus carried on. Our secretary has received more orders than he will be able to fill in a year.'
                  'But where do you secure the bodies?'
                  'In various places about the city and the vicinity. We went across the river to Jersey, one night last week-four of us-and we succeeded in digging up four bodies, all of which we landed here in safety. My share of the profits amounted to three hundred dollars.'
                  'It must have been a disagreeable job for you?' said Daring, manifesting much interest in the narration.
                  'I cannot say that it was, I thought so once, but that was before I became acquainted with it. It pays well, and you know there are times when such men as you and I will do most anything to gain possession of that amount of money.'
                  'But is there not much danger of being detected by the night police, with the bodies in your possession, and compelled to give an account of the manner in which you got them?'
                  'None to speak of. We manage everything carefully and securely, so that we do not apprehend discovery. Who would think of looking into the back room of Mrs. Selgin's groggery, for the entrance to such a scene as you have witnessed in these vaults? No one; and thus it is with all our secrets,-they exist where least suspected.'
                  'But these vaults-were they built expressly to carry on this business in?'
                  'No. These walls around us are older,-far older than any man now living. For what purpose they were erected is not known; but I have heard it said that this was originally intended for the rendezvous of a gang of pirates, who were connected with the first company of piratical wreckers that settled upon Barnegat shore, and who kept their property and goods secreted here. Be that as it may, it was no doubt intended for a place of security and concealment, and such it is."
                  'Look at that negro-he must be but little better than a fiend!' remarked Daring as he saw that personage 
                        cooly
                        coolly
                      bailing the liquid up on to the portions of the corpse that remained above the surface.
                  'He is familiar with his present occupation, and thinks of nothing but the money he is earning!' responded Bill.
                  'But what is the object of this inhuman proceeding?'
                  'Why, you see he boils the flesh all off from the bones, and these are then gleaned out, washed, dried, drilled and riveted together, each in its place. He will have three or four skeletons ready to be strung together by morning; and when finished they will be worth several hundred dollars apiece.'
                  'Strange, strange it is, yet it is but one of the many secret mysteries conducted in this city. Few would believe that such a scene can be revealed in this nineteenth century, but it is a horrid reality.' Then turning to his companion, he added:
                  'I could never participate in such deeds as this to gain wealth. I have an aversion to everything connected therewith, that I could never overcome. Thank God! I am not so far descended in the scale of inhumanity, as to look calmly upon such proceedings!'
                  'I expressed sentiments similar to these once, but I cannot now. Still I do not advocate the feelings which now possess me, and have so changed my heart. There are extenuating circumstances in every deed of evil-in every crime. But few men seek evil willingly-nearly every criminal will tell you that he was impelled to wrong by circumstances-a fatality, if you like the word better, beyond their control. Thus was I forced into my present position; and having become fully initiated and hardened, I care but little what I do!'
                  At this juncture the negro turned towards him, evidently startled by hearing voices so near him, for the speaker had unguardedly raised his voice.
                  'Who is there?' he exclaimed in hoarse voice advancing towards them, in a threatening attitude.
                  Bill took Daring by the hand, and they moved forward until he could discern their features, when he readily recognized the former.
                  'Ah, Massa Bill, how came you here?'
                  'I came in with this friend of mine to show him some of the mysteries of our business. Go on with your work-we are going to retire.'
                  With this, Bill led the way out of the vault, and along the passage-way towards the trap-door by which they had entered. They soon stood beneath it, and then Bill rang a bell, which was a signal for Mrs. Selgin to remove the door. This was done and they ascended to the room above.
                  After imbibing a pitcher of punch, and appointing a night on which to meet there again, the friends separated.
               
               
                  SCENE TWENTIETH.
                  CAROLINA in her sleeping apartment-an hour later than the time that witnessed the 
                        ctose
                        close
                      of the previous scene.
                  She is reposing upon a splendid couch, but is restless and uneasy, and there is an expression of anguish upon her pale, very pale features.
                  There is no light within the room, save that given by the moon, which is sending its bright rays in at a window near her, the shutters of which she had opened to admit the air.
                  Her mother suddenly enters, and bends over her ere she is aware of her presence.
                  'Are you not better now?' she asked, tenderly smoothing the hair back from her classical brow, and kissing her with all the warmth of a fond mother who dotes upon a beautiful daughter.
                  'Yes, mother, somewhat better; but I still feel very weak. I have been asleep a few moments, and have had a strange, strange dream.'
                  'What was it, my child?'
                  'I dreamed that I was lying here very sick and feeble, when you came to me with some medicine and desired to have me take it, assuring me that it would do me good. I drank it, 
                        snd
                        and
                      composed myself to sleep. In a few moments I 
                        fet
                        felt
                      a raging thirst, my blood seemed on fire, and coursed through my veins like molten lava.
                  'I became alarmed, and knowing that you had lain down near me, I turned towards you and endeavored to call you by name. No sound could I utter-my speech seemed to have totally deserted me.
                  'This was, most certainly, a very strange and uncommon occurrence, and it rendered me highly excited. I strove by all means in my power to speak, but could not-nought disturbed the silence that reigned throughout the room.
                  'I thought that hour after hour thus passed away. During this time I continued my exertions to reveal my situation to yon, but you still slept on, while more intense became my pain and my sufferings. At last I fell asleep.
                  'I was awakened by feeling your warm tears upon my cheeks. It was no difficult matter for me to realize that you were weeping over me; but when I attempted to throw my arms around your neck, I found, to 
                        my my
                        my
                      horror, that I was incapable of moving them.
                  'I then endeavored to call you by name, but could not give utterance to a single syllable!
                  'Imagine my consternation, my alarm and surprise, when I learned, from your prayers to God, and incoherent murmurs, that you deemed me dead.
                  'I was in a trance-I felt assured of this-but you and all of our friends thought that life had departed.
                  It was not long before I recognized the voices of some of our acquaintances, who were asking to see the corpse; and then an awful truth was revealed to my horror-stricken soul,-I was robed in my shroud, and ready for interment.
                  'As you removed the linen from my face to afford my friends a view of it, I endeavored to give you some token of my existence; but could not. Friend after friend entered, and soon, full soon, I became aware that they came to attend my funeral.
                  'No one can imagine the agony of mind I suffered, while listening to my funeral sermon-no one can surmise the emotions that flitted over my soul, as my friends bade me a last, sorrowful farewell, and the lid was closed down upon me.
                  'Then the coffin was placed in the hearse and borne away. I need not dwell upon the painful scene. I was perfectly conscious of everything that was transpiring around me, and though I raved and struggled in my confinement, you heard me not, and they bore me on, on!
                  'The grave was reached at last, and after due ceremony, I was lowered therein. Yes, despite my cries, my shrieks, prayers and entreaties they shovelled the cold earth in upon my coffin, and then I knew it was my destiny to be BURIED ALIVE!
                  'The thought was too terrible, and with a start of horror, I awoke.'
                  'Oh, what a fearful dream,' murmured her mother, as she paused. After the lapse of a moment, she added,-
                  'You are nervous and agitated, and it is time for you to take a portion of the medicine Dr. Richland prepared.'
                  As she uttered this remark, she took a cup containing some dark colored liquid, from off a stand near the head of the bed, and assisting her to arise, presented it to her lips.-Carolina drank as much as was necessary, and then composed herself to sleep; while Mrs. Raymond threw herself upon the couch by her side. In ten minutes both were asleep.
                  And in ten minutes, with slow and cautious footsteps, Daring entered in at the door leading from the hall.
                  The rays of the moon were bright enough to reveal his countenance, which, though somewhat paler than usual and expressive of anxiety, was stamped with the stern lines of energy and resolution.
                  He paused, and for a moment gazed steadily upon the sleepers. All was quiet and still-the ticking of a clock alone disturbed the silence.
                  A smile of satisfaction darted over his visage with the rapidity of lightning, as he observed the cup of medicine, which was standing upon the stand. The sight of it told him that he could readily pour some of the poison therein, and escape unobserved and undetected, leaving it to be taken at the hour when it was proper for her to take another portion of medicine.
                  Determined to execute the deed he had engaged to commit if possible, he moved noiselessly forward; pausing not until he stood beside the stand, when he drew the vial from his vest pocket. He had previously taken the precaution to loosen the cork, and he now removed it without difficulty.
                  'I will administer but a few drops this time, and see what effect that has;' was his soliloquy, as he held the vial over the fatal cup. The next moment a few drops of the deadly poison was added to its contents, and Daring retired from the room. Again had ignorance become the tool of cunning.
                  
                  'Carolina, my daughter, it is time for you to take the remainder of this medicine,' said Mrs. Raymond, gently shaking her, after both had lain there something more than an hour after Daring's departure. Mrs. Raymond was very precise and punctual in her habits, and this accounts for her sudden awakening at that hour.
                  Carolina started up, and received the cup from her hand.
                  'Drink it all-there is none too much to take at once,' said her mother.
                  The cup was emptied, and the maiden sank back upon her pillow, all unconscious of the death that lurked in that draught.
                  And here let us pause, skipping over the events of several days. The events of our story now centre upon a single point. Guilt and crime seem about to achieve a conquest over innocence and purity; but though dark the hour that lowers upon the lovers and their friends, let the reader remember that there is a God of right and justice-one who will reward the good and punish the bad.
                  Leaving the poison to use its deadly powers, we will gaze upon another scene in our revelation of life as it is.
               
               
                  SCENE TWENTY-FIRST-
                  ONE of the most appalling in our terrible life-drama-is now before the reader. Like some gigantic panorama-the scenes of which are continually changing, one after another appearing in rapid succession-does our picture of city mysteries and miseries move on.
                  It was four days later.
                  Night-and a glorious night had robed the world in its silvery veil-the hour was twelve. Brightly gleamed the moon and stars above, clothing all things below in a sparkling hue, while grandeur and quietude seemed beautifully 
                        comminglod
                        commingled
                      in the scene.
                  All was fair and bright without, but dark and chilling are the mysteries to which we must turn within.
                  With a saddened heart and tearful eye, let us enter a room in which an awful sanctity ever reigns-one which ever calls up reflections upon life, death and eternity,-The Death-room!
                  
                  Reader of mine! amidst the many painful sights it has been my lot to witness, there is none which can so grasp, with icy hands, as it were, the feeling of the heart, as the hour and scene of midnight in the room of death!
                  
                  It is a dreary, mystical, almost appalling duty, for one who is naturally superstitious, to sit by the corpse of a loved one-one who, a few hours previous, was in the enjoyment of life and health, and whose death has been so sudden and unexpected, that the consciousness of it seems like some dark phantom of a disordered brain rather than a reality-an almost appalling duty, I say, to sit by all that remains of the loved and lost one, hour after hour in the oppressive silence, where you hear nothing save your own breathing, the ticking of the clock, the murmuring of the breeze without, and, perchance, 
                        the the
                        the
                      mournful chirping of a cricket upon the hearth.
                  Then it is that your mind assumes a strange power-that is, if you are of a thoughtful and imaginative turn-and you think of a thousand different things that would never be thought of under any other circumstances.-Through the shadowy curtain that veils the pall, and over the tablets of the heart, comes the remembrance of many a scene of bye-gone days, which qualified by your situation, stands out in bold relief, and you remember every feature of each occurrence with a wondrous distinctness.
                  Pursuing this train of thought still farther, as the live-long hours wear slowly away, and the profound silence that pervades the room, causes you to relapse into a dreamy reverie, you almost fancy that the room is filled with ten thousand fantastic shapes; images from the past, with whom the flickering rays of the light dance in noiseless harmony, until the magical circle is completed, when round and round flit these fairy-like creations of a spellbound, almost enchanted imagination; while each shade, each dark-angle upon the walls around, seems to be covered with the dusky wings of the death-angel.
                  Especially is this true, if you really believe that the spirits of the dead can come back and hold communion with the living-and many such there are at the present day. Under the influence of this feeling, unless you are endowed with an extraordinary degree of firmness, the slightest noise causes you to start-even the first stroke of the hour sends a quickening thrill through your veins, and every moment is fraught with direst apprehension.
                  
                  But back from this digression to the death room within the mansion of the Raymonds. It is a terrible scene-one to awaken the most agonizing emotions of the soul.
                  Pale, pale! yet beautiful in its whitened shroud, lay the death-cold form of Carolina Raymond!
                  The eyes which had often beamed so mildly, so lovingly upon Elbert Richland, were now closed in death; the lips which had but lately been pressed to his own in the sacred kisses of love, were now cold and pale, and that beauteous form stiff and motionless.
                  She was not alone.
                  Bending over the remains of the lost, the once loving and beloved, was her lover, Dr. Richland.
                  His heart alone knew the agony that rankled therein, as he realized that the one he had loved so fondly had gone to the spirit-world. It would have chilled your heart, could you have seen him bend down over all that remained of the one so madly loved, fervently kiss those cold lips, and murmur in a whisper of misery, while hot, scalding tears coursed down his cheeks,-
                  'Carolina, loved and lost!-O God, come back-back to me!'
                  It was a living death for him to stand there and realize that the vestal fires of love, once all so gloriously burning, were quenched by death-that some dark fatality had conspired to blast his happiness at the moment when all seemed as fair and glorious as the dawning of a cloudless summer day-that the light of his soul was extinguished forever, and that, henceforth, it was his destiny to meet the future in loneliness, without the love and encouragement of the one he had 
                        couated
                        
                      as all fondly his own.
                  Oh, terrible were his thoughts, as he stood there in that indistinctly lighted room of death, oppressed with the consciousness that Carolina must soon be forever hid from his view, in the cold, cold tomb.
                  His sobs alone disturbed the appalling silence that hung ominously over the scene, until the clock upon the mantle-piece told him that the hour of midnight had come.
                  As the last stroke died away upon the air, the door leading from the hall was slowly and silently opened, and Count le Chandau entered.
                  Desperate and devilish was the expression that rested upon his face-one of fiendish triumph and malignancy, and his hand trembled strangely upon the hilt of a heavy knife, as he thus unceremoniously entered, and bent a passionate glance upon the bereaved lover.
                  Never before this hour have we seen Norand le Chandau upon the point of exhibiting his real nature, and therefore we never have before seen the look of crime and villainy which now shrouded his brow, and showed him to be a scoundrel of the deepest dye.
                  The change was complete! The evil passions of the Count's character were now in the ascendant, and he stood unmasked, a villain, by nature and tuition.
                  Dr. Richland started back at beholding the intruder, deeply surprised, as well he might be, considering the lateness of the hour and the nature of the scene.
                  The Count moved forward and stood by his side, while his dark eyes shot forth the fierce 
                        aud
                        and
                      fiery passions that raged in his heart.
                  'Your Carolina is dead!' he muttered, in a voice of mockery, which harrowed up anew the grief of the bereaved.
                  'Leave me!' commanded Elbert, with all the sternness he could assume at the moment.
                  'Gently!' said his unwelcome visitor, with a bitter smile; 'do not needlessly alarm or excite yourself.
                  'But what means this intrusion, sir? A decent respect for the sacredness of grief should have taught you better than thus to intrude at this hour-especially after 
                        what what
                        what
                      has passed.'
                  'I do not happen to have a decent respect for yourself; if so, it is counteracted by the hate I bear you. As for the intrusion, THIS gives me permission to go and come, when and where I please.'
                  And he laid his hand upon his weapon, significantly, regarding the other the while with a most evil expression of countenance.
                  'If there is the least particle of manly principle in your heart, I appeal to it to be left alone. Your presence is unwelcome here.'
                  'I am well aware of that fact, but what then?'
                  Dr. Richland was astonished and angered by his heartless impudence, and for an instant, forgot his grief in the feeling of resentment that arose within him.
                  'This is no time for such deportment as this. If you really bear me any ill will, wait upon me at a proper time, and I assure you that the matter shall be satisfactorily settled.'
                  'I have nothing to settle with you-I never saw you before in the world to my recollection; but I know that you are-or, rather, was-the intended husband of Carolina-the one now lying dead before us. That fact accounts for the present hatred I bear to you.'
                  'How so?'
                  'I once loved her,' said the Count, huskily, 
                        ane
                        and
                      he laid his hand impressively upon her snow-white arms; 'and might have married her, had it not been for you. It is true that I sought her at first with mercenary motives, but I was awakened from my false hopes of a union with her, and then I 
                        beeame
                        became
                      conscious that I loved her. I swore not to resign her to another-swore that she should be mine; but you and death have prevented me from keeping the oath so determinedly sworn. She is lost to you and me, but knowing that you have caused her death and my disappointment, I hate you!'
                  And the words were spoken with a demon's venom.
                  'I must repeat my desire to be left alone; but first I must ask you the meaning of your statement, when you say that I caused her death?'
                  'I mean exactly as I say. As you crossed my path, I swore you should not long enjoy the society of the one you loved. I have kept that oath-she is dead, you are miserable, and I am the cause of it all. I hired an assassin to poison her.'
                  Dr. Richland seized him by the throat, while his face became dark and fearful in its expression.
                  'Is this true? If so, I will slay you as I would a viper.
                  The Count shook off his 
                        gtasp
                        grasp
                      almost 
                        as as
                        as
                      easily as he would have that of a child, and replied,-
                  'True it is. I am doomed-I know it-have known it-but I have been most fearfully avenged upon you, and shall die contented, as far as that is concerned.'
                  As he spoke, he parried a frenzied blow from the other, and returned it with one that felled him senseless to the floor.
                  Bending down over him, he was about to sheathe his knife in his heart, when a shriek resounded throughout the room, and Mrs. Raymond tottered towards him, having been attracted thither by the sound of their voices.
                  'Detected" was the only exclamation uttered by the Count, and he darted to the door and out of the room.
                  
                  A moment later he was in the street, where we will leave him for the present.
               
               
                  SCENE TWENTY-SECOND-
                  Occurred in the same hour. At the very instant the Count hastened down the steps of Mr. Raymond's mansion, a small boat was moored off the end of one of the many piers that jut out into the North River, in the vicinity of Battery-place.
                  A single person was seated in the centre of it,-a man whose age might have been set down by an observer much older than he really was; for the disguise he had assumed gave to him an antiquated appearance. His dress, and the situation in which we find him, would lead us to suppose that he is a fisherman, a boatman, or 
                        semething
                        something
                      of that kind; and that he is waiting for some passenger whom he has engaged to carry across the river. This inference is in part correct.
                  'It is time that he were here,' he soliloquised, after climbing upon the spiles, and glancing up and down the wharf without observing a human being. 'I hope I may not be deprived of the pleasure of meeting him this night.'
                  
                  'Ha, ha! I will triumph yet,' muttered, a few moments later, Norand le Chandau, the mock-Count, who was standing on the wharf, within ten rods of him in the boat, but where he was concealed from his view by a pile of crockery crates.
                  He had just come down the street, and as he speaks these words in a tone of exaltation-while his eye sparkles with triumph-he turns towards the city.
                  'I am about to leve New York forever, he continues, after a pause of a moment; 'and have prepared everything for my flight into some of the middle or southern states, where I shall be safe. Unless the man whom I have engaged to ferry me across to the Jersey shore fails to keep his appointment, I shall be many miles away from the theatre of my late crimes, and, I hope, beyond any chance of arrest. Yes, I will triumph; I will set Jean Harra's power at nought, escape his threatened vengeance, and 
                        bafflle
                        baffle
                      the almost infernal cunning he has used to follow me thus far.-What care I, though I am a felon, a convict, and a murderer? Nothing! It is enough for me to know that I never yet was crossed without having revenge.
                  'But time flies on-I will now seek the boat that is to bear me to a place of safety.'
                  He turned upon his heel, and moved slowly down the wharf.
                  
                  'The cursed liar and villain! to deceive me thus in reference to the nature of that liquid, and make me a murderer, an outcast, one to be classed with criminals, and one to be hunted down like a mad dog for crimes planned by another. Oh, curse him,-I will yet be revenged.'
                  Upon one corner of the wharf, upon the 
                        opposise
                        opposite
                      side of the slip, stood the last speaker-another of our actors-Daring, who was gazing upon the glassy waves that rolled up beneath his feet; while an expression of despair and misery enshrouded his face.
                  'I only ask to meet him once more. I am aroused, and no longer the dupe, the tool I was four days ago. If ever I meet him again I will shoot him as readily as I would a serpent that had bitten me-'
                  He checked himself, involuntarily started forward a step or two, and gazed earnestly across the slip; for he noticed the Count, who had now reached the edge of the wharf and was conversing with the man in the boat.
                  'By heavens! that's him!' he added, a moment later, as a hot flush of rage sprang up to his visage.
                  He had indeed recognized the Count, and the instant he was satisfied of his identity, he moved hurriedly up towards the street, muttering,-
                  'I will go down upon the other wharf and intercept him.'
                  He was too late, however, to execute this resolution in full, for the Count sprang into the boat and was rowed away by the man we have seen therein, ere the excited young man had arrived upon the pier from whence he departed.
                  The boat was some twelve or fifteen rods distant, heading for Jersey City, by the time he reached the head of the wharf; and he was so overcome with emotion and disappointment at not being able to overtake the fugitive, that he was hardly capable of action or thought.
                  The sight of a boat moored to a pile near him, inspired him with renewed energy and activity.
                  In a moment he had sprung into it, broke the padlock, seized the oars, and was following on in the direction taken by the others.
                  The rower was seated in the centre of the boat-the Count astern.
                  There was a strange expression upon the features of the former, and he slily watched his companion with an interest that could not have been explained by one unaware of the relation in which they stood to each other.
                  He suddenly ceased rowing, and glanced apprehensively astern.
                  Something had evidently attracted his attention in that direction, and he soon moved to the other's side, saying,-
                  'Do you not see that boat in the gloom, astern of us? Somebody from the city is following us.'
                  Now, if the truth must be told, the speaker did not see the boat that actually was following them; but spoke thus to attract the Count's attention in that direction, that he might execute the finale of the plan he had so daringly contrived, and, thus far, successfully carried out.
                  The remark rendered the one to whom it was addressed, intensely excited, and he turned his face towards the city he had just left, with the expectation of seeing the police in pursuit of him,
                  The moment he was thus occupied, the boatman struck him a blow under the right ear, that rendered him insensible, and he fell back into his arms.
                  Scarcely another instant passed ere he drew a pair of wrist-cuffs from under the seat, and placed them upon the wrists of the Count.-This done, he passed a stout cord round his ancles, thus binding him as it were, hand and foot, when he returned to the centre of the boat, and seated himself as deliberately and coolly as if nothing unusual had occurred.
                  The current of the river was running rapidly, and the boat was borne rapidly down with it.
                  Daring did not observe this fact, and naturally enough supposing that those of whom he was in pursuit would take a straight course for the opposite city, he continued to row on in that direction, soon leaving them behind him.
                  A few moments only passed ere the Count recovered his consciousness. The dashing of the waves against the boat was the first thing he realized.
                  Then he felt 
                        thh
                        the
                      irons upon his wrists-then the cords around his limbs; and terrible was the intonation of alarm that rankled in his voice, as he shouted,-
                  'If there is any one near me, for the love ef Heaven tell me where I am, and the meaning of this attack. I would know the horrible ble mystery of my present position-where am I?'
                  'In the power of your dreaded foe,' was the instantaneous response, uttered by a voice that had long, long before been seared upon the heart of that trembling wretch in characters of blood.
                  There was no response to this-to the Count-appalling revelation.
                  His inveterate enemy moved towards him, and bent down over his prostrate form, when he saw that he was as senseless as one stricken by lightning. The fearful truth had been too much for him to endure, and retain his 
                        conciousness
                        consciousness
                     .
                  Jean Harra-for he it was-returned to his seat and calmly waited for nature to effect the restoration of the one he had now gotten so completely in his power, and the one he had hated for years with an intensity of passion the pen has not the power to reveal.
                  It was not long before a groan of anguish, both of mind and body, announced that the 
                        feculties
                        faculties
                     , paralyzed by the realization of the dark fatality that had lowered upon his existence, were beginning to resume their sway, and as soon as Harra became aware of this, he moved towards him and assisted him to arise to his seat.
                  Misery and despair were blended in the light of his eye. He 
                        etsayed
                        essayed
                      to speak; but no sound came forth from his lips. He could only gaze horror-struck upon the countenance of the avenging being before him.
                  'So, we have met again, at last!' remarked his vengeful enemy, and his eyes gleamed with the exciting feelings he bore him.
                  'Met! yes, oh, God! a dark fatality has placed me in your power.'
                  'Nevermore to escape me!'
                  'Monster, what mean you?'
                  'I mean, that the hour of retribution is at hand. You will never live to commit another such a murder as that which has stained your hand and heart during the last four days!'
                  'I did not take her life-none would have known that there was any unnatural agency in her death, for she was poisoned!'
                  'By one whom you deceived in reference to the poison given him; and though your own hand did not do the deed, you are no less her murderer, since you planned the deed that robbed her of life. Ah! the hour has come-the hour has come!'
                  His voice trembled with emotion as he said this: but it was yet stern and determined.
                  'You thought that you was about to escape. Ah! ha! little did you count upon being thus interrupted by your tireless, sleepless enemy: or little did you think that the little old man who engaged to carry you across the river, was myself; but so it is: and I have taken this method to consummate my vengeance!'
                  'And you intend to carry me back, deliver me up to the officers of justice and consign me to an ignominious death upon the scaffold!'
                  A smile of exultation passed over Jean Harra's countenance, and bending down still nearer to his victim, he hissed back in reply,-
                  'I intend to do nothing of the kind-my hate would not allow of that: but I do intend to avenge the death of IOLA, my only sister, and the noblest friend God ever gave to me! For years have I been ruled by this determination; and you can readily understand that I shall not place my vengeance in other hands. I court the deed too much myself for that. My own right hand shall end your existence!'
                  The words were spoken in a low, calm voice, but one expressive of resolution, and it carried conviction to the heart of his terribly-aroused listener.
                  'And you will murder me this night?' he ejaculated in a voice of awful anxiety: and he regarded his foe with a look of horror, one similar to that a condemned victim would naturally bestow upon the guillotine.
                  Crashing home to his guilty heart came the response,-
                  'I shall!'
                  The emphasis he bestowed upon that reply, was convincing. The Count reeled upon his seat-his eyes were dilated with horror and desperation-and his lips quivered with the excess of his emotion.
                  'Is there no mercy-can I offer no atonement?' he asked, imploringly.
                  'None whatever!'
                  Strangely situated as regards each other were the actors now before the reader, inasmuch as one was determined to take the other's life. Like all terrible vengeances of the kind, wrong was at the bottom of it all.'
                  'None whatever!' repeated the Count, vacantly, and his heart sank within him, as he encountered the withering glance of the other. His feelings were those of a man who experiences that certain death is staring him in the face, and that the avengement of years of misery is about to take place.
                  'Listen, Norand le Chandau, while I tell you your fate!' said Harra, in a tone of deep feeling, and one that echoed strangely over the waters of the bay. 'Five nights ago, I told you that you had but nine days to live, and God knows that I did not warn you thus unmeaningly. I would have spared you until that time, were it not for the commission of this new and damning crime, and for your present attempt to escape from the city; but as I have now gotten you so completely in my power, and as the present hour affords a good opportunity for me to execute my plans, I will take good care that you never return to the shore we have just left!'
                  Almost simultaneously with the conclusion of the last sentence, the flash of a pistol illuminated the scene around the boat, and then its heavy report disturbed the silence that reigned over the waters.
                  Jean Harra started up with a cry of pain and surprise, and placed his hand upon his forehead, from whence the warm blood was issuing, running down his cheeks and almost blinding him; but as quick as 
                        thonght
                        thought
                      he comprehended the daring attack the other had made upon his life, and the next instant he struck him a powerful blow full in the face, which felled him headlong into the centre of the boat.
                  The Count had drawn his pistol slowly and unobservedly from his bosom, while the other was speaking, and had aimed it at his heart and fired, but such was his haste and trepidation, that the direction of the death-dealing weapon was varied, and the ball evidently missed its mark, but inflicted a severe wound upon the left temple of him for whom it was intended.
                  The next instant Harra secured the discharged pistol, and also a knife the Count was in the habit of carrying. These he threw overboard, and then, while a vow of resolution escaped his lips, there came a startling era in this night's scene.
                  For, from under the seat in the centre of the boat, he drew forth an iron weight, which must have weighed an hundred pounds, and to a ring 
                        io
                        to
                      one end of this, he soon attached a stout cord he produced. The other end of this cord was then passed around the lower limbs of the insensible Count, and securely tied.
                  After this ominous transaction had thus been 
                        exected
                        executed
                     , he produced another cord with which he bound the victim's arms securely together, and in such a manner that no liberty whatever was allowed them.
                  His next movement was to bind a handkerchief around his own brow to stop the effusion of blood from the wound he had received.
                  
                  The blood had trickled down over his face and bosom, and in connection with his pale face, presented a ghastly and unearthly expression.
                  The Count at last recovered.
                  'I have failed,' he muttered as soon as he could speak, 'and all is lost! The last hope has departed, and I must now meet my doom. O God! it is fearful for the crimes of a life-time to become centered in a single thought-that of death, sudden, violent and instantaneous death.'
                  He started up into a sitting posture, and glared wildly around.
                  The cord around his arms was drawn tight, and soon attracted his attention, causing a groan to spring up to his lips.
                  He next observed the iron weight; but no words of ours can reveal the terror and despair it inspired him with at the moment he realized that it was attached to himself.
                  The damning truth soon burst upon his mental vision in all its terrible reality, and it seemed as if it would crush the very life from his wildly-throbbing heart:
                  'Demon of avengement! man of fiendish malignancy! for what is that iron weight designed?'
                  There was no need of a reply-his own heart told him the fearful use for which it was intended-but preceded by a laugh of exultation, came this response,-
                  ''Tis to drag thee down, down to a grave beneath the waters-ha! ha!-and THIS is the doom prepared for thee by the avenger of Iola!'
                  The miserable victim groaned aloud in his agony-then he cursed-next he prayed-and then he wept! The doom seemed a foretaste of the retribution his crimes were to undergo in hell.
                  Dark as a stormy midnight in the lowest dungeon of an inquisition-prison, was the visage of the avenger, as he calmly regarded his victim. There was no mercy in his eyes: they gleamed with the light only given by a 
                        mercilsss
                        merciless
                      determination of revenge.
                  'Norand le Chandau! pray to God for mercy, but not to me. He may pardon you, but I shall not. Pray-pray! villain!-for in ten minutes, your soul will be in eternity!'
                  The appalled victim reeled to and fro like a reed in a gale. Fraught with misery was the voice that shrieked,-
                  'Spare me-for God's sake! spare me a little longer! Grant me a respite-a week, a day, or at least a few hours, in which I may make my peace with heaven!'
                  'Profane not that sacred name!' responded Harra, in a bitter voice-then adding, in a denunciatory voice-'He that in time is a murderer, a cowardly woman-murderer, shall be a demon in eternity! But, pray! pray! your last moment on earth is fearfully near!'
                  'Spare me-spare me!' he gasped.
                  'Not but five minutes longer!' was the response, as his repeater struck one.
                  Even as he spoke, he seized the weight and lowered it over the side of the boat into the water! A yell of horror from the victim succeeded this movement, and it was repeated as he felt that his limbs were supporting the whole weight of that fatal mass of iron!
                  'God of mercy!' he shrieked-'it is dragging me out of the boat!'
                  'Ha! ha!' laughed Jean Harra, with an intonation of devilish exultation, and he laid a hand menacingly upon the shoulder of his victim. 'Ha! ha! this is the hour of my triumph-HER avengement!' and the words echoed in his ears as ominously as would have the hiss of a COBRA DI CAPELLO, and as forewarning of death.
                  Another cry for mercy escaped the Count-then the stern grasp of his merciless foe was upon his arm.
                  'Hark ye, Norand le Chandau! your last moment has arrived! Overboard you must go!'
                  The Count shrieked for mercy-it was of no avail. He struggled with the mad energy of despair-his efforts were as powerless as those of a child. Those strong arms forced him into the water. An incoherent appeal to Heaven escaped him-then his hands were loosened from the side of the boat-the iron weight dragged him down, down beneath the whirling waves, and their noisy dashing, as they rolled on above him, was the requiem of his doom!
                  
                  The terrible scene did not end here-strange and complicated were the events that were destined to succeed the thrilling occurrences of the last half hour.
                  For a moment the avenger stood there, calmly regarding the surface of the water, beneath which his victim had disappeared-a smile of satisfaction playing upon his features the while.
                  'Iola!' he murmured, in a voice of bitter sadness, 'thou art most justly, yet terribly avenged.'
                  The next moment he seized the oars and slowly rowed towards the city.
                  The current had been running strongly during the time he was conversing with the fated Count; and the boat was now opposite Governor's island.
                  Ten minutes later he stood upon the wharf from which he had departed with the victim. He found the owner of the boat there, awaiting his return.
                  Placing a half-eagle in his hand, he moved up the wharf towards the street, murmuring,
                  'Would to God that I had been so fortunate as to prevent the lady from becoming the victim of his fiendish desires for revenge.'
                  Hardly had he disappeared ere Daring rowed up to the wharf, having returned from his unsuccessful pursuit of the fugitives.-Securing the boat to the spile from which he had detached it, he, too, moved away.
                  He, in turn, was followed by the owner of the boat used by Harra, and for a short space of time after his retreating footsteps ceased to echo upon the air, silence reigned.
                  Suddenly there was a splash in the water underneath the edge of the pier, and soon after a chuckling laugh was heard.
                  It was repeated, and then up on a spile clambered the dusky form of a man!
               
               
                  SCENE TWENTY-THIRD.
                  The little room in the rear of Mrs. Selgin's groggery. It is about fifteen 
                        minuits
                        minutes
                      later, and we now find Daring and his particular friend seated here, the former having first entered.
                  A suspicious looking black bottle stands before them, from which they, from time to time, replenish their tumblers with a still more suspicious looking liquid.
                  'Daring,' said the latter, after he had emptied his glass at a single draught, 'what is the matter with you, my boy. You seems to be excited about something.'
                  'A man who is guilty of murder has reason to be excited.'
                  'What mean you?'
                  Daring now proceeded to relate the circumstances of Carolina's death.
                  As he concluded, with a detailed account of his own agency in the matter, a strange smile stole over 
                        Biil's
                        Bill's
                      features, and he laconically muttered,-
                  'Sold-sold to crime.'
                  'And death!' added Daring, bitterly,-'The blood-hounds of the law will soon be upon my track, and I am a murderer, whose fate is the gallows.'
                  These words were uttered in a desponding voice, and an expression of reckless despair appeared upon his features.
                  'Do not be discouraged-Bill is still true to you,' said that personage, in a voice meant to be encouraging. 'Try some more brandy and shake off the fears which have come over you. Remember I am true to you.'
                  'But what can that fact do towards extricating me from the cursed pit into which the Count-may I live to meet him!-has led me? A satisfactory answer to that question may do much towards dissipating the gloomy mist which now lowers ominously upon the future.'
                  'Perhaps I can do much for your benefit at just this present time. At least, if you place 
                        yourrelf
                        yourself
                      under my care and guidance, I will guarantee that you are not arrested for the crime of which you have inadvertently become guilty.'
                  'Then, in Heaven's name! if you really see any mode by which I can surmount these dangers, reveal it: for this suspense is far from agreeable.
                  'The secret is comprehended in one word,-concealment. If seen abroad and recognized, you will most certainly be arrested for trial, and, under the circumstances, it would be a difficult matter for you to get clear; therefore you must secrete yourself.'
                  'Where?'
                  'Not far from your present whereabouts,' responded Bill, with a smile that contained volumes of meaning, as he glanced significantly at the trap through which we have previously seen them descend to the vaults.
                  A strange thought arose at this juncture in Bill's heart, and for the space of three minutes he mused upon it, then turning to his companion, he said,-
                  'Perhaps our fears and cautions are all groundless. She may be buried without a suspicion that poison caused her death. If so, you can still continue in the service of Mr. Raymond.'
                  'But it very often happens that suspicions arise several days after the burial, and that the grave is opened.'
                  'True, but this need not cause you any uneasiness, as I will take measures to prevent her from bearing witness against you.'
                  'How?'
                  'Let the scenes of to-morrow night answer-'
                  He paused, for, at this instant. the door leading from the front room opened and, preceded by Mrs. Selgin, a large, broad shouldered, heavily built man entered. His featured were covered with black crape.
                  'Is not that a police officer in disguise, who has come to arrest me?' muttered Daring in a whisper, as his heart quickened its beatings.
                  Bill smiled, and pressing the arm of his friend, bade him,-
                  'Listen and observe.'
                  The intruder moved forward and wheeled the table off from the trap.
                  Mrs. Selgin instantly grasped the iron ring and raised the door, evidently with the intention of admitting him to the vaults beneath. For a moment he bent a stern look upon the countenance of Daring, and then he disappeared, descending the ladder.
                  He was immediately followed by another man, dressed in the same manner, who also passed down into the subterranean apartment beneath.
                  In this manner half a dozen unknown and disguised persons passed through the scuttle, one after another, in as many minutes.
                  'Will you disguise yourself in a manner similar to that of the man now passing before you, and accompany me into the vault in which they are collecting?' asked Bill.
                  'For what purpose?'
                  'To understand what is now a mystery to you-the cause of their appearance there at this late hour. It will be a scene worthy of your attention.'
                  'I had rather not behold it-I cannot forget how painful to me were the events I witnessed the night we visited the vaults.'
                  'I shall have to leave you alone, then, for an hour or so, as it is my duty to attend the meeting. Mrs. Selgin will conduct you to another room, where you will be safe until I return. I must now disguise myself and join the persons who have just passed before us.'
                  Moving forward, he spoke a few words to Mrs. S. concerning his companion, and then he retired from the room.
                  In a few moments he returned so completely disguised in a suit of black, that Daring did not recognize him. His face, like those of his predecessors, was hidden by a crape veil.
                  He descended to the vaults and 
                        thiiher
                        thither
                      we will soon follow him.
                  
                  It was at the same hour. Dr. Richland was seated in his private room, having but just left the death 
                        cold cold
                        cold
                      form of the one who for years had been the guiding star of his existence.
                  'To-morrow then wilt be buried,' he muttered, abstractedly, in a voice that trembled with emotion, and he gazed upon a likeness of the loved and lost. 'In the cold tomb wilt thou be laid, and I shall see thee no more until we are reunited in the spirit world. Ah, Carolina! can I live without thee?
                  A young man of twenty-one who is studying with him, suddenly enters.
                  Compliments are exchanged-then the student seats himself and remarks,-
                  'I have been abed and asleep for several hours; but as I happened to awake and remember that this is the night you set apart, which to meet the body-snatchers, I thought I would arise and come and see if you had forgotten it.'
                  'No; I have thought of the engagement several times during the evening; but cannot think of visiting them to-night.'
                  'I thought as much; but why cannot I go, and answer all purposes.'
                  'I presume you can, if you are willing to do so. You know what price to pay, what kind of a 'subject' I want, and how to conduct the whole matter.'
                  'I flatter myself that I do; and if you will resign the matter completely to me, I will secure you one by to-morrow night at this time.'
                  'Then, to your attention do I resign the whole affair.'
                  'Very well, I will see that my duty is rigidly executed. It is getting somewhat late, and I must now depart for the secret rendezvous!' responded the student, arising.
                  In a moment he was in the street hurrying away.
               
               
                  SCENE TWENTY-FOURTH.
                  THE vault in which we saw the negro Bubo pursuing his dreaded occupation. Fifteen minutes have passed. The night wears on, and soon will it be two o'clock.
                  A strange scene is that now presented to the reader.
                  A large lamp has been suspended by a cord to the arch over the centre of the vault, and its rays, though dim and flickering, reveal the dusky forms of a score of men, all of whom are disguised in the manner of those whom we saw pass into the vaults. The features of all are unobservable-all are seated in a circle around the gloomy apartment-and all are silent and motionless.
                  Viewed thus by the uncertain light, they seem like a band of demons, called together in council.
                  But they are not fiends-no, about half of them are physicians, and the remainder are body-snatchers.
                  
                  The object which has brought them together is readily apparent. The former have come to purchase bodies and skeletons of the latter.
                  Shudder not at these mysteries and iniquities, reader-we do not reveal one half of the horrid realities that actually exist.
                  We need not detail the conversation of each of the party, inasmuch as that of two of them will be a fair sample of the whole.
                  In one corner we behold two persons conversing. They are both disguised, but as an impartial historian, we will take the liberty to penetrate their disguises and unveil them as they are-Bill and Dr. Richland's student, Charles Leton.
                  'I desire to bargain for the corpse of a lady-one young and beautiful, if it is possible for you to secure such an one,' said Leton.
                  'I think I can suit you,' responded Bill, as a strange light appeared in his eyes. 'A lady, one scarcely seventeen years of age died yesterday, and as I know the exact spot where she is to be buried, it will not be a difficult matter for us to 'snatch' her for you.'
                  'But the price-'
                  'Will be something extra, as she will be such a glorious subject for the knife We shall ask you three hundred dollars.'
                  Leton was familiar enough 
                        wiih
                        with
                      the principles and proceedings of the band to know that it would avail nothing to dispute the price, or endeavor to make him state a lower price, and therefore he closed the bargain by agreeing to count him the money the instant the prize was placed in his possession.
                  'To-morrow night, at this time, you will find the body here,' said Bill; 'but you must be very cautious in visiting us. We intend to secure ten or a dozen subjects to-morrow night, all of which will be engaged to those around you. Remember the caution, and do not fail to be here about two hours after midnight.
                  The student nodded assent, and immediately arose and retired.
                  We will leave each of the assembled company to transact their business, and skip over the remainder of the night's plottings.
               
               
                  SCENE TWENTY-FIFTH.
                  A panoramic one, opens with a view of Trinity church-yard.
                  Nearly twenty-four hours have passed since Charles Leton, the student, left the secret rendezvous of the body-snatchers,-midnight of the day succeeding has arrived.
                  Three dusky forms were crouching behind a tomb-stone, not more than four rods from the church. A curtain of clouds was veiling the diadem of the sky, the moon and stars, and a darkened light was that shed upon the scene; but yet it was sufficient to reveal the actors now before the reader. One was Bill, the second Daring, and the third the gigantic negro, Bubo.
                  Each was armed with a heavy knife, and by their side lay a short heavy iron bar. In silence they crouched there for a few moments listening to the footsteps of an occasional passer, the sighing of the wind, and every incidental sound that came to their ears.
                  'Hist!' muttered Bill, glancing apprehensively towards the fence in front of them, as the echo of heavy footsteps disturbed the ominous silence that brooded over the 'city of the dead.'
                  They listened; but soon the footsteps died away in the distance.
                  'He has passed on,' said Daring in a whisper fraught with an intonation of anxiety.
                  'Let us remain quiet a moment longer;" responded Bill-"we must be sure that there is no one observing us ere we commence operations.
                  They listened, perhaps, for two minutes, but nothing suspicious could be heard or seen.
                  'We are not watched-of that I feel assured-and now we will proceed to business;' remarked Bill at length. 'Take the bar, Bubo, and we will proceed.'
                  With this remark, he moved cautiously forward, closely followed by his two companions. A few rods were thus passed over in silence, and they stood in the rear of the church.
                  'We are here,' whispered Bill, as he paused, standing upon a flat stone that rested in the centre of a small open space, which was enclosed by an iron chain. 'Hand me the bar, and I will pry up the stone!'
                  The negro gave him the required article one end of which he immediately passed through a stout iron wring that was inserted in a hole in one end of a staple securely fastened in the stone. By means of the purchase he had upon it, he was enabled to raise it a few inches, where it was blocked up by his companions, until he could renew the hold he had upon it with the bar.
                  In a few moments they had raised it upon one end, and prepared to secure it firmly in that position by means of a rope noosed around it and running from thence to a monument near them, when, owing to the carelessness of Daring, it fell over, breaking into several pieces, and making quite a noise.
                  'Curse the luck!' muttered Bill, in a voice of rage and chagrin. 'That infernal clatter is sufficient arouse every sleepy policeman there is within half a mile. Let us retire a few rods, to that bunch of weeping willows yonder, and see if any of the 'stars' will be attracted to the scene.'
                  At this moment a watchman's rattle was heard several blocks distant, down Broadway; but it evidently had no reference to the movements of the body-snatchers. They were uneasy, however, and for the time being, retired to the spot pointed out by Bill. Here they remained a few moments, and then, as no signs of an interruption were given, returned to their sacrilegious labors.
                  The pieces of the broken stone were laid aside, and a dark pit was disclosed beneath the spot it had occupied. The entrance to this pit was about four feet long by three wide. The negro now produced a dark lantern, and kneeling down upon the edge of the vault, held it down into the gloom and opened it. A pair of stone stairs were discernable, and down these Bill descended, closely followed by Daring, leaving the negro alone to guard against the approach of intruders.
                  'Let me have the lantern;' said the former as soon as he had reached the bottom of the steps; and Bubo reached it down to him.
                  A thrill of emotion passed through Daring's heart, and a shudder of anxiety and dread over his frame, for he was now oppressed with the consciousness of being in 'THE IRON TOMB!'
                  It was about ten feet square, eight feet in hight, and composed of iron bars running crosswise, and riveted together. A course of bricks had been laid over the top of it, and the soil filled in on to these. Another larger formed the floor, which was cold and damp, as such a place must necessarily be. A strange sight was that presented to the view of the two body-snatchers, as Bill held the lantern in such a position that its rays were thrown into the interior of the tomb, and moved forward.
                  Upon either side of them stood a costly sarcophagus, hewn out of pure white marble, and covered with a slab of the same material. A strange expression mantled the features of Bill as he observed them.
                  'In one of these we shall find a prize!' he muttered, approaching the one that stood upon the west side of the tomb. 'Hold the light while I raise the lid!'
                  Daring took the lantern from his hand, and with a simple exertion of his uncommon strength, Bill moved the slab aside. The sarcophagus was empty.
                  'It must be the other,' he muttered, and replacing the marble cover, he moved towards it.
                  'Massa Bill!' came in a whisper of alarm from the negro, at the entrance of the tomb. 'The debble is let loose up here!'
                  Both of the young men instantly sprang towards the steps.
                  'What has occured?' growled Bill with a curse of impatience, as he looked up, flashing the light into the face of the excited negro.
                  'There's somebody prowling about the grave stones, out there, where we hid in the willows!'
                  The effect of this declaration was visible in each of the listeners. Daring trembled with fear and excitement, while his companion became reckless and determined.
                  'If 
                        dedected
                        detected
                     , there is no alternative but to fight our way to safety,' he muttered in a low voice of desperate determination.' Remain here, Daring, a few moments, while I go up and reconnoitre.'
                  Saying this, he moved up the steps passed the negro, and crept away on his hands and knees among the tomb stones.
                  'Did you see anybody?' asked Daring of Bubo, a moment later.
                  'I thought I did, at one time, but one's not certain. I am sure that I heard the voice of a man this side of the fence, as well as his footsteps.'
                  'I am afraid that the police are on our track, and that they will arrest us,' responded Daring, shuddering as he glanced around upon the dreary scene presented within the tomb.
                  The negro smiled-a peculiar shade of ferocity and resolution appearing simultaneously upon his features.
                  'I did not come here with any fears of being arrested,' he replied, and for a single instant a sneer curled his lips, as he observed the cowardly agitation of the other. 'We never transacted such business as this, without being determined to overcome all opposition that may be offered. If detected this night, there will be much blood shed are Bubo becomes a prisoner. This knife will be sheathed in more than one heart if occasion requires it.'
                  And he significantly rested a hand upon his weapon.
                  A few intensely exciting moments passed, and then Bill returned, emerging from the darkness that hung over the graves near them.
                  'Did you find 'em?' asked the negro in a low voice.
                  'No, I saw nothing to excite my suspicious-if any one has followed us, they are secreted behind some of the monuments, where I cannot discover them.'
                  'Do you intend to carry out your intentions?' asked Daring, as his friend descended the steps.
                  'Why not?' questioned Bill, in a voice that plainly intimated that he intended to execute the business which had called them thither.
                  Taking the light from Daring's hand, he moved towards the sarcophagus, from which he had been called by the exclamation of the negro.
                  'We shall find her here,' he soliloquised, 'for I am positive that she was deposited here this afternoon. No doubt she looks as beautiful as she did the hour she breathed her last.'
                  'Then she died recently?'
                  'Most 
                        certatntly
                        certainly
                     ,' replied he, as an uncommon expression of intelligence passed over his countenance. An instant later he added,-
                  'What a surprise it will be for him.'
                  Daring took the light as before, and his companion moved away the marble slab. A corpse was revealed to the view of the grave robbed, and the former started back with an exclamation of alarm as his 
                        eyos
                        eyes
                      rested upon it.
                  'Hold your light nearer to the face, let us see who it is,' said Bill, as he laid his hand upon the snow-white linen that enshrouded the features of the dead from view.
                  Daring staggered forward, and held the light in the position required; but his knees tottered under him, and his whole form trembled with the agitation conjured up by the scene before him.
                  His companion removed the shroud-the rays of the lantern fell upon the pale features of the cold form reposing there.
                  'God of Heaven! 'tis her-my victim!' exclaimed Daring, in voice of horror, and with eyes that seemed starting from their sockets, he stared upon the countenance of Carolina Raymond!
                  The lantern would have fallen from his nerveless grasp, had Bill not taken the precaution to take it from him.
                  For a moment he seemed about to fall, but partly recovering, he seized his friend by the arm, exclaiming,-
                  'Why, oh, why! have you brought me here?'
                  'To have your assistance in removing this evidence of your guilt,' replied the other 
                        cooly
                        coolly
                     .
                  'I cannot remain here; let us retire and leave her undisturbed in her grave.'
                  'It must not be. The cause of her death may be suspected in the course of two or three days, and a post mortem examination held upon the body. Besides, it would not 'pay' for us to leave her now, after all the trouble we have taken.
                  Daring's opposition was at length overcome and he proceeded to help the other to remove the body from the sarcophagus, tho' he shuddered from head to foot as he did so.
                  No change could be detected in her appearance; her countenance was as beautiful as at the moment we saw her in the death-room; and the same smile lingered around her lips, that had graced them at the moment her consciousness fled.
                  'Bubo,' said Bill, 'come down and bear her away.'
                  The negro descended the steps, bearing in his hands a large cloak, which he buckled around him the instant he reached the interior of the tomb, in such a manner that its capacious folds hung loosely around his form.
                  Passing his brawny arm around the waist of Carolina-we cannot call her the dead-he drew the cloak around her and himself, and walked up the steps as easily as if his burden had been but a child. The lantern was extinguished, and daring and his friend followed him.
                  'How shall I proceed?' asked Bubo pausing at the entrance of the tomb thus robbed of its prey.
                  'Follow me,' was Bill's response as he moved towards the iron fence in front of them.
                  'What! are you going away in this manner leaving the tomb broken, everything about it evincing the sacrilege we have just committed?' exclaimed Daring, in surprise.
                  
                  'Of course. We have not time, if we had the 
                        inclinatiou
                        inclination
                     , to place things as we found them. Besides, it does not make any difference. If we only reach Mrs. Selgin's in safety, I do not care how soon after it is discovered that we have robbed the grave.
                  With this remark he moved on, and Daring, as well as Bubo closely followed him.
                  Ere they were 
                        scarc
                        scarce
                      ten rods distant, a police officer darted from behind a large marble stone, where he had been concealed while the trio were plundering the tomb, which he now hurriedly approached and gazed down through the aperture they had left uncovered, down into the darkness and gloom beneath; but he could discern nothing.
                  'They have borne among the body,' he muttered, 'and now I will follow them.'
                  With this exclamation he hurried away in the direction taken by the others.
                  It was now very dark, for the moon and stars were obscured by the clouds which had arisen during the last hour.
                  The street lamps had been extinguished, and an 
                        aimost
                        almost
                      impenetrable darkness reigned over the city. It was evident that a rain storm was about to set in.
                  The body snatchers soon reached the fence with their burden. A pair of ladders was found here, and Bill soon raised one and ascended it, when the other was handed to him by his friend, and he lowered it down the other side.
                  Descending, the negro passed up one and down the other, and he in turn was followed by Daring.
                  The whole party were soon in the street; the ladders were thrown upon the ground inside of the fence, where they were left, and they moved hastily away.
                  The policeman soon arrived at the spot where they made their way over the fence, and for a 
                        momeut
                        moment
                      he did not see how he should overcome this obstruction without climbing; but he soon discovered the ladders, and by these he was enabled to get over with ease.
                  But when he reached the pavement outside of the railing, he was disconcerted to learn that the grave robbers had disappeared; for he knew not which direction they had taken.
                  Determined, however, to track them if possible, he moved hurriedly down the street, and by some extraordinary good fortune, it was the same down which they had hurried a moment previous.
                  The negro bore his burden on, with an ease and speed that showed it was but a slight tax upon his immense strength.
                  'We may be observed,' said Bill, at length, 'and to guard against the possibility of this, I think I will linger behind and see if there is a police officer, or other enemy, upon our track. You can both proceed to Mrs. Selgin's-I shall probably overtake you before you arrive there.'
                  Having said this, he secreted himself in a doorway, and remained there silent and motionless, while his companions moved on. A minute or two passed.
                  'I hope I may be so fortunate as to overtake the villains, and trace them to their secret rendezvous,' muttered the policeman, as he passed the spot where Bill was standing.
                  That personage immediately left the place of his concealment, and followed him with wary footsteps.
                  'It would be quite an honor for me to lead to their arrest,' continued the officer-and his enemy listened to every word that fell from his lips-'I will move forward still faster, and see if-'
                  'No; you had better return while you are well off,' said Bill, interrupting him, and he suddenly passed him and stood in his path, as if determined to prevent him from 
                        proceding
                        proceeding
                      any farther in that direction.
                  'You have already gone too far, and I would now advise you to consult your own safety, rather than the injury or arrest of the body snatchers, of which honorable body I am an humble member and representative.'
                  The watchman was somewhat surprised and intimidated by the suddenness with which this threat and revelation was uttered, but he soon recovered sufficient presence of mind to spring his rattle.
                  At almost the same instant, with a curse of anger upon his lips. Bill struck him a heavy back-handed blow, which felled him to the pavement, after which exploit he moved leisurely down the street.
                  'What is the matter?' asked a police officer, running up to him as he was turning the next corner.
                  'Some robbers, I believe have been breaking into a store a short distance above,' responded Bill, not at all disconcerted, and he continued on his way, while the questioner hurried up the street.
                  Five minutes later, and but an instant before Daring and the negro reached Mrs. Selgin's groggery, Bill overtook them, and in five minutes more, the trio were seated in the little room which led to the subterranean vaults.
                  In the meantime, the watchman had recovered, sprung up and pursued the one who had dealt so severely with him, and at the instant the three passed up the steps of their retreat, he was but a few rods behind them.
                  'Ah, ha!' he muttered, while an expression of commingled surprise and intelligence appeared upon his visage. 'So, ho! this is the rendezvous of the body snatchers, is it? I will enter and call for a glass of liquor-perhaps I shall gain some information worth learning.'
                  At the very same moment that he uttered these words, the following order was given to Mrs. Selgin by Bill:-
                  'We have been followed by a police officer and he may trace us here. Should a suspicious looking person enter within the course of ten minutes, please show him into the back room. If he should happen to be troublesome, I will take measures to put him out of the way.'
                  'I will do as you desire,' replied the woman, returning to the bar-room.
                  As soon as she was gone, Daring, at Bill's request, moved away the door that closed the scuttle, and that personage descended into the vault, bearing in his arms the form of Carolina, which had been reposing upon a bench at one side of the room, while he was conversing with the woman.
                  Hardly had he reached the foot of the ladder, ere the door leading to the front room was hurriedly opened, and the police officer entered.
                  Daring turned pale at beholding the star upon his breast, while the negro scowled horribly upon him. For an instant only did the eyes of the watchman rest upon the two occupants of the room ere he observed the open scuttle; and the sight of it seemed to inspire him with a renewed determination to learn the secrets of the body snatchers.
                  Full of this thought, and rendered careless and unguarded by the excitement born of his peculiar situation, he sprang to the step, and gazed down upon the form of Bill, who was slowly retreating with his burden towards one of the rear vaults, holding in his right hand a lamp, the struggling rays of which served to light up the pit with a 
                        sor-of
                        sort-of
                      dim distinctness.
                  Had the watchman reflected upon his position and movement, he would have seen how foolhardy it was for him to pursue his investigations any farther-but as it was, he lowered himself into the vault, He was int stantly followed by Bubo, and on the visage of that repulsive looking person rested an expression of infernal exultation and malignancy. The noise he made in passing down the ladder caused Bill to turn, when observed them both. A curse of rage broke-from his lips, and a frown overspread his brow; but this soon passed away, and a look similar to that worn by the negro mantled his face.
                  'Here's a police officer, Massa Bill!' 
                        gowled
                        growled
                      Bubo, as his eyes encountered those of his master.
                  'Well, you must show him the strange sights and mysteries to be found among the vaults,' was Bill's reply, and it was understood by the one to whom it was addressed.
                  The officer was evidently a man of resolution and courage, for the moment he detected the burden in the arms of the latter, he darted towards him with a determination to learn what it was; and in this effort he was successful.
                  'Ha! what is this?' he demanded, as he laid his hand upon the form of Carolina.
                  'This, my dear fellow-this is nothing but a corpse I found in Trinity church-yard,' replied very 
                        cooly
                        coolly
                     , the person addressed, still continuing to move on in the direction of the vault, and the officer followed him.
                  Arriving in the inner apartment, Bill laid down his prize, upon a long table that extended across one end of the apartment, and confronted the one who had so pertinaciously dogged his steps. Bubo, like some dark phantom of evil, had kept close to the heels of his victim, as if endowed with the instinct of a blood-hound.
                  And now that these were thus placed face to face, in that dimly lighted vault, which was truly the abode of horror, a nameless fear was aroused in the heart of the police officer; and this feeling was added to an 
                        undred
                        hundred
                      fold by hearing Bill ask:-
                  'Are you ready for the work before, you, Bubo?'
                  As a reply, the negro looked at his master and smiled grimly, and then regarded the terrified man before him with a diabolical scowl.
                  'If you will accompany me, I will show you the secrets of our rendezvous,' said Bill, looking his unfortunate visitor in the eye.
                  'Thank you-but I have not time to do so at present. I will retire,' replied he moving away towards the passage that led to the trap.
                  'Guess not!' muttered Bill laconically, making a pantomimical gesture to the negro, which caused him to dart forward and intercept the departure of the officer.
                  As he saw the huge form of Bubo standing in the passage way, thus debarring his farther passage in that direction, a realization of the fearful death that menaced him dawned upon his mind; and he recoiled in alarm, while his face became as pale as a corpse; but he soon summoned up his energies and darted forward with the intention of passing the negro.
                  'You cannot pass here!' muttered Bubo, as he seized him so fiercely by the arm that the excessive pain of the grasp caused him to give utterance to a shriek; and the next moment he was hurled back against the wall, while the negro repeated:-
                  'You cannot pass here!'
                  And now the thoroughly aroused officer comprehended the horrors of his situation; and home to his heart crashed a consciousness of their intention to murder him!
                  For a moment he stood there, silent and motionless, appalled by the awful realities of his situation.
                  Ever a brave man, and that bravery now influenced by desperation, he could not long pause irresolute; and drawing a pistol from his bosom, he aimed at the broad chest of the negro and fired, rushing forward at the instant the report of the weapon reverberated throughout the arched vault.
                  But he was destined to perish in the den he had thus unwittingly entered. As if some unfortunate fatality had taken him under its especial control; for Bubo stepped aside the instant he levelled the pistol-its contents passed him without inflicting any injury-and the next moment the triumphant laugh of the negro sang out upon the air.
                  'God! the inhuman brute would murder me!' gasped the terror-stricken officer, as he writhed in the grasp of his merciless adversary, whose long bony fingers were now encircling his throat!
                  'Murder you!-yes, I will,' responded Bubo, tightening his grasp upon the throat of his victim. 'I will teach you better than to make your appearance where you are not wanted, and have no business. Ha! ha! I will strangle you, and hand you over to the doctors!'
                  And tighter, tighter still became his vicelike grasp, as each word fell upon the ear of the fated one; and he strove to break the hold that was destroying his life-vainly strove vainly strove; for his physical power was vastly inferior to that of his foe. His face became as black as night-his blood seemed bursting from its channels-his brain reeled-his senses became indistinct and confused-and the many horrors of death by strangulation rioted in his heart.
                  Then there was a faint rattle in his throat-a convulsive tremor passed over his frame, and his nerves relaxed. The appalling tragedy was ended-the officer was dead-and exultingly laughed the negro, as he loosened his hold, and the corpse fell heavily across an empty coffin lying beside him.
                  
                  A strange scene was that transpiring in the vault, half an hour after the policeman had thus met his untimely fate. The body-snatchers had all arrived with their booty, and were ranged around the apartment as upon the previous night, together with several physicians. All were disguised, but in various manners-some by masks, some by uncouth garments, and others by veils of black crape.
                  Charles Leton, Dr. Richland's student, was here according to agreement; and we find him conversing with Bill.
                  'We have concluded to dissect the lady here,' was his reply to a question asked by the latter.
                  'We shall come at about this hour to-morrow night, and desire to have an apartment by ourselves, without being interrupted.'
                  'The dissecting vault shall be at your service,' was Bill's reply, 'and I am glad to have you execute the business here, as it will save us the danger and trouble of carrying the body over to Dr. Richland's office. We have to convey away several to-night, a duty I do not relish at all, although it is fortunately dark and stormy without, which lessens the chances of discovery. We were tracked here by an officer this time, and had to kill him to prevent him from giving our secrets to the world. It was a painful duty, but it is some consolation to know that his body is worth two hundred dollars.
                  Leton shuddered as he listened to these words, uttered in an indifferent tone, and as his business was settled, he arose, bowed to his companion and departed.
               
               
                  SCENE TWENTY-SIXTH.
                  START not reader, but it is to Mrs. Selgin's sleeping apartment that, we will now unceremoniously enter. The hour is four in the morning-some two hours later than the previous scene.
                  She is reposing upon a couch at one extremity of the room.
                  
                  It is quite dark, but we are able to discern the outlines of her form and figure, and judging from the appearances thus viewed, we should say that she is a fat, good, kindhearted old maid of forty years.
                  This statement is very correct, and we may add that her real dame is Miss Anderson-that she was 'crossed in love' at the tender age of seventeen-that she loves big black masculine cats-and also a young man who resides across the way, and who has previously engaged to visit her room at just four o'clock.
                  In the blissful hopes of this meeting has she fallen asleep, but her wanderings in dream-land are much disturbed by visions of gigantic cats, beer bottles, faded night-caps, and amorous lovers crawling through a big hole in a rear window.
                  While she sleeps on, dreams on, a strange scene transpires.
                  The folds of the bed clothes which hang down to the floor at the front-side of the bed, are suddenly moved to and fro, as if a hand were hastily brushed across them, and scarcely a moment passes ere they are brushed aside.
                  Then, after the pause of a moment, a man creeps forth-cautiously and silently forth-upon his hands and knees, from under the bed.
                  The mysterious personage who thus introduces himself to the reader's view, is a large, broad-shouldered man, whose form is completely covered by a cloak, and whose features are hidden from observation by a beard of ample proportions.
                  Apprehensively he glances around the apartment for a moment, and then he arises to his feet.
                  The breathing of the sleeper is audible to his ears, and he moves softly towards her, pausing not until he stands by the side of the bed, when he gazes upon the countenance of Miss A., alias Mrs. Selgin.
                  Not long did he stand there before he bent down close to her face, to see if she really was asleep, and at this interesting moment, as good or bad luck would have it, Mrs. Selgin awoke.
                  'Oh, you have come, dear Henry,' she murmured, mistaking the dark-browed stranger for her lover, and throwing her arms around his neck, she would have kissed him, had he not started back surprised at this example of her affection.
                  It was a very natural mistake, and as the room was so very dark, there was much probability of its remaining such for some time, unless some untoward event revealed the true position of affairs.
                  'What is the matter-why do you repulse me thus?' asked Mrs. Selgin, and tears started from her eyes, for her feelings were very much pained by the retrogression of her supposed lover.
                  For a moment the intruder was puzzled for a reply. He was conscious of the error under which she labored in reference to his identity; and he determined to make this fact advantageous to himself.
                  But ere he had time to reply, after this resolution was formed, a noise in the hall attracted his attention, and rightly conjecturing that the real lover was now entering, he gave utterance to a low, warning-'Hist!' and crawled under the bed out of sight.
                  Mrs. Selgin obeyed the warning, and patiently listened.
                  For a moment all was silent. Then their was the sound of a soft footstep at her bedside, and her lover bent over her and imprinted a kiss upon her lips, having crept in from the hall at almost the same moment that the unknown disappeared from view under the couch.
                  'Dear Henry, I am glad that you have come at last,' said Mrs. Selgin, as she returned his caresses, without noticing the change.
                  'It is somewhat past the hour agreed upon but I trust you will pardon my seeming remissness, as I have been unavoidably detained. You know I would not willingly stay away from you-for I love you too well to do that.'
                  These were precious words to the lady, and as a token of the value she set upon them, she drew him still nearer to her side, and kissed him again and again.
                  'Had you not better come to bed, dearest?' she whispered, in as soft and musical a tone as she could command.
                  A low-toned reply was breathed in her ears and their lips again met in a warm, fervent kiss, when-
                  'What in the devil's name is that?' exclaimed the young man, excitedly, as the unknown grasped him energetically by the leg.
                  His dreams of bliss were at an end-that stern grasp upon his limb told him that there was an intruder of a questionable character under the couch.
                  'By heavens! there is some one, a robber, a murderer, for aught I know, concealed under the bed,' he muttered, starting up, much excited by the discovery: and making a desperate effort, he succeeded in releasing his leg, when he darted around the room several times, without pausing to take breath, coming in contact with various articles of furniture that stood in the way of his erratic progress.
                  Mrs. Selgin covered her face with the bedclothes, and gave utterance to a few timid shrieks.
                  'Is there no weapon in the room with which we can defend ourselves?' asked the excited youth, at length, in a husky voice, as he paused in the corner of the room farthest from the dreaded intruder.
                  'There is a carving knife upon the mantle piece,' responded the woman, in a smothered voice from under the bed-clothes.
                  'Ha! that is a God-send. Let my hand but grasp it,' replied the youth in a voice that would have done honor to a tragedian, 'and I will soon teach the vile miscreant and assassin the awful penalty of violating the sanctity of my beloved's chamber with his polluting presence. Villain! come forth to the death-the avenger is ready, nerved by the Eternal God of Justice to administer summary retribution! Come forth to thy doom!'
                  There was no reply-the 'miscreant' seemed to have been totally annihilated by those words of wrathy vengefulness.
                  'Oh, I am afraid he will murder us, Henry, and only think of it, he has overheard our conversation and knows the whole secret.-Oh, dear! if he does kill us, I hope he won't steal-my-spoons!'
                  This last thought seemed more fearful than the others, for her expressions of alarm and anxiety were renewed with increased vehemence.
                  'The trenchant blade is in my grasp,' muttered her resolute defender of his heart's treasure, 'and soon shall the audacious intruder feel its power.'
                  There was now a movement at the foreside of the bed, and the unknown slowly came forth, while Henry, as Mrs. Selgin had called him, retreated to the 
                        farthesi
                        farthest
                      corner of the apartment.
                  Mrs. S. had raised herself up on one elbow-the better to observer her lover, having taken courage from his words, but as she saw the dark form moving before her on the floor, she gave utterance to a shriek of terror and sank back upon her pillow, murmuring,-
                  'Oh, there will be a bloody murder committed, 
                        nnless
                        unless
                      some of the neighbors overhear the noise, and instantly come to our assistance.'
                  
                  'Do not be frightened, my friends,' said the intruder, now speaking for the first time since the tumult commenced. 'I can offer, I believe, a satisfactory explanation of the peculiar situation in which I am placed.'
                  'Please remain where you are, then, until I procure a light,' replied the young man; but the woman immediately suggested the impropriety of this, as they would both be revealed to the observer, whereas, as the matter then stood, he did not know either of them.
                  The unknown seemed to like her suggestion, for he soon continued,-
                  'There is no necessity for a light-at least, not until I have given you an explanation of my presence here.'
                  'Very well! proceed with the revelation-we are listening.'
                  Upon receiving this reply from the valiant lover, the unknown arose to his feet and re: marked,-
                  'I sought this place as a refuge from the hounds of the law, who were on my track. I need not pause to particularize the crime with which I stand charged; but I assure you I am an innocent and persecuted man. I ask you to secrete me until night of the coming day arrives, when I intend to make my escape from the city.'
                  'Then you really did not enter here with any evil intentions?' said Mrs. Selgin, expressing her relief in a long-drawn breath.
                  'Most positively not, Madame,' was his reply. 'I acknowledge that I was very bold, but what else could I do under the circumstances? Had I not sought security here, God alone knows where I would have been now.
                  'But day is breaking-must I go forth to be arrested for deeds falsely imputed to me, or will you offer me a place of safety and concealment until night comes again?'
                  Mrs. Selgin's heart was affected by his candidly and earnestly spoken appeal, and she replied in the affirmative to his closing question.
                  'I will repay you well for your kindness,' continued the stranger; 'and now, if this gentleman will show me to another room, I will not longer intrude here.'
                  After consulting Mrs. Selgin, the young man procured a light and showed the mysterious visitor into another room.
                  She saw his massive form and dusky countenance as he departed, and felt relieved when her lover returned to her side.
                  'You must not leave me until daylight,' she murmured, as their lips met in a fervent kiss. 'His story is plausible, and is probably true, but I shall be uneasy unless you remain to guard me from ill.'
                  'Do not fear-I will remain,' was his reply, and he pressed her still closer to his heart.
               
               
                  SCENE TWENTY-SEVENTH.
                  MADAME SELGIN'S BOUDOIR. Jean Harra has just entered, and she is seated before him with the magic stone in her hand, ready to tell him the mysteries by which he is surrounded. The night has worn away-it is nine o'clock in the forenoon of the day succeeding.
                  'Yours has been a changing and eventful life,' said the fortune-teller, after looking upon the stone a few moments; 'and the aim of your existence has been revenge.'
                  'An aim which has been most signally accomplished,' soliloquized Harra, as his thoughts reverted to the drowning of the Count.
                  The woman's eyes were now bent with a strange earnestness upon the stone; and she suddenly started back with an exclamation of surprise, while her features paled with the excess of emotion aroused by the mysteries there revealed.
                  'How strange!' she murmured. 'The divine principle of right seems to assert its supremacy in every connexion with these mysteries; and though wrong seems to triumph, it is but for a moment, as it were.'
                  'To what are you alluding?'
                  'To various occurrences-to your attempt upon the life of Noraud le Chandau, among the rest.'
                  'My attempt upon his life!' said Harra, 
                        emphasing
                        emphasizing
                      the word 'attempt' in a manner that showed how deeply surprised he was to hear her make use of it.
                  Madame Genlin smiled. She evidently enjoyed his confusion, and was determined to give him no explanation of her words.
                  'And I also allude to his attempt upon the life of Carolina Raymond!' continued she, as she glanced at the stone.
                  'Which attempt, as well as mine, were eminently successful!' responded the other.
                  'Perhaps so; at least you are at liberty to hold that opinion until you see something that will lead you to change your views.'
                  'But am I not right?'
                  'Let time give you an answer to that question. You do not understand the mysteries which are hovering around you; and it is better that you should not. I know your past life-its joys, its sorrows, and all things connected therewith; but am not permitted to reveal but a small portion of what I know.'
                  'Why not?'
                  'Great gifts should not be perverted. The mysteries of my profession would soon be mere gossip and common-place affairs, did I condescend to reveal everything that is revealed to me. By throwing the veil over a portion of them, the rest are rendered far more interesting.'
                  'You are right. I will not seek to learn the real meaning of your words, but will await the revelations of time-'
                  'Which will be made soon,' interrupted Madame Genlin, as she suddenly placed the magic stone in her bosom.
                  We need not pause to narrate their conversation, as a more exciting scene is awaiting our attention.
               
               
                  SCENE TWENTY-EIGHTH.
                  A DARK, damp vault, seventeen feet in length by twelve in breadth. It is arched overhead with stone, from which the moisture is dripping upon the stone floor below!
                  A brilliant light is suspended in the centre of the apartment; but its rays, though bright and powerful, are insufficient to dissipate the murky gloom that ever reigns around: and everything within the vault is indistinctly seen.
                  Moving onward in the darkened passageway without-onward like phantoms in a shadowy mist, are three dusky forms, bearing in their hands a coffined corpse!
                  On, on, while the tramp, tramp of their footsteps echo above and around them, like the death-march of demons of darkness while bearing a lost soul to their oceanic home of living fire!-on, on they go, amidst the grave-like gloom, the intense darkness, and the quaint, wild vagaries conjured up the hour and the scene.
                  Deeds of horror, the mystical imagery of a wrought-upon imagination, appalling fancies of life and death mysteries, and dire forebodings of evil, would arise in the heart of one so unfortunate as to gaze on such a strange and ominous scene.
                  'Pause, pause! infernal demons seem to be let loose in the vaults to-night!' hoarsely muttered one of the moving forms, as he checked his progress, and lowered the end of the coffin he had been supporting to the floor. 'The wandering demons of the vaults are striding abroad.'
                  And almost simultaneously with the utterance of the words, the dismal creaking of an iron door upon rusty hinges resounded along the walls, above, below, and around the mystical bearers of the dead.
                  Lowering their burden, they listened to the appalling sounds borne to their ears, in quick succession to this exciting prelude of evil.
                  Again and again, as if door after door was swinging to and fro upon its hinges, did that chilling sound resound far and near in the vaults, and then a light of the most intense brilliancy gleamed up at the extremity of the passage.
                  Brightly it glowed for a single instant, revealing the dreary walls, and then it vanished, like some evil will-o'-the-wisp.
                  A moment of silence succeeded, and then, near the listening wanderers, a hoarse voice gave utterance to a laugh both wild and chilling in its intonation-a laugh that echoed among the vaults, the passages, 
                        ane
                        and
                      the massive pillars, as if a chorus of voices had caught it up, and repeated it with the exultation of a host of fiends over the chaotic ruins of a world destroyed.
                  And tremblingly cowered that mystic band of three-cowered down upon the floor at the base of the wall to the left of them, as, with a still more fearful emphasis and power, that exulting laugh was again borne to their ears-cowered down and trembled with a nameless horror; for they were conscious that it came from a spot nearer, much nearer to them, than the one in which its predecessor was uttered.
                  'Devils seem to be beleaguring us!' exclaimed one of them, in a voice hoarse and husky with excitement, as that terrible sound died away. 'A light!-for God's sake! let us procure a light, and see if we cannot penetrate the horrors by which we are surrounded!'
                  And, as if an echo of his words, that terrible voice repeated,-
                  'A light-for God's sake, a light!' adding, after a pause of one brief but painful moment,-
                  'Ha, ha! there is no light in the regions of darkness.
                  Then there was a heavy footfall near them-a chucking laugh-and a dark, gigantic form rushed swiftly past them, speeding down the passage, fleet, but sure, pausing not until it reached the opposite extremity of it, where it stopped; and after the sound of its hurried footsteps had died away, a death-like silence reigned over the scene.
                  A death-like silence-but not long did it continue, ere one of the three staggered forward and grasped a handle of the coffin, exclaiming,-
                  'For the love of Heaven, comrades, let us move on to the vault, where a light is burning, these unearthly mysteries are enough to drive one mad. Bear a hand, and let us move on.'
                  But not a single inch did he or his terribly excited companions move, ere a bright, blood-red light was projected out of a small panel that suddenly opened in the wall before them!
                  With a wild exclamation of surprise and consternation upon their lips, each of those men turned towards the bright light which thus dissipated the darkness which reigned around them.
                  The panel was not more than a foot square; but it was large enough for them to see completely through the aperture.
                  And a terrible countenance was that upon which they gazed, as they looked through the opening in the wall-a countenance revealed in all its hideousness.
                  The face bore distinct resemblance to that of the negro, Bubo, but was much larger and broader, and stamped with an expression of repulsiveness it would be impossible to describe. A sneering smile curled the lips-the eyes were set like gems of light in a bank of clouds, and seemed to pierce the very souls of those who gazed upon them-and black curly hair was matted down over the forehead.
                  Not long did the observers gaze thereon, for after giving utterance to a groan that curdled the blood in their veins, the figure withdrew, the lantern was withdrawn, the door closed, and again darkness reigned over the vaults.
                  The three soon recovered from their surprise, and seizing the coffin bore it into the lighted vault, where they set it down in silence. The scenes of the last few moments were too mysterious for them to understand, but their thoughts were enchained thereby.
                  They knew not that Bubo was the agent that caused them-that the whole proceedings were brought about by the cunning of the negro, purposely to terrify them. They had but lately joined the band of body-snatchers, and these trials were but a portion of those all had to undergo ere they are pronounced true and trusty members.
                  Reader! a strange scene was transpiring elsewhere, at the same hour; but ere we turn to it we will present two epilogistic pictures of occurrences that took place a few hours previous. They will form a serial prologue to the last thrilling scenes in our life drama. Here is the first.
                  
                  'Baffled, baffled!-despite all the trouble and danger you have had-despite the resolution and energy with which you have sought him for years, bent on revenge, he has escaped you at last!' and the woman laughed with an irony of manner that vexed her listener.
                  'What mean you?'
                  'I mean that Norand le Chandau is alive and well!-and that at this very moment he is preparing to leave the city forever! You have had your labor for your pains.'
                  This conversation passed between Madame Gelin and Jean Harra several hours previous to the foregoing scene. They were seated in the fortune-teller's boudoir.
                  'Explain!' said the gentleman, after pondering on her words for a moment.
                  'You must seek your explanation elsewhere,' responded the woman with a meaning smile. 'All I have to say is-be upon the Battery at midnight. This much may I reveal-what is written must be accomplished. He is fated-is fated!'
                  'Who?'
                  'Obey my directions, and you will soon learn. The occurrences of this night will answer you as you desire. The principle of right favors you-and success is certain. Be calm, courageous and determined.'
                  With this advice we leave their conversation, and glance at the second of our prologues.
                  
                  'The fool-the poor, mistaken fool, to think he has succeeded in ending my career on earth! Ha! ha! I will 
                        trumph
                        triumph
                      yet-yes, though the powers of an evil destiny seem conspiring for my ruin and death!'
                  These words were firmly uttered by the unknown, whom we saw enact a peculiar part in Mrs. Selgin's chamber, at an early hour on the morning of the same day. He was now seated in a little apartment allotted to him by Mrs. S.
                  'Seven days have passed since that time-two more complete the nine; but ere that time arrives, I shall be far away. The clouds seem to breaking away-I shall yet escape my cursed enemy!'
                  
                  As he said this, he arose and began to prepare for his departure.
                  A form darkened the door of the room-Mrs. Selgin entered, apparently much excited, and a shade of anxiety rested upon her countenance.
                  'Something strange has occurred,' she whispered hurriedly. 'A tall, robust gentleman called here a few moments ago, and after drinking at my bar, threw this note upon the counter. He was so much disguised that I could not make out his features; but I concluded it was a warning for you.'
                  The unknown turned pale as she handed him the 
                        daintly
                        daintily
                      sealed note. His frame trembled violently, his heart fluttered with a foreboding of evil, but he soon summoned courage enough to open it and glance at the contents. It is not known what was there written-but it must have been something terrible, for, crushing the billet in his hand, he sank to the floor insensible, murmuring as he fell:-
                  'The blood-hound is still on my track-is fearfully near!'
                  We will leave him to recover, and make a last desperate effort to avert his doom Guilt is ever fated-and the events of our story now draw near to guilt's retribution. Let us turn to another picture.
               
               
                  SCENE TWENTY-NINTH.
                  A man is leaning over the railing on the Battery, gazing upon the waters of the bay. He is alone. His form is indistinctly revealed by a lamp several rods distant, but his face is hidden from view.
                  A boat suddenly shoots out of the gloom before him, and approaches the spot where he is standing. The unknown-the same to whom Mrs. Selgin had given shelter-straightens up his form, and bends a searching glance upon the boat and the single rower therein.
                  It soon stops at the base of the wall, and the rower pronounces the single word 'Coming!'
                  'Going!' responds the stranger, in an equally low voice, and the next moment he got over the railing, evidently with the intention of getting into the boat.
                  A man suddenly darted forward from behind one of the trees that grace the Battery, and seized him roughly by the collar, exclaiming,-
                  'I arrest you in the name of the law!'
                  The unknown started-a paleness overspread his visage, and he clung nervously to the railing for support; but he soon recovered his presence if mind-his desperate energy-and turning to the man in the boat he said:-
                  'Quick! boatman-lend your assistance here until I can escape from this man, and I will give you fifty dollars!'
                  This was a great temptation for that personage, and he hesitated only for an instant,-then, taking the boat-rope in his hand, be sprang up and caught hold of the corner bar of the railing.
                  The officer-if such the disguised stranger was-was not the man to be easily frightened from his aim; and in an instant a loaded pistol was presented at the head of the waterman, the sight of which checked his progress with marvellous quickness.
                  'Back! back!' he muttered from between his clenched teeth-'if you would avoid arrest and a prison cell. I have but to sound the alarm and twenty of my brethren will be here in three minutes. Back! and do not be so foolish as to attempt to rescue this fellow from my unwelcome company!'
                  These words had their proper effect-the person addressed sprang back into his boat. seized the oars, and rowed hurriedly away, unheeding the calls and remonstrances of the unknown. The sound of the oars were soon lost in the distance, and then the officer turned towards the one he had in his strong grasp. His frame shook with excitement as he did so.
                  'I think I have prevented your escape from the city this night!' he muttered with a low stifled emphasis that thrilled the heart of his listener.
                  'What means this arrest?-what have I done to come within the jurisdiction of the law?'
                  'Nothing! Law?-ha! ha! I am no more a police officer than you are!'
                  'Then why this violence?-no other has any right to personate this character-to make an arrest.'
                  'But you see I claimed the right, and it succeeded in frightening him from my path!' and he pointed in the direction taken by the boatman.
                  'We are now alone!'
                  And as he uttered these words, he tore the disguise from his face, revealing the passion-set features of Jean Harra, the avenger of Iola!
                  The light of desperation shown in the dark eyes of the unknown as that countenance was revealed to his view. The consciousness of his identity seemed to come upon him with the quickness of lightning, and with almost its destroying effects. He started back, uttering a shriek of horror, and would have been precipitated into the water below, had that stern grasp not been upon his arm.
                  'We have met again! Despite your desperate attempts to escape-despite your fortunate rescue from the doom I prepared for you a few nights since-despite the present disguise you are still Norand le Chandau, and in the power of Iola's avenger!' and with a sudden movement, he removed the disguise from the countenance of his victim, and gazed upon the pale features of the Mock Count of New York!
                  Reader! the few words of explanation required, shall be given here, and you will easily understand what is now mystery-the sudden appearance of the Count in this manner-if you will but remember the scene between the actors now before the reader, which occurred a few nights before, off Governor's Island.
                  At the instant the Count was hurled by his foe from the boat, with that iron weight attached to his leg, he was so fortunate as to grasp a rope that was fastened to the centreboard, and the end of which was hanging over the side into the water. He disappeared beneath the surface, but managed to check his descent by clinging to the rope with all the tenacity given by his fearful situation. The rope to which the weight was attached was rotten, having been in use sometime, and it was parted in twain by the force of the weight's descent, as it was not strong enough to break the Count's hold.
                  Thus reprieved for the time being, he worked his way under water to the stern of the boat. Clinging to the keel, he ventured to put his head above the surface of the water, and take breath. Jean Harra had by this time seized the oars, and was rowing towards the city, and did not observe him. Indeed, had he been expecting this the stern of the boat was so high that he could not have seen him without changing his position.
                  In the manner already recorded did the boat reach the wharf, and Harra departed unconscious of the true situation of affairs. The Count had clung to the boat, rising as often as was required to take breath, and the moment the other actor had retired from the scene, he clambered into the boat and from thence up on to the wharf.
                  The irons were still upon his wrists, and to get these off was his first movement. He made his way to a groggery in the vicinity of the Battery Place, where he received the assistance he required.
                  An 
                        ejeculation
                        ejaculation
                      of alarm escaped the Count's lips, as be found himself unmasked in the presence of his dreaded enemy.
                  The stern grasp of Harra was upon his arm-his gleaming eyes upon his face, and these words came to his ears.
                  'Do not speak so loud you will die the 
                        nstant
                        instant
                      we are overheard, I warn you!'
                  And the warning was effective-the Count was silent; but he gazed around as if seeking some source of relief. Nothing available met his eye. It generally happens that a quantity of loafers, beggars, or other low characters, are scattered along the benches on the Battery, but not a person could be observed, a circumstance only accounted for by the stormy aspect of the weather.
                  'You see we are all ALONE here!' muttered Harra in a triumphant voice. He had been marking the movements of the other, and readily divined the thoughts that were passing in his mind.
                  The intonation of his voice were far from agreeable. The Count was conscious that it contained a warning emphasis, and the dangers of his present position were presented in startling colors to his mind. The bright orbs of his adversary rested incessently upon him, and seemed to divine every thought that arose within. He saw no way in which he could avert the doom portended by the movements of the other; and for a few moments they stood there in silence, gazing upon each other's feature's, the one conscious of his power, the other aware that there was but little chance 
                        ro
                        to
                      oppose it.
                  Desperately situated as he was, he could not but be determined to sell his life as dearly as possible; and his calculations were soon made, knowing that the time had come for instantaneous action. He had concealed a pistol in his bosom, and he now carefully worked his hand beneath his vest, until he grasped its handle. He drew it-but an eye that seldom failed to observe where observation was required, was upon his movements; and as he drew the weapon forth, his wrist was seized, the pistol wrested from his grasp, and flung down into the waters of the bay.
                  'Your attempt is defeated,' said Harra, as calmly as if nothing unusual had occurred. 'My time has now come, but hark ye, villian, I shall not create any disturbance-any such unfashionable noise as a pistol-shot at this hour of the night. I use the knife-the knife!' and as he spoke he drew forth a heavy 'bowie knife.'
                  A sudden blow from the Count staggered him back upon the ground. It was given so quickly, so unexpectedly, that the object of it could not ward it off; and ere he recovered the Count had sprang over the railing and darted away in the direction of Broadway.
                  'By heavens! I will escape him yet!' he muttered, and a desperate energy arose in his heart, although he saw that his foe was as hastily following him.
                  
                  'For God's sake! Mrs. Selgin-can you not 
                        lell
                        tell
                      me where I can conceal myself in a place of safety?' exclaimed the Count, half an hour later, rushing into the room where that lady was seated. His words were uttered excitedly, and his manner was wild and furious-such as can only be born of fear inspired by the presence of an imminent peril.
                  'Mercy on us! who are you?' shrieked Mrs. S., recoiling from him: for now that his disguise was removed, she did not recognize in him the one to whom she had given shelter.
                  'Do not be frightened-it is me, ME! the man whom you saved from the officers of the law!' he 
                        replisd
                        replied
                     , nervously shutting the door behind him, as if he feared a posse of police were at his heels.
                  'Ah!' said Mrs. S,. who now recognised him-'so, you have returned? You cannot think how much you frightened me; I thought it was a house-breaker. But what renders you so excited?-you are 
                        ai
                        as
                      pale as a corpse!
                  'My looks do not belie the danger! The very devils seem determined on my total destruction! That face!-Oh! God! I see it now!-it is here! HERE!' and while his countenance became as pale as the ghastly-colored fragments of an Alpine avalanche, he turned towards the door-way, in which a man was standing, the door having been noiselessly opened almost as soon as closed!
                  The intruder was Jean Harra.
                  To the inquiring glances of Mrs. Selgin, he made no reply. His eyes rested upon the features of his trembling enemy as steadily as those of a fascinating serpent rests upon its prey. He seemed to have no thought of anything else.
                  The Count retreated behind Mrs. S., calling upon her to aid him at every step. His cries did not intimidate his foe, and he suddenly stepped forward from the door, drawing his knife as he advanced.
                  'Oh! heavens! gentlemen-let there be no murder committed here,' exclaimed the excited lady, as she saw this hostile demonstration.
                  'Do not oppose me-I am determined to slay the cowardly villian who crouches behind you for safety,' said Harra, in a low, bitter voice, still moving forward.
                  'You must not,' was the response, and the speaker stood determinedly in his path.
                  'Woman, I ask you to retire, and leave me to execute the intention which called me here.'
                  'You cannot harm him in my house. If there is any difficulty between you, this is no time or place to settle it. You cannot pass.'
                  'I must!'
                  'MUST?' echoed the lady, in a 
                        tene
                        tone
                      of bitter irony, and darting forward, she pulled a knob violently, which was connected with a bell in another apartment.
                  A moment passed, during which Harra stood there observing this movement and wondering at its object. He was not long in doubt-it was answered almost instantly by the appearance of the negro, Bubo.
                  'I cannot allow you to settle your difficulties here,' continued Mrs. S., as the negro entered; and if needs be he will prevent any quarrelling. I must have order in my house.'
                  Harra could not but realize the justness of her remarks, but he was too much blinded by rage to listen to the voice of reason; and he moved towards his enemy, holding his knife guardedly before him.
                  This was enough. At a signal from his mistress, Bubo placed his massive form directly in his path.
                  Jean frowned bitterly-he saw that fortune again smiled upon the one he hated so intensely. He knew that it would be useless for him to cope with the negro, and therefore there was nothing for him to do but retire.
                  Replacing his weapon in his bosom, he slowly retreated, while Mrs. S. conducted the Count to another apartment.
               
               
                  SCENE THIRTIETH.
                  Jean Harra standing upon the side-walk in front of Mrs. Selgin's residence. He is looking up towards the building. It is but a moment later. Thus he speaks:
                  'It is terrible to be thus balked at an hour when my vengeance seemed near accomplishment plishment. I wish I could get into the house-'
                  'What would you do?' asked Daring appearing around the corner of the house.
                  'I would seek the room in which Mrs. S. has secreted the mock-count!'
                  'The mock-count! Count le Chandau?' exclaimed the villian, excitedly.
                  'The same.'
                  'I thought he was dead!'
                  'If so, you were mistaken. He is now in this house, hidden from me, his sworn enemy and avenger! I would barter away the remainder of my life, could I but again have the opportunity I had not long since to avenge her wrongs.'
                  'What if I could guide you to him?' suggested Daring, carelessly.
                  'By heavens! I would reward your services with fifty half-eagles!' responded Jean in an eager manner. 'Only conduct me to him this night, and your fortune is made; and I will be your friend eternally. Do you reside here?'
                  'I have been here enough to know something of the localities in and about the house before you,' replied Daring evasively. 'I think I can guide you to him, though I should like to know why you seek him?'
                  'For vengeance,' was the reply, fiercely uttered, and the eyes of the speaker glowed with a strange light.
                  'Then I will aid you. You appear to hate him?-so do I, stranger!' and as Daring said this there was an expression of vindictiveness upon his features.
                  'Are you really his enemy?'
                  'I am!'
                  'Then let us act together. It shall be your duty to guide me to him, and mine to repay the wrongs he may have done us both. Does this proposition satisfy you?'
                  'Yes.'
                  And with this reply, he led the way towards the building. They soon passed around the corner from whence Daring had made his appearance; and then he remarked in low whisper:-
                  'Move as cautiously as possible, and do not speak, whatever you may see or hear. I think I can conduct you to the room in which she will place him. We will descend here.'
                  The last sentence was uttered as he prepared to descend a flight of stone steps leading to the basement of the groggery, and here we will leave them for the time being.
               
               
                  SCENE THIRTY-FIRST.
                  The dissecting vault.-
                  Strange-oh, how strange are the inconsistencies of human nature. But a few hours have passed-a day or two at least-since we saw Dr. Richland enduring such misery at his bereavement; and we now we find him, together with young Leton, seated in the dissecting vault, nearly ready to commence his labors.
                  A long table stands at one extremity of the room, and this is now occupied by a body. It is enveloped in a snowy shroud, and the features are also concealed from view.
                  'Come, Leton, let us proceed to business,' said Dr. Richland, at length, as he produced a small trunk and opened it. It was full of surgical instruments-such as the work before them required.
                  Having selected those he required, he moved towards the body, together with the student.
                  'She must have been very beautiful,' muttered the latter, glancing at the outlines of the form before him-'very beautiful!'
                  'She probably was-'
                  His remark was interrupted by the entrance of Daring.
                  Dr. R. looked up, and his eyes encountered those of the young man. The meeting rendered both much excited, inasmuch as neither had expected it. Daring turned pale and trembled.
                  'I-have made-a-mistake!' he stammered, moving towards the entrance. 'I did not expect to find you here.'
                  'I can say the same of you-'
                  'For God's sake! gentlemen, what are you doing?' interrupted Daring in a voice fraught with excitement, as he observed the body and the instruments they had in their hands.
                  'We are about to dissect a subject-'
                  'Dr. Richland paused, for the man before him was regarding him with a look of horror which he could not analyze.
                  'What! are you going to dissect that body?' and he pointed to the shrouded dead.
                  'I am!' responded the other, puzzled and confused by Daring's excitement; and this declaration seemed to add to the consternation of the listener, for he leaned against the wall for support.
                  'Do you know WHO you are about to dissect?' was gasped at length.
                  'No further than that it is a young lady.'
                  'Then, for heaven's sake! do glance at the features!'
                  As Daring said this he turned upon his heel, and slowly made his way out of the apartment.
                  'That chap's crazy,' muttered Leton; 'do you know who it is?'
                  'He has been Mr. Raymond's hostler-I have seen him at Mr. R.'s mansion two or three times. I do not understand his reference to the body-let us glance at the countenance and see if it is one familiar to either of us.'
                  He stood beside the body. A moment only he paused, and then, though his hand trembled with anxiety, he removed the linen from the features. The rays of light fell upon them, 
                        distincly
                        distinctly
                      revealing them to the view of the observers.
                  A world of agony and wo was contained in one single glance. Pale, pale became the countenance of the young physician as with distended eyes he gazed upon that face-he reeled, tottered, gasped for breath, and gave utterance to a groan so full of anguish that it would have chilled the heart of an observer; and then as he leaned forward almost insensible upon the table, he murmured:-
                  'Carolina! oh, my God! CAROLINA!
               
               
                  SCENE 
                        THITY-SECOND
                        THIRTY-SECOND
                     .
                  Count le Chandau was seated in the room allotted to him by Mrs. Selgin. Ghastly visions of retribution and death were continually arising in his mind. His nervous system was all unstrung by the events he had been an actor in during the last few days.
                  'Can it be that I am fated-that some dark fatality has lowered itself upon my soul? It must be that such is the case, else why am I so unfortunate? It will not answer for me to remain here long-that's certain-though it does not seem as if any of my enemies could find me here,' and he glanced at the walls around as if to corroborate his last remark.
                  They were indeed very thick and strong. The room itself was one of the many subterranean apartments under the garden, back of the house.
                  The natural dampness of the place had been banished by a cheerful fire that Mrs. S. had kindled in the quaint old fireplace; and which now lighted up every portion of the apartment.
                  In the gloomy fire he gazed, and strange and dark was his reverie. The hideous fancies that ever dwell in the heart of one whose career has been a series of terrible crimes and their attendant infamy, were mirrored in his heart. Retrospection to him was like a dark and bloody picture, placed in some dark angle, where the light could not come.
                  'How to make my escape out of the city is a question I cannot answer. He seems to understand my intentions, and balks me at every step. There is no help for it-I must remain here 
                        nntil
                        until
                      something occurs to my advantage. I wonder what has become of Daring? He must have escaped, and fled to some neighboring State.'
                  The creaking of the rusty hinges of the door that admitted him, announced a visitor; and looking up, he beheld Mrs. S.
                  'Are not your fears groundless?' asked she. 'Now that your enemy has retired, I do not think it would be unsafe for you to accept of one of the rooms up stairs.'
                  'Perhaps not; but then this will do just as well. While I do remain in New York city I am determined to be most strictly guarded.'
                  'But what is the difficulty between you and the man who attacked you? I do not understand it.'
                  'I hardly know. He seems to have taken offence at some fancied insult, and is determined to avenge it. Some supernatural agency seems to be directing his movements. As I was about to depart from the Battery, he sprang forward from behind a tree where he had been concealed, and would have slain me upon the spot had I not fortunately escaped from his power. He is an implacable enemy, one who appears to be favored in all his designs against me; but if you can give me shelter here for a few days, I think I can take measures to thwart him!'
                  'Rest assured that I will do all I possibly can for your benefit and protection. If you are guilty, and the stranger the wronged one, it is no part of my philosophy to have any quarreling in my house.'
                  'I am innocent-and a wronged and persecuted man,' said the other impressively, and he laid his hand upon his heart.
                  'Then it is my duty to protect you, as far as my limited means will permit; and this duty shall be fulfilled. If you think you had better remain here, of course you can, but I should be pleased to have you occupy a room up stairs, where you could make yourself more comfortable.'
                  'Thank you! but I prefer this apartment; it is safe, if disagreeable; and to me, at the present time, this assurance affords me more consolation than anything else.
                  Upon receiving this reply, Mrs. Selgin withdrew.
                  'It's lucky for me that she is friendly,' he soliloquised, as the door closed upon her retreating form. 'I should have been in an unfortunate position, had I not found shelter here.'
                  'Indeed!' muttered a voice at the door, and Daring softly entered.
                  'Ha!' exclaimed the Count, springing from his chair and exhibiting the deepest 
                        snrprise
                        surprise
                     . 'How came you here?'
                  'By the same method which brought 
                        ysu
                        you
                     ,' responded Daring, in a bitter voice, as he closed the door and moved forward a few steps. 'This meeting affords me much pleasure, sir.'
                  'I wish I could say as much,' muttered the Count, with a frown.
                  'The ability to do so would, no doubt, be agreeable-far more so than the present circumstances of our meeting. I have sought for you sometime, villain, and not without an object, you may rest assured. I swore to kill you if we ever met again.'
                  'Will not you attempt it?' asked the Count, sneeringly, as he drew a knife from its sheath. 'I will fight you if you desire it, 
                        asd
                        and
                      the one who triumphs may be considered the most worthy.'
                  'Proceed calmly,' said Daring, in an undisturbed voice. 'I would accept your proposition but for one thing.'
                  'Name it.'
                  'I do not desire to rob the hand of another of its victim. You are left to the vengeance of one more deeply wronged than I, and one who will soon seal the doom so long foreshadowed by circumstances.'
                  The Count well knew to whom Daring was alluding, and the idea of a 
                        collission
                        collision
                      between him and Jean Harra was startling, inasmuch as he was conscious that he had deeply wronged the former as well as the latter, and that both were his enemies.
                  'I have defeated his arms more than once, and shall probably do so again, despite the assistance you may lend him. I shall not remain here very long; but while I am here, know you that I am capable of protecting myself against the attacks of either of you.'
                  'Your words may be true, BUT-' and here he glanced significantly at the door, while an undisguised sneer curled his lips. The intonation of the last word was sufficient to cause the Count to obey the 
                        direating
                        directing
                      movement of his eye.
                  From the sight that met his view he recoiled with a wild shout of horror.
                  For there, standing in the doorway, was the massive form of his dreaded enemy, on whose expressive countenance a smile of exultation was playing; while his hand rested upon a pistol half drawn from beneath his vest.
                  'Norand le Chandau,' said a voice that he had heard, with the same meaning intonation, more than once before, 'we have again met and for the last time. I have been baffled, but can be baffled no more. Only one of us will ever leave this room alive. I will fight you fairly, and with all the punctillious ceremony of a duel, if you desire to meet your fate thus-but die you shall, unless I much mistake the energy and power with which my good right arm has been nerved by its wrongs.'
                  The Count shook like the leaves of an aspen, and the cold sweat of fear started from his pale brow.
                  'Demon, how did you find entrance here?' he exclaimed at last, as he leaned for support upon the back of the chair he had previously occupied.
                  'No matter how. Let it suffice for you to know that I am here. Why did you not expect me sooner, monster of iniquity, steeped in crime that you are? Why did you not learn a lesson from the whisperings of your own guilty heart, which has so long warned you of your doom?
                  'Ah! you entertained a hope that I would relent, or that some fortunate circumstance would place you beyond the reach of my vengeance. You falsely hoped that death would rid you of me forever, or that I would not be so fortunate as to track you hither. Ah, little do you know how steadily I have dogged you from one place to another-how I have devoted the whole energies of my mind and body to the accomplishment of an oath once sworn against you-how I have struggled, toiled and striven, night and day, knowing no rest, no happiness or peace-how I have prayed for this opportunity, and commingled maledictions upon your hated name with my prayers the while. Years of my existence have rolled away since my mind became concentrated upon this single aim-this joy-consuming desire for the hour of Tola's avengement.'
                  The Count was too much terrified and excited to speak-he could only grasp his weapon, or knife, with the energy of desperation and gaze upon the features of the 
                      being before him.
                  'You tremble, and well you may. Not as before, can you escape me.'
                  As he spoke, he moved towards the Count, who was so terror-stricken by the realization of his situation that he could hardly rise from his chair and place himself in an attitude of defence.
                  'What, in the name of mystery, is that?' exclaimed Daring, who was also advancing at the same moment.
                  He had trodden upon a trap-door, which suddenly lowered beneath him, precipitating him to the floor.
                  The moment his weight was off from it, the spring brought the trap up to its place, so that a casual observer would not have detected its existence.
                  'Ha! that has some connexion with an 
                        undergroued
                        underground
                      apartment. 'Let us investigate the matter,' said Harra, while a strange light appeared in his eyes.
                  Almost instantly he continued.
                  'Wait a moment until I lock the door by which we entered. I do not desire to have the villain before us escape while we are absorbed in the penetration of this mystery.'
                  Thus speaking, he moved 
                        scross
                        across
                      the floor of the vault, and coolly locked the door.
                  Norand le Chandau uttered a groan of anguish as he saw his enemy place the key in his 
                        poeket
                        pocket
                     .
                  'There is no chance for my escape,' he muttered to his own heart, as busy whispers of a violent death, and a sudden entrance into eternity, thronged therein. 'None whatever.'
                  Without seeming to care for the Count's anxiety, Jean Harra and his friend proceeded in their researches.
                  The former placed his foot upon the trap and pressed it down until Daring, who had secured a flaming brand from the fire, could see into the dark, damp vault disclosed beneath it.
                  'Can you make out the length or breadth of it?' asked Jean, who still kept his keen eyes upon the movements of the Count, not knowing but that he might make a sudden attack upon him.
                  'It is about as wide as this room,' replied Daring, 'but probably much longer, as I cannot discern either extremity of it. I think it is about twelve feet in depth. The sides are built of stone. How cold and damp they are! It is enough to sicken one to breathe the odor that ascends therefrom. Does it not seem to you like a vast tomb?'
                  'A tomb?' repeated Harra, while the same strange expression before alluded to appeared in his eyes. Ha, ha! a tomb it shall be!'
                  And he bent a look upon the trembling Count that rankled in his heart like a deadly arrow.
                  'What do you mean e' asked Daring, as he looked up.
                  Jean gazed earnestly into the features of the questioner and replied, as he removed his foot from the trap,-
                  'I know not how you may view the subject, but it appears to me that the vault beneath us will form a fitting tomb for the betrayer of Iola!'
                  A grim smile of approval from Daring and a moan of intense fear from the Count, were the replies that greeted his remark, so meaningly uttered.
                  The next moment Harra turned to his foe and asked,-
                  'Do you desire to have our feud settled by a duel.
                  The Count made no response-his heart was faint and weary.
                  'Bear a hand! Daring, we will soon thrust him down into the vault.'
                  And as Jean uttered this sentence he moved towards the object of it.
                  Norand le Chandau was aroused by those words, and with the quickness of electricity, his natural ferocity of disposition gained the ascendancy.
                  In a moment his knife was 
                        grnsped
                        grasped
                      firmly in his right hand, and these words came from his lips,-
                  'I still defy you! Come on-come on, if you like, and let us see who wins the battle. I'll teach ye both that I am not to be murdered like a dog.'
                  And retreating to one corner of the apartment, he placed himself in an attitude of defence, and flourished his weapon savagely before him.
                  The rays of the fire soon glowed upon an exciting scene.
                  Daring refrained from taking any part in the struggle; and, indeed, Harra needed no assistance.
                  Having always been familiar with scenes of bloodshed and strife, he 
                        hrd
                        had
                      acquired a knowledge of the use of nearly all kinds of weapons, and was particularly expert with the weapon with which he now engaged the Count.
                  "Norand le Chandau,' said he at length, in the same bitter tones with which he ever pronounced the name, 'you may as well submit to your fate-you can offer no resistance that will be of any avail.'
                  And as a proof of his words, he inflicted a severe, though not fatal wound upon his adversary's breast.
                  'Will you spare my life?' asked the Count, as he parried another fiercely aimed blow.
                  'I will, if you deem it any mercy to be consigned to the vault beneath us.'
                  With a curse upon his lips, the Count flung his knife across the room, exclaiming,-
                  'I surrender. Fulfil your promise-that is all I ask.'
                  'Lower the trap,' said Harra to his companion; and taking hold of the Count's arm, he dragged him forward.
                  Daring stepped upon the trap, and it was immediately pressed down far enough to admit the victim, who shuddered and started back, as if he would retract his words, as he gazed down into the darkness, but his enemy urged him forward, and thrust him down into the vault.
                  A single cry echoed from the Count's lips as he was precipitated to the cold stone floor beneath, and then all was still. He was evidently stunned by the fall.
                  A smile passed over Jean Harra's face as his companion stepped off from the trap and it returned to its place; and the next instant he muttered, as he wiped the sweat from his brow,-
                  'He will starve to death in this vault-a fearful but a just retribution for his crimes. Players and friends have no power to save him now.'
               
               
                  SCENE THIRTY-THIRD.
                  Is a thrilling one, fraught with mystery and excitement.
                  Dr. Richland took the cold hand of the dead in his own and groaned aloud in his agony.
                  Our pen has not power to portray the manner in which he was influenced by his situation.
                  There he stood, by the side of the lost one, and the great God above only knew the feelings that rioted in his heart, as he leaned forward and murmured,-
                  'Carolina! God of Mercy! the fiends have sold me the body of my betrothed wife!'
                  His companion moved to his side, and bent an earnest look upon the 
                        fectures
                        features
                      revealed. One look was enough. He recognised them, and his excitement was as great as that of the other, but his feelings were not as keenly alive to the misery of the scene.
                  'Oh, why, why could they not let her remain undisturbed in her grave?' groaned the young physician. 'The tomb is less inhuman in its woes and horrors than the mysteries of the body-snatchers-may God forgive them for the sacrilege they have committed.'
                  Strange had been the occurrences which, from time to time, contributed to the development of the scene here presented.
                  'The whole affair, from beginning to end has been a mystery,' soliloquized Leton, after observing his companion for a moment.-Her sudden death-the sacrilege-the fact of her being in our possession at the present time, and her present appearance-these facts are all mysteries. Look at her features!-they are as fair and beautiful as they were at the hour we consigned her to the grave.'
                  Dr. Richland had noticed the fact thus pointed out, and was gazing upon the face before him with an intensity that defies expression.
                  The whiteness of his face almost vied with the linen that covered that beauteous form. An all absorbing suspicion, one both strange and wild, had arisen in his heart, and it seemed as if he could not bear the excitement that attended it.
                  His breathing was short, heavy and laborious; his eyes seemed starting from their sockets-his nostrils were distended like those of the wild steed of the prairies when fleeing before a hurricane of fire-and his form trembled like a leaf in the autumnal gales.
                  He suddenly sank back into a chair that was standing near, and pressing his hand convulsively upon his brow, he murmured,-
                  'The thought is enough to drive one mad. It cannot be that she is alive; but why does she appear so fair and lovely?'
                  'Alive?' repeated Leton, as he, too, regarded the features before him with a scrutinizing glance, and in his heart there arose the same suspicion that had taken possession of Dr. Richland.
                  Elbert now placed his hand on the bosom of Carolina, but a groan escaped him as he became conscious that the heart did not throb beneath it.
                  He had not hoped that she was alive-he did not dare to hope that her heart was still beating-but yet, a feeling of disappointment arose within him, though he could not have given any reason why it was thus.
                  He next placed his hand upon her fair, white wrists.
                  There was no throbbing there-nothing to indicate that life was still remaining in that motionless form.
                  Another expression of disappointment came from his lips, and then he bent down over those pale features, placing his face close to the lips which had so oft been pressed in joy to his own.
                  Scarcely a moment passed ere he gave utterance to a long-drawn sigh-such an one as can only be uttered at the moment excitement renders a person insensible-and staggering back from the body, he reeled to and fro for a moment, and sank down unconscious upon the floor.
                  Leton was taken by surprise, and for a moment did not comprehend the nature of the scene; but he soon bent down and placed his cheek close to those pale lips.
                  For one brief instant he stood there trembling with excitement, like that which fills the breast of a criminal when he arises to listen to the verdict of the jury, and then he, recoiled with a cry of the wildest surprise exclaiming,-
                  'By heavens, she breathes! she is alive!'
                  
                  The words were uttered in a tone that fully portrayed the terrible excitement under which he was laboring, and for a few brief moments he stood there, gazing upon those pale features, while a dreary silence reigned throughout the vault.
                  A moan from the young physician aroused him to a consciousness of his situation; and, moving forward, he turned his attention towards 
                        resusitating
                        resuscitating
                      his friend.
                  Dr. Richland soon opened his eyes, and after staring wildly upon the face of the student for a moment, arose to a sitting posture.
                  Leton saw by the expression of his eyes that his thoughts were wandering-that the exciting nature of his thoughts and the events connected therewith, had caused the blight of temporary insanity to lower upon his mind.
                  The next instant he started to his feet, tho' so weak that he reeled to and fro like an intoxicated man, exclaiming in wild accent,-
                  'God of Heaven! am I the victim of a horrible delusion, or did I feel her warm breath softly fanning my cheek? I could have sworn that she breathed; and yet it cannot be. Carolina! art thou dead or living? O, that my mind could comprehend the strange commingling of joy and sorrow, of hopes and fears, of doubt and belief that has recently taken place within its inmost cells.'
                  Leton gently laid his hand upon his arm and detained him as he attempted to move to the table.
                  'Do not be hasty and excited in reference to this mystery, or you will be indiscreet.-Let us go to work calmly and investigate the matter; for I believe that if we bestow proper attention upon it, we shall unravel everything connected therewith, from the foundation to the surface.'
                  'Have you looked at her features?' asked Elbert, grasping his friend nervously by the arm, and gazing into his face with an expression of eager inquiry.
                  'I have.'
                  Then, in heaven's name! tell me whether she is alive or not-whether I am oppressed by a chaotic phantasy, or a dim outline of the truth. Does she live and breathe?'
                  The look that mantled his visage as he ask-this question was agonizing to behold, fraught as it was with the colors of a living picture of misery.
                  'Do not be excited, Dr. Richland, and I will tell you all I know in reference to the subject. I thought, as I bent down over her face, that a breath, the faintest one conceivable, came forth from her lips.'
                  'God be praised! I believe that life yet remains in that beauteous form-but should this belief be wrongly founded, the disappointment will kill me. I could not-no, I will not, allow the cold grave to hide her from my view. She must live must be restored to her friends, to gladden hearts rendered all lonely and desolate by her untimely loss.'
                  'Be as calm as possible,' whispered Leton, who was determined to prevent his friend from becoming excited.
                  'How can I be calm? God alone knows how I am tortured by these hopes and fears. Leton, Leton I believe, on second thought, that we are both as crazy as any two lunatics you can find in a mad-house.'
                  'Why so?'
                  'Because we are so foolish as to believe that the dead can come back. Who ever heard of such an event?'
                  'A great many to whom I would refer you if I had time. It is sufficient for you to know that hundreds of persons have remained in a trace, day after day, and still possessed life, although deemed dead by their physicians and friends. This may be the case with Carolina.'
                  'But she was poisoned-at least, Count le Chandau told me so, and I begin to have some confidence in the declaration, although I considered it nothing but idle boasting at the time of its utterance,' interrupted Doctor Richland.
                  'It does not make any particular difference with the features of the case, if she was poisoned. In all ages and times, there has been a subtlety, a deviltry, if you like that term better, a strange subtlety connected with the manufacture of virulent poisons. It cannot be reasonably supposed that the poisons invented by the astrologers and fortune-tellers of ancient times have all been swept away. On the contrary, the law of human progression is made manifest in this as well as nearly or quite all of the events of time; and I have no doubt but that the most cunningly contrived mixtures, the deadliest poisons ever manufactured, are in existence now, and that, too, in this Christian city of New York, where they are more or less used. It may be that Carolina was poisoned; and if so, it would be nothing strange for the poison to possess the power of keeping her in a death-like sleep for several days!'
                  'Then you think that there is some ground for hope?'
                  'I do.'
                  'It does not seem probable to me; but yet I am sure that her gentle breath came and played about my cheeks!'
                  'Let us move near to her and learn whether we are deceived or not.'
                  'No, no!' ejaculated Elbert wildly, as he shuddered from head to foot.' I cannot, must not gaze upon those features again, while this awful curtain of uncertainty hangs over my mind. I must know the truth-whether she will arise from the grave as it were to bless me, or whether I am doomed to disappointment and the grave!'
                  'Do not speak so despondingly,' replied Leton.' Should the hope that now throbs in our bosoms prove to be idly founded, let us overlook the fact of its present existence, and gaze forward into futurity to the hour when the loved and lost, the gone before, will welcome us home to the glories of the Eternal world!'
                  'I would, God knows how willingly, but I am not capable of doing so,' was the reply, and his voice was husky and tremulous. 'I stake hope, joy, life, in fact everything', upon the fulfillment of the hope that has been conjured up concerning her fate! If Carolina is dead, I do not desire to live another hour, and in future my prayers shall be for death!'
                  The tortured man wept aloud as he paused. His brain, oppressed by woe-was full of the terrible fancies and vagaries brought into existence by the hopes and fears that alternately fluctuated in his mind; and it was evident that he had been too much excited by hope to bear disappointment without suffering serious injury, if not death.
                  Leton could not but have compassion for the misery of his companion, and his frame trembled with a sympathetic emotion, as he gazed upon his pale features.
                  'Calm yourself,' said he impressively.' It will not answer for you to be stricken down by these thoughts. We must meet the trials and sorrows of life as they come. Give me your arm, and let us draw near, and learn the position of affairs.'
                  'No, no! I cannot approach that beauteous form again, unless there is life within!' exclaimed Dr. Richland, starting back.' 'If you have any pity for me, do approach and learn the truth, though it may be one of woe rather than of happiness. I must know all, but have not courage enough to gain the knowledge myself. Will you not seek an explanation of the mystery?'
                  As he asked this question he covered his face with his hands, and sank back into a chair, his form quivering with the misery within.
                  Leton moved towards the object of their anxiety and solicitude-the cold and motionless, yet beautiful form of Carolina. His breathing was almost suspended as he paused beside her, so deep was the awful sanctity and stillness of the scene.
                  He took one of her white hands in his own, and gazed upon it long and earnestly. A flush of excitement gradually overspread his countenence, and an observer would have conjectured from his appearance that his hopes were strengthening.
                  'She is alive!' came from his lips in a thrilling whisper, at length.
                  'What!' exclaimed Elbert, starting up with a wild gesture of surprise, and staring earnestly upon the other. 'What is that you say?-Alive!-as you hope for mercy in another world, repeat that word-that blessed, joy-giving word!-ALIVE!
                  'I speak the truth-Carolina is alive!'
                  For a moment, Dr. Richland stood there, silent and motionless, as if the assurance had completely overpowered his mind; and then he darted quickly forward. No earthly power could have prevented him from springing to the side of Carolina-HIS Carolina; and kissing her cheeks, lips, and brow with all the passionate warmth and fervency of a young lover; and again and again did he repeat these pledges of his joy, as if completely controlled by the ecstatic emotion of the hour.
                  'I know not the mystery of this restoration, he murmured, at length; 'but I am convinced that she is alive, and capable of being restored to health.'
                  Reader! were there not more truth than aught else in this remark, our pen never would have revealed the stirring mysteries that have occupied a place in the latter part of this story.
                  'Quick!-for God's sake, haste to Mrs. Selgin's and procure a supply of restoratives! The spark of life must be gently fanned, or it will be extinguished forever!' exclaimed Elbert, as he more fully realized that there were indeed life in the motionless form before him.
                  And then, for the first time since the revelation of the all-absorbing truth, did Leton become conscious of the necessity that was for instant action; and the next instant he darted out of the vault, exclaiming:
                  'I will return with the required assistance in a moment.'
                  And ere half a minute had elapsed, he rushed into the apartment where Mrs. Selgin was seated, rendering her materially excited by his violent movements.
                  'Quick! For the love of Heaven, Mrs. S., give me some restorative stimulants, and accompany me to the 
                        vanlt
                        vault
                     .'
                  'Mercy!-what can have happened to render you so highly excited?'
                  'You shall soon see. Aid me, and ask no explanation at present. A precious life can be saved by our mutual endeavors, if they are only used immediately and energetically.-Haste, haste! every moment lessens our chances of success.'
                  When fully aroused, Mrs. S. was an active and energetic woman. She had partly understood the hurriedly-spoken sentences of the student, and she realized enough to prompt her to instant action.
                  'Wait a moment. I will soon be ready with the required articles, to accompany you,' was the remark she uttered as she hastily left the apartment.
                  Hardly a moment passed ere she returned, and then both made their way to the scene in the vault.
                  'Oh, what a world of happiness there is in store for us, if indeed she can be restored to life!' murmured Dr. Richland, the moment he was left alone with her; and again he kissed her lips.
                  Even as he spoke, he learned forward upon the table, as if completely exhausted; a warm red glow appeared upon his features, so pale but a moment before; and he added, in a low, tremulous tone, but one of excessive joy:
                  'By my soul! her lips begin to lose that deathly, icy coldness! and her blood seems to be resuming its wonted action in her veins. She is indeed alive-thank God, thank God!'
                  Leton and Mrs. Selgin soon entered; and the latter was almost transfixed with astonishment at the scene presented to her view.
                  'Alive?' in a single word, in a tone of eager questioning, came from her lips, as she paused beside Dr. Richland.
                  'Alive, thank heaven!' he responded, as he seized a flask of brandy she had, and turned his attention upon Carolina.
                  'Cannot we raise her up?' asked Leton.
                  The effort was made, and it succeeded: for her form had lost the rigidity and stiffness which had so long pervaded it; and her limbs were as flexible as they were when she was in perfect health. The coldness imparted to her body by the poison, was also gradually passing away; and the warmth of life was as gradually and surely making its presence manifest.
                  Having raised her form up into a sitting posture, with her head reposing upon his bosom, Elbert poured some of the brandy down her throat. A shudder passed over her form; and each of the trio wept for joy as they observed it: for it told them, to a certainty, that she was still alive.
                  Their exertions were renewed; and they soon had the satisfaction of seeing her eyes open. A moment she looked around, as if striving to re-call to mind her situation; and then, as her eyes encountered those of her lover, she murmured in a low, intensely-thrilling whisper, the name dearest to her heart-
                  'Elbert-dear Elbert!'
                  'Thank God! still am I blessed with the life, the love of my own angel Carolina!' whispered Dr. Richland, wildly, as he folded her form to his excitedly-throbbing heart.
                  Almost at the same instant, a wild cry rang throughout the apartment, and a dark form glided into their midst, while an excited voice exclaimed:
                  'God of love! what do I behold? Carolina alive! Let Heaven be eternally blessed for this dispensation: for I am no longer oppressed with the consciousness of being a murderer!'
                  All eyes were instantly bent upon the intruder-Daring-who had so unceremoniously made his appearance in the scene. He stood before the 
                        resusitated
                        resuscitated
                      body, his eyes fixed with a strange earnestness upon her countenance, while his form trembled with the fearful excitement conjured up by the vision presented to his view.
                  'She still lives,' he added, in 
                        agaited
                        agitated
                      tones, a moment later-'still lives; and I shall no more feel that the murderer's brand rests upon my brow?'
                  'A murderer? what mean you by using the name here?'
                  'The term was not inappropriately spoken, as I can soon convince you,' was the reply; and the peculiar manner in which it was uttered, caused a strange thought to arise in the heart of the physician.
                  'Ha!' he ejaculated, starting back, as he remembered the words of the Count, uttered at the time he met him last: 'I believe I understand the meaning you express so darkly-you are the one whom Le Chandau hired to poison Carolina?'
                  'I am!'
                  Dark as night became Dr. Richland's features; but ere he could take a hasty step forward-ere his excited feelings could find vent in words, the one who had thus confessed his guilt continued:-
                  'I administered the poison which has so long exercised a deadly influence upon Miss Raymond-but God knows I was not intentionally guilty of evil. I was led on and deceived by the Count.'
                  And having secured the attention of the company, he proceeded to reveal his agency in the affair, from beginning to end.
                  While he was speaking, Mrs. Selgin and Elbert continued their efforts for Carolina's restoration, and by the time he paused, her blood was coursing freely in its veins-her cheeks had resumed their wonted color-and he was able to converse; but a very strange appearance did she present as she sat there with her grave clothes thrown loosely about her form.
                  Acting upon a suggestion from Dr. Richland, Mrs. S. retired to her sleeping apartment, and procured some of her wearing apparel for Carolina to put on. Daring humbly asked pardon for the part he had taken in the matter, and the reunited lovers were too happy to cause him a pang of pain by withholding it.
                  We need not dwell upon the strange, but supremely happy restoration. The joy of all concerned seemed complete-especially that of the lovers. Dropping the curtain upon them for a short season, we will rise it up upon another scene.
               
               
                  SCENE THIRTY-FOURTH.
                  MR. AND MRS. RAYMOND were seated in one of the front parlors of their beautiful mansion-the latter gazing out between the blinds into the street, over which a profound silence reigned, save when it was disturbed by the footsteps of a passer, or by a watchman's rattle.
                  A police officer suddenly ascended the steps. Mrs. R. was gazing forth upon them at the moment he did so, and she knew his calling by the star that sparkled upon his breast. His steps were hurried-his whole manner that of a man much agitated. He rang the bell with a violence that proved him to be in a hurry.
                  'What can he want here at this hour of the night?' asked Mrs. R. of her husband, as her breast quickened its beatings.
                  'I do not know,' was the response.-'Where is Joseph?-is he not asleep?-I shall have to go to the door myself.'
                  Taking a light from the mantle-piece, he moved out into the hall, and from thence to the door. The key was turned in the lock, the door opened, and the officer entered in great haste.
                  'Are you not Mr. Raymond?' he asked, in a voice that trembled with excitement.
                  'I am.'
                  'The same whose daughter was lately buried in Trinity church-yard?'
                  Again the questioner received an affirmative reply from the wondering merchant; and upon thus being assured of the identity of the man before him, he proceeded to relate how he had been attracted to the churchyard by believing that he heard strange noises issuing therefrom while on his beat-how he had determined to investigate the mystery, and moved on, noiselessly and secretly, among the grave-stones, until he came to the tomb of Carolina; and how he had entered it, and found the body gone, as the only explanation of the open entrance, and the pieces of the marble slab that once covered it.
                  A cry of horror welled up to the lips of that wretched mother as he finished his recital, and bursting into a flood of tears, she murmured,-
                  'The fiendish body-snatchers have taken her-have robbed the grave of my loved, my beauteous and hapless daughter!' sinking back insensible upon the luxuriant sofa, as the last words came from her lips.
                  The father's emotion was nearly as great but the natural sternness of his nature enabled him to keep it more concealed. In a tremulous voice, he proceeded to ask for further particulars; but hardly a moment passed ere a hasty step in the hall announced another visitor, and caused the trio to turn their attention in that direction.
                  The man who had thus noiselessly entered, was Dr. Richland.
                  'There are several men standing upon the steps-who can they be?' asked Mrs. Raymond, the moment Elbert stood within the parlor.
                  She knew not the happiness in store for her-knew not that, amidst the group upon the steps, was her own Carolina, waiting to fling herself in her mother's arms as soon as her lover should break the news and prepare the way for her restoration to those who grieved for her as one dead.
                  'Mother! there is yet happiness for us all!' was the reply of the young physician; and having secured the attention of both of the sorrowing parents, he gently, carefully, and gradually revealed the startling, yet joy-giving mystery.
                  Then, leaving them almost fainting with anxiety and excitement, De Richland returned to the front door, and ushered in the party.
                  The restoration is sacred to the actors therein; and we will not disturb its sanctity by presuming to reveal the expressions of joy that flowed freely from the lips of each. The intensely-exciting and happy nature of the meeting can be better imagined by the reader than described by this pen of our's; and, therefore, we will lower the certain upon it, and glance at another event that occurred in the same hour.
                  
                  'Yes, I will stake my life against a single penny, that such was the fate of poor Merlin,' said one police officer to another, as both paused upon the corner where Ann street intersects with Broadway. They had just passed down the latter, down past Barnum's Museum and Genin's celebrated hat store: and the words were a continuation of the conversation that had occupied their attention for the last half hour.
                  The remark will be fully understood, when we inform the reader that it was referring to the officer murdered by Bubo in the vaults, and whose sudden disappearance, and the cause thereof, filled the thoughts of the two men now introduced.
                  'I tell you what it is, Charley,' said the one who had first spoken-a short, broad-shouldered man, whose form gave evidence of possessing great power-'there has been foul play, or he would have returned from his search after the body-snatchers. He was naturally very rash and impulsive, you know, and would have followed them into the very midst of the whole band, without once thinking of the dangers. I have no doubt but that he did so, and was murdered by the villains to prevent him from revealing the knowledge thus gained.'
                  'That is the explanation, and the only one, I can give the mystery. We are foolish perhaps to incur the risk of a similar fate; but still I am determined to learn if possible whether our suspicions are correct or not.
                  'So am I,' replied his companion; 'let us move on; enter Mrs. Selgin's groggery; and see if we can obtain any clue to the fate of Marlin.'
                  With these words both resumed their walk down the street.
               
               
                  SCENE THIRTY-FIFTH.
                  Two men are seated in the little room through which the body-snatchers find entrance to their secret rendezvous. Twenty-four hours have passed since we left the policemen men at the close of the foregoing scene, and we now find them here, engaged in drinking some of Mrs. Seligin's poor rum, and in conversing upon the various themes that engage their attention.
                  'I hardly think we shall meet with greater success than we did last night,' muttered the elder, as he sipped his liquor with a peculiar relish.
                  'Which amounted to just no success at all,' added his companion.
                  'It does seem as if we might learn something here in reference to Merlin's 
                        diappearance
                        disappearance
                     ,' rejoined the other. 'He stated the last time we met him, that he thought the body-snatchers had their rendezvous in the vicinity of our present locality. Do you know that I misunderstood the reply Mrs. S. gave you, when you asked her if such an officer had called here?
                  'There was an expression upon her face that warned one she was deceiving you, and it also hinted, if I interpreted it rightly that she knew more in reference to his disappearance than she desired us to know.'
                  'We are not in the right trail now-that's certain,' and the speaker gazed around upon the walls, which surely gave no indications of the vaults beneath.
                  'It must be that the remark is true-but yet there seems to be some mystery connected with this groggery that I do not understand. It is kept open sometimes nearly all night, as our presence here proves,' and he glanced significantly at his watch the pointers of which told that the time was much later than midnight.'
                  And not only is it kept open, but visitors, and those of the most questionable character, are received at all hours of the night-a fact that proves conclusively to my mind at least, that something wrong is connected with the establishment.'
                  'It may be that there is, but if so, we do not seem to be in a fair way to learn the exact nature of the mystery,' replied the other.
                  'You are right, and after we have emptied our glasses again, we will retire and give up the search. Fill up, fill to the brim, and while we are drinking, I will tell you a short story which will come quite apropos of our present subject.
                  'About a year ago, and while I was a watchman in Jersey City, several of us members of the night police, received an intimation that a gang of body-snatchers were calculating to make a descent upon a certain grave yard in the suburbs, for the purpose of plundering some of the tombs. A plan, having for its object the preservation of this, and the capture of the villains, was matured between us, and at the hour they were expected to appear, we were securely hid in the burial ground, awaiting their approach.
                  'They came, and after they had broken open several graves, myself and comrades darted from our hiding place, and endeavored to arrest them. A fight ensued, in which we were severely beaten and defeated, chiefly through the instrumentality of a gigantic negro, who gave one a blow upon the head with his right hand that caused me several weeks of dangerous illness-'
                  The narrator was interrupted by Bubo who came out of the front room at this instant, evidently with the intention of passing through the trap into the vaults beneath; but as he saw that the room was occupied by two police officers, he turned upon his heel and quickly retired.
                  Scarcely had the door closed upon him, ere the policeman, whose remarks had thus been interrupted, and whose countenance had paled the moment his eye 
                        encoutered
                        encountered
                      those of the negro, sprang to his feet, and gazed after him with a strange earnestness as he exclaimed:-
                  'As true as I live, that is the very same negro to which I have made allusion!-the same who dealt me such a powerful blow upon that eventful night! He is connected with the gang, and if we could only track him unawares, he would lead us to the rendezvous. Let us follow him out into the other room-we can call for some 
                        liqour
                        liquor
                     , as an excuse for our appearance there at just this moment, and learn whether the negro is staying here or not.
                  His companion nodded assent and both passed out into the other room.
                  The negro was leaning over the bar, conversing with Mrs. Selgin, but as he saw that the others had followed him out, and stopped up to the bar beside him, he waved his hand to the woman as a conclusion of the remark he was at that moment uttering, and retired into the back room.
                  The eyes of the man who so readily recognized him followed him, as he departed; and a look of resolution appeared therein.
                  Liquor was called for and while the twain were drinking it, a glance from one to the other. Indicated their resolution to follow Bubo.
                  They did so the instant their glasses, were empty, and found him descending the ladder to the vault beneath.
                  Both of the officers sprang forward, and gazed down through the scuttle-down into the vault and upon the huge form of the negro. A single whisper passed between them, and then they both moved down the ladder.
                  At almost the moment they reached the ground, the negro turned and detected their presence.
                  By heavens! I believe we are now in the vault where the body-snatchers carry on their wonderful proceedings! was the exclamation of the elder, as he gazed inquiringly upon the negro and the walls around.
                  A heavy frown flitted over the dusky features of Bubo as he confronted the intruders, and it became still more fearful as he observed the star each wore upon his breast.
                  For one brief moment they observed each other in silence, and then the negro sprang towards the officers, with a heavy slung shot in his hand. He whirled it rapidly around his head to give it the proper motion, but at the instant it was about to descend upon one of the men before him, he drew a revolver from his bosom aimed it, and pulled the trigger. A groan rang throughout the vaults-the massive form of the negro was stretched upon the ground, and as the smoke of the weapon cleared away above it, those two men saw that life had left it forever!
               
               
                  SCENE THIRTY-SIXTH.
                  Is a very common one, but one that will please every lady who has read thus far in this story. In short, it is a wedding to which we would now call your attention. Marriage has been defined many times and in many different ways, but we think we had better define it, in the present instance. As one of the natural consequences of such events as we have recorded in these pages.
                  The parties-of course you have already 
                        gussed
                        guessed
                      who-are Elbert Richland, M. D., and Miss Carolina A. Raymond.
                  Brilliantly lighted is the parlor in which we first saw Carolina, and many and merry are the friends who have gathered therein, to participate in the happiness of the occasion.
                  There we see Mr. Raymond and his wife seated in the midst of a bevy of their friends, and listening to their good wishes and congratulations; and here we see the priest, with his sanctimonious face and white cravat as indexes of his calling, ready to launch the lovers upon the sea of matrimony, a sea very much like the ocean in character, inasmuch as storms, disasters and shipwrecks, are the lot of many who tempt it.
                  While we are 
                        observtng
                        observing
                      this scene in the parlor, Carolina 
                        entered
                        enters
                     , leaning upon the arm of her lover, and attended by her bridemaids and their gallants.
                  Beautiful-as beautiful as a star of Heaven does she appear in her gorgeous wedding dress, which is of silk as white as the purest snow.
                  The happy pair pause before the 'man of God,' the bridemaids are escorted to their places, and the ceremony is soon over-Carolina is declared the wife of the one she loves so truly. Amidst the joy and congratulations of all concerned, we will retire from the scene, leaving them to the enjoyment of the festivities of night.
               
               
                  SCENE THIRTY-SEVENTH.
                  ALONE in the dark vault into which he had been thrust by his remorseless enemy, sat Norand le Chandau, a living picture of guilt in despair. All around him, both above and below, was as chilly and desolate as his heart, which was now dead to hope, but painfully alive to the doom before him. There was no light to reveal the pale countenance, his appalling situation, or the cold damp walls around him-the whole veiled in darkness, intense and terrible.
                  And on the visage of that man of crime strange expressions, reflected from the heart within, were continually flitting. The mystical imagery of remembrance, ever changing in its details and outlines, brought corresponding changes to his face. Much evil, much that was painful, had he to review; and the rigid nature of his thoughts was not softened by memories of good.
                  Hour after hour passed on, but he heeded not the flight of time. He knew, well knew, and the thought was agonising, that there would never be a change from darkness to light in that vault, unless some fellow-being came to his rescue. He was conscious that that dark hue would reign around him, until the equally dark shades that rested upon his heart were obliterated by death.
                  His senses seemed to be enwrapped in, a lethargic spell. His head rested forward upon his bosom, and his whole appearance was wan and dejected.
                  A light was suddenly shed around him, but not until the cravings of hunger within told him that full twenty-four hours had been, added to the past since he was immured within the tomb-like vault.
                  He started up; but a groan escaped him, as the rays of the light revealed his situation, and fell in sickening, ghastly colors upon the damp stone walls around.
                  That light was placed there by Bubo, no more to be tended by human hands while life remained in the form of the trembling wretch who cowered beneath its influence: for it had been placed there by the command of Jean Harra, he having secretly bribed the negro to fulfill his wishes-placed there to render the misery of the Count's dying hour more fearful in its power, by the horrors of his position being plainly revealed.
                  Dark and drear was the vault: and it was revealed with a dreary indistinctness by that mystical light, which appeared to be set in a little glass globe. It was placed far up in the wall, several feet higher than he could reach.
                  Le Chandau arose to his feet, and moved around the vault a few times, until he had refreshed his weary limbs, and then he returned to his former position.
                  Time passed on. Hour after hour he sat there, and still that strange light shed its rays upon the scene.
                  A large rat suddenly moved slowly before him, paused there a moment, and then moved on to the wall, where it disappeared in a hole. This incident, trifling as it was, served to awaken him from the musing spell which had completely enchained his attention, and he now became sensible of the thirst and hunger which was gradually overpowering his nature.
                  The intense pain created by his thirst caused a groan to escape his lips; and his thoughts now took a new and torturing form-the realities of his situation became more deeply impressed upon his mind. He felt convinced that he would have to suffer death by starvation, and that all the horrors of this lingering death would be his.
                  Then his thoughts were changed. He remembered how he had once gained the love of a young and cheerful-hearted maiden, by deporting himself in a manner that seemed in keeping with his words: all of which were as false and treacherous as his base heart could make them-how he had gradually gained a hold upon her affections, until she felt that it would be a pleasure to die for him, such was the extent of her lover, and nature of her devotion-how he had whispered low words of happiness in her too willing ears, and deluded her with promises as unmeaning as the idle murmurs of the passing breeze, until she consented to make a great sacrifice for his sake-how he had betrayed the trust reposed in him, and after winning all that rendered HER life dear, left her the heartbroken victim of deception and wrong, to go down to the grave, unhonored and alone; and as these memories came thronging upon the brain of the imprisoned wretch, the very air he breathed, and the walls around him, seemed to whisper, as he mused upon the fate before him: 'this, this, is the Seducer's Doom!'
                  'To die of starvation!-yes, this is the fearful sentence that is written upon the blank surface of the future,' he muttered, and his voice was husky with emotion. 'Die I must; and it is too late for me to hope to escape.'
                  As this conviction, unwelcome and terrible, pressed itself upon his mind, he leaned his head forward upon his head, and gave himself up to the thoughts that crowded so darkly upon his overwrought brain.
                  How long he remained there silent and motionless, he knew not; but hour after hour rolled on, and he was at length aroused by feeling a sharp pang of pain in his leg.
                  Looking down, he saw that a large rat had bitten him! He soon frightened the animal away a short distance, but not as before would he retire to his hole. He seemed to be aware that death would soon render the man before him a fitting food for the inhabitants of that vault.
                  The victim smiled bitterly as he observed the movements of the animal.
                  'Yes, the very vermin seem to be conscious of my approaching doom. See how the eyes of that rat glitter-as if he were endowed with more than human cunning, and an infernal malignancy! 'Tis the pioneer, the first one of the horde that is to follow, and tears the flesh from my bones even while I am alive!'
                  To the misery of this thought, we will leave him, and drop the curtain upon the scene. His doom was too fearful for us to dwell upon; and we will leave the reader to imagine its dark shades.
                  In after times, a ghastly skeleton may be found in the vaults; and if so, it will not add but little to the certainty of the doom that at last encompassed THE MOCK COUNT OF NEW YORK.
               
               
                  EPILOGUE.
                  With a glance at the present situation of our actors in the foregoing series of events, we will leave them.
                  Jean Harra returned to France as soon as he knew that his enemy was dead; and this is all we know in reference to his movements after he had triumphed.
                  Mrs. Selgin still keeps the little groggery, and still loves the young man 'over the way.' The intrigue is still conducted between them; we can but hope that they will not again be disturbed by a night intruder, as they were 'once upon a time' by the one who figured as the Mock-Count, until death dropped a sable curtain over his whirlwind of life.
                  Daring is now an engineer on one of the Hudson River boats, plying between New York and Troy. He has reformed somewhat, and discharges his duty in a manner that gives him a good support, and his employers satisfaction.
                  As for the body snatchers-the knowledge gained by the two officers caused them to keep an eye upon their rendezvous; and we see by the Herald that Bill and four others were lately arrested. At the time of their detection, they had several bodies packed in barrels and boxes, which were marked for various places. This arrest will probably break up the gang; and we opine that the secret rendezvous so long occupied by them, will be inhabited in future only by vermin and worms.
                  At the present writing, even as our pen glides over the paper, Elbert Richland is one of the most popular physicians in New York. His extensive practice bids fair to give him a large fortune in the course of a few years; and it is our humble opinion, that it could not be the fortune of one more worthy. He is happy in the love of his 'angel Carolina,' as he calls her; and we trust they will live to a good old age, and that every year of their lives may be fraught with happiness, honor and peace!
                  Our story is ended-and we have only to thank the reader for his indulgence, and withdraw. The drama is happily closed-and if our rough, stirring pictures of life, as it is, have pleased you, I trust we shall meet again:-until then, adieu.
                  
                     'C. B.'
                  
                  THE END.
               
            
            
               THE PARRICIDE'S 
                     DUAGHTER
                     DAUGHTER
                  .
               'TWAS night; and the busy hum of Madrid was now hushed in sleep, that universal queller of turbulent passions; leaving the town tranquil and silent as the grave. From one house, however, a blaze of light emanated, like virtue gleaming in golden beams on a benighted world, dark in sin and profligacy.
               At an open verandah of this brilliantly illumined palace, a youthful cavalier sat, seen in deep converse with a lady; and as the glare of light rested on her visage, her countenance resembled the whitest marble.
               Her eyes presented a deep and violet blue, a color, generally the concomitant of a snowy skin and scarlet lip; long silken locks of chestnut hue fell in negligent and heavy masses over her gracefully sloping shoulders, which, like unto alabaster in appearance, were marked here and there with lines of purple veiny tracery.
               Art and nature in this, a favored child, had been competitors in giving grace and captivation to her charms. Pearls like Cleopatra's were pendant from each small, round ear, and diamonds set in jet shot sparks of fire from the centre of her girdle.
               Her dress was of dark ruby velvet, as also the slippers which encased her tiny feet, and which latter were likewise studded with brilliants.
               The companion of one so lovely, was no less noble in his appearance. Although but a youth, evil passions had fixed upon his brow a fierce and brutal scowl; a deep cut and black eye, and a supercilious, nay almost sardonic curve of mouth, had given him an aspect far from inviting, except to those who, blinded by cupid's powers, look even upon blemishes as beauty spots. A balmy breath wafted the soft evening gale. 'Twas the sigh of the beautiful maiden!
               'Gaspar, thou art not angry with me?' she said, while she averted her head to wipe away a falling tear. No answer was returned, but the maiden, bending on her knee, imprinted a kiss on her lover's hand, and in a tremulous voice continued-'How now, idol of my very soul! not one word! oh, Gaspar! wilt thou not believe what I have so often sworn, that in spite of thy poverty I would wed thee; but my mother-'
               'Hold, woman!' fiercely interrupted her lover; 'you are like all your sex; you fawn, you cringe, on titled, wealthy men. Be they idiots, be they devils, if the purse but chink, 'tis no matter what the heart of the possessor!'
               'This from thee!' answered the girl, as she burst into a flood of tears; then quickly rising from her recumbent posture, while the flush of wounded pride drew a crimson mantle over her pallid face, she added, 'has love so swamped my woman's pride that I must e'en kneel to man? I did forget me sadly? henceforth my bended knees, uplifted hands, and ardent prayers, to heaven's high attribute shall alone be offered. Henceforth this foot, this small, frail foot, which nobles have fallen before and madly worshipped, shall trample, shall stamp into the dust that vile, base crawling worm ycleped man! Go forth, proud noble! proclaim to those who fawn and cringe on men, to learn from me, the way to spurn and scoff at ye. All, all, a savage, devilish race! Gaspar, Gabrielle di Lorma bids thee farewell for ever!'
               With flashing eye and quivering lip, the maiden strode haughtily away to the adjoining room.
               A crowd of gay gallants surrounded the beautiful Gabrielle, who soon was seen like a bright meteor, dashing through the mazes of the bolero. When she concluded, all flushed and panting from her exertions, she caught the sad and mournful gaze of Gaspar; but Gabrielle 
                     umoved
                     unmoved
                  , linked her arm in that of the wealthy Due di Lorenzo, and passed Gaspar with a cold and fixed stare.
               Frantic with despair, he heat his breast, he stormed, he raved. 'Oh, woman! woman! thou hast, like the fondled asp, dug thy venom-tooth into my bosom's core; but I will hazard all to win thee; by fair or hellish means, Gabrielle, thou shalt be mine. Oh! thou couldst ne'er have loved me, for if thou hadst, thou wouldst have braved a parent's will. What! spurn me because I cannot fling the wealth of Crsus at thy feet! Hah!' he continued, as if some plan had flashed across his brain; 'oh! I could worship the power that bestows on me such a thought; thou shalt be mine!'
               Gaspar slouched his plumed hat over his fevered brow, and wrapping himself up in his heavy mantle, walked hastily to a lone part of the town. The morning sun was just faintly beaming, like first love dawning in a virgin's breast.
               Gaspar descended a flight of steps which led to a cavern cut in a rock, and pressing a concealed spring, a trap-door flew open, and he leaped into a dungeon where the rays of daylight never found entrance. An antique brass lamp was suspended by a rope from the roof, but hardly served to light this gloomy abode, as the farthest parts were in total darkness. The masses of rock overhanging at each side of the lamp, appeared as if studded with precious stones, for the dank and humid dews hung in large drops on them, and reflected a variety of brilliant colors.
               Gaspar felt as if the icy hand of death had grasped him. Directly under the lamp a form reposed on the ground, closely wrapped ped in goats' skins, the only part visible, was a foot that seemed too small for use, and, close by, a little black slipper richly embroidered in silver. A faint shriek, followed by the exclamation of 'My own Gaspar!' and the 
                     resposing
                     reposing
                   form sprang up, and rushing toward the new-comer, clasped him in her arms. The fillet which bound her head had fallen off, and the slight figure was completely shrouded by the profusion of hair which streamed down in glorious effulgence. This fairy-like being was the only daughter of the Spanish miser, Jerome.
               'Gaspar!' said the lovely girl, and she clapped her hands in transport; 'angel, let me gaze on thee for ever!'
               'Hush, 
                     Juanna
                     Juana
                  , I cannot bear thy trifling this night. Off, girl!' Juana, fell at his feet like a crouching spaniel.
               'Forgive me, love, but seeing thee hath turned me mad.'
               'Well, well,' said Gaspar impatiently; 'where is thy father?'
               'Talk not of my father,' answered the 
                     gril
                     girl
                  ; 'talk of our marriage, ay talk of that.'
               'Hold, Juana!' said Gaspar; 'thy tongue is like a ceaseless clock. Is thy father now sleeping? draw near my own idol. Hard is thy fate, poor girl, immured in this horrid cell, starved by a miserly parent, who has, thou hast confessed, thousands.'
               'Ay, millions in his iron box,' answered Juana; 'but 'tis a turn-up of which death I die first, a broken heart or starvation.'
               'Juana, thou shalt escape both. Do what I tell thee! thou wilt? Dear girl, thou shalt be happy; thou shalt be my wife!'
               'Oh, Gaspar! call me but wife and I will endure all the torments which human nature can bear. Gaspar, let me but call thee husband! Show me the way to escape, and on my bended knees, by my very soul, I'll swear to do it! Gaspar, look not so wild, thy gaze is killing me. What means that poniard? Ha, fiend! thou mean'st to stab my father! thou must not, canst not! O God! murder my poor old father! the deed is too damnable! Oh that hell were yawning at our feet, by heaven I'd hurl thee in.'
               Juana would have fled, but Gaspar seized her by her long black hair, and pointing the dagger to her bosom said, 'This, then, to thy heart!'
               Juana bared her lovely breast, and replied, 'be merciful-kill, oh kill me quickly!'
               Gaspar unmanned, brushed away the scalding tears that sprung forth and said, 'Juana, thou lovest me not, I was deceived.'
               'Oh, Gaspar! I would do all I could for thee, but murder my father; the deed is too foul, too horrid! My head is whirling like a revolving wheel. Oh God! my heart, my heart!'
               Gaspar clasped her to his breast, and adjured her by all a lover's fond, endearing terms, to make him blest. At length, Juana led the way to another part of the cave, where the old miser slept. She would have left Gaspar to do the deed alone, but he clutched her hard and bade her hold the lamp. Juana saw Gaspar seize the old man by the arm; she heard her father murmur forth, 'I have no money-I am a miserable beggar-oh spare me!' A scream almost rent Juana's heart. A purple stream of blood trickled to her feet; her father lay weltering in his gore.'
               'The key!' said Gaspar, gruffly.
               Juana raised the head of the corse, and amid the bloody straw, found the key. With many exclamations of disgust, Gaspar cleared out the box, and at the bottom discovered a parchment, from which he read as follows:
               'In case I should die suddenly, or meet my death by unfair means, I write this will for the satisfaction of those who consign my carcass to the dust from whence it was formed. All the money I have saved, I have placed at Gusman's bank, for the benefit of my sisters, Mercia and Henriquitta, and their respective families. For my only daughter Juana, I disinherit her and leave her without a maravido, as an ungrateful, disobedient child, who lavishes her love on a profligate, spendthrift, heartless noble, by name Don Gaspar.'
               The paper dropped from Gaspar's hand-'disinherited, no money!'
               Oh, Gaspar! let us not wait for money, let us fly; let us endeavor to forget this horrid murder.'
               'Fly with thee, Juana! with a paricide daughter! have the arms of a murderess coiled round my neck? No, woman! beautiful as thou art, there is not one of Satan's devils who does not bear a more heavenly impress than I see in thy gloating eye. Murderess! Paricide! approach not. Were I to fold thee to my bosom, to calcined cinders should I turn, sered to the very bone by sin! Wed thee, Juana! sooner would I wed a cloven-footed fiend. Naught could be so loathsome to my eyes as thou, impure maiden with hands imbrued in blood; marry thee! 'twould be perdition-hell! Wed thee! a merry tale forsooth! some day be murdered by my bride-ha, ha, ha!'
               'Gaspar thou lovest another; I know thou dost. For if for me alone thy love had burned, would such a mere puff have so blown out the flame? Ah, no! for well I know that he who really loves, can hold a torch e'en to his mistress' faults, and swear those are her virtues! Gaspar! better not rot in the earth, and be the food for worms than live to be accounted infamous. Yet that even I could have borne; nay more-eternal misery-a burning hell hereafter, so that thou hadst called me wife. Oh, for pity's sake, say not no, again, 'tis more than I can bear; better far to die, and I can die but once, than to live dishonored!'
               'Juana snatched the poniard which had stabbed her father, and which was still reeking gouts of blood; plunging it into her bosom, she uttered: ''Tis but a moment of pain.'
               Suddenly two men rushed into the cavern, followed by a few of the neighboring populace. A cry of horror escaped them as they found themselves standing in a pool of blood. 'Young noble, we come to conduct thee to prison, on suspicion of murdering that old man. Hearing cries of lament, we hastened hither, and find thee covered with blood, and the old miser butchered.'
               'You are mistaken,' answered Don Gaspar, 'I am innocent. Yonder maiden, who stands pale and trembling, is the guilty being. See, in her hand is clutched the marderous steel!'
               'Gaspar!' shrieked Juana, the blood from her own wound flowed fast, she tried to speak but her tongue clave to her mouth.
               'Away with her to prison!' was Don Gaspar's order, as they bore the insensible, but still breathing girl, from the cavern.
               On a bright summer's day, at the end of July, a numerous bridal train slowly proceeded up one of the principal streets of Madrid, leading to a large public square: the silvery sounds of the lute wafted on the hot breeze, mingled with the joyous laugh, and gladsome voices: silken banners of gaudy hue waved on high, and the richly-scented tresses of the damsels shed their perfume around; liveried menials walked on either side, vainly striving to keep off the admiring crowd, as they pressed forward to gaze on the lovely 
                     Douna
                     Donna
                   Gabrielle di Lorma, who was now to be united to the handsomest noble in the land, Don Gaspar.
               The betrothed pair headed the procession, mounted on two snowy steeds, which ever and anon champing their golden bits, tossed their small heads in pride, and made the silver bells, closely studded on the reins, tinkle, almost to the measure of music.
               The luxuriant locks of Gabrielle were thickly plaited with pearls; here and there they were looped up with rubies and diamonds, a wreath of which gems encircled her fair brow; her robe was of white satin, embroidered in pearls; her slender and delicate waist was confined by a cordeliere of brilliants; the small hand which held the rein, and checked the ardor of her prancing steed, was incased in a white glove, embroidered in silver, while the other held a large fan, composed of colored feathers, for the purpose of shading her lovely visage from the sun.
               The radiant smiles she lavished on her bridegroom were unheeded, as, pale and melancholy, he rode, bearing his plumed beaver in his hand, and the thick, dark curls almost shading his care-worn brow.
               Suddenly the tones of the muffled drum were heard, and at the opening of a side street, a procession of soldiers, mingled with the bridal cortege. A man followed clothed in black, and masked, holding a hatchet in his hand; then came a small, and youthful female, habited in white, her feet bare, and her long, black hair, almost entirely covering her form, reached the ground; her lip was blanched, and her slight marked eyebrows were contracted by grief, but not a tear glistened on the lid of her Persian-cut eye. The crowd retreated. Some exclaimed with horror.
               'Tis the paricide daughter!' while others shouted, with savage delight, 'On-on to the execution! Let her die!'
               Suddenly, a scream was heard, and Juana, the criminal, was clinging, with enchained hands, to the bridle of Don Gaspar's steed.
               'Save me! save me!' shrieked the maiden; 'I am not guilty. Dear Gaspar, have mercy! let me not die!'
               Terrified, he on whom she called answered not; the quick heaving of his bosom alone portrayed his feelings were acute.
               'Oh! Gaspar! as you hope for mercy hereafter, show some now to me. Oh, God! must I then die!' and the distracted girl had nearly sprung upon his horse, when two guards seized her, and lifting her in their arms, bore her to the place she had escaped from
               'One word,' said Juan, 'and I will offer no more resistance-a few moments, and I shall cease to exist. Gaspar! if the prayers of a guilty wretch can avail with Him above, thy life will be a happy one; but in the midst of joy, let not the recollection of the miser's daughter be entirely effaced: a few short moments, and this face, on which thou hast so often gazed, and pressed to thy lips, will be cast into the mire, and therein trampled on; a few moments, and this broken heart will no more ache, grief will then repose, tears will then cease to flow, and Juana's name will be linked with that of Parricide! But this weakness is now of no avail. Gaspar! art thou happy? Does yon fair dame possess thy heart whole, and untouched?'
               Gaspar bowed his head, and the Spanish girl, meekly folding her hands on her throbbing breast, while her tears flowed many and fast, added:
               'Then heaven be my witness, I die content. Gaspar! dear idol of my fervent adoration, thou art happy! 'Tis well. It is not fit that I should live! my sight would blast thy peace. Farewell forever! I die content!' and murmuring an inward prayer, joined the escort, and proceeded to the scaffold, which was erected in the square.
               The bridal party maintained a solemn silence, a tear glistened in the blue eye of the noble Donna Gabrielle,-as she vainly essayed to unravel from Gaspar's look this mystery.
               'The rolling of the drum ceased, the bridal train advanced through the square; Gabrielle hid her face in her hands, and wept.
               A shout arose, and a black mass was seen coming toward Gaspar: for a minute the soft breeze suspended the floating mass over 
                     his his
                     his
                   head. The mob pressed forward to behold Juana. Violent hootings, shouts and execrations on the parricide daughter alarmed the steeds: Gaspar's became unmanageable, and as it tried to break forth, the floating mass fell on the horse and rider. It was Juana's hair, which had been cut from her small head, and thrown to the crowd. Shrieks were heard, mingled with confused sounds of hooting and despair; and at the same moment that Juana had ceased to exist, by means of the executioner's axe, Gabrielle was bending over the lifeless form of Gaspar: he had been thrown from his horse, and killed!
            
            
               MINA;
               OR THE LOVER'S MISTAKE.
               BY MISS A. INGRAHAM.
               AT the foot of one of the Harz Mountains, in a beautiful and retired valley, is situated the pretty little campagne of Heiterbach. Its mistress, Madame Schipser, lost her husband a very few years after their union, when she was left with one daughter, and the little domain above mentioned. Her daughter, Lolotte, made a runaway match with an ensign in the Austrian service, and died shortly after; leaving her mother the legacy of a child so like herself, that Madame Schipser could hardly fancy, as she gazed on the little Mina, that she was not transported back twenty years of her uneventful life, and that her laughing little grand-daughter was not in reality her lost Lolotte.
               Now, I suppose for form's sake, I must call Mina Rosvaller my heroine; though in truth she little resembled one of those sentimental personages. Her laughing blue eyes, sunny ringlets, and small, though beautifully proportioned figure, were quite the reverse of all that Romance has delighted to paint her languishing, die-away, El-Dorado monsters. But, nevertheless, Mina was very well calculated to produce a pretty little confusion in the hearts of the youthful heroes of Heiterbach. There was but one objection-none of them had ever seen her.
               Her grandmother, warned by the example of Lolotte, who had eloped with her soldier-husband from a fete de 
                        villags
                        
                     
                   to which she had gone, sans chaperon, determined to pursue another plan with the education of Mina: and at the age of seventeen, the latter had never been beyond the fields surrounding the farm (for such it was); and even in these limited bounds she was always accompanied by her grandmother; who, accustomed to the bracing air of the mountains, early rising, and temperate living, was extremely strong and active for her advanced age.
               The only place in which Mina was permitted a solitary ramble, was the large walled garden attached to her secluded home, which supplied half the country round with the most superb fruit, and in which a small parterre was devoted to flowers. Mina doted on her garden-pots, and was assiduous in her care of them: indeed, with the exception of a Livre des Martyrs (no very enlivening study), her needle, and a tortoiseshell kitten, they were her only recreation. But before the age at which she is introduced to my readers, Mina had begun to imagine that there might be other objects of interest in this wicked world, besides roses, kittens, and tapestry; however much her labors in embroidery broidery might be lightened by portions read aloud in the very venerable though somewhat cracked voice of her grandmother, from the aforesaid Livre des Martyrs or the Family Bible, the only books, except those used for Mina's rather primitive education, which Madame Schipser possessed. Mina often questioned her worthy relative concerning her strange reluctance to associate with any of her neighbors, particularly the family of the Herr von Niederstein, the Seigneur of the village, whose large terre joined the farm of Heiterbach.
               'He has, I know, frequently asked you to his Christmas parties,' she would say. 'Why should we not go there? Oh! dear grandmother, if you knew how I longed to learn something of the world!'
               'Hush!' said Madame Schipser with an air of horror. 'You do not know what you wish for. The world is a very improper place for young ladies, and I have bestowed all my pains on your education to very little purpose, if you entertain a wish so unbecoming in a person of your youth and inexperience.'
               Poor Mina was silenced, but not convinced. It was true she knew nothing of the world, but she could not entertain so bad an idea of it; and therefore felt sure her grandmother was mistaken.
               One day (it was in August, and the heat was intense), Mina took her work into the garden, and as she was sauntering down one of the walks in search of a shaded seat, she perceived with astonishment, and a delight not unmixed with vague terror, that the door farthest from the house had been left unlocked. Instantly, a movement of not unnatural curiosity prompted her to open it. The view thus obtained extended only to a wood, which grew on the side of a hill, and was intersected by a little brook, falling in mimic cascades over several large stones in its bed, with a delightful and refreshing murmur; while the cool shade seemed to invite the timid Mina, who was scorched with the heat, to explore its leafy recesses. Obeying the impulse, and wandering on, following the course of the brook, she came at length to a place where it suddenly widened; and with dismay she perceived a young man, dressed in a sporting costume, fishing on its banks!
               At this sight (which was certainly a very awful one), all poor Mina's courage forsook her, and she attempted to fly, but remained motionless, as if spell-bound by some invisible power. The stranger advanced respectfully, accosting her by her name. Mina's fears redoubled, and she made new but ineffectual efforts to escape: her terror deprived her of strength, and she could only implore the stranger in faint accents, to pass on. He was tempted to indulge in a laugh at her expense, but seeing that her fear was really genuine, he endeavored to calm it.
               'I conclude, Madam, from your presence here, that your are Mademoiselle Rosvaller. My name is Karl von Niederstein, and I esteem myself most fortunate in having had this opportunity of seeing you.'
               'Are you the Seigneur of Heiterbach?' were the scarcely articulated words which fell from her lips.
               'No, I am his eldest son,' replied Karl. 'I have been at home for the last three months on leave from my regiment, and have entertained the most anxious desire to make your acquaintance, Mademoiselle. Hitherto, I have been unable to accomplish it, but now most grateful am I to chance, which has thus given me an opportunity, as delightful as it was unexpected, of fulfilling my dearest wish.'
               During this speech, Mina ventured to raise her bead; and discovering nothing so very frightful in the tall elegant figure, blue eyes, and light moustache of her new acquaintance, gradually banished her fears: and finding likewise that his conversation was much more agreeable than that of her grand mother, or even of old Elfrida, the poultry-woman, she allowed two hours to slip away unperceived, in an animated colloquy. At last she remembered that it must be past the hour of dinner, and grew pale at the idea which suddenly presented itself-that her grandmother might seek her in the garden, and discover her unpermitted absence.
               Karl was much grieved-to lose her society, and eagerly inquired if he might be permitted to call on her grandmother.
               'Oh, no,' said Mina naively, 'she never receives strangers, but yet-I am very sorry to think I shall not see you again!'
               She spoke those words with so much simplicity, that Karl banished the smile which played on his handsome features, and replied in a tender voice-
               'Lovely Mina, the thought fills me also with sorrow-cannot you contrive to meet me here again without your grandmother's knowledge?'
               Mina remained thoughtful for some minutes, and then replied-'I could get over the garden-wall.'
               'Bravo, my spirited heroine!' laughed Karl, now unable to contain his mirth: though 
                     secrectly
                     secretly
                   flattered at the partiality so artlessly expressed; and not without a sufficiently warm interest in his lovely companion; which the aforesaid long conversation had considerably increased. 'Bravo, fair Mina! Promise me then to climb the provokingly high wall, which has so often excited my anger, at two to-morrow, when rely on finding a preux chevalier to assist you in your perilous descent.'
               Mina promised, and then taking a confused farewell of Karl, sped homewards with the rapidity and grace of a startled fawn.
               When she arrived at the garden-door, the first object that presented itself was the figure of her venerable relative, who with frantic gestures was making the wood resound with her lamentations. Mina approached gently and penitently, and threw herself at the feet of the offended dame. That worthy lady, however, was too delighted to see her beautiful bird safe in her cage again, to allow her wrath at this escapade its full sway: so she adopted the anxious and affectionate tone, and inquired in a voice suffocated by sobs-'Where have you been, truant one?'
               'Only a walk in the wood,' replied the terror-stricken Mina; 'the door was open, and I could not resist the temptation.'
               'Alas! my love! and were you not very lonely in that gloomy place?'
               'Very, my own grandmamma,' replied the innocent girl, who, though she had read nothing but the Livre des Martyrs, had a faint idea that it was as well not to make Madame Schipser the confidante of her adventure and the plan she had formed. Allowing, therefore, the good lady to continue in her delusion, she applied herself, on that eventful evening, as industriously to tent-stitch, and listened, with as much apparent interest, to the hundred and fiftieth reading of the martyrdom of Saint Laurence, as if there was no such person as Karl Von Niederstein in the world; and contrived effectually to conceal that she was suffering, during the lecture of her worthy relative, a state of ennui at least as unbearable as the comfortless bed of the holy hero of the gridiron.
               Next morning, betimes, the ingenious Mina betook herself to examining the locale of the garden wall, and speedily discovered an ami able plum tree, quite concealed from the windows of the house, which had arranged its venerable branches apparently for the express purpose of facilitating her project. She made one essay of its capabilities, and then, seeing that on the other side the ground rose sufficiently high to permit of her jumping down with the greatest ease, particularly if assisted by the arm of the gallant Von Niederstein, she awaited with impatience the hour of rendezvous.
               No sooner had the welcome sound struck her ear, than she flew to the garden, and, with the friendly assistance of the plum tree, surmounted the object which divided her from Karl. He was already there, and received her with the greatest delight. Their interviews were often repeated, and the natural and artless girl contrived for three months to elude the vigilance of all her guardians, and found time and opportunity, notwithstanding her grandmother's active surveillance, to fall 'pretty considerably' in love.
               At the end of this blissful period, Mina observed that her lover, during one of their stolen interviews, was unusually pensive and low spirited. In much alarm, the affectionate girl inquired the cause.
               'How can I be otherwise, my own Mina, when cruel fate is going to tear me from you perhaps for ever?'
               'Going! From me! dear Karl-and whither?'
               'My leave of absence expires to-morrow.'
               At these words, which sounded as her death-knell, poor Mina burst into tears. Her lover took her hand.
               'It is in your power, and yours only, my adorable girl, to turn my misery into happiness, which I dare scarce trust myself to think of.'
               'Oh, Karl! my heart is torn with the thought of our separation; but how can I avert such a misfortune?-tell me I conjure you.'
               'I can hardly venture to propose the plan, dearest Mina, but it is the only one which suggests itself. Dare I hope that you would consent to meet me here to-night, and fly with me, your devoted lover, far beyond the reach of tyrannical relations?'
               'But where should we go?' innocently inquired Mina.
               'I would take you, my beloved, to Ulm. My regiment is there, and there also lives my married sister. She, I am sure, would joyfully take charge of you till I could complete the preparations for our union.
               'I am one and twenty, my fortune is absolutely at my own disposal. I adore you, and shall be miserable for ever if you reject my suit. Consider, you have only to come to this spot, where I will await you-you have often done much for an hour's interview; will you not consent to run the risk once more, when the object is our union? Say but yes, my own Mina, and make your devoted Karl the happiest of men.'
               How could Mina resist such arguments? So, after a very little debate, it was arranged that at midnight, before which hour all the household would have sunk to rest, our heroine was to meet her lover in the spot which had so often been the scene of their interviews.
               Her grandmother apparently remarked nothing unusual, but wishing her 'good night' in her accustomed kind manner, retired to her chamber; and Mina, in silent tears, sought hers. She completed the arrangements for her flight, and then looked from the window.
               Not seeing any one at the place of rendezvous, she stationed herself on the top of the wall to await the coming of Karl.
               At length she perceived a figure, in a military cloak and cap, emerge from the wood; but it was so dark in the shadow of the wall, that she could hardly discern when he was near her.
               'Is it you, my Karl? said she, in a low voice.
               'We must lose no time,' whispered the figure. Mina descended hastily, and following her companion-but what was her surprise to see him direct his steps to the garden gate, instead of in the direction which she anticipated.
               'Whither are you leading me, Karl?' she inquired in low and timid accents.
               'To that home which you ought never to have quitted,' replied a voice, the well-known tones of which smote on her ear, and filled her with horror.
               With an irresistible and unconscious movement she seized the lantern, and threw its beams full on the face of-her grandmother!
               Mina shrieked, but her companion imposed silence with a look so terrible, that she felt her soul die within her.
               They reached the house in silence.
               Mina slept not that night, but spent the hours in tears.
               The next morning the dreaded meeting with her grandmother took place, and then the old lady very deliberately began,-
               'I am not going to allude to the events of the past night, Mademoiselle. I had hoped that the education given you would have shown the excessive impropriety of the step which my accidental overhearing of your conversation with your pretended lover, enabled me so fortunately to frustrate. Now, Mademoiselle, no apologies; for there is but one way of regaining my lost favor, and that I insist on your adopting. The husband I have destined for you from your infancy arrives here to-day. Mark me! you must see him, receive him with kindness, and plight him your troth.'
               Poor Minn, almost suffocated by her tears, fell at her grandmother's feet, and attempted to plead for at least a little delay of this hateful interview-but in vain.
               The inexorable old lady raised her with some roughness, and sent her to her chamber, with orders to don her best attire, and await her further commands.
               About two hours after this conversation, her grandmother sent for her, and the poor girl descended obediently, drying her eyes, and endeavoring to compose her countenance
               She paused a moment at the door, for the voice of some one talking and laughing with her grandmother smote her ear. She doubted not that Madame Schipser and this hateful suitor were amusing themselves with the idea of having outwitted her beloved and unfortunate Karl.
               Then his voice! how harsh, how discordant!-how unlike the soft, low tones of the object of her tender affection!
               A fresh burst of laughter sent the bright blood rushing to her cheeks, and burning with indignation, she threw open the door, and with a dignified step entered the room-keeping her eyes resolutely bent upon the ground, determined not even to vouchsafe a look to her future husband.
               'This is the disobedient girl.' said Mdm. Schipser, in a tone of severity.
               Mina remained standing before her grandmother, without speaking, and again the sound of suppressed laughter smote her ear.
               But its tone had either been altered by distance, or the awe she felt in the presence of her grandmother prevented it appearing so harsh. Nay, something in it caused her even to start and color with an emotion very different from indignation.
               A wild suspicion darted across her brain, and involuntarily she raised her eyes-there, near her grandmother, his face beaming with mischievous smiles, and looking handsomer than ever, stood her own Karl-the Herr von 
                     Niederstien
                     Niederstein
                  -her affianced husband.
               Poor child! the surprise was too much for her; she turned very pale, and would have fallen had not her lover rushed forward and supported her.
               His 
                     foud
                     fond
                   care soon restored her to a consciousness of her perfect happiness; and as, covered with blushes, she hid her face on Madame Schipser's shoulder, she thanked her a thousand times for the kind deception she had practised.
               'There now, silly children,' said the good lady, 'what has become of all your romantic nonsense? Could you not be content with being married like Christians, without running the risk of breaking your necks by jumping over walls in the middle of the night? How fortunate for you that the old woman had cleverness to outwit your mad projects. I will now leave you together; for, after a separation of nearly twenty-four hours, you must have much to say.'
               Karl's leave of absence was extended; and as no possible impediment could be discovered to their union, they were married, and, of course, were happy ever after!
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
