
    ----CITATION----
        Bradbury, Osgood.. The Rival Lovers, or, The Midnight Murder .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5876 wright2-0351
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE RIVAL LOVERS;
               OR, THE MIDNIGHT MURDER.
            
            BY OSGOOD BRADBURY, ESQ., AUTHOR OF THE "MYSTERIOUS
               FOUNDLING," "THE BEAUTIFUL HALF BREED," ETC., ETC.
            
               NEW YORK:
               ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER,
                  
                     160 & 162 NASSAU STREET.
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1857, by ROBERT M. DE
                  WITT, In the Clerk's Office of the United States District Court, for the Southern
                  District of New York
               W. H. Tinson Printer and Stereotyper, Rear of 43 & 45 Centre
                  St.
               Geo. W. Alexander, Binder, 81, 83, 85 Centre St.
            
         
      
      
         
         
            
            The rival lovers, or, The midnight murder
            
               THE RIVAL LOVERS; OR, THE MIDNIGHT MURDER.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  
                     
                        
                           'Ever note, Lucilius,
                           When love begins to sicken and decay,
                           It useth an enforced ceremony.
                           There are no tricks in plain and simple faith:
                           But hollow men, like horses hot at hand,
                           Make gallant show and promise of their mettle:
                           But when they should endure the bloody spear,
                           They fall their crests, and, like deceitful jades,
                           Sink in the trial.'
                        
                     
                  
                  IN a small village in one of the back towns of Maine, lived the widow Martin
                     and her only daughter Louise, a girl who had seen eighteen summers, and whose
                     beauty had attracted many admirers in her native place, but none had yet made
                     any proposals to her in due form. One young man, however, had once hinted to
                     her that he thought more of her than he did of any other girl in the town. His
                     name was John Stebbins, a stalwart, hardy, tough fellow, and an apprentice to
                     the blacksmith's trade. He had not quite reached his majority; but longed for
                     the day to come when he could vote, be a free man, and work for wages.
                  In the village was one small tavern, two stores, a blacksmith's shop, a
                     school-house, a small church, a shoemaker's little shop, with the sign of a
                     boat and a shoe over the door, and a pile of leathern scraps and shavings in
                     front, a dilapidated cooper's shop and several dwelling-houses. A short
                     distance from this small clump of buildings stood a saw and grist-mill on a
                     little stream, which in dry seasons afforded hardly sufficient water-power to
                     turn the wheel of the grist-mill.
                  The cooper's shop stood back of the widow Martin's one storied, unpainted
                     house, and formed a part of her earthly possessions; for her husband, before
                     his death, was a cooper by trade and manufactured cider barrels, butter tubs,
                     and other articles which might be called for. Mr. Martin was an honest man, and
                     industrious when he could keep away from the tavern and the two stores where
                     intoxicating liquors were sold somewhat freely. The unfortunate man lived and
                     died several years before the 'Maine Liquor Law' was ever thought of. He had
                     always been a hard-working man, and for two or three years before his death, a
                     hard drinking man in spite of all his good wife's remonstrances, and the tears
                     of his lovely daughter. There was a time when he had accumulated a snug little
                     property and lived quite independently, but when he died he left nothing but
                     his house, old shop and a small garden
                     spot. His other earnings he had drank up at the tavern and groceries.
                  When our story commences, he had been in his grave nearly three years; but the
                     widow contrived to live comfortably and clothe herself and daughter decently.
                     She was what in common parlance is called a smart woman, and Louise was
                     considered a very beautiful girl. So far as beauty and smartness were concerned
                     she was decidedly the belle of the little village. Her moral character was
                     never touched by the foul breath of slander; but she was a poor drunkard's
                     daughter, and poverty kept her in the humble walks of life. Even in this little
                     village there were young ladies who felt themselves above associating with
                     Louise Martin.
                  The two grocers of the village and the tavern-keeper had daughters who moved in
                     a rank above the cooper's daughter. Yet the latter possessed much more personal
                     beauty than either of the former. Louise knew full well that the parents of
                     these young ladies had made her father poor, and that consideration stung her
                     to the quick; for she was proud and ambitious. The articles of finery in which
                     they appeared at the village Church were purchased with the cooper's hard
                     earned money, for which he had received nothing but liquid poison that
                     destroyed his habits of industry and hurried him into a drunkard's grave.
                  Every time Louise saw these girls at Church or walking in the streets of the
                     village in their new bonnets and silk dresses, she 
                        flet
                        felt
                      as if justice was not done in this world, and hoped that the time
                     might come when she could become their equals or even rise above them. A small
                     mirror in her little chamber revealed the fact to her that she was by no means
                     destitute of personal charms, and these charms she was determined to bring to a
                     good market. The truth is, Louise Martin was proud spirited and aspiring, and
                     had often dreamed of a husband whose wealth would command the respect of the
                     world and raise her even above the grocers' daughters in her own native
                     village. Such thoughts often occupied her mind, and even her good mother
                     sometimes had similar dreams. Perhaps if her father had not become a drunkard
                     and left herself and mother poor, Louise might not have indulged such
                     aspirations, and probably she would not have indulged them to such an extent if
                     she had not seen these village girls so finely dressed at her father's expense.
                     The liquors their fathers had sold had not only clothed them in purple and fine
                     linen, but had also deprived her of the means of having as good a wardrobe as
                     they possessed, and drove her into a rank below them. Her proud spirit could
                     not brook such considerations and she was restless and unhappy under them.
                  For more than a year she had been contemplating a visit to Boston for the
                     purpose of seeking employment, and trying her fortune in the city. She was
                     exceedingly apt with the needle and so was her mother.—Since her husband's
                     death and some time previous to that melancholy event, the widow, had followed
                     dress-making, and Louise had become somewhat skilled in that art. She flattered
                     herself that she could succeed as a fashionable dress-maker in the city, and
                     accumulate money after she had worked awhile at the trade with some skillful
                     woman. Her mother had serious doubts and misgivings about her going to the city
                     where there are so many snares and temptations; but after a long consideration
                     of the subject, she finally consented, and all the necessary preparations were
                     made for her departure.
                  It was a beautiful evening in the month of June, and Louise had been out to bid
                     some of her more intimate friends a farewell previous to her leaving the
                     village the next morning. Many of her friends thought the undertaking was a
                     hazardous one, and some of the young village belles who moved in circles above
                     Louise threw out some hints that she was going for no good purpose; but these
                     proud girls envied the cooper's daughter because she possessed more beauty than
                     they did, and, consequently, were not very guarded in their expressions about
                     her visit to Boston. Her intended departure was the subject of much talk and
                     not a little village slander, especially from young ladies whose personal
                     charms were less than hers. Many regretted she had determined to leave the
                     place where she was born and bred; and none regretted it more than several of
                     the young men; but the young blacksmith's heart was more seriously effected
                     than any other. After he had ascertained that she was really going, he blamed
                     himself for not making love to her more earnestly than he had; but he was not
                     yet twenty-one years of age and still bound as an apprentice to his trade, and
                     what could the young man do?—He was powerless, and yet felt as if he could not
                     be happy without the society of Louise.
                  'O, mother, the evening is delightful, and I think I shall have a good day for
                     my journey to Portland, to-morrow,' said Louise, as she entered the house,
                     after having made some last calls upon her friends.
                  'The weather does promise to be fair; but, Louise, I feel very reluctant to let
                     you go,' replied her mother. 'They say there are many wicked young men, and old
                     ones, too, in the city who are constantly upon the watch for country
                     girls.'
                  'I think I understand that,' said Louise. 'I ought to be old enough to take
                     care of myself.'
                  'You may think you do, and yet fail after all,' said the mother. 'It is a great
                     change to go from this quiet little village to a large city like Boston.
                     Thousands of girls have gone from this State there, and been ruined, so deacon
                     Marsten told me not two hours ago. And he says a good-looking girl is always
                     surrounded by many temptations in such a city. The deacon knows, for he has
                     been there several times.'
                  'I don't think my beauty will injure me,' said Louise. 'I wish I had more of
                     it, and then, perhaps, I might obtain a rich husband. O, I wish I could become
                     rich just to torment those proud, haughty Sanford girls! I should almost be
                     tempted to marry a rich man, even if I didn't love him much, for the sake of
                     tormenting them.'
                  'I know they are envious and haughty; but you must be cautious how you listen
                     to rich men's promises of marriage,' replied the widow. 'They are often made
                     and never intended to be fullfilled, and you must be ware of such snares. In
                     such a city it is almost impossible to tell who is rich and who is poor,
                     especially among young men, for they all dress well and may appear to have much
                     money when they are as poor as church mice, so deacon Marston says.'
                  A knocking was now heard at the door, and Louise told her mother it was John
                     Stebbins, for she could distinguish his knocking from all others. She was
                     right, and the young blacksmith entered. The compliments of the evening were
                     passed.
                  'Well, John, I suppose Louise will start on her journey in the morning,' said
                     the widow.
                  'So, I understand, and wish I was going too,' he replied.
                  'I wish you were, so that you might protect Louise,' replied the mother.
                  'O, I wish I was free!' he said. 'Well, I shall be in less than two months, and
                     then I shall not settle down in this little place; 'I shouldn't wonder if I
                     visited Boston early in the fall. Some say I can get more wages there than I can here, and I think I shall try
                     it.'
                  'I hope you will, John,' said Louise—'Boston is the place to make money, I
                     hope. You will have your trade before you go, and I shall have to learn mine
                     after I get there.'
                  'You'll soon learn,' replied the young blacksmith. 'You can work better now
                     than some of the Boston dress-makers, I dare say.'
                  'Perhaps I can use the needle as well; but then I must learn the fashions,'
                     said Louise. 'If I have the faculty, I'm determined to be one of the most
                     fashionable dress-makers in the city.'
                  'You mustn't pitch your tune too high,' said the widow.
                  'I don't intend to pitch it higher than I can sing it,' replied Louise,
                     laughing. 'But before another summer comes, I'll show the Sandford girls that
                     they knew nothing about the fashions.'
                  'Well, well, Louise, you must not be too sanguine in your expectations, lest
                     you be disappointed,' said the mother. 'I hope you will do well and like the
                     place; but after all, you may be glad to come home again before the year
                     expires.'
                  'No doubt, I shall want to see home, but I am determined to learn my trade
                     thoroughly and make money,' replied Louise.
                  The conversation continued for some time, and the young blacksmith took his
                     leave with a heavy heart. It seemed to him that Louise never looked so
                     beautiful before, nor interested him so deeply as she did at this time. There
                     are some birds that look the most beautiful when they spread their plumage to
                     take their flight. And so it was with Louise in the eyes of John Stebbins. He
                     found himself decidedly in love, and longed for his apprenticeship to
                     expire.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  
                     The stage coach ride. Incidents on the road. The aged couple. Their advice,
                        and admonition. The dinner. A young man with glazed cap, &c.
                  
                  THE morning was bright and beautiful; the air was warm and bland, and the
                     country never looked more refreshing. Long before the sun was up, the widow
                     Martin and her daughter were stirring and making preparation for the journey.
                     The mind of Louise was fixed upon trying her fortunes in the Metropolis of New
                     England, and she could not be moved from her purpose. But we must permit this
                     young village belle relate her own story.
                  'I rose very early in the morning, more than two hours sooner than was
                     necessary, for the stage coach did not come along till seven o'clock, but I
                     could not sleep, and might as well be up as in bed. Mother, too, passed a
                     restless night, and 
                        endevored
                        endeavored
                      to persuade me not to go; but I was determined upon striking out into
                     a new path, and see what I could do for myself. Some time before the stage
                     coach arrived, John Stebbins made his appearance, and appeared to be somewhat
                     excited about my leaving my native village. I supposed I had taken my last
                     interview with him the evening previous, but it was evident that the young man
                     loved me more than he was aware of; for I saw a tear in his eye as he assisted
                     me into the carriage, and when he bid me farewell his voice trembled and its
                     peculiar tones evinced the depth of his feelings. I confess his appearance at
                     that moment very sensibly impressed my heart; I was not conscious that he loved
                     me so deeply and ardently. It is quite possible that if he had made known his
                     feelings a few weeks sooner, I might have given up the idea of seeking my
                     fortunes in a distant city; but it was too late and my mind was make up. The
                     driver cracked his whip, and away I was borne from my native home, and a kind
                     mother whom I loved most dearly. In the stage there was an old gentleman and
                     his wife who were bound for Portland. They were strangers to me, but we soon
                     formed a stage-coach acquaintance, and conversed freely upon a variety of
                     subjects.—Much time did not elapse before the old lady found out who it was,
                     where was I going, and the object I had in view.'
                  'Going to Boston, eh?' she said, adjusting her spectacles, and looking me full
                     in the face.
                  I told her I was, and hoped I should have good luck in my endeavors to make
                     money, for my mother was poor, and I intended to help her as well as
                     myself.
                  'And going all the way alone?' she asked, still gazing upon me with much
                     apparent in-interest, while the husband sat listening; for he appeared to have
                     quite as much curiosity as she had.
                  'All alone,' I replied; 'I think I can find the way there, if can't, I will
                     return home.'
                  She remained silent for some minutes, and still looked at me as if she would
                     read in the expression of my countenance the inmost feelings of my heart. Her
                     husband, too, kept his eyes fastened upon me as if he saw something out of
                     joint. At any rate, he appeared so to me.
                  'Have you ever been in Boston?' he asked.
                  I told him I had never been twenty miles from home in my life, which seemed to
                     surprise him very much.
                  'Boston is a great city,' he added. 'All sorts of people there, some good, and
                     some bad.'
                  'Yes, and I fear quite as many bad ones as there are good according to all I
                     can hear,' said the old lady. 'One of our neighbor's darters went there a few
                     years ago, and she became very wicked and almost broke the heart of her poor
                     mother! I knew her very well before she left home, and she was not half so
                     handsome as you are.'
                  'Ah, you flatter me,' I replied, smiling.
                  'Not half so much as the young men will flatter you,' added the good old man.
                     'Let me tell you, young woman, I once lived in Boston, and know how full the
                     city is of temptations. I fear you are carrying your beauty to a dangerous
                     market. Beware of men's flattering tongues. Believe not a tithe they may say to
                     you; I'm old now, and have been reading men's hearts for nearly four score
                     years.'
                  'And do you find them more wicked than you once supposed?' I asked.
                  'Ah, young woman, a great deal more so, he replied. 'Avarice and appetite are
                     formidable foes to humanity. They assume all sorts of shapes, and however fair
                     they may seem, still there's sin at the bottom.—We are told from high authority
                     that the whole world lieth in wickedness, and the more years pass over our
                     heads the more truth we find in the remark. I wish you well—hope you will
                     succeed in your enterprize; but permit me to caution you against the wiles of
                     wicked men.'
                  'Yes, and of wicked women, too,' added the good old lady.
                  'My wife has well added such a remark,' he replied. 'There are, indeed, sinful
                     women, as well as sinful men, and they will not hesitate to lead their own sex
                     astray for filthy lucre.'
                  'Look out for the avarice of women, and the appetites of men,' said the good
                     old wife. 'My husband has well said. Avarice and appetite are terrible foes to
                     humanity! I never was in the city to which you are bound, but when I was a girl
                     I resided in Portland. It was a smaller place then than it is now, and yet
                     wickedness did abound. I knew a poor widow there, who had two handsome darters, and both of 'em died
                     miserable deaths in the Almshouse.—The mother lived to follow them to untimely
                     and dishonorable graves! They were once beautiful, innocent gals; but the
                     destroyer came, and they fell from that virtue which we ought to prize almost
                     above every other virtue. My old heart bleeds when I think of such things!'
                  I was so much affected by this aged couple's conversation that I knew not what
                     to say, and remained silent and thoughtful. My strongest sympathies were
                     awakened; for I saw tears running down the furrowed cheeks of the old lady.
                  The stage now stopped at a small village and took a team of fresh horses. We
                     had ridden about twelve miles; but the time seemed very short to me. I was glad
                     no other passengers were taken at this stopping place; for I desired to hear
                     more from my aged companions and religious friends. In a few minutes we were
                     under way again.
                  'We are having a fine ride,' said the old man. 'I was afraid the stage would be
                     full as it is sometimes.'
                  'We may be crowded before we reach Portland,' added the wife.
                  'I hope we shall not,' I replied. 'I wish you were going to take the boat this
                     evening and accompany me to Boston.'
                  'We have been talking of going there for a year or two past, but I think we
                     shall give it up, we are so old,' he replied.—'The prospect now is that you
                     will have a pleasant night for your steamboat ride.'
                  'I never saw a steamboat,' I replied.—'Such a sight will be a great novelty to
                     me. I hope I shall not be frightened.'
                  'You must look out for the rowdies on board the boat,' he said. 'Steamboats
                     carry all sorts of passengers, and among them are some very wicked ones. You
                     must have an eye upon the villains, if any should be on board.'
                  'I will endeavor to heed all your kind and friendly admonitions,' I
                     answered.—'You have given me some excellent advice, and I trust I shall profit
                     by it.'
                  'May the Lord in his mercy help you to do so,' added the old lady. 'We have
                     said nothing but what we believe to be true.'
                  'Indeed, you have not, and I can assure you I feel under very great obligations
                     for the interest you have manifested in my wellfare,' I answered. 'As you say I
                     shall find all kinds of characters on board the boat; but if they steal my
                     purse they will not find quite so much in it as they could wish.'
                  'They may not seek your purse so anxiously as something else,' he said. 'Your
                     dark eyes may be more attractive than the little gold you may possess; and yet
                     there are thousands who would rob you of your money, if they had an
                     opportunity. Gals of your age always think more or less about being married. It
                     is all natural that they should think so, and men govern themselves
                     accordingly. It is easy for them to make very strong declarations of love, and
                     even many solemn promises of marriage, if such declarations and promises become
                     necessary to effect their vile purposes. Beware how you open your ears to such
                     flattering tales.'
                  'I will endeavor to do so,' I replied. 'I shall study well the heart of the man
                     who addresses me in the character of a lover.'
                  'Beware of those who profess to fall in love at first sight,' said the shrewd
                     old lady. 'Such a thing may happen as really falling in love at first sight,
                     but it does not often occur.'
                  The stage was now driven up to a very respectable looking public house where
                     they 'changed horses' again. There were quite a number of young men standing on
                     the piazza, smoking cigars, talking, laughing, and watching us as we stepped
                     from the carriage. I heard one of them say as I was passing through the
                     carriage door, 'there's a devilish handsome girl.' I saw the young man who made
                     the remark.—He had upon his head a glazed cap and a cigar in his mouth. In
                     person he was rather tall, and handsomely formed. He had in his hand a
                     fishing-rod, and a kind of basket hanging by his side. I can assure the reader
                     that his remark did not flatter me in the least degree, but rather disgusted me
                     than otherwise.
                  The aged couple and myself passed into a sitting-room, and waited a few minutes
                     for dinner and the exchange of horses. It was not my purpose to dine, but my
                     aged companions insisted upon my taking dinner with them, and I yielded to
                     their request. In a short time we were invited into the dining room, and soon
                     as we were seated at the table, the bell rang and quite a number rushed in,
                     among them was the young man with the glazed cap, who took his seat directly
                     opposite to me. He was a fine looking young man, and eyed me very sharply.—He
                     had not been long at the table before he ordered a bottle of wine which a
                     waiter placed before him. There was a kind of swagger about him which did not
                     at all please my aged friends. It seemed that my looks greatly attracted the
                     attention of this young man, for he kept his eyes upon me quite as much as he
                     did upon the food he was eating. I did not remove my bonnet, but sat with it
                     on. My hair was of a dark chestnut color, and hung down beside my cheeks in
                     large curls; I always wore it in that fashion. I frankly confess I was proud of
                     my hair, for it was very fine and curled very naturally. My complexion, too,
                     was very clear, but not white. It was rather brunette; my eyes were very dark.
                     I think I can safely say I was not very proud of the little beauty I possessed;
                     still I was not willing to part with any of it for love or money. The young
                     man, I knew from the expression of his countenance, was anxious to say
                     something to me, but good manners, or, a fear of my old friends, forbid him. He
                     supposed I might be their 
                        grandaughter
                        granddaughter
                     .—The old gentleman's eyes were upon him, and watched every motion he
                     made. He drank his wine freely and shared a portion of it with the young men
                     who dined there. They seemed to be somewhat acquainted with each other. I was
                     fearful he might offer me some of his wine, but to my joy he did not. He and
                     his companions were very lively, and had much to say about trout-catching and
                     such matters.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  
                     The aged couple give salutary advice. The journey continues. The young
                        receives council from the lips of age. The parting. The emotions of a young
                        lady, &c.
                  
                  AFTER dinner the old gentleman remarked to me in the sitting-room that he did
                     not like the cut of that young 
                        fellew's
                        fellow's
                      jib, as he expressed it. The old lady gave some hints of her
                     dislike.
                  'I don't like to see a young fellow of his age call for his bottle of wine,'
                     said my old companion. 'Such a practice at his age may lead to more dangerous
                     habits.'
                  'Yes, to the drunkard's grave,' replied the old lady. 'I have known several
                     young men who begun their career to such a grave with their bottles of wine at
                     the dinner table. To see a young man drunk is a very sad spectacle for my eyes.
                     The chances of becoming an useful member of society are greatly against that
                     young fellow. He feels quite big now, but the time may come when he will wish
                     he had not drank wine with his dinner.'
                  'Ah, it is, indeed, a dangerous practice for a young man,' said the husband.
                        'The stomach is a peculiar organ.
                     When it is fed with stimulating drinks, it continually cries for deeper and
                     stronger potations.—Like the horse leech it cries for more, and will not be
                     satisfied until it becomes diseased and the man drops into a premature
                     grave.—Let me say to you, young woman, beware of these wine-bibbing young men.
                     Ten chances to one they will become drunkards. And what more miserable
                     condition can a woman be placed in than to have a drunken husband?'
                  I cordially agreed with the remarks of these aged people, and told them I would
                     be on my guard against forming such a connection. Word now came to us that the
                     'stage's ready.' We all got on board, and much to my surprise the young man
                     also got into the stage and sat fronting me. He now felt more at liberty than
                     he did at the dinner table, and began to converse, first with the old gentleman
                     and then with me. The firs, remark he made to me was about the weather. I
                     wondered where he could be going, and had some curiosity to know.—There was an
                     impression upon my mind that he lived in Boston, and was bound for that city;
                     but how that impression came upon me I did not know. I hoped the old gentleman
                     would ask him where he was going, but he did not. The truth is, the old
                     gentleman was not very sociable with him; but the young man grew more talkative
                     the farther we rode together. The old lady spoke but a very little. She
                     disliked the young man more than her husband did, if that were possible. His
                     conversation was principally directed to me, especially after we had ridden a
                     few miles. I endeavored to keep back as much as I could conveniently and not be
                     too impolite. I knew very well that my old companions were not at all pleased
                     to have me converse with him, and on that account I felt under severe
                     constraint.
                  'I have had some rare sport angling for trout for the last few weeks,' said the
                     young man, addressing me.
                  I answered that I thought it was rather cruel to hook and kill the beautiful
                     trout.—He perfectly agreed with me, but said he could not resist the temptation
                     however cruel it might be.
                  'That is too often the case with young men of the present age,' said the old
                     gentleman. 'They don't resist temptation; but they ought to do so when they are
                     young, or their old age will be miserable and unhappy. Begin in season to say,
                        "get behind me Satan," and depend upon it young man, you'll
                     find the current of your life to flow more smoothly and pleasantly.'
                  'That may be so; but you know, sir, the young men do not view things through
                     the same medium as the old do,' replied the young man.
                  'True, but the question is, who sees matters in the truer light, the old or the
                     young?' asked my old friend. 'The old have experience which is said to be the
                     best school-master. I know that when I was of your age I committed many errors,
                     and made many mistakes which have proved sources of much trouble to me, and
                     hence I see the propriety and even necessity of warning young men of the great
                     dangers that lie in their paths. I noticed that you took wine with your
                     dinner.'
                  'I did, sir; but I trust you do not deem that a sin,' answered the young
                     man.
                  'If not absolutely a sin, it is a dangerous practice for a young person to say
                     the least of it,' replied the good old gentleman.—'The stomach is a wonderful
                     organ in tho human system, and may be trained to either good or bad habits. We
                     must be careful how we tamper with it, lest it gain the mastery over us. The
                     time may come when your stomach will not be satisfied with wine at dinner, but
                     cry aloud for a beverage much stronger than wine, and at other periods of the
                     twenty hours. Thousands upon thousands whose bodies now lie mouldering in the
                     drunkard's grave began their career by even the moderate use of wine. Touch
                     not, taste not, handle not, ought to be the maxim of all, and then the awful
                     sin of drunkenness will be avoided. You understand me, I trust.'
                  'I think I do, sir,' replied the young man. 'Your doctrine may be correct; but
                     I feel as if I could govern myself.'
                  'Govern yourself!' repeated tho sage old man. 'Govern yourself! I fear, young
                     man, that you are not aware of the difficulty of the task. You have often heard
                     of the fame of some great general who has led armies through oceans of blood to
                     conquest and victory.'
                  'I have, sir, and what is the inference you would draw from that?' inquired the
                     young man, smiling, and looking at me.
                  'The Book of Books says, he that conquereth himself is greater than he who
                     taketh a city,' replied the old counsellor.
                  The young man made no immediate reply; but sat with his eyes fastened upon me,
                     and appeared somewhat thoughtful. It was not altogether the words the old man
                     spoke, but the manner in which he uttered them that seemed to effect the person
                     to whom they were addressed.
                  The old man's face was much furrowed by the ploughshare of time; his locks were
                     as white as snow, and hung in scattered curls over his neck and shoulders. His
                     complexion was clear, and every lineament of his countenance manifested love
                     and benevolence. His eyes were once a deep blue, but time had somewhat faded
                     them; yet without materially diminishing their expression. He was a fine
                     specimen of a good old age, and I can never forget him. His aged partner, too,
                     was a fine looking old lady. We all sat in silence for some minutes, and no one
                     seemed disposed to break it. I noticed that the young man kept staring at me
                     with his black, lustrous eyes, and seemed to be highly gratified, if not
                     charmed with my looks. Now experience has taught me that no young lady can
                     remain perfectly indifferent when she is conscious that a young man of genteel
                     appearance is in love with her. No matter how suddenly that love may spring up
                     in his heart, if she believes it is there, her nerves will be more or less
                     affected, and she cannot remain indifferent.—But I will not-at this stage of my
                     narrative attempt to give a description of the workings of my own heart. It is
                     true, the young man was handsome, easy in his manners, ready in conversation,
                     and appeared to be the son of a rich man. I here confess that the latter
                     consideration made quite an impression upon my heart; for I longed to be the
                     wife of a wealthy husband, and go with him to my native village, and torment
                     those young ladies who felt so much above me.—This was one of my most easily
                     besetting sins. They might, and probably did envy my beauty, (what little I
                     possessed,) and I envied their parents wealth, and their fine dresses.
                  The roads grew better and the horses increased their speed. The weather was
                     very pleasant and I very much enjoyed the ride. We had ridden more than a mile
                     in silence, and at last the old man broke the silence by another quotation from
                     the Scriptures, addressed to the young man.
                  He said in a distinct and even musical voice. 'Look not thou upon the wine when
                     it is red, when it giveth his color in the cup, when it moveth itself aright.
                     At the last, it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder. Yea, thou
                     shalt be as he that lieth upon the top of a mast.'
                  He said no more at the moment, but gazed upon the young man as if he anxiously
                     desired his reformation, while the latter looked as if he knew not what reply to make. I
                     began to feel quite a strong curiosity to know how far the young man was
                     traveling, where he belonged, and who were his relatives; but my mother had
                     taught me too much politeness to ask him any questions touching such subjects.
                     I hoped, however, the old gentleman would ask him; but he seemed more anxious
                     for the young man's reformation than he did to learn any thing respecting his
                     temporal affairs. At last the young man said, 'I confess, sir, that you have
                     got the better of me in argument. We are all prone, especially in our younger
                     days, to do things that will not bear a very searching scrutiny.'
                  I became more interested in the young man from the fact of his listening to the
                     old counsellor with so much respect and attention. It seemed to me that the
                     young fellow's moral principles were not so bad after all. And I think the old
                     gentleman entertained a more favorable opinion of him than he did at the dinner
                     table. He and the old man conversed freely together; but their conversation was
                     upon moral and religious topics. Not a word was said by either upon any other
                     subject; and it seemed as if my curiosity was destined to disappointment.—
                  Just before nightfall we reached Portland. The old gentleman and his wife left
                     the stage coach in front of a fine looking house, and the rest of us were
                     hurried down to the steamboat wharf, as there was no time to lose. My old
                     friends bid me an affectionate farewell. I confess I was pleased that the young
                     man did not leave the carriage, but kept on to the boat. Although we had not
                     conversed together for several miles back; yet his eyes were 
                        frstened
                        fastened
                      upon me, and spoke the feelings of his heart. At least, so it seemed
                     to me.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  
                     Our heroine discovers many novelties. The attention of her gallant. The
                        Steamboat The thunder shower. The effects of electricity upon love affairs.
                        The progress, &c.
                  
                  I HAD never seen a steamboat, and was anxious to see one. As the carriage was
                     driven down the wharf I heard a terrible noise which at first gave my nerves a
                     shock. The young man noticed that I was somewhat startled and said they were
                     blowing off the steam to keep the boilers from bursting. I knew nothing about
                     that kind of philosophy, but his remarks quieted my nerves, and he assisted me
                     from the carriage.
                  'You are going to Boston, I suppose,' he said, as I stepped from the carriage.
                     I told him such was my destination. He appeared to be very glad, and told me he
                     was bound for the same city. This was the first intimation I had from him that
                     he was going to Boston. My heart rejoiced at it; and yet my mother's warnings
                     and the old man's admonitions were fresh in my memory, and cautioned me to
                     beware how I suffered myself to become familiar with a strange young man. But
                     he seemed to be a sort of an acquaintance, and I felt as if I was really among
                     strangers. Hundreds of faces I saw, but not one I had ever seen before, and the
                     young man was very attentive to me, and see that my trunk was safely on board
                     the boat. The truth is, he was very kind, and seemed to be the only friend I
                     had with me When the wheels were put in motion and the boat moved off, I was
                     much excited, but the young man was by my side and even offered me his arm,
                     which in my excitement I accepted.
                  The evening was delightful, and the ocean in the light of a full moon was he
                     most magnificent spectacle I ever beheld. I have since been convinced that it
                     was a most propitious evening for love-making; but I must not anticipate, but
                     let my narrative proceed according to the order of events.
                  As we stood upon the promenade deck, first looking at the moonbeams playing
                     upon the Ocean waves, and then at the bespangled firmament which was hung like
                     a gorgeous curtain over our heads; we gazed towards the west, and saw a dark
                     cloud occasionally fringed with brilliant and momentary light, but no thunder
                     was heard. The cloud was distant, and the wheels of the boat made such a noise
                     that we could not have heard the rolling of the thunder even had the murky and
                     threatening cloud been nearer to us. The lightning was very sharp, and almost
                     incessant, and the cloud appeared to be fast nearing our boat. We stood silent
                     and gazed upon this beautiful pyrotechnic display of the heavens. It seemed to
                     me I never saw the electric fluid more vivid and frequent than on this
                     occasion.
                  'Think we shall have a shower?' I asked, in a subdued tone of voice; for I was
                     somewhat alarmed at the black and threatening aspect of the heavens.
                  'It may reach us,' he replied. 'But I think it will pass to the South. The
                     cloud is very black and highly charged with rain and electricity.'
                  'And I fear with wind, too, for it seems to be coming up very fast,' I added,
                     while he pressed my arm more closely to his side, and seemed really to manifest
                     some anxiety for my safety.
                  'It may blow some; but our boat is very staunch and can ride out a very severe
                     gale,' he answered. 'Your'e not afraid of thunder and lightning, are you?'
                  I replied that I was not particularly cowardly, but always felt some degree of
                     alarm on such occasions, even on the land, and how I should feel on the water
                     in the midst of a thunder-shower I could not tell, as I had no experience.
                  'O, there's no more danger on the water than on the land,' he said; still
                     pressing my arm, and placing the palm of his hand upon the back of mine.
                  I suffered it to remain a short time; but a moment's reflection convinced me
                     that I ought not to encourage his familiarity, how ever innocent his motives
                     might be, and withdrew my hand from under his. He did not attempt to detain it,
                     and appeared not to notice it particularly. I told him I did not know as there
                     was more danger on the water than on the land, unless the wind should blow
                     violently. He assured me that the steamboat could ride out almost any gale. We
                     now changed our position to a place from which we could more distinctly see the
                     thunder-cloud.
                  'Dear me!' I said. 'How fast it comes. It will soon be over our heads! At that
                     moment a brilliant flash of lightning darted from the cloud and shot over the
                     water in a zigzag form, making many angles and seeming to rest a moment over
                     the bosom of the waters before it went out. It was soon followed by a loud peal
                     of thunder which was distinctly heard above all other noises on board the boat.
                     I remarked that that must be very heavy thunder.'
                  'It is, indeed,' he replied. 'How beautiful the lightning displayed
                     itself.'
                  'More terrible than beautiful,' I added. 'Such flashes always make me tremble.
                     I never before saw such a sublime display.'
                  'I confess it was very grand,' he remarked. 'But there's no danger. We are just
                     as safe here as we should be in the stage-coach.'
                  Another flash darted out from the edge of the cloud more vivid and terrible
                     than the first, followed by a tremendous crash of thunder. I was really alarmed
                     and proposed going below; but he
                     prevailed upon me to remain, assuring me there was no more danger in one place
                     than in another. The cloud kept rising and the lightning increasing in splendor
                     and frequency. Soon we felt a change of wind, and a few scattering rain drops
                     fell upon the water. The wind increased and sounded mournfully to me as it
                     swept over the ocean and through the boat. It seemed to me I never felt the
                     wind blow more violently; but the boat kept on its course, and skimmed over the
                     foaming billows like a thing of life.
                  The young man kept close at my side and seemed to press harder the more the
                     storm raged. I have no doubt he sought that opportunity to become more familiar
                     with me. The violence of the storm absorbed all my attention, and I hardly
                     noticed that he held my hand in his and pressed it as often as the lightnings
                     flashed and the thunders rolled.
                  The wind and rain increased, and I became quite alarmed. The boat began to reel
                     and dance upon the waves; and no doubt I should have been quite seasick, if I
                     had not been so much frightened. I have since wondered if electricity has any
                     controlling agency in making love. And I have debated the question whether the
                     human heart is more susceptible of love-impressions in a thunder-shower than at
                     any other time. My readers may discuss that question at their leisure, for I
                     cannot dwell upon it at this stage of my narrative.
                  The wind now made a dreadful sweep over the steamboat and shrieked mournfully
                     amidst the iron rods or chains that sustained the smoke-pipes, accompanied by
                     brilliant and incessant flashes of lightning, loud peals of thunder and floods
                     of rain. It seemed to me that we must all go to the bottom of the sea and
                     become food for the sharks and other voracious monsters of the great deep.
                     Being so much alarmed I unconsciously clung to the young man for a support, and
                     found myself soon after in his arms. Immediately I roused up and disengaged
                     myself from his embrace. He seemed perfectly willing to protect me, and did all
                     he could to guard me against the violence of the storm.
                  The wind began to abate, and we could see some clear sky at the west between
                     the cloud and the horizon. The rain also ceased in a good degree, and the
                     lightnings now came from the other edge of the cloud. Much time did not elapse
                     before the silver moon made her appearance, looking more bright and beautiful
                     from her transient obscurity. Her beams again played upon the waters whose
                     recently lashed billows began to fall away into peace and quietness, and the
                     bosom of the ocean to assume a comparatively smooth surface.
                  My fright was over, and the moon-lit waters looked more beautiful than they did
                     before the shower. My gallant was exceedingly attentive; but since I have had
                     reason to believe that he wished the storm had continued much longer than it
                     did; for he was very fond of protecting me and quieting my nerves.
                  After the shower had passed over and the beautiful moon and the bright stars
                     had appeared in the heavens, my companion questioned me in a very polite and
                     even cunning manner, about my family relations and the objects I had in view in
                     visiting the Metropolis of New England. I frankly told him all, and kept
                     nothing back. I began to feel interested in him and cherished a desire to
                     question him in relation to his situation and circumstances; but I was
                     cautious, if not diffident. He seemed to have an instinctive impression that I
                     cherished such a desire; for after I had told him the simple story of my life,
                     he remarked that he ought to be as frank and as communicative as I had been. I
                     told him he must act his own pleasure.
                  'My pleasure is, he continued, 'to give you as much information about myself as
                     you have given me in relation to yourself. I am the only son of a merchant of
                     Boston who has retired from mercantile pursuits and lives upon the income of
                     his estates. I do not wish to boast of my father's wealth.'
                  'I shall not consider such a relation as boasting,' I replied; feeling quite
                     anxious for him to continue his story.
                  He continued—'I generally go down to Maine, once and sometimes twice a year to
                     see to a large tract of wild land which my father owns in the town where I took
                     the stage-coach for Portland. I always take my fishing-rod with me and enjoy
                     the sport of angling of which I am very fond. My father has wealth enough; but
                     he yet very keenly feels the loss of my mother, who died about two years ago. I
                     have but one sister, who is three years younger than I am.'
                  'I suppose she is a very beautiful and accomplished young lady,' I said.
                  'I think so,' he replied; while the light of the moon revealed a pleasant smile
                     on his handsome face.
                  'And I also imagine that you have the image of some beautiful girl in your
                     heart, whom you expect to wed ere long,' I added, smiling, and feeling a
                     strange interest in the answer he might give to my question. I hope my female
                     readers will pardon me for cherishing such an interest on so short an
                     acquaintance with this young man, but I did feel it, and thus frankly confess
                     it.
                  'O, no,' he replied, smiling, and playing with one of the ringlets of my hair
                     upon which the moonbeams were shining and adding new lustre to it. I have never
                     seen the girl whom I am willing to make my wife, unless the beams of yonder
                     bright moon now reveals her to my eyes.'
                  'Pardon me, I quickly added, 'if I pronounce that flattery.
                  'You have my pardon; but I did not intend it as flattery,' he answered; seizing
                     my hand, and pressing it to his lips.
                  I suddenly withdrew my hand, and told him not only his words but his acts spoke
                     of flattery.
                  'Excuse me,' he said, 'I intend no wrong, but I feel a deeper interest in you
                     than I have ever felt in any young lady before.'
                  The evening was now far advanced, and after some conversation, we separated for
                     the night. I went to the ladies' cabin and got into my berth; but my mind was
                     disquieted, and it was a long time before sleep came to my relief. I had not
                     yet learned his name; but I dreamed of him, of his father's wealth and of being
                     married. But I will not relate dreams, for there are real incidents in my life
                     which are enough to fill a volume without having recourse to the wild vagaries
                     of a sleeping mind.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  
                     A delightful morning upon the ocean.—Oceanic scenery. A new character. The
                        temptations of the heroine. The cunning of an old libertine, &c.
                  
                  THE morning dawned bright and beautiful, and I arose at an early hour that I
                     might see the ocean and the land, if any was within the range of my vision.
                     During the night the boat had been delayed on her passage by the breaking of
                     some portion of the machinery connected with the engine, but it had been
                     repaired, and the boat was now skimming over the smooth bright waters like a
                     big water fowl.
                  Not a breath of air disturbed the smooth surface of the sea, and all the
                     objects in sight greatly interested me. I began to feel as if I wished I had
                     been a young man and could follow the sea, so fascinating was the ocean and its
                     scenery.
                  
                  I went to the same spot where I was the evening previous during the thunder
                     shower, and gazed upon the bright expanse of waters and the green islands and
                     distant shore.
                  The sun rose, and it seemed to me that it arose out of the 'deep, deep sea.' I
                     never before beheld such a beautiful and magnificent sun-rise. The king of day,
                     too, looked like a large ball of fire coming up from the depths of the ocean,
                     and it seemed to me that his bright beams must have been extinguished in a bed
                     so wet; but his face was as bright and beautiful as when I had seen it coming
                     up from the hills of Maine. I saw several fishes or other creatures disporting
                     themselves in the calm waters. O, how I wished my good mother could have been
                     with me to enjoy such glorious sights!—And excuse me, dear reader, when I say I
                     wished the son of the rich merchant would rise from his couch and talk of the
                     beautiful scenery that every where met my astonished eyes. I felt as if such
                     sights would give me more pleasure, if I could but enjoy them with some friend
                     or acquaintance. I was a stranger in a strange vessel, and but one person on
                     board whom I knew, and with him I had but a slight acquaintance. I wished the
                     aged couple were with me that I might hear their remarks upon the ocean and its
                     sublime and interesting scenes. I thought of the proud and haughty girls of my
                     native village, and my return home at some future day with a rich husband. A
                     thousand thoughts crowded upon my mind, and my nerves were much excited, but I
                     was not destined to remain long alone; for an elderly, well-dressed gentleman
                     came along, walking backward and forward, and occasionally bestowing a glance
                     upon me. He was a fine looking man, and seemed to feel as if he would like to
                     address me; at least, so he seemed to me. I did not know but my vanity gave
                     such thoughts; but I soon found, however, that my conjectures were right.
                  After passing me several times, and occasionally fixing his eyes upon me, he
                     came up and said, 'A very beautiful morning we have. I have never seen the
                     Atlantic dressed in more gorgeous robes, and I have sailed many thousands of
                     miles on the oceans of different parts of the globe.'
                  I remarked to him that I had never seen the ocean before, and never a larger
                     collection of water than some of the small lakes of my native State.
                  'Indeed!' he added. 'You have chosen a fine time for your first trip. True, we
                     had a violent thunder storm last evening, but that only added sublimity to the
                     scene'
                  'It seemed to me it was the grandest I ever witnessed,' I answered
                  'Such storms always appear more sublime on the water than on the land,' he
                     added, 'I think I noticed you last evening in company with a young man; your
                     brother, perhaps, or it may be your husband.'
                  'O, no, sir,' I replied, smiling. 'The young gentleman is a stranger to me. I
                     never saw him before yesterday. We rode together in a stage coach, and he very
                     kindly took care of my trunk. I don't even know his name.'
                  'Indeed!' he said. 'Then you are journeying alone to the city! I suppose you
                     have some relatives or friends there whom you are going to visit.'
                  'I have not,' I answered. 'There's no living person in Boston whom I know. I am
                     going to seek employment.'
                  He remained silent and thoughtful a few moments, and seemed somewhat surprised
                     that I should be thus alone. I knew from the expression of his countenance that
                     he was surprised, for that some other feeling was at work in his heart. At last
                     he spoke.
                  'Going to seek employment,' he repeated, after quite a long pause. 'And what,
                     may I ask, do you propose to do?'
                  'Learn dressmaking,' I replied. 'I have now some knowledge of the trade; but
                     wish to learn it better so that I can work and earn money.'
                  "There are a great many dressmakers in the city,' he said, looking as if he
                     thought I had better engage in some other employment.
                  'I suppose,' I replied. There may be room for me, especially if I excel in the
                     business.'
                  'O, yes,' he added. 'You may do well; but there are other situations that might
                     be more agreeable to you. How should you like to get married to a man who has
                     money enough to support you like a lady.?'
                  He smiled, chucked me under the chin, and acted as though he was quite a young
                     man. I also smiled, and he seemed to be very much pleased. I told him I was not
                     old enough to think of marriage.
                  'Sufficiently old,' he replied. 'I should never want a wife older than you
                     are.
                  'I suppose you have one much older,' I said, smiling, and feeling as if he was
                     a jolly old man, and excellent company.
                  'Indeed I have none at all,' he replied. 'But I assure you I have recently been
                     thinking of hunting up one.'
                  'You can find enough of them either in the city or country,' I said.
                  'True, there are women enough; but then I must have one who fits my eye. I have
                     traveled over all the world and have never yet seen one whom I should be
                     willing to wed. This may seem strange to you, but such is the fact. Old
                     bachelors are generally called very particular, and so far as I am concerned, I
                     frankly acknowledge the charge; I am particular, especially in the choice of a
                     partner for life.'
                  'You are so nice in your notions, and so exacting in your demands, I fear you
                     will never find a woman who will suit you,' I answered. 'I don't see but you
                     must always remain in single blessedness.'
                  'I have indulged the same fears,' he answered, gently teasing on his
                     fore-finger one of the curls of my hair, and smiling most graciously.
                  He was a fine-looking, portly man. His face was smooth and pleasant, and he
                     seemed to possess much good humor. I was pleased with him, and never once
                     dreamed that he was actuated by vicious motives. His age prevented me from
                     harboring any suspicions against his character. The young man who had made my
                     acquaintance the day previous had not that redeeming quality. Although I was
                     pleased with him, yet I entertained some suspicions of his motives.
                  'I think you have reason to indulge in such fears,' I answered, smiling.
                  'Perhaps I have,' he replied, taking my hand in his, and gently pressing it.
                     'But I frankly confess I have never seen a girl whose expression of countenance
                     pleases one so much as yours. It seems as if I had been long acquainted with
                     you, and I suppose the reason is, because you approach so near the image of a
                     woman my fancy has formed in my heart.' Men will always love something in the
                     form of a woman, whether that form be an imaginary or a real one. A thousand
                     times I have imagined what kind of a looking girl I should be willing to make
                     my wife, but never have seen one, unless my eyes now behold her. The more I
                     look at you the more I am convinced that you more resemble my fancy-formed idol
                     than any other girl I have ever seen.'
                  During these remarks he held and pressed my hand, smiled sweetly, appeared
                     honest and sincere; so much so, that I could not suspect him of any bad motives
                     at the time. He was a gentleman who had lived more than a half a century, and
                     yet he did not look old in many
                     respects. His hair and whiskers were somewhat silvered by age; yet there were
                     no wrinkles in his face, his form was symmetrical, and his motions easy and
                     graceful.
                  'I hope, sir, you are no flatterer,' I remarked, gently withdrawing my hand
                     from his warm grasp.
                  'My age must protect me from such a charge, he added. 'If a young man had said
                     as much, perhaps, you would have been justified in being suspicious of him; but
                     you ought not to charge me with flattery, for I plead not guilty to such a
                     charge. I assure you that your face, form, tone of voice, manners, motions,
                     every thing in fact, impress my heart with a deep interest for you, and I ask
                     the privilege of a further acquaintance. Will you permit me to conduct you to a
                     boarding house when we arrive in the city. The boat will reach the wharf in the
                     course of three hours. I know of a boarding house kept by a very respectable
                     lady of my acquaintance who will treat you very kindly. She is an excellent
                     woman, and will assist you in getting employment, if you should desire it. She
                     is well acquainted with many of the most respectable and fashionable
                     dress-makers in the city.—But after all I may give you a better home than any
                     other you can find in Boston. I have a splendid house, very handsomely
                     furnished, and if the impressions continue which your person has made upon my
                     heart I will wed you and make you the mistress of my establishment.'
                  I told him the young man whom he saw with me last evening had made me promise
                     to accompany him to a boarding house he had selected, and that I supposed I was
                     under obligations to him. A change came over the expression of his countenance,
                     and he seemed really to be very much disappointed. He looked so sorrowful that
                     I felt my 
                        sympthies
                        sympathies
                      drawn out in his behalf, and regretted I had made any promises to the
                     young man.
                  It seemed to me that my beauty was never so highly appreciated before; and I
                     began to fancy that I did really look better and possessed more personal charms
                     than I had ever dreamed of. Even before I had reached the city I had two
                     lovers, both of whom were apparently rich, and could give me a splendid home.
                     Under such circumstances it is not strange that I was somewhat bewildered, and
                     hardly knew what course to pursue. After a short pause, he broke the
                     silence.
                  'Heaven forbid that I should injure the character or reputation of any person,'
                     he said, in a tone of voice full of sympathy and kindness. 'But the duty I owe
                     myself and you, compels me to caution you against the young men of the city.
                     Many of them are very corrupt and unprincipled. I would not say any thing
                     against this young man whose acquaintance you have made; but I entreat you to
                     be cautious how you receive the addresses of young men Your beauty may yet
                     prove your ruin'
                  I thanked him for the interest he manifested in my behalf, and assured him I
                     would be on my guard. He kissed my hand, and would have performed the same
                     operation upon my lips, if some persons had not been a short distance from us
                     who were looking at us. The man seemed to be really in love with me, and I
                     frankly acknowledge I could not feel indifferent.—I do not say that I
                     reciprocated his apparent love and affection. Yet, he seemed to be a friend in
                     whom I might repose the greatest confidence.
                  'Then you feel as if you ought to go to the boarding house the young man has
                     selected?' he asked, manifesting considerable anxiety.
                  'I suppose I ought to do so, I replied 'He has been very kind to me, and has my
                     promise which I dare not break.'
                  'Very well, but be cautious how you make him any more promises until we have
                     had another interview,' he said.
                  He then took out his pencil and wrote on a blank card the name of Capt. William
                     Dunmore. Handing me the card he had written upon, he continued. 'There's my
                     name, and I wish you would drop a letter into the post office directed to me
                     after you arrive in the city, informing me where I can find you. Keep the whole
                     matter a secret from the young man, and look sharp about the house to which he
                     may conduct you. He may be actuated by honorable motives; nevertheless, it is
                     well for you to be on the lookout. I have a large amount of money, and if my
                     feelings do not change I am willing to share it all with you. I now feel as if
                     your society would make me happy through life. Don't forget to write me as soon
                     as to-morrow, for I shall be exceedingly anxious to have an interview with
                     you.'
                  I assured him I would write according to his request. He then endeavored to
                     prevail upon me to discard the young man and take him as my guide after we
                     reached the city; but I declined, and yet felt almost willing to do so; for his
                     conversation had a charm in it which I have not the power to describe. His
                     love, sudden as it was, appeared much deeper and stronger than that of the
                     young man. The love of both was of a very sudden growth; but I was
                     inexperienced and fully resolved to have a rich man for a husband. Although my
                     mother had warned me to be cautious how I permitted men to address me in the
                     character of lovers; yet she was anxious that I should marry a rich man, and
                     hesitated not to express such an opinion. She had felt the evils and
                     inconveniences of poverty, and therefore did not wish me to be placed in such
                     embarrassing circumstances.
                  The gentleman hung round me and was loth to part company. He was as pleasant as
                     the lovely morning, and seemed to possess some excellent moral principles.
                     While he was thus conversing with me, the young man had arisen and made his
                     appearance in the saloon where I was. My elder companion cautioned me to keep
                     all a secret, and carelessly walked away.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  
                     The rival lovers. The spirit of jealousy.—Birds of passage. The breakfast.
                        The heroine between two fires. Progress of the voyage. The approach to the
                        wharf, &c.
                  
                  AS the young man approached me I saw much anxiety depicted upon his
                     countenance, and was satisfied that seeing the elderly gentleman conversing
                     with me had aroused the spirit of jealousy in his heart. That circumstance
                     furnished evidence to my unsophisticated mind that he loved me; and yet I could
                     not help believing that Captain Dunmore's affection was the stronger and more
                     sincere.
                  He approached me and cordially shook my hand, and somewhat nervously pressed
                     it. It seemed to me that both young and elderly gentlemen had quite a habit of
                     squeezing my hand and playing with the ringlets of my hair. I had never before
                     witnessed such performances, and did not know but it might be one of the
                     characteristics of fashionable society. The young blacksmith was never prone to
                     such practices, and I very sagely concluded that it was because he moved in the
                     humble walks of life.
                  After a few inquiries after my health
                     and how I rested during the night, he said. 'It is but right that I should give
                     you my name.'
                  He then handed me a beautiful glossy card with the name Carolus Cunard printed
                     upon it. As an offset, I gave him my name, with which he appeared to be highly
                     pleased.
                  'Louise Martin!' he repeated, smiling. 'Louise Martin! a beautiful name. I have
                     always understood that Martins are birds of passage, and now I have proof of
                     it.'
                  'Yes,' I replied. But at this season of the year those birds usually migrate to
                     the North, while I am taking a flight to the South.'
                  'True, he answered, laughing; 'but never mind. I hope and trust, you will find
                     the change a pleasant one. By the way, what old man was that conversing with
                     you a few moments ago?'
                  'You don't call him an old man, do you?, I asked smiling.
                  'I thought his hair and whiskers looked as gray as a badger,' he added.
                  'True, but then I should not judge him over fifty, and surely you do not call
                     that old age.'
                  'He was more than sixty, else my eyes deceived me,' he replied. 'Depend upon
                     it, that man is even older than he appears to be. But who is he? I noticed him
                     last evening, and confess I did not like his looks. There was an expression in
                     his eyes that looked evil'
                  'Indeed I know not who he is from Adam,' I replied. 'But I confess I did not
                     discover any thing very evil in the expression of his eyes. They are of a blue
                     color, and not very dark and piercing. For my part I thought he was rather
                     pleasant-looking than otherwise.'
                  'Well, there's no 
                        diputing
                        disputing
                      about matters of taste,' he said, manifesting a little impatience.
                     'What did he say?'
                  'O, he spoke of the beauty of —' but before I could finish the sentence, he
                     interrupted me, and said, with considerable earnestness. 'There, just as I
                     expected—the old libertine! He began to praise your beauty about the first
                     thing, he said!'
                  'O, no, not my beauty, but the beauty of this lovely morning,' I replied,
                     smiling at his jealous spirit.
                  'The beauty of the morning!' he repeated. 'Well, I confess that alters the case
                     very materially.'
                  'It does, indeed, I replied 'Such beauty is worthy of remark, while mine is
                     scarcely worth thinking of. I think the gentleman showed his good sense in
                     speaking of this glorious morning instead of bestowing any remarks upon my
                     humble self.'
                  The young man appeared to be satisfied with my explanation, and did not seem to
                     consider him any longer a rival. He how spoke of the boarding house to which he
                     would conduct me, when we arrived in the city, saying he thought I would be
                     highly pleased with the lady who kept it. I asked him if there were many
                     boarders there.'
                  'A few young ladies' he replied. 'You will not be obliged to associate with
                     them at all, unless you chose to do so.'
                  I asked him what employments they were engaged in; but at first he hesitated to
                     answer my question. At last, however, he said. 'I believe they are
                     sewing-girls, but I'm not certain, as I have no acquaintance with them.'
                  'Are any of them dress-makers?' I asked hoping that they were, that I might
                     make some inquiries about the business I was intending to follow.
                  'Indeed, I cannot answer that question,' he replied. 'But you may depend upon
                     finding it a very pleasant boarding place. I have been long acquainted with the
                     lady who keeps it She once lived at my father's house and superintended our
                     domestic affairs while my mother was sick. Thinking she could make more money
                     in keeping a house for boarders, she concluded to engage in that employment,
                     and has succeeded very well indeed.'
                  I was thankful that I had found a friend to guide me in a strange city. When I
                     started from home, I thought a good deal of how I should pass the first night
                     in Boston. My mother told me I had better find a boarding house, if I could,
                     and not stop at a public hotel; and now all that anticipated difficulty seemed
                     to be obviated. He was exceedingly attentive and had not apparently lost any of
                     that tone which he seemed to have for me the evening previous. The truth is, he
                     seemed more loving than ever, and manifested more attachment to me than the
                     handsome Captain did a short time before. The breakfast bell now rang, and he
                     invited me to take breakfast. I took his arm and was conducted to the cabin. It
                     so happened that Captain Dunmore took a seat directly opposite to us. That
                     circumstance I very much regretted; for it placed me in an 
                        unplesant
                        unpleasant
                      situation, as it were between two fires.
                  Young Cunard was exceedingly polite and attentive, which greatly annoyed
                     Captain Dunmore, opposite. I could see the glances he cast upon me and the
                     frowns that darkened his brow when he turned his eyes upon my young handsome,
                     and attentive gallant. Many eyes, I noticed were upon me, for the table was
                     well lined with passengers. My bright hair hung in ringlets over my neck and
                     shoulders, and I felt the red blood rushing to my face. Whether that
                     circumstance added to my beauty or not, is more than I know; but one thing was
                     certain, I should have felt more happy if my blood had kept more closely within
                     my veins and arteries.
                  My position was more unpleasant than any I had found since I left the parental
                     roof. There was a declared lover before me, and one at my side, and both of
                     them possessing wealth and rank as I had reason to believe. I appeal to any one
                     of my sex, and ask her if she would not have felt much embarrassed under the
                     same pressure of circumstances in which I was placed? I was not naturally
                     diffident, so far from it, that some might have called me bold; and yet I think
                     I not only prized, but practiced the virtue, modesty, as much as most young
                     ladies of my age. But I really felt embarrassed and could hardly act
                     myself.—Capt. Dunmore often gazed upon me, and once smiled, which Carolus
                     noticed with apparent regret, if not with a more harrassing emotion.
                  My professed lovers also occasionally gazed upon each other, and when their
                     eyes met, frowns were sure to cloud and darken their brows. Here were two
                     gentlemen, perfect strangers, and yet it was evident they hated each other! And
                     I was the innocent cause of that ill-natured feeling between them.
                  During the time occupied in partaking of our morning meal, I was really
                     unhappy, more so than I had been since I started on my journey. I began to
                     debate seriously in my own mind, which of the two I should prefer for a
                     husband; for be it known to the reader, that I fancied myself into the belief
                     that I could have either of them. Both were handsome men, and possessed of
                     wealth; but one was nearly twice as old as the other. There was a charm about
                     the Captain which the young man did not possess; but that charm I have no
                     language to describe. I knew, or at least had reason to believe, that my older
                     lover was in possession of, and had full control over his wealth, while the
                     younger must abide his time, and be patient until his father's death before he
                     would come into possession of his property. Carolus was good-looking, pleasant,
                     and agreeable in his manners; but some how or other, I had not so much confidence in his love as I had in
                     Captain Dunmore's; besides, I reasoned myself into the belief that the young
                     man might see a new face which would please him more than mine did; but I had
                     no such fears of the Captain. He had lived many years and now for the first
                     time felt the magic power of love, if his own declarations were to be believed.
                     I felt justified in coming to the conclusion that he would not be so likely to
                     change his mind as the young man might; and yet I wished he had not seen so
                     many winters. One possessed a house already splendidly furnished, while the
                     other was dependent upon his father for all he would need in a state of
                     marriage.—And the Captain seemed to be more fond of me than Carolus.
                  The truth is, I felt as if the elder lover was more to be depended on. I could
                     cling to him, and he would support and protect me, while the other might give
                     me the slip.—But after all, the Captain's age was a source of much trouble to
                     me. The idea of becoming the wife of a man who was old enough to be my father
                     was very disagreeable, and yet his very age gave me confidence in him.
                  My reflections were so strange and so severe that my appetite for breakfast was
                     very far from being sharp, as it probably would have been under other
                     circumstances. My kind and attentive gallant urged me to partake of several
                     viands, for which I had no appetite; but to please him, I nibbled a little of
                     every thing he presented me. It seemed to me that we sat at the table much
                     longer than was necessary. I longed to rise and go on deck, but said
                     nothing.
                  The Captain still kept gazing upon his rival. I could very easily see that
                     Carolus was quite as much disturbed as the Captain was; yet he strove to appear
                     quiet, and assumed quite an air of independence and even hauteur. Glad was I
                     when we arose from the table and repaired to the saloon upon deck. We left the
                     Captain at the table.
                  'I don't know how you may feel, but I confess, the more I see of that man, the
                     more I dislike him,' said Carolus. 'He looks daggers at me, but why he should
                     thus frown is more than I can tell. I have never injured him, and have no
                     desire to cultivate his acquaintance. My opinion is, that he is a wicked man.
                     His whole manner and looks show it.'
                  'Perhaps you are too much governed by your prejudices,' I remarked. 'Last
                     evening you did not discover in him so many evidences of guilt as you now
                     do.'
                  'I had no occasion to notice him last evening,' he replied.
                  'And what occasion have you now to notice him?' I inquired smiling. The
                     question drove him to his trumps, and no immediate answer came. At last he
                     acknowledged that if he had not seen the Captain conversing with me he might
                     not have entertained such opinions of him. He now seated me and took his
                     position by my side, somewhat excited. He began to pour his flattering tales
                     into my ear, and made the most and apparently earnest declarations of his love
                     for me.'
                  'I can never be happy to live without you in this world,' he said. 'Wealth,
                     honor, and distinction are all nothing without your society.'
                  'I fear your emotions come upon you too suddenly, and they appear to be too
                     violent to last long,' I added. 'In a few weeks you may change your mind. Young
                     men see too many new faces to love one long.'
                  'I never shall change my mind!' he replied. 'You are the idol of my soul.'
                  'And yet your worship may be of short duration,' I added, smiling in my sleeve
                     at his apparently great earnestness and zeal I used to read in my school-book
                     when I was a little girl, "hot love is soon cold." I really fear that you will
                     soon become sick of me, and wonder how you come to have such feelings.'
                  'Never! never!' he emphatically replied, and in a tone of voice that carried
                     conviction to my soul that he was sincere; and yet I felt as if it were quite
                     possible that his feelings might undergo a change. He was yet a young man, and
                     apparently had a very susceptible heart.
                  'Your love has been so sudden, and appears so violent that another face better
                     looking than mine may awaken new feelings in your heart, and utterly drive my
                     image from your memory,' I said.
                  'I never shall see another face I love to gaze upon so well as I do upon
                     yours,' he replied, seizing my hand and covering it with kisses.
                  At that moment Captain Dunmore entered the saloon, and saw him in the act of
                     almost eating up my hand. The Captain's face gathered dark clouds, and he
                     looked as if he would like to throw the young man overboard into the depths of
                     the sea.
                  When I saw him I withdrew my hand from my ardent lover's lips, and gently
                     rebuked him for taking such liberties.
                  The Captain promenaded back and forth, and seemed to be absorbed in his own
                     thoughts.
                  The young man was highly provoked at this intrusion of the Captain; but he said
                     nothing to him, and continued his conversation with me; changing, however, the
                     subject, and talking loud enough for his rival to hear him.
                  'In less than an hour we shall reach the city,' he said. 'Saving the thunder
                     shower, we have had delightful weather for our passage.'
                  I assented to all he said, but did not feel much disposed to conversation. I
                     sincerely regretted that the Captain had seen Carolus kissing my hand; and yet
                     he had been guilty of the same performance
                  His presence awed me, and I felt rebuked as a daughter might be in the presence
                     of her father under similar circumstances.
                  The Captain continued his walking, and occasionally cast a glance at us, and a
                     very significant one, too. He was anxious for the young man to leave me that he
                     might have a brief interview with me; but Carolus was not to be caught in that
                     trap. He did not leave me for a moment, and the Captain's ardent desire could
                     not be gratified.—We remained in the saloon until many more passengers came in,
                     when we went below.
                  The boat was now nearing the wharf, and the city appeared glorious to me in the
                     rays of the morning sun. I was highly excited, and on several accounts, I felt
                     as if I should like to exchange a few words with the Captain before we landed;
                     but my young and ardent lover gave me no such opportunity.—The boat came up to
                     the wharf which was covered with people, and hackmen were loud in praises of
                     several city hotels. It was a scene I shall never forget. All was bustle and
                     confusion. We were in a great and apparently excited crowd. I could hardly tell
                     what my thoughts were on the occasion. But my young lover was close at my
                     side.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  
                     New scenes for the heroine. The landing. The crowd. The elder lover watches
                        all the movements of the younger. The boarding house, and its Mistress,
                        &c.
                  
                  A CARRIAGE, sir,' a score of voices cried, as my young gallant conducted me
                     from the boat upon the wharf. I was
                     almost frightened at seeing such a crowd of persons of all descriptions. I had
                     never seen any thing like it; but Carolus pressed through the crowd, dragging
                     me after him, and hurrying along as fast as circumstances would permit. At last
                     I was safely seated in a carriage, and my lover went back to look after my
                     trunk and his own luggage. While he was absent Captain Dunmore came up to the
                     door of the carriage, seized my hand, pressed it, and looked exceedingly
                     anxious.
                  'May heaven protect you, my dear,' he said. 'Be sure to drop me a line, and
                     beware of that young man. Suffer him not even to kiss your hand. There's poison
                     on his lips.'
                  He immediately left the carriage and bespoke another. I saw him enter one, but
                     it remained. But before he entered I saw him talking anxiously with the driver.
                     At once I mistrusted that he intended to follow and mark the house where I
                     stopped. My suspicions were correct; for when our luggage was fastened upon the
                     carriage and we were driven off, I saw the same carriage the Captain entered
                     follow us; but I mentioned not the circumstance to my gallant. I was glad the
                     Captain had taken such a course, for I desired he should know the house at
                     which I stopped. He was too old a bird to be caught with chaff, and did not
                     entirely depend upon the letter which I promised to write for information. He
                     wished to see with his own eyes.
                  'I'm glad we have got out of that crowd,' said my lover.
                  'You cannot be more rejoiced than I am,' was my reply. 'I never witnessed such
                     confusion in my life.'
                  'It is always so when the steamboats arrive,' he answered. Now we shall be at
                     your boarding house. I rejoice that it so happened that I have the pleasure of
                     protecting you here among strangers.'
                  'It is a fortunate circumstance, for I hardly knew what I should have done
                     without your assistance,' I replied.
                  'Perhaps that old man would have given you his aid,' he answered.
                  I told him the gentleman might have done so, but that I was satisfied as it
                     was. He appeared to be rejoiced at my remark, and attempted to place his arm
                     about my waist, but I suffered him to take no such liberties. He was not very
                     well pleased with my resistance to his wishes, but he made no complaint in
                     words. We rode on, turning several corners and passing through what appeared to
                     me to be a wilderness of houses. The carriage which the Captain occupied was
                     close behind us, but Carolus knew nothing about that; if he had he would
                     undoubtedly have ordered the carriage to drive to a public hotel, and
                     afterwards to the house to which we were bound. At the time I supposed all was
                     right.
                  At last we stopped at a very respectable looking house in Endicott Street. He
                     handed me from the carriage, the driver took off my luggage, and waited till I
                     was conducted into the house. The Captain's carriage was driven past, but he
                     marked the house.—When I entered the house I saw two gaudily attired females
                     scamper up stairs, while the woman received us very politely. She was a large,
                     fat woman apparently about fifty years of age. Her face was round and red, and
                     full of smiles. She was evidently well-acquainted with my lover, and greeted
                     him cordially. I was politely introduced to her by Carolus. Her name was called
                     Mrs Topway, or rather the widow Topway. I thought the name was an odd one, but
                     I expected to hear many odd names pronounced in so large a city, and the fact
                     did not much surprise me at the time. I was glad to find a resting place; for I
                     was greatly fatigued and needed some repose.
                  'I suppose, Mrs. Topway, you have room for another boarder,' said Carolus.
                  'O, yes, I have a very nice room, unoccupied,' she replied. 'I can accommodate
                     your friend.'
                  'I am very glad of it, for I did not know but your house might be full,' he
                     said.
                  'It was full a few days ago, but some of my boarders have gone into the
                     country,' she answered. 'Please walk into the parlor.'
                  'We did so, and I was seated on an elegant sofa. The house was more splendidly
                     furnished than any one I had ever seen before, and began to fear the price of
                     my board in such an establishment would exceed the limits of my purse. It
                     looked to me like a palace, and the keeper had the appearance of a queen. She
                     was elegantly dressed, and did not seem to me like a poor woman whose poverty
                     drove her to keep a boarding house for a living; but I reasoned myself into the
                     belief that every body dressed richly in the city, and therefore, my surprise
                     was not so great as it otherwise might have been. The woman made herself very
                     agreeable, and was very kind.
                  I had not been long seated in the parlor before the young man and the widow
                     Topway went out, and I heard them talking in another room in a low voice, but
                     could not hear what they said. They were not absent but a few minutes. When
                     Carolus came in he told me that the widow would be 
                        resonable
                        reasonable
                      in her charges. I was glad to hear that, for mother had told me I
                     must get boarded as cheap as possible, and appear respectable.
                  'There Miss Martin, I have been as good as my word,' he said. 'I have brought
                     you to an excellent boarding place where I trust you will be happy for the
                     present. I must now leave you, but will call again this evening and see how you
                     get along.'
                  I thanked him heartily for his kindness and attention. We shook hands and he
                     took his leave. The widow sat upon the sofa with me, and asked several
                     questions concerning my life, and what I expected to do. I frankly told her
                     all, and kept nothing back. She now called a negro servant, whose name was Jim,
                     and ordered him to take my trunk to the room I was to occupy.
                  Soon the widow conducted me to my room which was very richly furnished. It was
                     a front room and quite spacious. I was astonished when I was introduced into
                     such an apartment. I could hardly believe my own eyes that I was to occupy such
                     a room.—The windows and bed were handsomely curtained, a marble-topped bureau,
                     with a large mirror upon it, stood in front between the windows, and other
                     articles of furniture corresponded with it.
                  'Think this room will suit you?' she asked, smiling very graciously.
                  'O, madam, I fear the room will suit me better than the price,' I replied. 'I'm
                     not able to occupy such an apartment.'
                  'I shall let you have it very cheap, for I have a great respect for Mr.
                     Cunard,' she replied. 'I once lived with his father. It is an excellent family,
                     and they are very wealthy. And this young man is the best person in the
                     world.'
                  'But that is no reason why you should board me cheaper than you would any other
                     person,' I replied.
                  'Ah, my good girl, she added, smiling. 'I judge from what the young man told me
                     that he intends to make you his wife. Should that event take place, I shall
                     lose nothing by boarding you cheap, or even for nothing, for he and his father,
                     too, are very generous, and would make me valuable presents. I hope you will
                     not borrow any trouble on my account.'
                  'I have not thought of being married,' I replied. 'I came to the city to learn
                     a dressmaker's trade'
                  
                  'A dressmaker's trade!' repeated the woman. 'Carolus Cunard will never consent
                     to a girl's learning such a trade whom he Intends to marry. You may as well
                     give up that idea first as last. All the dresses you will ever make won't cover
                     much nakedness I'm thinking. No, no, my dear; your lover will never consent to
                     that. Instead of manufacturing dresses for others, the most fashionable
                     dressmakers in the city will be employed for you, in making your bridal dress.
                     I consider you a very fortunate young lady in winning the heart of such a young
                     man as Carolus Cunard. There's not a girl in the city who would not jump at the
                     chance of having him for a husband. He's an only son, and his father is
                     immensely rich. He has oceans of money.—I'm glad he has at last found a girl
                     whom he loves; for he will be very much the happier for it. Such a good-hearted
                     young man, and so rich as he is, ought to have a wife. You are a stranger to
                     me, but I hope you will not deem me a flatterer when I say I think he has shown
                     his good taste in the choice he has made.'
                  'I'm a poor country girl, and ought not to think of forming a connection so
                     much above my rank and condition in life,' I replied.
                  'Never mind that,' she replied. 'You have personal beauty enough to sustain you
                     in the very highest ranks of fashionable society. Beauty is every thing here,
                     and you will outshine any of the city ladies.'
                  'I confess, you lay on the flattery quite thick,' I replied; beginning to think
                     my beauty was brought to a good market. This woman appeared so kind, and spoke
                     so pleasantly, that I was inclined to believe all she said. There was an
                     apparent sincerity in her tone of voice and manner; and I felt as if I should
                     be doing her injustice if I doubted her honesty. She insisted upon it, that my
                     beauty was far above almost any other lady's in the city. I confess I was
                     possessed of some personal vanity, and also listened to her flattering tales
                     with pleasure. She did not remain long, but soon left me to my own
                     reflections
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  
                     Our heroine's trouble to make a choice of her lovers. Making a toilette.
                        Reflections on city life. The contrast, &c.
                  
                  HERE I was in a splendidly furnished room; but no articles in my wardrobe
                     corresponded with it. I began to feel ashamed of my dresses. I had one blue
                     silk dress, which my mother made from her wedding gown. It was an excellent
                     fabric, but then it was not made in the fashion, and if it had been, I had
                     nothing suitable to wear with it. If I had the money to spare I would have,
                     expended quite a sum before I slept; but I had but a small sum, and that I felt
                     it my duty to reserve to pay for my board until I got in a situation to earn
                     some.
                  The widow Topway had completely upset my philosophy and bewildered my
                     mind.—Before I saw her, and heard her flattering stories about young Cunard, I
                     had almost come to the conclusion to throw myself upon the love and protection
                     of Captain Dunmore, but now I did not know what to do. I had promised to write
                     him; but that did not seem necessary since he knew the house where I boarded. I
                     reclined upon the bed and endeavored to calm my nerves with a little sleep; but
                     no slumber came to my eyelids. I was restless and uneasy, and thought of what
                     my mother would say if she could see me lying upon such a bed under such
                     splendid curtains. The widow had almost driven the idea of dressmaking from my
                     mind. Finally I came to the conclusion, after long and even painful reflection,
                     that I would marry either young Cunard or Captain Dunmore. At this time I
                     inclined to accept the offer of the former. His age was more suitable, and the
                     widow had given him a fine character; but after all, I could scarcely indulge
                     the thought of giving up the pleasant, smiling Captain. There was something
                     about him to which my heart clung, something which I did not discover in young
                     Cunard. True, the latter appeared like a genuine lover, but the former seemed
                     not only like a true lover, but also a protector. I felt as if he was a pillar
                     I could safely lean against and be supported. O, how I longed for mother's
                     advice in this emergency. I thought if she could see them both I would
                     willingly take the one she might select. I concluded to write to her soon, and
                     acquaint her with the character and ages of my two lovers, and request her
                     opinion. While I lay upon the bed and such thoughts rapidly coursing through my
                     mind, I heard the laughing and giggling of girls in a room over my head. They
                     appeared to be in high glee; but I could not distinctly hear any thing they
                     said. I listened attentively, but heard nothing but loud laughing. Once I
                     thought I heard an oath; but finally concluded I must be mistaken. I was
                     unwilling to believe that young ladies would swear, and yet I did not know but
                     it might be more fashionable in the city than in the country for females to use
                     such language. The laughing continued for some time, and at last I heard them
                     leave the room and go down stairs. I was glad to get rid of the disturbance,
                     for I did not feel like laughing, or hearing any thing like giddy mirth. My
                     reflections were serious and sober. I was in a strange city and among
                     strangers. Sometimes I imagined that both my lovers might prove false; for I
                     had often heard of false-hearted lovers. Mother had cautioned me to beware of
                     them, and the old gentleman and lady who rode with me in the stage-coach the
                     day previous had given me much advice which was fresh in my memory; and yet I
                     would not believe that Cunard or the Captain were false-hearted until I had
                     some proof of their deception. I never knew much about love affairs. True, like
                     other young girls, I had often thought of such matters, but had no well-settled
                     opinions upon the subject.
                  It seemed somewhat strange to me that two gentlemen should fall in love with me
                     so suddenly, and especially when there was such a disparity in their ages; but
                     I was romantic enough to believe that love knew no age or condition, but would
                     go wherever it was sent.
                  The Captain's talk upon love was more pleasing to me than Cunard's, for he
                     seemed to go deeper into the subject, and to explain it more satisfactorily. He
                     appeared calm and philosophical, and yet warm and ardent His seemed to be a
                     love upon which I could rely, whereas Cunard was more enthusiastic, and
                     apparently less to be trusted. I viewed the subject in all its phases, and
                     catechised my own heart according to all the knowledge and light afforded me. I
                     asked myself the question which of the two I loved the most; but that question
                     I could not answer. I had serious doubts whether I really loved either, but
                     imagined I could love them. I wondered within myself if men were more apt to
                     fall suddenly in love than women. From the last few hour's observation and
                     experience, I came to the conclusion that the gentlemen were more susceptible
                     than the ladies.
                  Never before had I reflected so seriously upon the affairs of the human heart.
                     I now studied them as one would a book; but the more I studied the more
                     bewildered was my mind; I was really perplexed with my theme. Dressmaking
                     hardly occurred to me for I had
                     mounted into a region far above that, and the higher I ascended the more giddy
                     I became.
                  The all-absorbing question with me was to marry a man of wealth, and go with
                     him to my native village and excite the envy of those girls who had always
                     treated me with scorn and contempt. If I could do that I thought I should be
                     happy. It was strange that I suffered such matters to occupy so much of my
                     mind; but they had for some few years, and I could not rid myself of them. I
                     remained upon the bed nearly an hour, but had found no rest.
                  I seriously reflected upon my condition. A great change had taken place in my
                     circumstances. A few days ago I left my humble home, and my dear mother, and
                     now am in an elegantly furnished room, with nothing to do, and a negro to wait
                     upon me. However flattering such a change might be to my pride and ambition, it
                     did not exactly meet the approval of my conscience. I could not make it seem
                     right to become all at once such a lady. As yet I had seen nothing of city
                     life, and could not tell whether I should like it or not. I arose from my
                     mahogany chair covered with haircloth, and looked at the reflection of my
                     person in the mirror; but I could not perceive that coming to the city had
                     improved my beauty; and wondered how it had made such impressions on two
                     wealthy gentlemen. Tears came into my eyes.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  
                     The first dinner. The mistress makes some good impressions upon the heroine.
                        A new character. Mystery, doubt, and misgiving, &c.
                  
                  THE negro servant came and called me to dinner. I went down and was much
                     surprised to find myself seated at a private table with the mistress of the
                     establishment, when I expected to see a public table and a large number of
                     boarders of both sexes. The widow noticed my surprise in the expression of my
                     countenance, and said: 'You will take your meals with me. I have orders from
                     your kind lover not to consider or treat you as a common boarder, and so you
                     will take your meals with me.'
                  It struck me that such a movement was very singular, and so expressed myself to
                     the widow. There was something about it I could not understand.
                  'Mr. Cunard does not like to have you sit at a public table to be gazed upon,'
                     continued this cunning woman 'Besides, he does not wish to have you mingle in
                     the society of common sewing-girls and mechanics. In good time he will place
                     you in the rank for which nature has fitted you.'
                  'I fear the young man has too much pride,' I replied, believing all the woman
                     said. 'I am nothing but a sewing girl, myself.'
                  'True, but persons of great wealth will always keep themselves distinct from
                     the laboring classes,' she answered. 'They are a class by themselves, and their
                     money enables them to live just as they please, while the lower classes of the
                     community are obliged to cut their coat according to their cloth. In a city
                     like this such wide distinctions will always exist. The two classes would not
                     enjoy themselves so well together as they do to be separate. Even in the
                     country such distinctions are often found.'
                  'I can bear witness to that,' I replied, with some earnestness; for the
                     Sandford girls were fresh in my recollection. 'Money has a wonderful power in
                     this world.'
                  'Yes, and you will soon have enough of it,' she added, smiling, and handing me
                     a nice piece of roast beef, while the negro, Jim, stood near his mistress,
                     ready to answer any of her calls. 'You have remarked that you thought my house
                     splendidly furnished; but, you will see the difference when you become Mrs.
                     Cunard, and the mistress of your own establishment. Your house will be
                     furnished vastly richer than this is. My furniture will look quite mean in the
                     comparison.'
                  I began to see that my young lover had selected an excellent woman to have the
                     care of me, and felt grateful to him for his kindness in that regard. But it
                     seemed to me after all that I was too much flattered, and ought to have been
                     placed in a less splendid house. It was reasonable to suppose that my lover
                     intended to pay my expenses, although the widow had not said so. But if Carolus
                     intended to marry me, it didn't look so strange; still I should have liked to
                     be more independent until I was married.—Our dinner was now finished, and the
                     widow conducted me into a small private parlor, which was very neatly
                     furnished, and every thing wore the air of comfort and even luxury, according
                     to my country notions.
                  I heard the door-bell frequently ring, and occasionally the voices of men and
                     girls; but I had seen but two or three girls and no gentlemen, unless the negro
                     servant may be reckoned in that category.
                  The widow now questioned me more particularly about my mother, the people, and
                     my native village. I answered all her questions frankly and without reserve.
                     The more I became acquainted with her the better I liked her. She appeared to
                     be a very intelligent and kind-hearted woman; but as yet she was comparatively
                     a stranger to me.—Much of her conversation was upon the subject of my marriage
                     with young Cunard.—That seemed to occupy her thoughts more than any thing else;
                     in fact, it absorbed more of her mind than it did mine; for my heart was yet in
                     some good degree divided between my lovers. It is true, since I came to this
                     house my mind had rather inclined towards young Cunard. I began to perceive
                     that it was quite as troublesome to have two lovers as it was to have none at
                     all. After a long conversation, the widow left me to my own thoughts.
                  Now the young blacksmith appeared in my imagination. When I left home, he was
                     the subject of my thoughts. I knew he loved me sincerely, and in some good
                     degree I reciprocated his affections. He was a very industrious young man,
                     persevering, honest, energetic, and good-looking. I entertained a very
                     favorable opinion of him. He had made me promise to write to him and inform him
                     where he could find me in case he came to the city, and he engaged to write to
                     me also. These promises were mutual, and I felt bound to fulfil my part of the
                     obligation; but what to write to him was a very troublesome question.
                  I repaired to my chamber, and, on the way met a very gaudily dressed young
                     lady. She was dressed in the most fashionable style, at least, I supposed she
                     was, for I noticed that her dress was cut quite different from mine. Having
                     come to the city to follow dressmaking, it was quite natural that I should
                     particularly notice the cut and fashion of the ladies' dresses. This girl
                     seemed disposed to converse with me; and yet there seemed to be an air of
                     caution about her that I could not fully comprehend or appreciate. Hearing the
                     front door open, she went to the window and looked out into the street. The
                     widow had walked out, and then the girl seemed to be less cautious and
                     embarrassed. She first spoke of the weather, and called it 'a splendiferous
                     day.' That was a new word to me, but found no difficulty in comprehending its
                     meaning, and answered her, confirming her remark in relation to the
                     weather.
                  
                  'Is this your first appearance on these boards?' she asked, throwing her head
                     upon one side, and trying to appear very graceful.
                  I at first hesitated, and then told her that I did not know as I fully
                     understood her question.
                  'O, I mean, were you ever in the city before?' she said, smiling at my
                     verdancy.
                  'I never was,' I replied. 'This is my first appearance, as you say.'
                  'That is a phrase the theatre folks use when a new actor or actress appears,'
                     she added. 'O, I love to attend the theatres.'
                  I told her I never was in a theatre in my life. She appeared somewhat
                     surprised, and said the performances would please me very much. She then asked
                     me my name, and where I came from, all which I told her.
                  'Good gracious!' she exclaimed. 'From Maine! I came from that State, and not
                     twenty miles from the village where you lived. How queer! I have not been in
                     Maine since I left there, which was four years ago.'
                  She told me her name was Josephine Melville. I thought it was quite a romantic
                     name; and told her my object in coming to the city.
                  'To learn to be a dressmaker!' she repeated, laughing. 'Guess the young man who
                     brought you here will nor let you work much at that trade.'
                  'What makes you think so?' I asked.
                  'O, the needle will prick your fingers, and make them rough,' she replied,
                     laughing quite heartily, and gazing 'upon my curls.—'Good gracious! I wish my
                     hair would curl as finely as yours does, and I wish it was of the same color.
                     My hair is rather light, and it won't curl worth a cent; I may keep it in
                     papers all day or night, and then it will come out almost as straight as
                     flax.'
                  'I think your hair is very pretty,' I remarked. 'And like the fashion in which
                     you wear it. I think it looks quite as well as it would curled.'
                  'So it does, and better too; but then if it would curl as naturally as yours
                     does I should never wear it as I do now,' she replied.
                  I asked her if she was acquainted with Carolus Cunard.
                  'O, I have occasionally seen him, and know him by reputation,' she
                     answered.—'He is quite a fast young man, and his father is rich.'
                  'Fast young man!' I repeated. 'What do you mean by that?'
                  'Why, don't you know?' she asked, laughing. 'It means he keeps a fast horse,
                     loves to ride, go to the theatres, wait on the ladies, and spend his money
                     freely. That's what we call a fast young man here in the city. I'm aware there
                     are but few in the country, because they havn't got the money. It is a common
                     saying down in Maine, that money makes the mare go; and by heavens I believe
                     it, and so will you after you have seen more of the city. Cunard is a smart
                     fellow.'
                  I told her I had but a slight acquaintance with him, having never seen him
                     until yesterday.
                  'Well, you will probably become better acquainted with him before long,' she
                     said, smiling.
                  I remarked I did not know whether I should or not; but she smiled, and told me
                     she knew better than that. I noticed she had several gold rings upon her
                     fingers, and a gold chain about her neck, and her dress admirably fitted her
                     genteel and graceful form. I concluded she must have money enough; and indulged
                     some curiosity to know how she obtained it. I did not know but her father might
                     be rich. She did not look to me as if she labored much, for her hands were very
                     delicate, and her forefingers not made rough enough with the needle as she
                     expressed it. Her eyes were of a light blue, but quite bright and sparkling,
                     and her features regular. Her complexion was light, but there was a pale look
                     in her face which did not denote good health, as I thought.—She noticed that I
                     closely examined her face.
                  'I wish my eyes were as dark as yours,' she said.
                  'Your eyes are well enough,' was my reply. 'Very dark eyes would not become
                     your complexion so well as your own now do.'
                  'But I can change the color of my complexion, but cannot that of my eyes,' she
                     said, laughing, and showing a very handsome set of teeth.
                  'How so?' I asked, in the simplicity of my heart.
                  'O, rouge will do it,' she replied, 'And I would use more of it if my eyes were
                     as dark as yours.'
                  I understood her, but it did not occur to me that she painted. I told her I
                     never saw any body use paint.
                  'Nor I, before I came to the city,' she added. 'There's no need of your
                     painting, for nature has done that for you better than you could do it
                     yourself.'
                  The more I conversed with her, the greater mystery I found her. I was really
                     perplexed to read her character. I then told her I supposed she was going to be
                     married. I made such a remark because she had intimated to me that I was soon
                     to become the wife of young Cunard.
                  'I hate promises,' she replied, while a shade came over her countenance, and
                     she seemed to have some serious reflections.
                  'And have you doubts about their being fulfilled?' I asked, feeling quite an
                     interest in the question; for I had often heard of false-hearted lovers, and
                     broken promises.
                  'God only knows whether men will keep their promises or not,' she replied, in a
                     tone of voice that told that she really felt what she said.
                  'Men ought to hold such promises sacred,' I added.
                  'Good God!' she exclaimed. 'Indeed, they ought; but they do not always perform
                     what they promise!'
                  I was startled by her exclamation, and trembled in every muscle. Her
                     countenance assumed a wild look, and her lips quivered. I dared not make any
                     reply, and in fact knew not what to say. She stood a moment with her eyes
                     fastened upon the floor and her hands clenched.
                  'I don't often cry of late,' she said.—'Ask me not the cause of my tears, but
                     take care of yourself. All is not gold that glitters. The city and country are
                     quite different places. Some folks may yet learn that a female heart can feel
                     the spirit of revenge as well as that of love. I have one request to make. Say
                     not one word that has passed between us to the widow.'
                  I promised her I would not. She seized my hand, nervously pressed it, gazed
                     into my eyes, turned away, and hurried up stairs. I entered my room, sat down,
                     and seriously reflected on what I had witnessed.
                  My sympathies were strongly enlisted in her behalf, and I longed to hear more
                     of the story of her life. What I heard was a severe admonition to me. 'Take
                     care of yourself!' kept ringing in my ears, and I fully resolved to heed the
                     advice. I began to witness some of the aspects of city life; and almost wished
                     myself back again under the parental roof.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER X.
                  
                     The new dress. The surprise. The art of a cunning woman. The progress of
                        events. The heroine more and more bewildered.—High words, and listening,
                        &c.
                  
                  I remained in my room until the afternoon was far advanced, and saw no one. My
                     reflections were any thing but agreeable That girl's looks and tears were
                     before my mental eyes continually, and I could not keep her out of my thoughts.
                     Her case was a great mystery to me. At last it seemed to me that she might have
                     been seduced by some smooth, false-hearted scoundrel who had promised, most
                     solemnly, to marry her.—That thought filled me with keener anguish than all my
                     other thoughts; but I was loth to believe such was the case.
                  The more I thought of the subject the more bewildered I became, until I
                     endeavored to drive the whole affair from my mind; but I could not do that. I
                     indulged the hope that she would on some future occasion tell me more, and give
                     a full history of her case. At last a carriage was driven up, and the widow
                     Topway alighted and entered the house. She had been gone some hours,
                     promenading and shopping. She immediately came to my room, bearing in her hand
                     a small bundle.
                  'There,' she said, handing me the bundle, open that and see how you like
                     it.'
                  I opened the package, and found a very beautiful pink muslin dress. It was very
                     fine and handsome. I told her I admired it.
                  'I am glad to hear it,' she answered. 'I didn't know as I could suit you. I had
                     some idea of asking you to accompany me; but you were so fatigued with your
                     journey that I concluded to go alone and make the purchase.'
                  'I did not fully comprehend what she meant; she noticed that I was somewhat
                     taken by surprise.
                  'That dress is for you,' she continued.—'Your lover gave me the money and
                     ordered me to purchase it for you. This is barely a beginning of his generous
                     deeds. Richer and more costly dresses than this you will wear. This is an every
                     day dress for the warm season.'
                  'For me?' I asked, feeling much surprised.
                  'Yes, for you,' she answered. 'I shall have a dressmaker here in the morning,
                     and have it made up immediately. The next dress you will have will be a rich
                     and costly brocade.'
                  'I am really sorry that he has ordered you to make this purchase,' I said,
                     feeling just as I said.
                  'And why so?' she asked, gazing upon me in apparent astonishment. 'It is
                     nothing for him to purchase you forty dresses, and dare say your wardrobe will
                     contain that number before a year has elapsed. You may consider yourself a very
                     fortunate girl. No one in the city is more so. Young Cunard is determined that
                     your wardrobe shall correspond with your beauty.'
                  'O, madam, you flatter me altogether too much,' I replied. 'It is more than I
                     can bear. I'm not used to such things.'
                  'It is not my intention to flatter you at all,' she added. 'I am only repeating
                     what he has told me this very day. To-morrow the dressmaker will come, and then
                     you will have an opportunity to commence learning the trade you have spoken of.
                     You will probably have several opportunities of the same kind before many weeks
                     have passed.'
                  She now laughed quite heartily, while I was confused and bewildered, and knew
                     not what reply to make. I was taken by surprise.
                  'Cunard is ambitious, and he intends that you shall create quite a sensation
                     when he takes you to the theatre or any public place,' she continued. 'He says
                     your beauty will call out many inquiries where you came from, what is your name
                     and who you are. He knows how to do up things. The rich young men of the city
                     are always striving to see who can marry the handsomest wives. It is quite
                     different in the country. I once lived in the country myself. Beauty there is
                     not so much thought of as it is here. The rich have a good many splendid
                     parties, and the gentleman who has the most beautiful wife always carries off
                     the palm. Ah, my dear, you will learn all about it one of these days. Rich
                     men's wives have nothing to do but make a show in the world. Well, men have a
                     right thus to spend their money and enjoy themselves.'
                  'I am not at all calculated for such exhibitions,' I replied. 'I have never
                     been used to mingle in such society, and should appear awkward.'
                  'Not a bit of it,' she answered. 'You have the personal beauty, and that is the
                     main qualification. Having that, you will soon accustom yourself to move among
                     the aristocratic and wealthy. Your face and form will carry you any where. It
                     is impossible for a lady to be awkward who has such a genteel form as yours.
                     You will find every thing I tell you to be true. I say, again, you are a very
                     fortunate young lady. Learn a dressmaker's art! I cannot help laughing when I
                     think of it. Just before young Cunard left this morning, he laughed about your
                     learning that trade, and said he would give you several opportunities to learn
                     how the dressmakers fitted you before you had been in the city many weeks.'
                  The widow left me after spinning out a very long yarn, and I heard her voice in
                     another room; I could not distinguish what was said, but it seemed to me that
                     there was some trouble, for it seemed a good deal like scolding.
                  Josephine stood on her tiptoes and listened very attentively, and apparently
                     with a good deal of interest. I didn't know what to make of such an exhibition.
                     At last the words grew less, and were uttered in lower tones when Josephine
                     came softly towards me, and whispered, 'I guess, the widow has got a splinter
                     under her finger-nail.'
                  'What is the trouble?' I anxiously inquired in a whisper.
                  'Some trouble with one of the girls, I presume,' she replied. 'O God, I wish I
                     was under some other roof!'
                  'But what is it?' I asked, holding her by the arm, and trembling.
                  'I can't tell you more now,' she answered. 'We must not be seen together. Take
                     care of yourself.'
                  She instantly left me and stole up stairs as stealthily as a cat, and was soon
                     out of my sight. I went to my room and threw myself into a chair. All was
                     shrouded in mystery, and I began to feel the same desire as the girl expressed,
                     that is, to be under some other roof. 'Take care of yourself,' again rung more
                     loudly in my ears than ever before. What could that girl mean by such an
                     admonition! That question I kept asking myself; but I could get no satisfactory
                     answer. 'The widow has a splinter under her finger-nail!' That was a new phrase
                     to me, and I did not understand its full meaning. That girl was a singular
                     character, and I could not comprehend it. O, how I longed to have a serious
                     conversation with her! I became much interested in her. She was evidently in
                     trouble at times, if not constantly; but of the cause I was ignorant.—Having
                     been born in the same State, and not many miles from where I first saw the
                     light, she greatly interested me, and perhaps more deeply on that account.
                  My new dress lay on the bed where I had spread it out in order to have a better
                     view of it; and although it was more beautiful than any I had ever seen, yet I
                     looked upon it with a certain undefined and indefinable suspicion; but why I
                     could not tell. Since my interview with the mysterious Josephine Melville, I
                     suspected almost every thing. I tried to calm my mind, and drive these
                     suspicions from me; but they would haunt me like ghosts in spite of my efforts
                     to keep them down. Suspicions of what, or whom? That question I often asked
                     myself; but could obtain no definite answer. Thus was I embarrassed and
                     perplexed, until a gentle tapping was heard on my chamber door, and Jim very
                     politely summoned me to tea.
                  The widow presided at the table with dignity and care, and treated me with
                     marked attention and politeness. She had tact to make herself very interesting
                     to me. She was motherly, kind, pleasant, and also very agreeable.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  
                     Another change of feeling. Learning human nature in all its aspects. The
                        interview. A severe trial. Virtue triumphant, &c.
                  
                  AFTER tea I sought my room. I confess the widow's kind treatment and harmonious
                     remarks had somewhat quieted my nerves. Having seen but a little of human life,
                     and that little confined to a quiet village in the country, I began to think
                     that all my vague suspicions were unfounded, and that the more I might see of
                     the different aspects of human conduct, the less would be my surprise at any
                     demonstration. True, Josephine Melville, appeared very singular, and I had
                     heard some very high words; but after all I concluded, or endeavored to persuade myself
                     into the belief that all would come out well in the end. If I could have
                     consulted my mother, I should have been happy; but I started from home with the
                     knowledge that I must depend upon my own strength and resources.
                  Expecting Carolus Cunard to visit me, I adjusted my ringlets, and made myself
                     look as well as I could with the few means I had at command. Although I had not
                     fully determined to accept him as a suitor in preference to Captain Dunmore;
                     yet I was unwilling to do any thing to induce Carolus to love me less. That was
                     all natural enough. No woman is often willing to be loved less; for that is a
                     kind of worship from the other sex which is not desirable to see diminished. I
                     had every reason to believe that my lover possessed a good character, was rich,
                     and loved me more than he ever did any other girl.
                  To tell the truth I was anxious to see him, and waited with some degree of
                     impatience until he came. It was some time after nightfall before he came, but
                     he did come and I was rejoiced to see him. My female readers must not infer
                     from this that I really loved him, for if I knew my own heart, I believe I did
                     not; and yet I felt an interest in him which approximated towards love, but it
                     was not true love, as since I have found out by experience.
                  I heard the door-bell ring, and hurried down into the little private parlor. As
                     I passed along the hall, I saw a young gentleman talking with a girl, and soon
                     they went up stairs together. I found Carolus and the widow talking very busily
                     as I entered the room. He received me cordially; but I thought the widow looked
                     us if she felt I had come down from my room too soon.—And such was the fact;
                     for she told me Carolus would have gone to my room to see me, if I had not come
                     down. I didn't very well like the looks of that, still I didn't know but city
                     fashions and customs would justify a young man in visiting a young lady in her
                     own room. However, it did not seem exactly right to me, and I was glad I had
                     come down. We conversed some time upon several subjects, and the widow
                     performed her part of the conversation with much skill and tact.
                  At last she remarked that as she expected company that evening perhaps it would
                     be as well for me and my lover to go to my own chamber. The red blushes came
                     into my cheeks, and I made no answer. She knew well enough that I was
                     embarrassed; but her consummate tact soon made me believe there could be no
                     great harm in the movement, and I conducted my lover to my chamber. He seemed
                     very willing to go. I had but a single lamp burning there; but Jim soon came up
                     with a larger one, which shed a brilliant light over the room. My new dress was
                     still lying spread upon the bed, which he noticed.
                  'Ah, then the widow has purchased you the dress I ordered,' he said,
                     smiling.
                  I told him she had, and thanked him for the present.
                  'It is a very pretty one,' he continued.—I knew her good taste, and thought I
                     would surprise you. How do you like it?'
                  'Very well, indeed,' I replied. 'But I'm sorry to have you be at so much
                     expense for me. I shall never be able to pay you for all your kindness and
                     generosity.'
                  'I am already more than paid,' he replied, taking my hand, and gently pressing
                     it.—'What is a single dress? Why, my dear Louise, I shall esteem it a pleasure
                     to purchase you a hundred, and expect to do so before you die.'
                  I could not find words to make a reply.—In fact I hardly knew what to say. He
                     still held my hand, and seemed somewhat nervous. At last he said he had another
                     present for me, and took from his pocket a beautiful ring which he placed upon
                     my finger. The ring sparkled in the light of the lamp, and excited strange
                     emotions in my heart; I hardly knew whether to be glad or sorry.—However, I
                     thanked him, and endeavored to be cheerful. I felt he was fast bringing me
                     under obligations to him, and that was a source of regret to me.
                  'There, your hand now begins to look like a lady's,' he said, kissing it, and
                     smiling most graciously. 'I intend to have all your ornaments to correspond
                     with your natural beauty.'
                  'I fear your ornaments will outshine every thing else,' I replied, gently
                     withdrawing my hand from his lips.
                  'No danger of that, unless there are more skilful jewelers than the world has
                     ever yet produced,' he answered. 'Soon as I have fitted you out with a suitable
                     dress and ornaments I intend to take you to the theatre.'
                  'I hardly know what a theatre is,' was my reply.
                  'I suppose, not; but I intend you shall know before many days shall pass,' he
                     said. 'I shall engage a private box, and you must not be surprised if many eyes
                     and glasses are turned towards you.'
                  'How did you find your folks?' I asked, wishing to change the subject, and
                     avoid his flattery; for there was rather too much of it.
                  'O, very well, indeed, I thank you,' he replied. 'My sister was exceedingly
                     glad to see me. I told her I had seen a girl in Maine much more beautiful than
                     she was; and she is considered one of the most beautiful girls in Boston. But
                     did not tell her who she was, or that she had come to the city.—One of these
                     days I intend to surprise her.'
                  'Perhaps she may be very much surprised in not finding the girl from Maine,
                     half so beautiful as you have represented her,' I answered.
                  'Perhaps she may; but I don't believe it,' he said, laughing. 'I profess to be
                     a judge of female beauty, and am not often mistaken in my judgment. I'm bold to
                     say, that there is no young lady in Boston whose face and form are so beautiful
                     as yours. Call it flattery or any thing you please. I shall insist upon it, and
                     do not intend to be beaten out of it. I know it, and if it were not so, I
                     should not be here this evening. I have often told my friends in the city that
                     I was fully determined to have the handsomest wife to be found in this
                     Metropolis of New England, if such an one could be found. And by heavens, I
                     think I have found her at last.'
                  With that exclamation, he thrust his arm round my waist, and drew my face to
                     his; but, before he had time to kiss me I released myself from his grasp, and
                     seated myself in another chair. I felt as if that was making too much of an
                     advance; and accordingly resisted him in such a manner that he felt rebuked,
                     and even apologized for his rudeness. The words of Josephine Melville, 'take
                     care of yourself,' came to my memory at the moment he thus embraced me, and
                     obeyed the impulse they suggested without thinking whether he might be
                     displeased or not.
                  'You must pardon me, my dear Louise,' he said, looking rather disturbed in his
                     self-complacency, and gazing anxiously upon me as I sat in a chair at some
                     distance from him. 'I intended no harm; for I but yielded to an honest impulse.
                     You know, or ought to know by this time, how much I love you; and thus loving,
                     it is not strange that I should wish to embrace you. But if you think I have
                     done any thing wrong, or intended to insult you in the least degree, I humbly
                     ask your pardon.'
                  'I can't think you intended to insult me, an unprotected female, and a stranger
                     in a strange city,' I replied; feeling very sorry that I sprang from him so
                     suddenly, and with so much force.
                  'Indeed, I did not, he said, moving his chair near mine, and fondly gazing in
                     my face. 'My dear Louise, you are the last person in this world whom I would
                     insult.—No! God forbid, that I should do any thing that may look like an
                     insult. O, my dear Louise, if you knew how deeply, and ardently I love you, I
                     know you would find thousands of excuses for the seeming rudeness of my
                     conduct. Is it strange that I should
                     wish to seal my love with a kiss? It seems to me it is the most reasonable as
                     well as natural things in the world. I don't know much about country life, nor
                     country customs but fashionable society would not restrain one from doing what
                     I attempted to do a moment ago. No, no, my dear girl, you have many things yet
                     to learn before you can know much about fashionable life and city customs; but
                     I intend that you shall learn them, and become one of the leaders in the
                     fashionable world. You have beauty, and I have money enough to accomplish that,
                     and we will do it. You must not be too reserved, and every thing will end
                     gloriously. We have a happy career before us. We will visit the fashionable
                     watering-places, ride about the country, go down and see your mother, and bring
                     her to the city to live with us.'
                  I listened attentively while he was thus earnestly speaking, and felt strange
                     emotions agitating my heart; but I was resolved not to permit him to take any
                     liberties with me. The remark he made about my mother was exceedingly agreeable
                     to me at that time. I thought if I ever married it would be my strongest wish
                     to have my mother live with me; but made no reply to him. He again took my
                     hand, which I suffered him to hold a few moments, and then withdrew it. He did
                     not appear to be very well pleased with the act, although he made no further
                     complaint in words. I could see, however, that he was greatly disappointed; for
                     he imagined that his remarks had produced the effect upon me which he desired.
                     He remained some time, and at last took his leave, promising to call again,
                     soon. He went below and had a long talk with the widow; but what was said I did
                     not know. I was glad when he departed; and yet, I felt afraid I had offended
                     him, and almost regretted that I did not let him kiss me, he seemed to be so
                     anxious, and argued the case so well, I hardly knew whether I had done wrong or
                     not, under all the circumstances, but my conscience acquitted me.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  
                     The dream which was all a dream. Conflicting emotions. The dressmaker.
                        Matters of taste. The French. Another change of feeling. Art and
                        cunning.
                  
                  I HAD a dream, but it was all a dream.—Soon after my lover took his leave of
                     me, I retired and sought that repose I so much needed. Being much fatigued in
                     body and mind, I soon fell into a sound sleep, and dreamed that I was the wife
                     of Carolus Cunard, and lived in the greatest splendor.—A few weeks after we
                     were married we took a splendid private carriage, and traveled to my native
                     home, in Maine. I had a maidservant to wait upon me, and my husband engaged Jim
                     the negro servant of the widow Topway, who accompanied us on the journey. We
                     drove into my native village in the afternoon of a fine summer's day, and went
                     directly to the little public hotel. People in the street stared at us, and
                     many heads were at the windows of the houses. There was much excitement in the
                     village; for the news had arrived that we were coming. I felt as if I had
                     obtained the object of my highest ambition. The young ladies who had scorned my
                     society now were anxious to see and be introduced to my husband. Jim acted as
                     the master of ceremonies, and a great display he made in the exercise of his
                     official functions. He and the driver of our carriage were dressed in livery,
                     and my wardrobe was exceedingly rich and splendid. I had brought new dresses
                     for my mother, in which she appeared, and greatly astonished the natives.
                  Never had there been before such a great excitement in this little village.
                     Even business was almost entirely suspended; and scores of persons were hanging
                     about the tavern, examining our horses and carriage, and trying to catch
                     glimpses of me and my husband. Jim, too, was the subject of great curiosity,
                     and many children came to see him. My maid-servant was more richly dressed than
                     any girl in the village. But, alas! The excitement was more than I could bear,
                     and sleep soundly. I awoke, and the morning sun was shining through the windows
                     of my room. Drops of perspiration stood upon my brow, and the excitement of the
                     dream had somewhat exhausted my physical energies. I arose and made my toilet,
                     and the dream still haunted my imagination. However, I soon shook off these
                     strange feelings, and opened my eyes to the realities of my existence.
                  Here I was a stranger in a strange city, and God only knew what my fate would
                     be! I thought of my two lovers, and really felt anxious to see Captain Dunmore.
                     It seemed to me that he could protect me better than young Cunard, and that I
                     could lean upon him for support with more confidence. He had made an impression
                     upon me which his absence seemed to deepen. I examined my own heart, and
                     endeavored to ascertain the true state of my feelings; but the more I studied
                     myself, the more I was confused and bewildered. I was convinced that Cunard had
                     not made any advances in the conquest of my heart. Last evening's interview had
                     not made a favorable impression upon me; at least, so it seemed to me. And yet
                     I did not know but I should yield to his wishes, and become the partner of his
                     life. But strange as it may appear to the reader, I was more anxious that
                     morning to see the Captain than I had been the day previous. Why it was so, I
                     could not tell. The fact was strange to me, yet it was a fact. I finally
                     concluded I would write to him that day, if I could do so, and not be detected.
                     I knew not how to find the post office; but concluded I could make the negro
                     servant a friend, and get him to put the letter into the post office, and also
                     one for my mother; for I had promised to write to her as soon as I had arrived
                     in the city, and secured a boarding place.
                  Having dressed myself, I stepped from my room into the hall, and saw Josephine
                     looking out of one of the front windows into the street. As I came out she
                     turned her head and cautiously beckoned me to her. I was glad to see her, and
                     hurried towards her.
                  'Go into my room,' I whispered. But she shook her head for answer. I noticed
                     her eyes were red, and she looked as if she had been weeping.
                  'You had company last evening,' she said, in a low voice, and appearing to be
                     afraid of being overheard.
                  I remarked to her I had, and wished to know why she asked.
                  'No matter,' she replied. 'Did you take care of yourself?'
                  'I did, indeed,' I replied. 'And thank you for your good admonition.'
                  'I hope it was a timely one,' she added.—'Somehow I feel an interest in you,
                     and suppose the reason is because we both came from the same State, and almost
                     from the same neighborhood. We must not talk long, for the widow will soon be
                     up. She usually rises before this time; but she had company last night.'
                  'Has she a prospect of marriage?' I inquired.
                  The girl looked at me, and a peculiar smile passed over her sad features. It
                     was the only answer she made to my inquiry.—At that moment 
                        foosteps
                        footsteps
                      were heard below, and she tripped up stairs, leaving me in wonder and surprise at her strange
                     conduct. There was a mystery in her character I could not penetrate. Why it
                     should so happen that she always left me at the very moment when I was about to
                     ask her questions that greatly interested me, I could not conjecture; but so it
                     was, and I was destined to disappointment.
                  Soon after, I was called to breakfast, and the widow Topway was more pleasant
                     and full of smiles than ever. We partook of an excellent breakfast, and she
                     made the time pass very agreeably. She exercised a strange power over me, and
                     could change the current of my thoughts and feelings at any time.
                  As she handed me a cup of coffee, she remarked with a smile: 'I suppose the day
                     may not be far distant when you will set at the head of a table more richly and
                     splendidly furnished than this.'
                  'Indeed, madam,' I replied, 'I fear that day is very far distant, for I do not
                     feel at all qualified for such a position.'
                  'Qualified!' she repeated with one of her most pleasant smiles 'Qualified! You
                     have all the power necessary to grace any establishment, however rich and
                     splendid. Those very curls now hanging brightly over your neck and shoulders
                     will pass you in any place, and your lover, and my generous friend, Cunard,
                     knows it. I can assure you he is a young man of most excellent taste and
                     judgment, and knows what he is about. He told me last evening after he came
                     from your room, that the more he became acquainted with you the more he prized
                     your beauty, and the more deeply he loved you. Ah, my dear girl, you have made
                     a complete conquest of his heart. I have never known a young man love more
                     deeply and ardently than he loves you. I can see you are destined to be a happy
                     couple.'
                  Heaven only knows how happy we may be,' I replied. 'I feel that I ought to
                     consult my mother before I consent to become the wife of any gentleman.'
                  'As a general rule that is right; but I think your case forms an exception,'
                     she cunningly answered. 'It is seldom in this world that a poor girl has such a
                     brilliant offer as you have. I should accept it, and one of these days
                     agreeably surprise your mother.'
                  'I thought of writing to her to-day,' I replied.
                  'That is well,' she added. 'Write to her that she must not be surprised if she
                     hears by your next letter that you are married to one of the finest young men
                     of the city, who has money enough to live in the most fashionable style. I know
                     that your good mother will rejoice at such news. It would be passing strange if
                     she does not. But, my dear, I don't know as you will have time to write to-day,
                     as I expect you will commence learning the dressmaker's trade.'
                  The last remark she uttered with a humorous look, and laughed very heartily, so
                     much so that I could not resist the temptation to laugh too.
                  For the time I forgot all my troubles, and began to think that my own marriage
                     was not far distant. But how sudden are the changes of feeling in the human
                     heart!—Soon after I reached my room a change came over the spirit of my dream,
                     and sombre clouds seemed to hover over my 
                        prespects
                        prospects
                     . The words and strange looks and actions of that girl, Josephine
                     Melville, came up fresh in my memory, and changed the whole current of my
                     thoughts and emotions. What could she mean by such demonstrations? What was her
                     condition? Had she fallen from that virtue which my sex prize so highly? Had
                     her lover proved false? Was she still virtuous, or was she a wanton? These
                     questions occupied my agitated mind, and, especially, did the last question
                     sink deep into my heart, and spread a kind of sickness over my soul! But I
                     would not believe such could be her condition. A wanton and board with such a
                     fine lady as the widow Topway seemed to be! No! no! Such could not be the fact
                     And yet something whispered my soul that it might be possible. Why was she
                     afraid to let the widow know that she conversed with me? That question greatly
                     troubled me, and I could not solve it satisfactorily to my own mind. I was much
                     disquieted whenever I thought of that girl. But I must hasten on with my
                     narrative.
                  Soon after breakfast the dressmaker came, her name was Catharine Cabbott; she
                     was of French origin, but spake English well. When I came down from my chamber
                     she and the widow were in the small private parlor. I was introduced to her,
                     and she immediately began to examine my form, and run her hands over my waist
                     and shoulders.
                  'You have a beautiful form, and one easily fitted,' said Kate, as the widow
                     familiarly called her. 'Your shoulders have a graceful slope, and your bust and
                     waist are very fine. I love to fit dresses to such forms. Your form very much
                     resembles the French.'
                  'O, yes, and that's what makes you like it so well, said the widow,
                     laughing.—'Nothing like French forms and fashions in your opinion.
                  'Very true,' replied Kate. 'The French have the most beautiful forms in the
                     world, and surely their fashions prevail over all others.'
                  'Well, this young lady is a real Yankee, born and bred in the State of Maine,'
                     said the widow. 'I go for the Yankees, for I'm a native of good old
                     Connecticut.'
                  She now proceeded to take my measure, and worked as if she was perfectly at
                     home in her business.
                  'Now you will have a fine opportunity to steal Kate's art,' said the widow,
                     laughing, and addressing me.
                  'I think I should be obliged to see more than one dress fitted, before I could
                     steal all the art,'I replied.
                  'I could learn you in a few weeks so that you could fit nicely,' said Kate. 'I
                     know by your looks that you have a natural taste for such things.'
                  Thus the conversation continued for some time, until the widow was summoned by
                     the negro Jim to another room, where a gentleman wished to see her. I was glad
                     of the opportunity of talking with the dressmaker alone. I admired the skill
                     and taste she manifested in her business, but there were some things about her
                     which I did not like, and yet I could scarcely tell why, I told her I came to
                     the city for the purpose of learning the art of dressmaking.
                  'Yes, my dear, so I understand from the widow Topway; but I'm thinking all the
                     dresses you will ever make will not amount to a tithe of those you will wear
                     out,' she replied, assuming a sly look, and laughing. 'I reckon Mrs. Cunard
                     will hardly understand making dresses'
                  'I know no such lady as Mrs. Cunard,' I replied.
                  'Perhaps not just now, but I'm thinking you will make her acquaintance in a few
                     weeks,' she added. 'Your'e a very fortunate young lady, indeed. But few girls
                     have brighter prospects before them than you have. The Cunards are very wealthy
                     and move in the highest circle. There is French blood in that family.'
                  She ran on, and her tongue seemed to be hung in the middle, while her long
                     slender fingers were busily engaged on the dress.—Her motions were quick, and
                     the work proceeded fast under her management. I offered to assist in sewing,
                     but she assured me Mr Cunard would not
                     be pleased if I sewed a stitch on the dress. 'Boston people,' she said, were
                     full of notions, and some of them were very proud notions, too. Hearing so many
                     favorable reports about the Cunards, I concluded not to write to Captain
                     Dunmore at present, but would wait a short time; I found time, however, during
                     the day to write to my mother, and gave her a brief history of my voyage to the
                     city.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  
                     The appearance of the strange girl. Her ominous words, and their effect upon
                        the heroine. The widow's discourse upon love. The interview. Its results,
                        &c.
                  
                  WHILE I was engaged in writing a letter to my mother, and the widow was busily
                     talking with the dressmaker, that strange girl, Josephine, softly opened my
                     room door, and looked in.
                  'Come in,' I said, glad to see her. She shook her head.
                  'Writing to your mother,' she said, in a low voice.
                  'I am,' was my reply. 'Come in a few minutes.'
                  'No, no,' she replied. 'Tell your mother that you have thus far taken care of
                     yourself, and that you intend to do so.'
                  I assured her I would do so, and again urged her to come in, but she
                     refused.
                  'Can you keep a secret?' she anxiously inquired.
                  'Indeed I can,' I replied, feeling very desirous of hearing what she had to
                     say.
                  'Be on your guard,' she said. 'The city is full of temptations. The widow
                     Topway—No, I will say nothing about her; but, remember, all is not gold that
                     glitters!'
                  Saying that, the girl closed the door, and stole softly away, leaving me to
                     reflect upon her strange actions. I had nearly closed my letter. If I had not,
                     I'm sure I could not have written it, I was so excited and bewildered by what
                     the girl said, and the manner of her saying it. She appeared to me to be my
                     guardian angel. It was evident that she intended to caution me against the arts
                     of the widow Topway; but why she did so was entirely beyond my comprehension.
                     The thought now for the first time occurred to me that she was suffering some
                     mental derangement. The more I reflected upon her strange conduct, the more
                     convinced I was that she was laboring under a species of insanity. I almost
                     settled down into that belief, and yet I feared I was mistaken. I longed to
                     converse with the widow about her, but dared not do it. The singular actions of
                     the girl, and her more singular remarks imposed a restraint upon me from which
                     I dared not break away. Her power over my mind seemed to increase every
                     hour.
                  The day broke away, and sometimes I was cheerful and sometimes sorrowful. I
                     gave the negro servant the letter I had written my mother, and he carried it to
                     the post office. In my letter I stated that I had arrived safely in the city
                     and found a good boarding place. I did not write that I had two lovers; but
                     that she must not be surprised, if my next letter informed her that I was the
                     happy wife of a rich husband. I left it so that she could consider it a joke or
                     not, just as she pleased, but presuming she would not take me in earnest.
                  The widow assisted in making my dress, but she would not suffer me to taker one
                     stitch in it for the same reason the dressmaker gave. They seemed to agree
                     perfectly, and to have an excellent understanding together. Just before
                     night-fall my dress was finished and I put it on. It was a perfect fit, and
                     made me look very genteel. It was the most beautiful dress I ever wore. By the
                     advice of the widow I kept it on, as I expected my lover in the evening. She
                     said he would expect me to wear it, and I did not wish to disappoint him. He
                     had given it to me, and I was disposed to please him by wearing it in his
                     presence. After tea the dressmaker took her leave, and the widow undertook to
                     give me some advice in regard to my conduct while I was with my lover.
                  'No doubt he will be here this evening,' she said. 'And you must be careful not
                     to displease him. You must remember that he is very ardently in love with you,
                     and should he desire to kiss you, be cautious not to resist him too much. The
                     customs here are quite different from the customs in the country.—In
                     fashionable life, kissing is quite common, and there is not so much reserve as
                     there is in the country.'
                  I told her what was wrong there would be wrong here, in my opinion.
                  'O, no,' she replied. 'Custom regulates all these affairs. You must expect your
                     lover to exhibit evidences of his strong attachment. It would seem very strange
                     to him to pass an evening with a girl he loved and whom he expected to marry,
                     and not be permitted to kiss her. Very modest and bashful young men in the
                     country might behave very differently; but I assure you that you must not
                     expect such reserve here. I tell you this for your good. Depend upon it your
                     lover will do nothing but what the customs of the high circles in which he
                     moves will justify.'
                  'Your advice and my mother's do not agree at all,' I said, remembering well the
                     lessons she gave me the evening before I left home.
                  'Very likely it is so,' she answered.—'Your mother lives back in the country,
                     and I reside in this great city. That fact alone is enough to account for the
                     difference in our opinions. You know or ought to know that I would not advise
                     you to do any thing wrong any more than your good mother would. O, no, heaven
                     forbid! But I feel an interest in your welfare, and desire to see you the happy
                     wife of the rich, and good-hearted Cunard. I know he loves you very deeply and
                     ardently, and I also know him to be one of the most excellent young men in the
                     city. He has mingled in the society of thousands of beautiful and accomplished
                     young ladies; but you are the first one that ever made a conquest of his heart,
                     and I would not now have him disappointed for worlds. I think I have never seen
                     a young man so deeply in love as he is. His is the most remarkable instance of
                     love at first sight. I have often heard of that, but I think I have never seen
                     such a remarkable case of it as he has exhibited. I have heard him ridicule the
                     idea of love at first sight; but being always a believer in the doctrine, I
                     told him he would have different opinions one of these days. And now he frankly
                     confessed that I was right. He says the first time his eyes fell upon your face
                     in the stage coach, he felt differently from what he ever did before when
                     gazing upon the female countenance. There was something in the expression of
                     your features that struck a chord in his heart that was never touched before.
                     He felt it like a shock of electricity, and the more he gazed upon you the more
                     strong did that feeling become, until he was absolutely convinced that love had
                     made him its victim. He said he thought of me at the time and of what I had
                     often told him. Have you not, my dear, heard that matches were made in
                     Heaven?'
                  'I have heard mother say so a good many times,' I replied.
                  'No doubt of it, and yet how little people seem to think of it,' she said. 'Now
                     love, in my estimation, is a very solemn thing.—What is it? That is an
                     important question. Where does it come from? That is another important question. Ah, my dear, love emanates
                     from Heaven, and we must treat it as a very sacred thing.'
                  'But suppose I cannot love him?' I said.
                  'Not love him!' she repeated, smiling.—I 'Depend upon it, Heaven has never made
                     a Jack without a Jill. A spark from Heaven would never have touched his heart,
                     unless it had been designed to kindle a flame in yours also. No, no, my dear
                     Louise, Heaven never makes such mistakes! You will love him, and warmly
                     too.'
                  Thus she conversed for a long time, and fairly bewildered my mind. I went to my
                     chamber, and on my way met Josephine.—She nervously grasped my hand, and I was
                     almost afraid of her. It was twilight, and the hall lamps had not been
                     lighted.
                  'A beautiful new dress,' she said, running her hand over my sleeve, and looking
                     me full in the face. 'A good fit on a fine form; but take care of yourself, and
                     not hear a baby cry that has no one it can call father!'
                  Before I had time to reply she had glided from my sight. I stood upon the floor
                     as motionless as a statue. An indescribable feeling came over my soul, and it
                     seemed as if I was fixed to the spot, and almost immovably fixed. Never did
                     words uttered by mortal lips produce such an effect upon me as those few words
                     did. The last thought I indulged about this girl was that she was crazy, and
                     now I began to think she was not mortal, but a spirit who appeared to me in
                     human form, for the express purpose of warning me of the dangers that beset my
                     path. I stood some minutes before I could move from the spot where she left me
                     and glided so swiftly away. It was some time before I could gather my scattered
                     thoughts and command my feelings.
                  The twilight, the grasp of her hand, and the peculiar tones of her voice, the
                     words she uttered; all seemed to overpower me and paralyze all my physical
                     strength. How ever, at last I rallied my powers, and entered my room. Had my
                     lover then appeared he would have found me in a sad condition. 'Hear a baby cry
                     that has no one it can call father!' These words kept ringing in my ears, and
                     stirring the very depths of my soul.
                  A few minutes after, a gentle rapping was heard on my door, and I trembled lest
                     that girl might come in and again appear to me, but my fears were groundless,
                     for the negro servant appeared with a lamp.
                  'Missus told me to bring up de big lamp. as you would want it dis evening,' he
                     said, grinning, and looking very sly.
                  I thanked him, and was glad to hear a voice that sounded as if it came from a
                     mortal.
                  'I put your letter in de post office, and he will go to-morrow morning,' he
                     said.
                  'I'm very much obliged to you,' I said, while he placed the lamp on a small
                     centre table.
                  'Dare, dat will give a bright light so the gem'an can see de new dress,' he
                     added, laughing, in true negro style.
                  'How do you like it?' I asked, smiling, and beginning to feel as if I was
                     really upon the earth once more among flesh and blood.
                  'Fus rate,' he replied. 'It make you look beautiful. Dat French woman knows how
                     to fit a handsome form.'
                  'I think she understands her business,' I added. 'By the way, what young lady
                     was that I saw when I was coming to my room?'
                  'There be several young ladies in de house, and I couldn't say what one of 'em
                     you might see,' he replied, smiling.
                  'You are right,' I said. 'But I think I heard some one call her Josephine.'
                  'Ah, yes Josephine,' he repeated. 'There be one Josephine under dis roof. She
                     came here to board, a few weeks ago, and I do not know much about her.'
                  'Nor I, for I have only had a glimpse of her,' I answered, not wishing him to
                     think that I ever heard her speak.
                  'Can you keep a secret?' he asked in a low voice; putting his fore-finger upon
                     his thick lips, as a token of secresy.
                  I assured him any thing he might say would be safe with me.
                  'Dat young lady has a baby, but no husband,' he whispered, placing his lips
                     quite near my ear, as if he might be overheard.
                  'Mum is de word,' he continued. 'A gem'an pays her board, and sometimes comes
                     to visit her. They may be married one of dese days, but I guesses not. Mum is
                     de word.'
                  'Is the child here?' I asked, feeling anxious to hear more about this girl.
                  'O, yes, in de third story back room,' he replied. 'It's a beauty of a baby;
                     but mum is de word.'
                  I told him his secret was perfectly safe in my keeping, but I could get no more
                     from him, and he left the room. I now began to see more light, and could
                     understand why that girl gave me such admonitions. My feelings were such that I
                     hoped my lover would not make his appearance that evening, but was destined to
                     disappointment, for he came in a short time after Jim brought up the lamps. He
                     appeared exceedingly glad to see me, and complimented my new dress very
                     highly.
                  But for what Josephine and the negro had said, I might have received my lover
                     more cordially than I did. The widow had prepared my mind to treat Carolus
                     leniently, but what I had heard since completely destroyed all the influence of
                     the widow's eloquent appeal and forcible reasoning. I was in no mood to receive
                     a lover, and desired more than ever to have an interview with Captain Dunmore.
                     It seemed strange how that man's image haunted my imagination.—When my mind was
                     troubled and my spirit disquieted, my thoughts were on him, out at other times
                     he was not so much present in my heart. I now felt as if I wished I could see
                     him and hear his advice. I determined I would not let another day pass without
                     writing to him. Such was the state of my feelings when my lover entered my
                     chamber. No doubt the widow had related to him the conversation she had with
                     me, and greatly encouraged him, at least, I judged so from his actions.
                  'That French dressmaker has fitted your form admirably,' said my lover, placing
                     his hand upon my shoulder, and gazing fondly into my face.
                  I made no reply, but desired him to remove his hand from my shoulder, making
                     some motions to that effect which he partially understood.
                  'I have never seen you look so beautiful,' he continued, dropping his hand and
                     encircling my waist with his arm.
                  I felt a sudden impulse which I could not resist, however rude and unlady-like
                     it might appear to him, and instantly sprang away from him with a bound that
                     placed me quite beyond his reach. I saw by the expression of his countenance
                     that he felt some anger as well as love, but I felt as though I had done my
                     duty, and nothing more.
                  He sat in silence a few moments, then rose and addressed me.
                  'I confess you have treated me more rudely than I had reason to expect,' he
                     said. 'I have yet to learn that putting an arm round a lady's waist is a
                     crime.'
                  'I hope you will excuse me,' I replied. 'I'm young and a stranger to the
                     customs of city life. I may have done wrong, but have only obeyed my mother's
                     instructions, and surely that cannot
                     be very far from right.—It is the duty of a daughter to obey her mother; Heaven
                     knows I have no wish to treat you ill. You have, indeed, been very kind to me;
                     but I cannot disobey the earnest instructions of my good mother which she urged
                     upon me the night previous to my starting for this city. You certainly will
                     excuse me on that account, if for no other.'
                  'If your mother were here she would advise you differently,' he replied.
                  'It might be so,' I added. 'But in her absence I must do as she bade me.'
                  'It seems to me you have but a sorry notion of the power of love,' he said. 'I
                     always thought love sought to be near its object, and not to be kept at such a
                     distance as you deem proper. Such love as that I profess to know nothing about.
                     O, my dear Louise, your conduct grieves me to the heart! I did fondly hope that
                     I had found a girl with whom I could enjoy life and all its charms; but you
                     have struck a severe blow upon me, and almost blasted my hopes forever. O, if
                     you could form any conception of the depth of my love, it seems to me that you
                     would not thus suddenly spring from my embrace, and leave me in this unhappy
                     and awkward position.'
                  'I have no desire to make you unhappy,' I replied. 'But I cannot do that which
                     my conscience tells me is wrong.
                  'But do you not reciprocate my affection?' he anxiously inquired.
                  'I have not yet known you long enough to love,' I replied. 'I cannot say what
                     my feelings and emotions may be; but I cannot say that I really love you as you
                     profess to love me. You asked me a civil question, and I have answered you
                     honestly and sincerely.'
                  'O, God!' he exclaimed. 'I wish I had never been born into this world of
                     temptation and sorrow!'
                  He really appeared to be mach affected, and I pitied him; but some how or
                     other, I was suspicious that he did not feel so much as he pretended to feel.
                     It seemed to me like what I had heard of acting in the theatres, and,
                     consequently, did not feel so much sympathy as I might have felt under other
                     circumstances. The truth is, neither my mind nor spirit were prepared to
                     receive a lover. He did not remain long after he became convinced that I would
                     not suffer him to snatch even a kiss, which he seemed so anxious to obtain.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  
                     The human heart is a book, but not yet fully understood. Thoughts of native
                        home.—The letter. More of the strange girl.—The course of love not smooth.
                        Troubles thicken, &c.
                  
                  I TOOK off my new dress, and O, how anxiously I wished it had never been
                     purchased or made! I threw myself upon the bed and wept like a child. My
                     reflections were bitter, and my spirit was troubled. I began to learn something
                     of my own heart, the more I saw of this young man the less I liked him. So far
                     as he was concerned my hopes of a splendid marriage was dashed to the ground,
                     and my thoughts run upon Capt. Dunmore. I thought if I could see him, he would
                     support me under my present trials and afflictions. I wondered he had not
                     called to see me, for he knew where I boarded.—But why should I wonder? Did I
                     not promise to write to him? I finally concluded that the reason he did not
                     call was because I had not fulfilled my promise to write. He supposed I did not
                     wish to see him. How that thought wrung my heart! I made a solemn promise to
                     myself, that another sun should not set before I wrote him. I tried to compose
                     myself to sleep, but not only the image of Josephine Melville haunted my
                     imagination, but her singular words rung in my ears. Did Carolus Cunard wish to
                     place me in a condition similar to that in which she had been placed by some
                     false-hearted man? The question almost froze the blood in my veins! Could he be
                     such a cruel, false-hearted man? I was reluctant to believe it, and yet strange
                     impressions had fastened themselves upon my soul! It was long past midnight
                     before I even slumbered, and when I did, my spirit was so troubled that I kept
                     waking every half hour. My night was, indeed, a restless one, if not absolutely
                     a sleepless one.
                  The sun rose bright and clear, and I arose with it. O, how I wished I was at
                     home in my mother's house, or walking among the few flowers which my own hands
                     had planted in our little garden! It was my first wish for home since I left
                     it. But the thought of Captain Dunmore somewhat reconciled me, and kept alive
                     those ambitious hopes which I had so long indulged. Soon as I had dressed
                     myself, I sat down and wrote Capt. Dunmore the following brief note:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 Dear Sir: Pardon me for not writing you sooner; I
                                 intended to do so, but circumstances prevented. I hope you will
                                 call as soon as you receive this, unless you have entirely
                                 forgotten me. But O, sir, that thought distresses me and I will
                                 dismiss it from my mind! You have too much kindness to forget me so
                                 soon! at least, I indulge that flattering hope. I frankly confess
                                 and wish to leave this house, and need your council and advice
                                 under present circumstances. Do call soon and relieve me from the
                                 weight that now presses so heavily upon my heart.
                              
                                 Louise Martin
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  After writing the letter I thrust it into my bosom, intending to give it to the
                     negro servant to be carried to the post office immediately after breakfast. I
                     left my room and walked into the hall, where I saw Josephine just as she had
                     placed her foot upon the first step to ascend the stairs, and beckoned to her,
                     and she stopped. She looked anxious and even sorrowful.
                  'Be quick,' she said, in a low voice.
                  I hurried towards her, and asked if I could trust the negro servant with a
                     letter; for I had suspicious that he might show it to the widow Topway.
                  'No, no,' she replied. 'Every letter will be opened that you give to that
                     cunning negro. He and his mistress have a perfect understanding together. Give
                     me the letter, and I will put it into the post office for you.'
                  I gave her the letter. She looked at the superscription, and said; 'I'm glad
                     you have one man's acquaintance in the city besides that young Cunard.'
                  She said no more, but hurried up stairs—I now felt as if this strange girl was
                     the only friend I had in the house. I thanked heaven that I had not given the
                     letter to the negro servant; for I was certain it would have been opened, read,
                     and perhaps never put into the post office.
                  What a change had come over my feelings in a few hours! I was soon called to
                     break fast, and found the widow full of smiles, and agreeable as ever. She
                     treated me as kindly and even more so than she had previously. And I asked
                     myself the question, seriously, if she could be bad enough to open and read my
                     letter? When looking at her fair, round, and even jolly face, and hearing her
                     pleasant words, I feared that I had done her great injustice by harboring a
                     suspicion of her honesty, and that Josephine Melville might have made unjust
                     insinuations against her.
                  'I hope you and your lover passed an agreeable evening,' she said, looking me
                     full in the face, as if she would read my inmost thoughts. 'O, my dear, he is a
                     most excellent cellent young man. I
                     know hundreds of young ladies belonging to the first families in the city who
                     would bless their stars if they could have him for a husband. You are, indeed,
                     a fortunate girl, and I rejoice at your good fortune.'
                  I could make no reply, for I knew not what to say, and remained silent.
                  'Why, my dear, you have not your new dress on,' she continued, apparently much
                     surprised. 'It is intended for an every day dress, and you will soon have some
                     much more costly and splendid. You must wear it.'
                  'I did not care about wearing it this morning,' was my reply. 'I feel better in
                     one of my old ones.'
                  'I suppose it feels rather close, but you will soon get used to it, and like
                     it,' she said. 'It makes your form look so genteel that I can't bear to see you
                     wear any other.'
                  'I must not attempt to become a city lady too soon,' I replied. 'I am a poor
                     country girl, and must govern myself accordingly.'
                  A poor country girl!' repeated the negro servant, laughing, in his peculiar
                     manner.—'A poor country girl! But young missus will soon be at de top ob de
                     ladder ob fashion! dat's a fact, and I knows it.'
                  'O, I don't feel much like becoming a fashionable lady,' I answered. 'I must
                     not forget my poor mother, and the humble cottage in which I was born.'
                  'You need not forget those even after good fortune has raised you to the higher
                     walks of life,' added the widow. 'How pleasant it would be to visit your mother
                     in her humble home accompanied by a devoted and rich husband! How she would
                     rejoice to see you under such circumstances! I know what a mother's feelings
                     are, for I had a daughter myself, but death took her away just as she was
                     coming into full bloom! Ah, that was a sad blow upon my heart! But think you I
                     should not have been pleased to see her wedded to such a young man as Carolus
                     Cunard, if she had lived?'
                  'I suppose you would, as you so highly esteem him,' I replied.
                  'And, my dear, don't you highly esteem him?' she asked.
                  'I have but a slight acquaintance with him,' I replied.
                  'But young missus will hab a better acquaintance wid him one ob dese days, I
                     reckons,' said Jim, grinning, and showing his ivory.
                  'O, yes, no doubt of that, and then you will not only esteem him as I do, but
                     love him deeply and sincerely,' added the widow, smiling.
                  I was convinced that Josephine had stated one truth when she said the widow and
                     the negro had a perfect understanding with each other. I finished my breakfast
                     and retired to my room to reflect upon the circumstances in which I was placed.
                     Occasionally I walked into the hall to see if I could meet that girl again. O,
                     I longed to have an undisturbed interview with her, and hear the story of her
                     life! But, alas! I feared I should not be able to enjoy that privilege.—After
                     going into the hall several times, at last I saw her coming down stairs with
                     her bonnet and shawl on; I hastened towards her, but she motioned me back, and
                     pointed her finger below, as much as to say, 'it would not be safe for us to
                     converse together.' She hurried down, the front door was opened, and she glided
                     into the street. I now believed my letter would be safely deposited in the post
                     office, and so far was happy.
                  Strange as this girl appeared, and fallen from virtue, as I had reason to
                     believe she had; yet I had confidence in her, and fully believed she was my
                     friend. I had more confidence in her than in any other person in the city,
                     saving, perhaps, Captain Dunmore.
                  The day passed and evening came, when I expected to receive another visit from
                     my lover. I had hoped that Captain Dunmore had received my letter and would
                     have called during the day; but I was disappointed.—He came not, neither had I
                     seen Josephine since morning. Whether she had returned or not, I could not
                     tell. I often listened through the day to see if I could hear the cry of a
                     child under that roof, but no such music fell upon my ears. I begun to
                     entertain fearful apprehensions that she had abandoned the house, and on that
                     account I felt unusually sorrowful. To know that she was still in the house
                     would have given me comfort and support; but I knew not where she was.
                  Twilight came, and in its faint shadows I stood before the hall was lighted,
                     hoping that I might catch a glimpse of Josephine who now appeared really to be
                     my guardian angel, I heard light 
                        foosteps
                        footsteps
                     , and she softly approached me. Grasping the sleeve of my dress with a
                     trembling hand, she said, 'Your letter is safely deposited in the post
                     office.—Take care of yourself. You understand.' And she glided away from my
                     sight before I had time to make a reply or ask her a single question, which I
                     should have been glad to do. I was rejoiced to know that she was in the house.
                     In that knowledge there was consolation and comfort to my troubled soul.
                  I entered my room, and soon the negro servant appeared with the big lamp which
                     was to reveal my charms once more to my lover. O, how much I dreaded to see
                     that lamp! I had given him up, and his presence I dreaded. What a change in my
                     feelings a few short hours had made! I desired not to see him, but if he did
                     come, I was resolved to obey the voice of my guardian angel.—Upon that subject
                     my mind was fully made up
                  To please the widow I had on my new dress. The room was brilliantly lighted,
                     and I threw myself into a chair, and thought of home, and all its endearments,
                     poor and humble as it was. I had not sat long before my lover entered the room,
                     full of smiles, and appeared to be glad to see me. My conduct was rather more
                     cold than usual.—He took a seat by my side, and began to pour into my ear his
                     flattering tales; but they had lost all their charms. I was deaf to the voice
                     of love, so far as he was concerned, I now hated more than I loved him. A great
                     change had come over me, and he noticed it. He threw his arm around my waist;
                     but I flung him off with more muscular strength than he supposed I
                     possessed.—He was angry, and threw out some threats, but soon recalled them,
                     and endeavored to apologize, saying I must attribute all his apparent rudeness
                     to the warm love he felt for me. I made no reply, but removed my chair, and sat
                     in silence.
                  Again he attempted to embrace me, while many horrid words were on his lips; but
                     I resisted all his attempts, with a strong arm and a determined heart. An
                     unseen power seemed to aid me and give me strength for the occasion. He tarried
                     a long time, and used all the blandishments within his power; but without
                     success. At last he took his leave, apparently disheartened.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  
                     Another change in the aspect of things.—Strange 
                           condnct
                           conduct
                         at midnight. A man arrives with a letter Much excitement and some
                        lying. The removal of the heroine.
                  
                  ANOTHER bright and beautiful morning broke upon the city, but it seemed to have
                     no charms for me. I was summoned to breakfast; but there was a slight shadow
                        on the countenance of the widow
                     that convinced me she had been told all which occurred at my interview with
                     Cunard last evening.—Her face was not so full of smiles as usual, and every
                     moment I expected to hear something in the shape of a lecture. During the night
                     I heard the voices of men, and the giggling of females. And I cautiously opened
                     my door and heard in the hall, voices. It was past midnight. And O, how can I
                     describe my emotions when I heard a female voice utter an oath and in the same
                     breath laugh. I also smelt the smoke of a cigar. The lamp burned dimly so that
                     I could not distinguish a person across the hall.
                  'Come, call for a bottle of Champaign,' said the female voice. 'I'm d—d
                     thirsty.'
                  'Your'e drunk enough now,' replied a male voice.
                  A sickness came over my soul, I gently closed the door, and got into bed
                     again.—Light began to break upon my mind, and I feared I was in a bad house. I
                     tried to sleep, but in vain. I was glad when the day dawned; for I believed I
                     should see Captain Dunmore before the setting of the sun.
                  'I fear you did not rest well last night,' said the widow. 'You do not look
                     quite so bright as usual.'
                  'I did not sleep very well,' I replied. 'I heard voices in the night which
                     somewhat disturbed me. I hope all is right, but I must say I entertain some
                     suspicions that greatly trouble me.'
                  'Suspicions of what?' she asked in a tone of authority which she had never used
                     before.
                  'That you have bad characters in your house,' I quickly replied. 'I heard
                     swearing, and by a female, too.'
                  'O, yes, I know,' she said. 'I have a gentleman and his wife as boarders, whom
                     I must send away. The wife drinks whenever she can get it. I pity her husband,
                     for he appears to be a very good sort of a man. I presume you heard them, for
                     the wife made some disturbance last evening.'
                  'O, yes, I heard 'em, too,' said Jim. 'She lubs liquor as she does her own
                     eyes. It is a tousand pities, for she would be a good woman, but for
                     drink.'
                  I made no reply; but did not fully believe what either of them said. My
                     suspicions were aroused, and every thing appeared in a different light. The
                     widow took notice that I was much disquieted, and governed herself accordingly.
                     She was exceedingly shrewd; but a jealous mind is not easily quieted. The negro
                     servant now left the room, and I thought he did so because the widow gave him a
                     sign. Of that, however, I was not sure.
                  'I hope you will not let such things disturb you,' she said. 'I must send away
                     that gentleman and his wife.'
                  'May there not be others whom you ought to send away?' I asked, feeling more
                     courage and resolution than I had ever before in her presence.
                  A dark frown clouded her brow for a few moments, but she soon changed it to a
                     smile, and said: 'Really, my dear, your mind seems to be filled with strange
                     notions this morning. You must remember that we have to come in contact with
                     all sorts of people in the city. It is very different from what it is in the
                     country. And the boarding house keepers have a good many difficulties to
                     contend with, more, it seems to me, than any body else. We are very often
                     compelled to take boarders without being able to ascertain their true
                     characters.'
                  'I remarked, that I supposed there might be a good deal of trouble in such
                     business; and asked her if women did not sometimes keep bad houses.'
                  'I blush for our sex, when I give you an answer in the affirmative,' she
                     replied. 'I'm sorry to say it; but there are bad women in the city as well as
                     bad men. But you need not be alarmed. I keep a respectable house, and turn away
                     every one who does not prove to possess a good character.'
                  'I am glad to hear it; but I feel as if I must seek some other boarding house,'
                     I said. 'I do not feel at home here.'
                  'O, my dear, I expect you will change your residence ere many weeks shall have
                     passed, and remove to a fine house with your husband.'
                  'I have not the most distant idea of marrying Mr. Cunard,' I replied.
                  'Never was I more astonished in my life!' she exclaimed, raising her hands, and
                     gazing upon me. 'Not marry him! Why, my dear, you must be decidedly crazy! Not
                     marry him! I never heard any thing so strange!'
                  'Would you wed a man you didn't love?' I asked.
                  'You can't help loving such a good, smart, rich fellow,' she replied. 'Yes,
                     yes, you will love him; he is devoted to you. I know you will love him.'
                  I assured her I saw not the least prospect of it, adding that the more I saw
                     him the less I liked him.
                  'I have known young ladies to feel and talk just as you do who have married the
                     men they once thought they almost hated, and loved them most ardently. Love
                     frequently works in that way. It is a very peculiar passion of our nature. Why,
                     my dear, I can speak from actual experience.—When I was courted by him who
                     afterwards became my husband I thought I could never love him in the world. For
                     months he grew less and less in my esteem; but all at once my heart changed and
                     I loved him most sincerely. And a happier couple never lived on earth. I shall
                     never forget those days?'
                  'I shouldn't suppose you would,' I replied. 'But I don't feel as if I desired
                     to cultivate any further acquaintance with Cunard, and I wish you would tell
                     him so the first time you see him.'
                  'O, no, I can never tell him of that, for it would fall with terrible weight
                     upon his heart,' she replied. 'I esteem him highly, and he has been such a good
                     friend to me that I cannot consent to be the bearer of such heart-rending news
                     to him. And O, let me entreat you, my dear girl, to reflect seriously before
                     you make such a declaration to him. Be patient, and heaven will order every
                     thing for the best.'
                  She said no more, and I left the table, hoping that heaven would so order
                     events, that Captain Dunmore might come that very day. It seemed to me the
                     longer I was absent from him the stronger were my desires to see him. And I
                     wondered within myself whether I really loved him or not. I began to think I
                     did love him, and could not be happy without his society. My heart was excited
                     by strange emotions, such as I had never felt before. I thought of the young
                     blacksmith, and of the promise I made him to write. I knew he loved me, and I
                     should have been glad to see him. I concluded I would write as soon as I
                     removed to another boarding place, which I was resolved to do whether I ever
                     saw Captain Dunmore again, or not. But I felt an instinctive impression that he
                     would call upon me, and take me from that house.
                  Having ascended the stairs on the way to my room, I saw my guardian angel at
                     the farther end of the hall, looking through a window into the street. She
                     heard me coming, and turned away from the window. We met about midway of the
                     hall. Her eyes were wet with weeping, and her bosom heaved with violent
                     emotions. Her countenance had a wild look, and my blood ran cold in my veins, for she really seemed like a
                     crazy person.
                  'O, God!' she said, as she grasped my hand. 'Our troubles are somewhat alike,
                     only you have not yet fallen. We both expect men to see us. Your friend will
                     come, but I fear I never shall see mine again!—Two weeks have now passed, and
                     he has not come! When he saw me last, he said he should be absent from the city
                     one week only, and then he would call! But I must say no more!'
                  And she glided away before I could say a word in reply. Ah! now all was plain
                     to me. She had been seduced, and was forsaken by her false-hearted lover, at
                     least, such were my conjectures. I entered my chamber, and gave myself up to
                     the most bitter reflections. I almost forgot my own condition and circumstances
                     in my reflections upon this girl's situation. She looked wild, and fearfully
                     desperate. I had not been long in my room, before I heard the door-bell ring. I
                     hastened to the head of the stairs, and stood and listened. From my position I
                     could hear what might be said, The negro went to the door, and a gentleman
                     entered, I trembled with anxiety; for I hoped I should soon hear the voice of
                     Capt. Dunmore.
                  'I have a letter for Miss Martin, who boards here,' said the man.
                  'No sich lady lib here,' replied the lying servant. 'You must I tink hab
                     mistaken de house.'
                  'No, this is the house, for the number is upon the letter,' the man
                     replied.
                  'Ah, she did board here, but she went away todder day, to some house in anodder
                     street. It appears to me it was Hanover Street,' said Jim.
                  'Where's the mistress?' asked the man.
                  At that moment the widow came along, and I was on the point of rushing down,
                     but thought I would listen a moment and hear if she would also lie.
                  'Who did you inquire or, sir? asked the widow.
                  'A girl by the name of Louise Martin, replied the man.
                  'She was here, but she went away yesterday, I think,' said the widow.
                  'I believe it was yesterday now I tink of it more,' said the deceitful
                     servant.
                  'I believe you both utter falsehoods,' said the man.
                  'No white man shall accuse me of dat wid impunity,' said the negro, stepping
                     towards the man, and brandishing his brawny fists.
                  The gentleman pulled a revolver from his pocket, and presented it to Jim s
                     breast, saying, 'you are a dead nigger if you approach another step.' Jim stood
                     in his tracks, and I rushed down stairs.
                  'My name is Louise Martin,' exclaimed, running towards the man, who gave me the
                     letter, which I hurriedly opened. The man then opened the door, and two other
                     men stepped in whose presence together with the revolver, aforesaid, made the
                     burly negro quiet as a lamb, and the widow hung her head. The letter was from
                     Captain Dunmore, requesting me to accompany the bearer to a house prepared for
                     me. It was most joyful news to me.
                  'I will go immediately,' I said. 'A few minutes will serve me to pack my
                     trunk.'
                  'I trust you will not depart until you have paid your board bill,' said the
                     widow.
                  'How much is it?' I asked, taking the rings from my fingers which young Cunard
                     had placed upon them, and presenting them to her. Here take these, and I thank
                     heaven they are not the price of my shame.
                  'Your bill is ten dollars,' said the widow receiving the rings, and looking
                     cross.
                  I was amazed at such a price for two or three day's board, and the man who
                     brought the letter saw my astonishment and said. 'The young woman shall not pay
                     that outrageous bill.'
                  'How do you know, sir, the bill is outrageous?' asked the widow.
                  'Keep quiet, and say nothing about the bill, or you may find quarters in a
                     street not far distant,' said the man.
                  The words had the effect the man intended; for the widow hung her head, and
                     made no reply. She feared the prison, and knowing her conduct rendered her
                     liable to such a punishment. The negro had retreated back several steps, for he
                     seemed to have great fear of the revolver which the man still held in his
                     hand.
                  'I'm willing to pay a reasonable price for my board,' I said.
                  'Not a cent,' added the man. 'Let the young rascal pay it who conducted you
                     here.'
                  The widow was silent, and I hastened up stairs to pack my trunk. Soon as I
                     reached the hall, I saw Josephine who had been listening. She seized my hand
                     and said, 'God bless you! A lucky day for you?—Write me, and direct your letter
                     to Elizabeth Moore, for that is my real name.'
                  Slipping a piece of paper into my hand on which was written her real name in
                     pencil, she run up stairs and I saw her no more.—My trunk was soon ready, and
                     one of the men brought it down. My new dress I had left in the chamber, for
                     that I would not take for worlds. I hated the sight of it, and yet it was very 
                        beautful
                        beautiful
                     .
                  You can give that new dress to him who paid for it,' I said to the widow; 'It
                     is in the chamber where you will find it, and I thank heaven I am never to wear
                     it again.'
                  'But where is the gold watch and chain,' she said.
                  In my excitement I had entirely forgotten that, and told her it was upon the
                     bureau, for I had not worn them that day.
                  'Where they a present to pay?' asked the man.
                  'The young man gave them to me; but I don't want them,' I replied.
                  'You must take them, or the widow will keep them and say you ran away with
                     them, he replied.
                  'I had rather not,' I said. 'I don't want such presents.'
                  The negro now hastened up stairs, closely followed by the man with the
                     revolver. The servant intended to secure the watch and chain for his
                     mistress.
                  'Stop, you black rascal, or I'll put a bullet through your wooly head,' said
                     the man.—'I shall take these articles myself, and give them to the owner.'
                  Jim stopped as suddenly as if he had run against the wall of the house, and the
                     man soon brought down the articles, and urged them upon me; but I refused to
                     take them.
                  'Keep them and return them to the young villain who gave them to you,' he
                     said.
                  I reluctantly took them, fully resolved to give them back, if I ever had the
                     opportunity to do so. A carriage stood in the street waiting to take me to my
                     new boarding house. I entered it accompanied by the man who brought me the
                     letter. He was a stout, burly looking man, with black whiskers almost covering
                     the lower part of his face. He wore a snuff brown-colored coat, bright buttons,
                     and fancy vest and pants. He smelt strong of rum, and I did not fancy him much,
                     yet he treated me very kindly, and even politely.
                  'Captain Dunmore will be delighted to see you he said.'
                  'Why didn't he come himself?' I asked, wondering why he did not.
                  'He did not wish to be seen going to such a house as that widow keeps, and so
                     hired me,' he answered. 'I will conduct you safely to a nice place, where you
                     can live in peace and quietness. You
                     are very fortunate in finding such a friend as the Captain.—He is a glorious
                     fellow, and has money enough.'
                  'Glorious fellow!' I repeated to myself.—I thought that was a singular phrase
                     to be applied to such a man as I considered the Captain, but I said
                     nothing.
                  'The Captain has provided an excellent place for you; but I suppose he will
                     give you a better one in the course of a few weeks,' he continued. 'I didn't
                     once think he would ever be married; but I don't blame him now I have seen your
                     face.'
                  'I believe this city is full of flatterers,' I remarked.
                  'You must not reckon me in that category,' he replied smiling. 'I spoke but my
                     honest sentiments. I should be somewhat inclined to marriage myself, if the
                     State of Maine would send up another such a girl as you are.'
                  'There, that will do,' I replied. 'I should suppose that you are a married man.
                     It is very strange, it you are not, when there are so many beautiful ladies in
                     the city.'
                  'There are many ladies in the city, but few beautiful ones compared with the
                     whole number,' he replied. 'I always knew Capt. Dunmore had an eye for beauty,
                     and now I have before me additional proof.'
                  'Don't lay it on so thick,' I said, feeling really sick of hearing such fulsome
                     compliments. 'I'm not so easily flattered as you may imagine. It is enough to
                     say I look better than some and not so well as others.'
                  'I beg your pardon, young woman, but that is not enough to say, for the truth
                     requires more,' he said. 'However, let that pass. 'You have brought your beauty
                     to a glorious market. Capt. Dunmore will make the kindest husband woman ever
                     had, and he has got the money, too.'
                  I made no reply. The carriage was driven along, and it seemed to me that we
                     were going a great distance, and turning many corners. The streets seemed very
                     crooked. At last we stopped in front of a house in Lincoln Street. The man
                     assisted me to alight, and conducted me to the door, up a flight of steps.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  
                     The new home. The contrast. A singular housekeeper. The effects of physical
                        deformities. Another phase of human nature. The progress of events,
                        &c.
                  
                  AN elderly woman came to the door. Her age might have been fifty, and possibly
                     more. Her face was quite thin, her skin somewhat wrinkled, and her gray eyes,
                     sharp and piercing. Her form was far from being pleasing or symmetrical; for
                     she was somewhat humpbacked, and quite low of stature. She was nearly a head
                     shorter than women in general. Yet her motions were quick and her countenance
                     expressive of much energy and perseverance. She wore a neat cap upon her head
                     and spectacles upon her nose, which was rather thin and sharp. At the first
                     sight of her I was not very favorably impressed. After opening the door, and
                     before she bid me walk in, she took a large pinch of snuff, which she seemed to
                     relish remarkably well.
                  'Is this the young lady Captain Dunmore wishes me to board?' she asked, peering
                     full into my face through her spectacles, and placing her face close to mine as
                     if she intended to see the particular color of my eyes and the texture of my
                     skin.
                  'This is the young lady,' replied the man. 'And don't you think she'll do?
                     Don't she come fully up to the description the Captain has given of her, even
                     enthusiastic as he was?'
                  'I reckon she does,' replied the woman, smiling, and taking another pinch of
                     snuff. 'Walk in, young woman, and the driver will bring in your trunk.'
                  I followed her into a hall, and then up a flight of stairs, expecting every
                     moment to meet my protector, Captain Dunmore, but he did not appear. This
                     short, bright, active woman conducted me into a small, neatly furnished room.
                     There was nothing gaudy or splendid about this snug apartment but every thing
                     wore the aspect of neatness and comfort. It seemed to be a very different order
                     of affairs from that I had just left. Here was nothing for show, but every
                     thing for comfort and convenience. My trunk was soon brought up, and deposited
                     in the room designed for my occupation. This apartment was small, and a neat
                     little bed, covered with a counterpane as white as snow, stood in one corner of
                     the room.—There were three cane-bottomed chairs, a small dressing-table under a
                     small gilt framed mirror, and a cherry-tree wood bureau on the opposite side.
                     The floor was carpetted, and all seemed nice and convenient, and contrasted
                     strangely with the spacious room I had been occupying. No gaudy curtains
                     adorned the bed or hung at the windows.—The apartments of the house reminded me
                     of mother's humble dwelling, and I felt comparatively happy. I regretted that
                     the woman was hunch-backed, and wished she had been made taller, but
                     nevertheless, she appeared exceedingly active and kind. When she conducted me
                     to the room I was to occupy, she told me her name was Beulah Tuttle, 'generally
                     called Aunt Tuttle,' she said, smiling, and taking a pinch of snuff.—'I'm
                     afraid you will think your room is too small; but I'm not able to have a large
                     one. We who live in the city are obliged to economize, rents and fuel come so
                     high.'
                  'I like the room exceedingly well,' I replied. 'I would not wish for a larger
                     one; and besides, every thing is neat and convenient. I have always been
                     accustomed to living in a small house.'
                  'Not recently,' said the woman, smiling, and taking another pinch of snuff.
                  'O, I thank heaven, that I have escaped from that boarding house!' I said.
                  'And you may thank Capt. Dunmore, too, added Aunt Tuttle.
                  'I do thank him,' was my reply, wishing to ask her if he would come there soon;
                     but, feeling too modest and bashful to make the inquiry.
                  'Ah, the Captain is a worthy man, and a generous one too,' she added. 'He has
                     always been a good friend to me. I once lived in his father's family, but that
                     was a good many years ago. His father has been dead several years; but he left
                     a large estate which the Captain now owns. His father followed the seas, and so
                     did the Captain, until he came into possession of so much property on the death
                     of his father.'
                  'It is very strange he has not married long ago,' I said; feeling a curiosity
                     to know more of his history.
                  'Well, I have always thought it strange that he lived single; but he says he
                     couldn't find a woman who suited every way,' she replied, winking her sharp,
                     gray eyes, and assuming an arch look. 'But I believe he has found one now.'
                  Aunt Tuttle took another pinch of snuff, looked me full in the face, and I
                     remained silent.
                  'I don't wonder he is not suited,' she continued, after a short pause. 'What
                     beautiful curls your hair makes, and how handsome your eyes are! I used to have
                     very long, fine hair; but the frosts of age are upon it now.'
                  'Time will have the same effect upon my locks,' I added, beginning to think it
                     was an universal custom in the city to flatter. I had never witnessed so much
                     of it in all my life as I had within a few days. Aunt Tuttle now left me, and I
                     arranged my things, wondering how long I should occupy that snug neat room, and
                     conjecturing what might be my fate. It is true, that Captain Dunmore more now seemed to be the greatest
                     friend I had on earth, except my mother, and, perhaps, I might add except
                     Stebbins, the young blacksmith, whose love for me I had reasons to believe was
                     deep and ardent. In all my excitements I could not wholly forget him; for he
                     was the first man who ever declared his love to me. Soon as I ascertained that
                     I had a permanent boarding place, I intended to write him according to my
                     promise.—After seriously reflecting upon my new situation, and my prospects for
                     the future, I repaired to the sitting room, where I found the industrious woman
                     doing up some caps and laces, which were very nice and expensive. She noticed
                     that I was examining her work very closely, and anticipated my feelings.
                  'These are not my things,' she said.—'I'm not able to wear such costly
                     articles.—I do them up for several ladie's who pay me well for it.'
                  They are very nice, and I perceive you know how to make them look still nicer,'
                     I replied.
                  'I ought to know how, for I have practiced long enough,' she added. 'I have
                     received a good deal of money for such work, and expect to receive a good deal
                     more before I die.'
                  'Where you never married?' I modestly inquired.
                  'Don't you see the deformity on my back?' she asked, while a cloud passed over
                     her face, and her eyes were expressive of indignant feelings.
                  'I see a small hunch, but that's nothing,' I replied
                  'Nothing, eh?' she repeated, gazing full into my face, and running her eyes
                     over my form. 'Suppose you had such an one on your back, think you that Captain
                     Dunmore would feel such a deep interest for you as he now feels? O, no, he
                     would have looked at you but once, and then turned his eyes away. Your handsome
                     face and bright hair could not have saved you in his estimation. And the world
                     is full of just such men.—Married, forsooth! O, no, never married.—No men, such
                     as I would have, would have me, and those who would have me, the devil wouldn't
                     have. Excuse me for being thus earnest. The hunch upon my back has soured my
                     mind, and gave me prejudices which I cannot always conquer. No matter how
                     handsome the face of a woman may be, no matter how bright her intellect, or
                     good her heart, if she has a physical deformity upon her back, or elsewhere, no
                     man fit for a husband will take her for a wife. And yet deformed men don't
                     hesitate to offer themselves as candidates for women's favors, and are often
                     received. You must excuse me, for my feelings are always embittered by such
                     reflections.'
                  'Then I would not indulge in them,' I said.
                  'We can't always govern our feelings she replied. 'My age ought to keep down
                     such emotions; but what is bred in the bone will come out in the flesh. But my
                     hunchback is not the only source of embittered reflections. I was an only
                     daughter, and my parents quite wealthy. They died when I was eighteen years of
                     age, leaving me with a snug fortune. Of course I had admirers then
                     notwithstanding the deformity upon my back O, yes, there are fortune-hunters
                     enough in the city. Well, to make a long story short, one fine looking
                     gentleman, several years my senior, paid his addresses to me, and expressed
                     great love for me. My ears were open to his flattering tales. I drank in the
                     sweet music, and placed the utmost confidence in him. Our courting lasted over
                     twelve months, much longer than some widows mourn the death of their husbands.
                     I fancied I loved him, and I suppose I did. He was artful, smooth, and even
                     fascinating in his manners, and gained full control over me. He so managed that
                     I gave him power over my estate, which he sold, converted into gold and silver,
                     sailed for Europe, and that is the last I have ever heard of him. O, how
                     bitterly have I reproached myself for being thus 
                        bewlldered
                        bewildered
                      and led astray by an 
                        accompished
                        accomplished
                      scoundrel.'
                  She stopped her work, while relating this brief story of her life, one hand
                     nervously clenching a small flat iron and the other supplying her nose with
                     snuff. Her eyes snapped, and almost emitted sparks of fire; her bosom heaved,
                     her lips quivered, and her voice was tremulous. I shall never forget her
                     appearance at that time. She was so agitated that she raised herself upon her
                     tiptoes, and seemed anxious to be tall enough to look over the whole world. A
                     few extra pinches of snuff seemed to quiet her nerves.
                  'There, it is of no use for me thus to live my life over again,' she continued,
                     after quite a long pause. 'But when I reflect upon the character of men I
                     always feel deeply agitated.'
                  'I trust you do not view all men as being alike, do you?' I inquired.
                  'O no, there are a few honorable exceptions,' she replied. 'And I believe
                     Captain Dunmore is one. He has always been rich, been much over the world, seen
                     ladies of all countries, and yet has never been married.—Now I believe, if he
                     ever marries, it will be from genuine love, and nothing else.'
                  'He is quite old to think of being married now,' I said.
                  'I should rather have him if he were as old as Methusaleh, than to have any
                     young man I know of in this city,' she replied.—'Almost all the young men here
                     have bad habits of one kind or another. O, you have made a lucky escape from
                     young Cunard.—True, his father is rich, but his son is a gambler and a
                     libertine. Let him have full swing with his father's money, and it wouldn't
                     last very long I can assure you.'
                  I now fully concurred in all this woman said in relation to young Cunard, and
                     had reason to be thankful for my escape from his power. It seemed to me that a
                     kind Providence had thus protected me, and sent Capt. Dunmore to guard me from
                     all harm. I felt comparatively happy in my new location.—It is true that I
                     wished Aunt Tuttle was a different woman in some respects. I felt a sort of
                     dread of her notwithstanding all her apparent kindness. She seemed to me to be
                     a person of terrible temper, especially when her feelings were aroused. Already
                     I had seen one specimen of her temperament that made me tremble; and yet I
                     could pardon her for such a demonstration when I reflected upon the wrongs she
                     had suffered at the hands of a pretended lover. No woman of spirit could feel
                     calm under such circumstances; and I could not find it in my heart to blame her
                     for indulging such violent ebulition of feeling. And yet she did not seem to
                     exercise that calm Christian spirit I had always witnessed in my mother, who
                     had suffered much on account of the frailties of my father, and the pinching
                     hand of poverty which was always upon her. My father would have been a good man
                     and a kind husband, but for the fascinating power of strong drinks. They made
                     him what he was and hurried him into a premature grave. My mother was an
                     ambitious woman, and when she married, her prospects were bright and her hopes 
                        bouyant
                        buoyant
                     .
                  For some years after marriage my parents prospered, and acquired a snug little
                     estate for a country village; but the Demon of Intemperance came into our
                     windows like a destroying angel, and soon his bloody tracks were visible in our
                     household. I was quite young when the Destroyer came; but not too young to see
                     his devastating work. True, I did not
                     see it in that clear light in which my good mother viewed it, and could not
                     trace all its evil consequences as she did; yet I saw enough to make my young
                     heart sad and sorrowful.
                  As yet, Aunt Tuttle had not said a word in relation to Captain Dunmore's
                     calling, and I began to feel anxious to know when I might expect to see him;
                     but a sort of bashful spirit prevented me from asking her. It seemed strange
                     that she did not speak of his coming, but not a word upon the subject escaped
                     her lips. Sometimes I thought she purposely avoided it; and yet I could see no
                     reason for it, and supposed I must be mistaken. I spent a portion of my time
                     alone until dinner was ready. There was no negro servant to wait upon me, and
                     summons me to dinner, instead of being a source of disquietude to me, that was
                     a relief; for with servants to wait upon me, I felt much out of my element.
                  At a seasonable hour I was summoned to dinner. The table was neatly spread and
                     the viands good. We had no luxuries, such as I had been accustomed to while at
                     my other boarding house, and I was glad of it.—Plain, simple fare suited me
                     best, for it best corresponded with my condition in life.
                  'I don't know as you will like my dinner,' said Aunt Tuttle. 'But I can assure
                     you of one thing, a slattern didn't cook it.'
                  'I, like your dinner much,' I replied.—'And your last remark was quite
                     needless, for I have already seen enough to satisfy me that neatness
                     characterizes all the affairs of your household.'
                  'Well, I hope you won't accuse me of vanity when I say I profess to be cleanly
                     in my house,' she replied.
                  'Indeed, I shall not,' was my ready and truthful answer. 'You remind me of my
                     mother.'
                  'I hope she has not a hunch on her back,' she added, with some feeling.
                  Whenever she alluded to that deformity her mind seemed to be agitated and her
                     spirit troubled.
                  'I shouldn't think of that unless you spoke of it,' I replied, hoping she would
                     never mention it again in my hearing; for when she did, the expression of her
                     face was far from 
                        beiug
                        being
                      agreeable. I was almost willing to take that hunch upon my own back
                     and bear the burden for the sake of relieving her from such an annoyance, if
                     the thing had been possible.
                  'Ah, I feel very sore on that point, but never mind,' she answered. 'I won't
                     annoy you and myself, too. Iv'e seen a good deal of human life, and perhaps, I
                     don't think so highly of human nature as some do who have been more prosperous.
                     I have had 
                        a a
                        a
                      hard life, and seen a good deal of trouble, which, no doubt, has
                     imbittered my heart and soured my feelings. But there is a great deal of
                     wickedness in the world, much more than you dream of. Men, and women, too, are
                     selfish. The selfish principle is the main-spring of human actions.'
                  I told her I hoped there was some virtue in the world, even pure virtue,
                     analloyed by that selfish principle to which she alluded.
                  'There may be, but I have seen but a few specimens of it since I have been on
                     the stage of action,' she replied, taking a large pinch of snuff, and drawing
                     in her breath as if she intended the article should be sent to the most remote
                     parts of her nose.
                  We finished our dinners, and I assisted in clearing off the table to which she
                     did not object, but seemed to be pleased with my help. She commended my
                     industry, and said I must have a good mother I was so handy in such domestic
                     work.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  
                     Suspicions haunt the heroine. Mystery upon mystery. The power of custom and
                        habit. The midnight murder. Gambling. The conflagration, &c.
                  
                  AFTER I had assisted Aunt Tuttle in arranging her domestic affairs, I retired
                     to my little room to commune with my own thoughts, and to wonder what would
                     next happen to me. I thought it strange that the Captain did not call, and
                     began to fear that his love for me had cooled. Yes, I feared that; for then I
                     felt as if I could only look up to him for protection. His image was impressed
                     upon my heart, and I could not disguise or conceal the fact from myself, even
                     if I had been thus disposed. I remembered young Cunard, only to hate him, and
                     feel grateful that I had been thus fortunately rescued from his power. But I
                     remembered that strange girl, Josephine Melville, or Elizabeth Moore, whatever
                     might be her real name, with far different feelings and emotions. I was anxious
                     to learn more about the story of her life. I had just heard enough to make me
                     exceedingly anxious for more. Hers was a character I could not comprehend.
                     There was yet a mystery hanging over her which I was anxious to penetrate, and
                     resolved to write to her very soon. Should I write, she might call and see me,
                     and then we could have an uninterrupted interview. I longed to see her almost
                     as much as I did to see Captain Dunmore, but for quite different reasons. I
                     also endeavored to study the character of the woman in whose care I was placed.
                     Many traits which she had developed during our brief acquaintance were shrouded
                     in mystery, and I could not fathom them. I confess I indulged some suspicions;
                     and yet she did not appear to be that smooth hypocrite which the widow Topway
                     had turned out to be.—Her character was totally different from that deceitful
                     and wicked woman's; but after all, there was a mystery about her which my
                     mental 
                        accumen
                        acumen
                      could not penetrate; consequently, I was somewhat troubled in mind
                     and spirit.
                  Aunt Tuttle, having a few leisure moments, came into my room and sat down. She
                     was then in good humor, and very pleasant.—The burden upon her back did not
                     seem to haunt her imagination, nor awaken those torturing and corroding
                     feelings of her heart which at other moments troubled her.
                  'Well, my dear, how do you enjoy yourself in your new home?' she asked,
                     smiling, and taking an enormous pinch of snuff.
                  'Very well, indeed,' I replied. 'I feel, much happier than I did a few hours
                     ago, when I was in that bad house.'
                  'I should think so,' she replied, offering me her large snuff-box. 'Won't you
                     take a pinch? It is excellent snuff; I have but one place where I purchase
                     it.'
                  I thanked her, and declined her offer; for I was not accustomed to the
                     habit.
                  'Well, your'e right,' she continued. I don't think snuff would become you now;
                     and they say it injures a person's complexion and voice. But my complexion has
                     lost its beauty, and my voice its music, so I don't care. Once, my skin was
                     very smooth and fair, and my hair was dark and shining as yours; but time has
                     wrinkled the one and frosted the other.'
                  I assured her she looked well then notwithstanding the ravages of time.
                  'If time had worn down the hunch on my back as well as the furrow on my cheeks
                     and blanched my hair, I might have been better satisfied; but let that pass,'
                     she said. 'I wish not to make you a partaker of my sorrows. It is enough for me
                     to bear them myself. I suppose you feel somewhat anxious to see your devoted
                     Captain. He told me he was obliged to leave town on business of importance and
                     might not be back until tomorrow, so you must not be disappointed if you don't
                     see him to-day. Soon as he returns
                     turns he will be here without fail. I could not help laughing to see how
                     anxious he was when engaging your board with me. He told me I must be prepared
                     to see the most beautiful girl my eyes ever beheld.'
                  'I regret that he prepared your mind for such a disappointment as you must have
                     felt when you first saw me,' I said.
                  'And how do you know I was disappointed?' she asked, adjusting her spectacles,
                     taking a pinch of snuff, and peering into my face.
                  'Because I think by the aid of your glasses you must perceive that you have
                     seen hundreds of more beautiful girls than I am.'
                  She shook her head, put another pinch to her nose, run her hand over my
                     shoulders, felt of my waist and examined me as closely as a slave-holder would
                     a quadroon he was about to purchase, or a jockey a horse in the market. I
                     remained silent, and let her go through with her examination; but I could not
                     help smiling at her manifestations, for she seemed to be determined to know
                     whether I was flesh or blood, or not.
                  'I say the Captain was right, and I am not disappointed,' she said. 'You are,
                     taking every thing into consideration just about the handsomest girl I ever
                     saw. And I like you all the better because you know how to do house-work. I
                     don't suppose, however, the Captain will let you do much work, neither do I
                     want you to do much, but once in a while you can help me a little if you
                     please.'
                  'I had rather help you than not,' I replied. 'I have always been used to work,
                     and enjoy it. An idle life is a very miserable one.'
                  'So it is,' she added. 'If I had money enough to load a ship, as the Captain
                     has, I should not be happy in idleness. No, no, industry of some kind is
                     essential to human happiness.'
                  'I believe all that to be perfectly true,' I replied. 'I came to this city for
                     the purpose of working, and am willing to work.'
                  'I like your disposition,' she said. 'But you may depend upon it the Captain
                     will not suffer you to soil your hands with much work. When you are married and
                     become the mistress of his splendidly furnished house, your time will be
                     employed in directing your servants, and seeing that every thing is in place,
                     and that every thing has a place. You and he will also journey to fashionable
                     places, and no doubt you will go east and see your mother. And you must not be
                     surprised if the Captain insists in bringing her to the city to live with
                     you.—Ah, a brilliant career is before you, and many happy days are in store for
                     you.'
                  'I didn't think of being married when I started on my journey to this city, I
                     replied; feeling flattered with the prospects painted by this queer woman.
                  'I suppose not; but you are mortgaged now, and no mistake,' she replied,
                     laughing, and cramming more snuff into her thin nose. I think all the
                     dressmaking you will ever learn will be learned by seeing your own fine dresses
                     made. The Captain really smiled when you spoke of your learning such an art. I
                     told him I would learn you to do up laces, caps, and muslins.'
                  'I should like to learn very well,' I replied. 'The time may come when I shall
                     be glad to engage in such an employment. It is always best to know how to work
                     so that if wants come upon us we can supply them by our labor.'
                  'You talk like a sensible girl,' she said, smiling, and chucking me under the
                     chin in a very familiar and good-natured manner.—'Young ladies who are
                     beautiful do not usually think much of work, especially those in the city. They
                     think more of standing before a looking-glass than they do of washing
                     dishes.'
                  I told her it might be so, and lamented the fact. Soon she went out, and left
                     me to my own reflections. That interview had raised her in my estimation, and
                     still there was a mystery hanging over her. She appeared to be very frank and
                     sincere in all she said; but I had been thus praised by one woman who had
                     proved a hypocrite, and felt a degree of suspicion when those praises were
                     renewed by another woman.—And what made me the more suspicious was the fact
                     that this woman seemed to follow in the tracks which the widow Topway had
                     made.
                  The same praises which Aunt Tuttle bestowed so lavishly upon the Captain, the
                     widow had bespattered young Cunard with. But after all, I was unwilling to
                     believe that Aunt Tuttle was really such a wicked, deceitful woman as the widow
                     turned out to be. Their situation and circumstances were totally different.
                     Here this woman lived alone and occupied but a part of a house, cheaply, but
                     neatly furnished, while the other lived in grand style, occupying a spacious
                     house, and having many inmates. A burnt child dreads the fire, and it is not
                     strange that I should be on the look-out for breakers as I was now on the ocean
                     of city life, navigating alone, and without the advice and direction of my
                     natural guardian, the mother who gave me birth.
                  The day passed, and evening came, but no Captain Dunmore made his appearance. I
                     was not greatly disappointed, because I knew the cause of his absence. I
                     thanked my stars when twilight fell upon the city, that no negro servant was to
                     bring a large lamp into my room and place it on a centre table to show my
                     person to a young libertine. From such an annoyance I had made my escape, and
                     most cheerfully did I pass the evening with the hunch-backed woman; yes,
                     cheerfully, when compared with the evening previous.
                  At an early hour I retired, for I was much fatigued, and needed rest. My room
                     was a front one, and the windows opened upon the street. There were green
                     blinds upon the outside of the windows, and plain white muslin curtains upon
                     the inside. The room, though small, was a pleasant one. I slept soundly the
                     first part of the night; but just after midnight, I heard the report of a
                     pistol, and the cry of murder in the street under the windows of my room. Soon
                     many voices were heard as if several people had collected. I arose, threw open
                     the window and saw a group of men standing upon the sidewalk, and a person
                     lying down, apparently in much distress. I was alarmed, and yet desired to know
                     what the trouble was. The group stood near a lamp-post, and the light of the
                     lamp over their heads enabled me to see them quite distinctly. Soon, Aunt
                     Tuttle came running into my room, and we both stood at the open windows.
                  'I reckon one fellow has got more than he can well bear,' said she. 'I heard
                     the report of the pistol which has done the job for him.'
                  'I heard the report, too,' I remarked, thinking it strange that she treated the
                     matter so lightly. 'Do you think any one is murdered?'
                  'Nothing more likely,' she replied, apparently indifferent. There's a parcel of
                     rowdies and gamblers who are in a house just below here every night, Sundays
                     not excepted.'
                  'I guess the fellow will live,' said one of the men below. 'He deserved a
                     pretty severe shot, for he cheated a man most shamefully at the same table
                     where I was sitting. I saw the trick at the time, and as soon as the one
                     cheated found it out he swore he would shoot him, and followed him out.'
                  'Who is the man shot?' inquired another man in a grum voice, as he came up to
                     the crowd.
                  
                  'Carolus Cunard,' replied the first speaker. But I guess the fellow won't
                     die.'
                  'O, gracious heavens!' I mentally exclaimed.
                  'Who did he say it was?' asked my housekeeper.
                  'I could hardly speak at first, but finally told her who the wounded man
                     was.
                  'Well, you would have been compelled to have served him just so, if you had not
                     thus luckily escaped from his power. He's a great gambler and libertine. Iv'e
                     often heard of the young rascal,' she said.
                  We now heard the groans of the wounded man while two men were raising him up,
                     and a third called a carriage.
                  'The scoundrel hasn't killed me yet,' said Cunard. 'Where is he? Let me have
                     one shot at him before you take me away.'
                  'He's good grit,' said one who stood at a short distance from the crowd that
                     had collected. 'It does not take long to gather a crowd here, even at
                     midnight.'
                  'Yes, but if the bullet had gone two inches farther to the right, he would have
                     packed up for the other world before this time,' answered a voice.
                  'A miss is as good as a mile,' said another, laughing.
                  'Not exactly this time,' said Aunt Tuttle; 'for the fellow is badly wounded and
                     may yet bleed to death.'
                  My blood was almost frozen in my veins, and I could scarcely speak I was so
                     much agitated. I had never witnessed such an exhibition before, and desired not
                     to witness another. But Aunt Tuttle seemed to take the whole affair as cooly as
                     though it was but an every day occurrence.
                  'What a dreadful thing it is!' I said, in a voice of trembling.
                  'Well, it is a bad business, but if the gamblers will shoot each other, let
                     'em,' she replied. 'The more they kill each other, the better it will be for
                     the community.'
                  There might be truth in the remark, but it seemed strange to me that a woman
                     could speak of such a tragedy with such cold indifference. While I trembled in
                     every muscle, she looked calmly on and thought no more of it than she would the
                     shooting of a dog in the street. Such indifference appeared strange to me. The
                     wounded Cunard was placed in a 
                        carrriage
                        carriage
                      and driven off.
                  'He'll not gamble again very 
                        seon
                        soon
                     ,' said Aunt Tuttle. 'He needs a doctor now more than he does a
                     woman.'
                  'I hope his wound is not mortal,' I said.
                  'Why not?' she asked. 'He does more harm alive than he could if he was
                     dead.'
                  'He's not fit to die,' I replied, feeling strange emotions agitating my
                     heart.
                  'There's truth in that; but the longer he lives the more unfit to die he will
                     become,' she said. 'I think it is about as well to have such fellows killed
                     off, and then there's an end of them.'
                  She turned away and sought her own bed, leaving me to ponder on the tragical
                     affair alone. I did ponder upon it, and wished I was at home in my own quiet
                     village, where such scenes seldom occur.—Thanking heaven for my deliverance
                     from the power of such a young man as Carolus Cunard, I threw myself upon the
                     bed and courted sleep; but hours passed before I could again close my eyes in
                     slumber.—When I did drowse, the fancied cry of murder would arouse me, and
                     drive sleep far from my eyes. Towards morning, however, I fell info a slumber
                     which greatly calmed my nerves. I arose early, but not before Aunt Tuttle was
                     up and busying herself in her house affairs. She was an early riser, and even
                     took several pinches of snuff before I awoke.
                  'Well, young woman, how did you sleep after witnessing the scene last night?'
                     she asked, while she was placing her tea-kettle in the stove, and preparing for
                     our frugal morning meal
                  'Not well,' I replied. 'I could not drive the horrid scene from my
                     thoughts.'
                  'I suppose not, but you will soon become accustomed to city life,' she
                     said.
                  'But not to murders I trust,' was my answer.
                  'Yes, to murders, fires, rows, and all sorts of things,' she replied. 'Large
                     cities contain the offscourings of all creation, and you must expect such
                     scenes among such actors. The drama of human life is full of strange scenes.
                     And you mustn't be surprised at any thing. If the rascals don't kill me, I
                     shall not cry at their murdering each other.'
                  The bells now rung for fire, and large crowds soon collected in the street.
                  'By heavens, the fire is near!' exclaimed this woman, running to the window and
                     looking out.
                  'I followed her as fast as I could; but aged as she was she could outrun me in
                     spite of all I could do.
                  'Yes, see there,' she said, pointing to the opposite side of the street several
                     doors below. 'The fire is in that house, and the flames are bursting from the
                     roof!'
                  'And are we not in danger?' I anxiously inquired.
                  'O, no,' she replied. 'The air is still, and the engines will soon get the
                     flames under. It may burn only that building, and no matter if it burns
                     that.'
                  'Why so?' I asked, gazing upon the flames as they angrily shot up from the
                     roof.
                  'That is the house where they gambled last night, she replied. 'Good luck! Let
                     it burn! It is a bad house in other respects, bad women live there as well as
                     bad men. I say, let it burn. I'm glad of it. Now the water flies, and I'm
                     really afraid they will put cut the flames!'
                  She went back, and I remained gazing upon the crowd, hearing the noise and
                     feeling much alarmed. The house burnt down, but the adjoining buildings were
                     saved, and but slightly injured. It was the first building on fire I had ever
                     seen, and I did not desire to see another.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  
                     Impatience at the absence of a lover. Thinking of love makes it. The happy
                        interview. Its results faintly shadowed forth. The ride. Prospects ahead,
                        &c.
                  
                  I PASSED another day, and the Captain did not come. In a penny paper which Aunt
                     Tuttle bought of a newsboy, I read the account of the shooting of young Cunard.
                     The affair was described in glowing colors, and all, if not more than the truth
                     would bear was paraded in the columns of the paper, and headed by large letters
                     and interrogation points. Not only the scene I witnessed was fully described,
                     but also the gambling and cheating that led to it.
                  Cunard was severely, but not dangerously wounded. The man who perpetrated the
                     deed could not be found, and a reward was offered for his apprehension. Several
                     times I read over the account until I could almost repeat every word of it.
                  The watch and chain belonging to Cunard I had kept in my trunk, and Aunt Tuttle
                     knew not that I was in possession of such articles. My only wish was that he
                     had them; for I would have as soon worn a serpent round my neck as that watch
                     chain. I placed it at the bottom of my trunk so that I could not see it.
                  The curtains of night were drawn over the city. The lamps were burning, and
                     thousands were hurrying to and fro in the streets. The evening was pleasant and
                        every body seemed to be out
                     enjoying themselves. I sat at an open window watching the tides of humanity as
                     they flowed along the sidewalks. It seemed to me that I saw several gentlemen
                     in the light of the street lamps who looked very much like Capt. Dunmore, and
                     my heart beat violently. I saw more than a hundred who I fancied would stop in
                     front of the house and come in; but they hurried along to other places of
                     destination, and the man whom of all others I hoped to see did not come. I
                     began to fear some accident had happened to him. I said within myself, that he,
                     too, might be shot, and even murdered. It seemed to me the city was not a safe
                     place for any one. My nerves were exceedingly agitated, more so than they ever
                     had been before. I feared and trembled. Were these 
                        symptomps
                        symptoms
                      of love? I could not tell. I was so bewildered I scarcely knew where
                     I was. At one time I almost imagined I was in a dream. At that moment Aunt
                     Tuttle brought a small lamp into the room whose feeble rays revealed my
                     agitated countenance to the keen eyes of the housekeeper.
                  'He has not come yet,' I said, involuntarily, scarcely knowing what I did
                     say.
                  'Ah, my dear, the sound of your voice convinces me more than any thing I have
                     seen that you love the Captain,' she said, smiling, and placing the lamp upon a
                     small round table covered with a red cloth.
                  'I hardly know what I did say,' was my reply.
                  'Ah, that is the very thing,' she said, chucking me under the chin, and taking
                     a fresh pinch of snuff. 'It was your heart that spake and not your lips.'
                  I almost believed what she said; for I had thought so much of him that I could
                     not keep him out of my mind. I remained silent and thoughtful.
                  'I'm glad your heart is thus occupied,' she continued. 'It will all be the more
                     pleasant when he does come.'
                  'He may be shot,' I replied, speaking again from the impulse of the moment.
                  'Another and yet a more favorable symptom,' she said. 'Well do I remember of
                     indulging just such thoughts and apprehensions in relation to my lover, who
                     treated me so cruelly, and who I hope is in torments everlasting!'
                  'You absolutely frighten me,' was my sudden exclamation.
                  'Ah, you need not be frightened, for you will never have cause to utter such a
                     wish,' she said, smiling, and endeavoring to calm my agitated feelings.
                  'I hope and pray not,' I replied, feeling somewhat quieted by her smile and
                     manner.
                  'No, no, my dear Capt. Dunmore is one of a thousand,' she said. 'He will surely
                     come. He has been all over the world, and knows how to avoid dangers. Besides,
                     he is a very brave man and can defend himself. He will certainly come. He may
                     have beer detained longer by his business than he expected; but he will come.
                     Nothing but death will keep him away from you.'
                  'And, perhaps, he is dead!' I replied, wiping a tear from my eye
                  She noticed the tear, smiled, took an extra pinch of snuff, and gazed silently
                     upon me for a few moments. I felt strangely, and could not speak, or if I
                     could, I knew not what to say.
                  'Yes, the case is plain,' she continued, adjusting her spectacles and wiping
                     some scattered snuff from her upper-lip that had not found its way into her
                     nose. 'I remember of 
                        sheding
                        shedding
                      tears when I was just about your age. These tears are tell-tales from
                     the heart. Ah, they are precious jewels, more to be prized than gold or rubies.
                     The Captain will come. Hark! I now hear footsteps on the door-stone. Yes, that
                     is his knocking. Three times and I let him in.—Yes! knock! knock! knock!'
                  She ran down stairs and my heart leaped into my mouth. Strange what an
                     excitement. I was under. I heard his voice when he asked, 'Is she here?' I knew
                     that voice well. Strange how we remember voices when we cannot recognize faces!
                     The tones seemed to be as familiar to my ears as if I had been accustomed to
                     hear them from infancy.
                  'Yes, she is here,' replied Aunt Tuttle.
                  'God be praised, then!' he answered.—And now what sweet music that was to my
                     ears! I attempted to rise and run and meet him; but I had not sufficient
                     command of my muscles to rise upon my feet. Soon he entered the room and rushed
                     towards me with open arms.
                  'Heaven be praised for this meeting!' he said, folding me in his arms and
                     pressing me to his bosom.
                  I thought I felt his heart beat, and mine answered its pulsations. Yes, heart
                     seemed to answer to heart! I felt his warm lips upon mine! I had no power to
                     resist, and if I had, the will was absent. I felt as if he surrounded and
                     defended me from all dangers. Yes, I had found a protector who made me feel
                     safe in his arms in a city which I imagined was full of dangers. I had been so
                     long expecting him, had witnessed such exciting scenes, escaped from such
                     danger, and thought so much of him that I loved him that moment. Yes, he had
                     won my heart! No! he had not won it, but I had given it to him while he was
                     absent and could not win it. The French have a maxim, that 'talking about love,
                     makes it,' but I can assure my female readers that thinking about love will
                     make it also. I have often thought when these exciting scenes were all past
                     that I should not have loved him so deeply, so suddenly, if I had 
                        remainded
                        remained
                      with him instead of accompanying young Cunard from the steamboat. I
                     had seen just enough of him to make me think seriously of him. The peculiar
                     circumstances in which I was placed, my imagination, my thoughts, his absence
                     from me, all combined to excite within me the passion of deep, ardent,
                     enthusiastic love. Sometimes I look back upon that evening, and am almost
                     persuaded that human love is nothing but the creature of circumstances.—But I
                     must turn from this digression to my narrative.
                  My head laid upon his breast several minutes, and I seemed to be in a sort of
                     dreamy, unconscious state. However, in a short time I awoke to a consciousness
                     of my situation; yet I gazed upon him as I never gazed upon any other human
                     being. In his character were united lover and protector.—He seemed to me like a
                     father and also like a lover. How different were my emotions when Cunard
                     attempted to embrace me.—There was an instinct within which prompted me to
                     spring from his embrace and shudder at his touch. And why did I possess such an
                     instinctive impulse? It was because I had not thought so much upon his person,
                     and had not dreamed over him in his absence, and did not look up to him as a
                     protector. My imagination had not done its full work, and the lessons my mother
                     had given me were fresh in my memory. He was near my age, and I felt as if he
                     might be a deceiver and a destroyer. My time had not come, and a combination of
                     circumstances and excitement had not prepared my heart to love. In brief,
                        I had not thought myself into love. That is a key which may
                     open the secrets of many female hearts. Let my female readers ponder upon these
                     matters and draw instruction from them. 
                        Temptatations
                        Temptations
                      are round about them, and calm reason, and cool judgment must be
                     exercised. Besides, the occurrence of strange circumstances stances, and startling accidents made me believe
                     that a kind Providence had sent me a protector, friend and lover in whom I
                     could place the most implicit confidence. He came to me in just the nick of
                     time. Had he come sooner or later, the case might have been somewhat different.
                     The ambition to wed a rich husband might have lurked at the bottom and formed a
                     basis upon which imagination could form her superstructure, and, especially,
                     when aided by favoring circumstances and singular and exciting accidents.
                  'I am sorry my business detained me so long,' he said, smoothing back the hair
                     from my perspiring forehead, and speaking in tones of voice that inspired me
                     with full confidence in him in the three-fold character of protector and lover.
                     The wise man has said that a three-fold cord is not easily broken, and I found
                     I was bound to him by a chain I could not break, and would not if I could.
                  'I told her you would come,' said Aunt Tuttle, speaking before I had time to
                     make a reply.
                  She sat a short distance from us, and seemed to be living her life over
                     again.—She took snuff almost incessantly, smiled, trotted her right foot, moved
                     her spectacles up on her forehead, and then down over her eyes, gazed upon us
                     and seemed to be as well-pleased as a child with a rattle. Why she was thus
                     apparently so pleased, passed my power of comprehension. That secret I could
                     not fathom. It was securely locked in her own bosom.
                  'I was impatient to see you; there have been such terrible scenes and
                     excitements,' I said.
                  'Yes, she was afraid some body had shot you,' said Beulah Tuttle.
                  'O, no one is inclined to point a revolver at me,' he replied. 'I have not
                     injured any one, and don't herd with gamblers, pickpockets and libertines.'
                  'Indeed, you do not,' said Beulah; 'If you did I should be afraid to have you
                     come into my house.'
                  'How remarkable it is that young Cunard should be shot on the same day that you
                     were rescued from his power!' he said, pressing my hand, and playing with one
                     of my ringlets. 'Ah, these beautiful curls have been in my mind ever since I
                     first saw them on board the steamboat.'
                  'I don't wonder at that, said Aunt Tuttle, thumping her snuff-box, and trotting
                     her foot. 'You told me the truth, Captain, when you came to engage board for
                     this young lady. I didn't fully believe you then, but have since; I thought you
                     were wild and enthusiastic.'
                  'Wild, and enthusiastic!' he repeated, smiling.
                  'Yes, old bachelors are apt to be when they fall in love,' she replied.
                  'And how is it with single ladies?' he good-naturedly inquired.
                  'They don't fall in love at all,' she replied, laughing.
                  'There may be a very good reason for that,' he added.
                  'And what is that?' she asked, throwing back her spectacles upon her forehead,
                     as if she could hear better for that movement.
                  'Because no one will first love them,' he replied.
                  'Your'e an old joker, Captain,' she said, putting back her spectacles, and
                     taking as much snuff as she could grab between her thumb and finger.
                  'It seems to me, some Yankee might invent a machine which would facilitate the
                     taking snuff,' he said. 'A box might be made with springs in it so arranged
                     that when the box was opened they would flirt the snuff up into the nose.'
                  'Yes, and fill the eyes with the same motion,' she replied. 'No no, Captain, my
                     thumb and finger is a machine good enough for me.'
                  'I perceive they are well used to the business, and work rather nimbly,' he
                     added, laughing, and at the same time pressing my hand to give emphasis to his
                     remarks, or for some other reason.
                  After cracking a few more jokes and taking a few more pinches of snuff the
                     housekeeper retired, leaving me and the Captain alone.—I draw a curtain between
                     myself and the reader.
                  The night passed, and I heard no report of a revolver, cry of murder, or
                     ringing of fire-bells. The sun rose bright, and shed its beams upon the just
                     and upon the unjust.—I arose at an early hour, and thought of my mother, and
                     her humble home, and how much she would be surprised to hear of my marriage
                     with a man old enough to be my father. I thought, too, how much the envy of
                     some girls in my native village would be excited, when I visited home with a
                     husband having money enough to purchase the whole village. I had every reason
                     to believe the Captain had oceans of money. He looked—acted like it; and Beulah
                     Tuttle was well-informed and eloquent upon that subject.—Such a belief
                     flattered my pride and ambition, and I loved him too. What more could a poor
                     village girl ask? My cup of bliss seemed to be full and running over; and I did
                     not once even dream of its being dashed from my lips. My lover had age, and
                     that gave me confidence. Had he been a young man, I might have had less
                     confidence in him, and been filled with more fearful apprehensions for the
                     future. He had made the most solemn promises of marriage, and it was not in my
                     heart to suspect him of infidelity. No man could appear more sincere and
                     devoted to woman than he was to me.—I believed his words, and doubted not his
                     actions proceeded from the purest love and affection.
                  Not long after breakfast the Captain called with a carriage, and we rode over
                     many portions of the city, and into Roxbury. I was well delighted with the
                     ride, and O, how I wished my mother could have been with us. He assured me the
                     time would come when we would visit her at her humble home in Maine, and bring
                     her to the city with us. How I longed for that time to come when I could enter
                     my native village and show the proud and haughty girls there my rich and
                     handsome husband! that was a day which I anticipated with the most enthusiastic
                     pleasure. It seemed to me it would be one of the happiest days of my life.
                  As we were riding round the Common and gazing upon the green grass and
                     beautiful and majestic trees, he took my hand in his, and said in a humorous
                     manner: 'We passed a short time ago the residence of a fashionable dressmaker.
                     What do you think now about learning the trade?'
                  'Perhaps it would be as well for me to learn it, and then I could make my own
                     dresses.'
                  'Yes,' he added, smiling, and stealing a kiss, 'and you could make some for
                     other ladies, and help pay expenses. You know when we go to keeping house we
                     shall want a good many articles, and they all cost money.'
                  I assured him I had no doubt but I could learn to be a very fashionable
                     dressmaker, and make money by it. He remarked that he believed I had skill
                     enough; but thought I might wait a few years until all his money was gone, and
                     then engage in the business, and he would go to sawing wood. Thus he ridiculed
                     the idea of my ever becoming engaged in that employment. I confess I began to
                     look upon that business with some degree of contempt. His influence over me had
                     become so great that he could mould me at his pleasure into almost any shape as
                     the potter does his vessel. Strange how soon our habits may be changed! We rode back to my
                     boarding house, and Beulah came to the door with her sharp features wreathed in
                     smiles. She was now satisfied that I was bound to my lover by cords that could
                     not well be broken. And alas! her opinion was but too well-founded in truth. I
                     had the promise of going to the theatre which was highly gratifying.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  
                     The power of love. A night not to be mentioned. The theatre. The effect of
                        the play. The appearance of the mysterious girl. Her ominous words. A
                        lover's agitation, &c.
                  
                  I PASSED another evening with my lover. And O, my God, pardon me! How strange
                     as the talismanic power of love! How it changes opinions, feelings and habits!
                     I was disquieted; but I looked forward to my bridal day with a solicitude that
                     cannot be described. My housekeeper grew more and more pleasant and
                     good-natured, and lavished her praises upon my lover. I concluded that he had
                     made her some generous present. My conclusion was correct. He had given her a
                     silk dress, and also one for me, but I did not know it until sometime after
                     breakfast.—It was a beautiful olive-colored silk. It was to be made up
                     immediately. Beulah accompanied me to a fashionable dressmaker, and the lady
                     promised to have it done in three days. Three days passed and I appeared in my
                     olive silk—yes, dressed for the theatre! My life of dissipation had commenced;
                     but I looked forward to my bridal day that would atone for all crimes and make
                     me a fashionable woman, and the wife or him whom I loved.
                  
                     
                        Bulah
                        Beulah
                      complimented me highly on my appearance. My dress did most admirably
                     become me. I began to prize my beauty and charms more than I had ever prized
                     them before. That keen moral sense which once passed a righteous judgment upon
                     all my actions begun 
                        to to
                        to
                      be blunted, and my conscience to have some of its stings. The
                     carriage was driven up, and my lover received me kindly. Soon we were seated in
                     the theatre. The house was full, and the curtain rose; I was in extacies. The
                     play commenced and I listened with breathless attention. The play was the
                     Stranger; and the part of Mrs. Haller was performed with great power.
                  My feelings were wrought up to the highest pitch of excitement. Ere I knew it
                     my eyes were filled with tears, and my heart was beating as if it disdained to
                     be confined within such narrow bounds. The play so absorbed my attention at
                     first that I scarcely noticed any thing but the actors. A gentleman sat behind
                     us who seemed to be acquainted with the Captain. I overheard him whisper to the
                     Captain; 'a devilish fine girl! Who is she?'
                  'A niece of mine,' replied the Captain.
                  'Tell that to the marines,' said the man, smiling.
                  Now I noticed several opera glasses pointed at me, and asked the Captain why it
                     was done.
                  'To see your beauty more plainly,' he replied, smiling.
                  I remarked that I didn't like to be gazed at quite so much; but he told me I
                     must hide my curls and veil my face if I did not wish to be seen. I was
                     flattered by his reply. Between the acts I happened to look upon the other side
                     of the theatre and there I saw the widow Topway dressed in magnificent style,
                     and pointing her glass at me. A chill came over me, and the blood crept coldly
                     about my heart. I was very much agitated.
                  'There's that woman I boarded with before you rescued me from her,' I
                     whispered.
                  'Very likely,' he replied, apparently quite indifferent. Almost every body goes
                     to the theatre.'
                  'O, I hate the sight of her!' I answered. 'She's a very wicked woman!'
                  'Yes, the city contains all sorts of people,' he replied, seeming to me as if
                     he wished to avoid the subject; but why was a mystery to me.
                  The curtain rose, and the play went on My whole soul was again absorbed in the
                     deep interest I felt for the character I felt for Mrs. Haller. O, how I pitied
                     that much abused woman. My tears flowed freely.—Another act passed, and I had a
                     breathing spell.
                  'O, what a terrible play!' I said, as the curtain went down, and my eyes were
                     full of tears.
                  'A very affecting piece when well performed,' he replied, apparently
                     indifferent.
                  At that moment I happened to cast my eyes above and saw that Josephine whose
                     image had haunted me so much and whose words had produced such strange effects
                     upon my mind. She was bending over and gazing upon me. Several other gaily
                     dressed females were near her.
                  'Good heavens!' I whispered into the ear of my lover. 'I see a girl above who
                     boarded at the same house with me.'
                  He turned his eyes up, but soon looked in another direction, and for a moment
                     he seemed to be somewhat agitated. He made no reply.
                  'Why do the girls sit away up there?' I asked.
                  'Perhaps they think they can see better,' he replied.
                  Before I had time to ask another question the curtain rose, and my attention
                     was drawn to the play. Although the acting was intensely interesting to me, yet
                     I could not refrain from occasionally looking up at that girl whose eyes seemed
                     to be constantly fixed upon me. The widow Topway, too, gazed upon me quite
                     often. What with the play, and these woman gazing, I was very much agitated. O,
                     how I wanted to speak with Josephine! I regretted that she had taken a seat so
                     far from me. I told the Captain I was anxious to speak with her, and asked him
                     if I could not do so after the play was over. He told me there would be such a
                     crowd that it would not be convenient to speak with her, 'besides,' he
                     continued, 'I advise you not to cultivate the acquaintance of any girls who
                     board with that woman.'
                  'But that girl seemed to be in great distress and acted strangely,' I
                     replied.
                  'Such characters are always in distress, or pretend to be,' he said,
                     manifesting an indifference that curdled the blood in my veins.
                  But notwithstanding his indifference and coldness, I felt a deep interest in
                     that girl, for she had manifested a like interest in my welfare. But heaven
                     only knows but her admonitions may have saved me from one fate to meet another
                     and a more terrible one!
                  'As soon as this play is through, we will go,' he said. 'The farce to be acted
                     afterwards is a silly one, and not worth hearing.
                  I consented of course; but still I was very anxious not only to see all the
                     plays, but also to seek an opportunity to speak with Josephine. And if I did
                     not seek such an opportunity I felt quite sure she would; for she could steal
                     through the crowd and whisper a few words in my ears and no one be the wiser
                     for it.
                  Most deeply were my feelings excited by the play, the last part enlisting my
                     sympathies more than the first, if that were possible. And yet I found time to
                     look up and see that girl. The Captain noticed that she engaged a portion of my time, and whispered to
                     me not to look up into the 'third row,' as he called it, saying it was not 
                        espectable
                        respectable
                     . I hardly knew what he meant, but refrained from looking in that
                     direction so often as I had before; yet I occasionally got a glimpse of the
                     girl in spite of his admonitions. It seemed to me that I had never seen him
                     when he appeared to be so restless and uneasy. There was a mystery about it
                     which I could not solve, and which I dared not ask him to explain. In a short
                     time he said.—'There this play is about over, and we will go now so as to get
                     rid of the crowd, for many will be going.'
                  Reluctantly I rose and followed him out. Just as I started, I saw Josephine
                     gaze intently a moment upon us, and then leave the front seat which she
                     occupied. I hoped she was going out and would meet us. We passed out and stood
                     upon the outside. He left me a moment to bespeak a carriage, when I felt some
                     one gently touch me on my shoulder. I turned round, and as I did so, Josephine
                     said in a low but anxious voice. 'My God, are you with him!'
                  Before I had time to utter a single word, she glided round a corner and was out
                     of my sight. It seemed as if my heart would sink within me. So quick and sudden
                     were her movements that he did not discover her.—Soon we entered a carriage,
                     and were driven away. He was apparently agitated; yet he treated me with marked
                     fondness. Whether to inform him that girl had spoken to me or not, was a
                     question which I seriously debated in my own mind. 'My God, are you with him,'
                     kept ringing in my ears. If she had said almost any thing else, I should
                     probably have told him she had spoken to me; but I dared not do it now. The
                     carriage was hurried along, for the driver was anxious to return to the theatre
                     for more custom
                  'I noticed you could hardly keep your eyes from that girl,' he said, throwing
                     his arm round my waist, and printing a kiss upon my lips.
                  'She does very much interest me, indeed, I replied. 'I wish I knew more of her
                     history.'
                  'I suppose you did not know that all the girls in that high seat in the theatre
                     are wantons.'
                  'Indeed, I did not,' I replied, being greatly surprised at what he said. 'If
                     that girl is a wanton I believe she is a broken-hearted one, and driven to such
                     a life by the cruelty of some wicked man.'
                  'It is possible; but then some girls run to such a life as ducks take to the
                     water,' he replied, whistling one of the tunes played at the theatre, and
                     appearing cold and indifferent.
                  'O, how can you speak of such things so lightly?' I asked. 'I pity that girl
                     from the bottom of my heart! She was innocent once; and I believe now she
                     possesses some good qualities, and might be restored to a virtuous life, if the
                     proper means were used. O, if I had the power and the means, how gladly would I
                     exercise them to save her now before it is forever too late!'
                  'I reckon it is altogether too late now,' he replied. 'I trust you will not
                     give yourself unnecessary trouble about such characters. The city is, and
                     always will be, full of such women. So wags the world, and we must make the
                     best of it. Such creatures are in all cities in every country. I have never
                     visited any city but what was cursed with them. And there are very few cities
                     in the world I have not visited. And isn't strange that I should have traveled
                     all over the world and have never seen a girl I loved before I saw you?'
                  'It does, indeed, seem strange, and perhaps you will become sick of me,' I
                     said, feeling for the moment such fearful apprehensions.
                  'O, never let me hear you express such doubts again!' he said, apparently
                     grieved to the heart. 'You wound my feelings.'
                  'Heaven forbid that I should ever do that,' I replied, regretting that I had
                     doubted his love or his honor.
                  'I know well you have no wish to do so, and therefore can pardon you,' he said,
                     imprinting a warm kiss upon my cheek.
                  We had now reached my boarding house. We alighted and went in. Aunt Tuttle was
                     up waiting for us.
                  'Well, you have come home in very good season,' she said; 'I didn't expect you
                     this hour or more. Well, I suppose you feel more happy together than you do in
                     such a crowd.'
                  'Indeed, I do,' said the Captain, smiling. 'I cannot be so happy elsewhere as I
                     am in your humble dwelling.'
                  'Ah, it is love in a cottage now, but one of these days it will be love in a
                     palace,' she replied. 'Well,' it is said, that variety is the spice of life,
                     and I think the saying is a true one; but I don't see much of it.'
                  'I don't now, but you are about as happy as any one after all,' he said.
                  'Ah, Captain, you know better than to say that,' she replied. 'I might have
                     been as happy as you are now, if a certain man who once pretended to love me
                     had not proved a very devil incarnate. If I could meet him and plunge this
                     dagger into his heart and let it drink his blood, I could die contented!'
                  She drew a dagger from her bosom and brandished it over her head, the blade
                     gleaming in the light of the lamp, and her gray eyes emitting flames of fire. I
                     was really alarmed, and involuntarily seized my lover's arm for protection.
                  'Be not alarmed, my dear,' she continued, 'This shining blade will never injure
                     any one but him. 'When he stole my money, and abandoned me, I bought this
                     instrument, placed it in my bosom where I have worn it ever since. I swore to
                     be revenged, if he ever crossed my track!'
                  She now seemed to be more calm, and speaking in a lower voice, continued. 'But
                     that was many years ago, and this blade will probably never drink his heart's
                     blood. If I had money I would have followed him to the ends of the earth and
                     got my revenge; but he stole both my heart and money. Ah, Captain, it has been
                     said that hell has no fury like a woman's hate; and that black-hearted man
                     would have believed it, if I could have found him. But no matter. Let it pass
                     now.'
                  She put up her dagger, and took two pinches of snuff in quick succession.
                  'There, Aunt, I hope two pinches will quiet your nerves,' he said, smiling.
                     'You have made a rousing speech; I think you would make a most eloquent stump
                     speaker if you would enter the arena of politics.'
                  'I shouldn't wonder if I did better than some of the men,' she replied,
                     assuming a more calm and pleasant look which I was rejoiced to witness; for she
                     had really made me feel nervous by her furious gestures and wild speaking. I
                     needed repose; for the play I had witnessed, and the strange words of the
                     mysterious girl had most seriously affected my nerves.
                  'You have done pretty well for one night, and if ever I have a difficult cause
                     to manage I will engage you to speak for me,' said the Captain.
                  'I'll do it for the fees lawyers get,' she replied, laughing, and leaving the
                     room.
                  'She is a very singular woman,' I said.
                  'She is, but after all, she possesses a good kind heart,' he replied, leaning
                     his head upon my shoulder, and gazing fondly into my eyes. 'That woman is no hypocrite like the widow
                     Topway She speaks out just what she thinks.'
                  'If I thought she was such a woman as that wily widow I would leave her house,
                     this very evening, late as it is,' I replied.
                  'And you would be doing right, my dear,' he answered, smiling, and brushing
                     back the hair from my forehead and temples. The curtain drops! We are
                     alone!
               
               
                  CHAPTER XX.
                  
                     Time waits not for man or woman. Jealousies and suspicions, the concomitants
                        of love.—An interview in the streets. Its effects upon the heroine,
                        &c.
                  
                  SEVERAL days had passed, but nothing of great moment happened, at least,
                     nothing to be recorded on these pages. I had written to Josephine; told her
                     where she would find me, and urged her to call; but she did not make her
                     appearance. I thought very strange of it; I began to suspect that she had not
                     received my letter. Beulah knew when I wrote, and offered to put my letter into
                     the post office as she was going directly past it. Not knowing where the office
                     was, I gave her the letter, and whether she had fulfilled her promise or not,
                     became quite a question in my own mind. Sometimes I heard her and the Captain
                     talking very busily together. Once I listened and thought I heard the word
                     letter named; but was not certain as they spoke low. It seemed to me that they
                     had more private interviews together than was necessary.
                  The truth is, I began to be somewhat suspicious that my letter never reached
                     poor Josephine. I concluded that the Captain and Beulah had an understanding
                     together, and that she was to take the letter and not put it into the post
                     office; but what particular reasons he had for pursuing such a course I could
                     not tell. Perhaps he might not wish me to correspond with a girl of such a
                     character. That was the most favorable construction I could put on the affair;
                     and my love was so strong for him that I would not allow myself to think evil
                     of him. He treated me so kindly, and appeared to love me so ardently, and I so
                     firmly believed that we should be married ere many weeks had passed that I
                     could not, nay, would not, indulge suspicions of his integrity and honor. I
                     loved him, and when I say that the kind reader will understand that I believed
                     he could do no wrong. Such were my feelings towards this man whose age was more
                     than double that of mine. His power over me was strange and mysterious. The
                     less he spoke of our marriage the more I was inclined to introduce that topic.
                     It seemed to me he did not converse so much upon the subject as he did when we
                     were first acquainted.
                  One morning at the breakfast table I spoke to Beulah about the letter I had
                     written to Josephine. This was several days after I had given her the letter to
                     be put into the post office.
                  'You are quite sure you put the letter into the post office, are you?' I asked,
                     gazing directly into her gray, sparkling eyes.
                  'Indeed, I am,' she replied, looking as sharply at me as I did at her.
                  I thought I discovered guilt in her countenance; and yet I feared I might be
                     doing her injustice by harboring such a thought.
                  'Well, I suppose you did,' I said. 'But it is strange I have received no answer
                     to it'
                  'Then you expected an answer, did you?' she asked, sipping some coffee, and
                     looking slyly at me over the edge of the cup.
                  'I did, and it is very strange I have not received one,' I replied.
                  'The creature's too busy to write,' she said. 'Such girls always have enough to
                     do. I fear she is not so good as she ought to be; and, perhaps, it is well that
                     she has not written you. The Captain wouldn't like to see you holding a
                     correspondence with a girl who boards at the widow Topway's.'
                  'Does he know I wrote to her?' I asked.
                  At first she hesitated, but finally said he did know it. My suspicions were now
                     somewhat strengthened; but I said no more upon the subject.
                  The next day I purchased a penny paper in which I learned that Carolus Cunard
                     had so far recovered from his wound as to be able to ride out. I was glad the
                     wound did not prove mortal, for well I knew he was not fit to die, and hoped he
                     would live and repent. I was anxious to walk out; but Aunt Tuttle and the
                     Captain also told me it would not be safe for me to promenade alone, and so I
                     never appeared out except in company with the Captain, and then always in a
                     carriage. He seemed to be afraid to have me appear in the streets, and did not
                     accompany me to any place of public amusement. Except an occasional ride, I was
                     imprisoned with this singular woman whose character grew more and more
                     mysterious the more I became acquainted with her. There was something about her
                     I could not comprehend, and yet she did not appear like a hypocrite; at least,
                     not like such a hypocrite as the widow Topway. She treated me kindly, and
                     whenever she noticed that my spirits were low, she would endeavor to revive
                     them by speaking of my marriage, and the fine mansion I was soon to become the 
                        misttess
                        mistress
                      of. I noticed the Captain appeared more and more reluctant to
                     converse upon our marriage, and his visits to me became less and less frequent.
                     Sometimes I was really alarmed lest he might leave me; but a visit from him
                     would dispel all those fears, and restore me to my usual flow of spirits.
                  One afternoon I was sitting at a window, looking out into the street, and saw
                     young Cunard standing upon the sidewalk, conversing with Captain Dunmore. They
                     appeared to be quite angry, and every moment I expected there would be a fight.
                     I gently raised the window so that I might hear, if possible, what they said.
                     My heart leaped into my mouth when I heard the young man swear he would find
                     the girl if it cost him his life. They flourished their canes, but did not
                     strike, although I momentarily expected blows would be given. Again, I heard
                     Cunard say he would expose the Captain if he did not give up the girl. And I
                     thought I heard him speak of the Captain's wife, but of that I was not sure;
                     still the suspicion almost overcome me, and I buried my hands and sobbed like a
                     child. At that moment Beulah entered the room, and anxiously inquired what the
                     matter was. I pointed into the street, but made no other reply. She looked out
                     and saw the Captain and the young man still conversing.
                  'O, don't be alarmed,' she said. 'The Captain can flog a regiment of just such
                     fellows. The fellow may flourish his cane, but he dares not strike, if he did,
                     the Captain would annihilate him at a blow.'
                  'I am not afraid of that, but I thought I heard the young man speak of the
                     Captain's wife,' I replied, gazing through my tears upon her sharp
                     features.
                  'The Captain's wife!' she repeated, laughing quite loud in a sort of hoarse,
                     cracked voice. 'The Captain's wife! Well, that beats the Dutch. I reckon if you
                     did hear that, it was news to the Captain. The young man might have said wife,
                     when speaking of you; but I guess it is all imagination. The Captain's wife!
                     Well, that may be said one of these days, but not now. I suppose the fellow feels wrathy because the
                     Captain rescued you from his power. No doubt, if I were a young man, I should
                     feel indignant under the same circumstances.'
                  'But he may carry a pistol and shoot the Captain!' I said. 'I really feel as if
                     his life was in danger.'
                  'No fear of that,' she said. 'The fellow is a coward, and dares not shoot.'
                  'O, I don't know how that may be,' I replied. He is a desperate, wicked person,
                     and may do some terrible deed.'
                  'There, they have separated, and no blows struck!' she said.
                  I was rejoiced to hear that; but I had not strength to rise and look through
                     the window. I expected the Captain would call, but he did not at that time. In
                     the evening, however, he came.
                  'Then you are not shot or stabbed,' said Beulah to the Captain, as he entered
                     the room in which we were sitting.
                  'I feel no blood flowing, or pain from wounds,' he replied. 'I believe I'm all
                     sound. But what mean you?'
                  'O, nothing, only Louise was afraid that young man would kill you when you and
                     he met to-day,' she replied.
                  'He kill me!' said the Captain. 'He knows better than to attempt that. I should
                     not be afraid to set myself up as a mark for him to fire at. He is much more
                     likely to be shot, than to shoot any one.'
                  'I told Louise he was a coward, and need not be alarmed,' she said, leaving the
                     room.
                  'Then you saw us together this afternoon, did you, my dear?' he asked, kissing
                     me.
                  'I did, and heard some things he said,' I replied.
                  A shadow suddenly came over his brow, and he seemed to be agitated; but he soon
                     rallied, and asked what I heard.
                  'That he would find the girl if it cost him his life, that he would expose
                        you and also spoke of your wife,' I replied.
                  'O, my wife, that is to be,' he said, forcing a smile. 'Yes, he raved some, and
                     said you should never become my wife.'
                  'That might have been what he said,' I answered, feeling somewhat assured that
                     I had not heard aright. 'O, Captain, I wish we were married, and could leave
                     the city awhile. It seems to me you are in danger here now, and I do not feel
                     safe.'
                  'There's not the least danger in the world,' he said. 'You are perfectly safe
                     with our friend, Aunt Tuttle. No one would ever think of coming here to find
                     you. No—no, my dear Louise, you are entirely safe here. There's not a safer
                     place in the city than this house.'
                  'It may be so; still, I feel quite nervous,' I said. 'When do you think we
                     shall be married?'
                  'O, before many weeks, soon as I can arrange some business-affairs which
                     requires my personal attention,' he replied. 'Soon as we are married, I intend
                     to take a journey to the Springs, and spend a few weeks in traveling. You would
                     like that, wouldn't you? We shall see some gay and fashionable society.'
                  'I should rather go and visit my mother,' I replied.
                  'We will go there, too, one of these days,' he said. 'Surely we must visit your
                     mother and bring her to the city. I intend she shall live with us.'
                  'I wish we could live in the country a part of the time,' I said, wishing we
                     might spend a few months in my native village so that I might surprise the
                     people and excite the envy of those proud, haughty, village girls.
                  'Perhaps we may live in the country during the summer months,' he replied. 'I
                     like the country well during the warm season. And I shouldn't be surprised if
                     we passed several weeks in the place where you were born, before next
                     autumn.'
                  'That would give me great pleasure,' I replied. 'It is a beautiful place. The
                     fields are green, the streams and lakes lovely.—There is good trouting in the
                     vicinity. Are you not fond of angling?'
                  'O, exceedingly fond of angling when I can catch such a trout as you are,' he
                     replied; smiling, and imprinting a warm kiss upon my lips. 'I think I have
                     caught the most beautiful fish that swims in any of the streams or lakes of
                     Maine'
                  'You havn't seen them all yet,' I answered, smiling. 'No doubt there are
                     hundreds, nay thousands of girls in Maine much more 
                        beauitful
                        beautiful
                      than I am.'
                  'There may be, but permit me to say I don't believe one word of it,' he said.
                     'No, no, my dear Louise. Neither Maine, or any other State in our Union can
                     furnish a girl whom I could love as I do you.'
                  'You ought to love me more than any other woman, if you make me your wife,' I
                     said.
                  'True, and so I do,' he replied, drawing me towards him and pressing me to his
                     breast. 'When I'm with you, I feel as if I had the whole world in possession
                     and need nothing besides. Strange, what true love exercises over the human
                     heart!'
                  My own heart bore witness to that. When in his presence, I felt as if my cup of
                     earthly bliss was full and running over. It seemed to me I had found the man
                     heaven intended for me. What power he had to calm my nerves and keep down all
                     suspicions, and especially when he was with me. But when he was absent, I was
                     sometimes troubled lest there might be a slip between the cup and the lip. I'm
                     sure the kind reader will not censure me if I once more draw the curtain
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXI.
                  
                     The letters from home. A mother's warnings. Caution about false promises. An
                        exciting interview. The truth told, and true characters developed. The
                        hunchback's rage.
                  
                  ON the same day I received two letters—one from Stebbins the young blacksmith.
                     I read my mother's first; but for Capt. Dunmore, I might, and probably should,
                     have given the other letter the first perusal. But, what was the love of a
                     young blacksmith to me then? True, he was the first man who ever declared his
                     passion for me; and I confess that declaration was not without its legitimate
                     effects upon my mind and heart. When I left him I almost loved him, and now
                     greatly respected him. I knew him to be a very worthy, industrious young man; I
                     judged from his letter that he did not know what I had written to my mother. He
                     spoke of his love, how much my absence had increased it, how he longed to be
                     free from his apprenticeship, that he might visit Boston, and how anxious he
                     was to see me. His letter I read with interest; but how to answer it and not
                     wound his feelings was a question that troubled me exceedingly.
                  My mother's letter was full of good advice and many sound admonitions. She said
                     marriage was a solemn contract in which my earthly happiness was involved.
                     Although she was always anxious that I should marry a rich man and believed my
                     beauty would procure such a man if brought to the right market; yet in her
                     letter she very wisely cautioned me not to let riches become the controlling
                     power, and urged me to study well the character of him who desired to make me
                     his wife, and above all she cautioned me not to be deceived by any false
                     promises. 'Beware of libertines, O, Louise,' was a frequent phrase in her
                     letter. That fear seemed to be present in her mind all the time she was
                     writing. She said the city was full of such characters, and that I must
                     constantly be on my guard and keep a sharp look out for them.
                  Many times did I read her letter over, and O, how anxious I was to see home
                     once more; but before I did I expected to be Mrs. Dunmore
                  Just after I had finished reading my letters and deposited them in my trunk, I
                     heard a knocking at the door, Beulah was out and I was alone. It was about the
                     middle of the afternoon, and I mustered courage to answer the summons at the
                     door. I ran down stairs and unlocked the door. O, what pen can describe my
                     feelings, when my eyes fell upon Carolus Cunard, the libertine and the gambler!
                     My first thought was to shut the door in his face; but I was so overcome by my
                     feelings that I had not strength to do so, and he stepped in.
                  'O, for heaven's sake do not stay here!' I exclaimed, almost frantic, and
                     scarcely knowing what I did say.'
                  'Be not alarmed,' he said, in a mild, pleasant voice. 'I came not here to
                     injure, but to do you good, if it is not too late.'
                  'How too late?' I anxiously inquired.—'What mean you? Speak!'
                  He closed the door, and asked to lead the way up stairs.
                  'O, no, I cannot go!' was my reply. 'Do let the door stand open. The woman who
                     keeps the house will soon be here!'
                  'Let her come,' he answered. 'I fear not to see her, bad as she is.'
                  'Bad as she is!' I repeated. 'O, heavens, what do you mean?'
                  'Before heaven, I swear I came not to hurt a hair of your head,' he said, in a
                     cool, collected manner. Walk up, and I will tell you all.'
                  I started up, scarcely knowing whether I was walking on my head or feet. He
                     followed me, and we sat down in the small sitting room. I could scarcely look
                     him in the face, and trembled in every muscle.
                  'Be calm, and quiet,' he said. 'Do you know the real name of the man who pays
                     your board at this house?'
                  'What do you mean?' I anxiously inquired. 'Is not his name Captain
                     Dunmore?'
                  'No, it is not, as heaven is my judge!' he replied, in a voice which seemed to
                     be that of truth. 'His name is James Hurd, and a hard case he is!'
                  'James Hurd!' I repeated, almost beside myself. 'James Hurd!'
                  I could say no more, and buried my face in my hands.
                  'Yes, James Hurd,' he answered. 'I have found out his history and his family
                     connections.'
                  'His family connections!' I repeated. 'O, my God!'
                  'He has a wife and three daughters, one of whom is older than you are,' he
                     replied. 'He is an old libertine, and I confess, I m a young libertine; but an
                     old one is most to be feared, I'm thinking.'
                  'Gracious heavens!' I exclaimed. 'Do your lips speak the truth?'
                  'I call on high heaven to witness to the truth I have uttered,' he replied. 'I
                     have been watching him for weeks, and at last saw him one evening enter this
                     house, and so concluded you were here. I'm glad I have found you, and hope you
                     will profit by the knowledge I have imparted to you.—James Hurd is an old
                     scoundrel, dyed in the wool. He is well-known in all the brothels in the city,
                     and has been for years. I advise you to escape from his power as soon as you
                     can. Make him furnish you with a good round sum of money, for he's rich and can
                     afford to do it. However vicious I may be I am not so wicked but I can speak
                     the truth.'
                  'O, my God!' I exclaimed, in the bitterness of my heart. 'Have I thus been
                     deceived.'
                  'You surely have, and I confess I intended to deceive you,' he answered. 'But
                     his power proved greater than mine. I beat the bush, and he caught the bird.
                     Tell him you will expose him, even go to his house and proclaim his guilt to his wife and daughters,
                     unless he pays you a large sum of money.—Stick to him, and you'll get it. He is
                     a mighty old rascal, and has destroyed the character of many an innocent
                     girl.'
                  I could make no reply, for my words stuck fast in my throat.
                  'And this old hunchbacked hag you board with is as bad as he is,' he continued.
                     'She once kept a brothel, but her ugly looks drove away all her customers, and
                     she was compelled to seek other employment or starve. I have found out her
                     history, also. Her character is as black as a moonless midnight.'
                  At that moment Beulah entered the house, and came bustling up stairs. As she
                     entered the room and saw young Cunard flourishing his cane in a very
                     independent manner, and myself in tears, her small gray eyes darted out flames
                     of fire, her lips quivered, and she stretched up her form to its utmost height.
                     She took an enormous pinch of snuff, and stood a moment in silence, apparently
                     preparing for some terrible outbreak. She gazed upon Cunard, and he smiled, and
                     returned her gaze. I trembled, and dared scarcely look at them.
                  'Well,' she said, taking another pinch of snuff to start her ideas. 'You are
                     not dead yet, I perceive.'
                  'No, I'm alive, and kicking,' he replied, while his eyes flashed, and his lip
                     curled in scorn. 'It takes more than one shot to knock the breath out of my
                     body.'
                  'If I had held that pistol one shot would have been sufficient,' she said,
                     planting her right foot firmly on the floor, and putting herself into a
                     fighting attitude.
                  'You hold a pistol,' he replied, manifesting much contempt.
                  'Yes, and a dagger, too!' she answered, drawing the shining instrument from her
                     bosom, and brandishing it over her head.
                  He stepped back, apparently afraid that she might prick him with the sharp
                     point; while my fears were much greater than his, that blood would be spilt. My
                     first impulse was to leave the room; but finally concluded to remain.
                  'What right have you to enter my house in my absence?' she asked.
                  'I knocked, and the door was opened, and I entered,' he replied, smiling.
                  'I will open the door and you can go out the same way you came in,' she
                     said.
                  I'm willing to go now; for I have said all I desired to say about you and that
                     hypocrite and libertine, James Hurd.'
                  'About me! James Hurd!' she repeated with flashing eye and quivering lip.
                  'Yes, about both of you,' he replied, drawing a revolver from his pocket, and
                     examining the cap. 'As you have a deadly weapon in your hand, it is but fair
                     that I should have one too. I have told this young lady that she was in bad
                     hands—that you were a keeper of a brothel, until your ugly looks drove away all
                     decent customers, and that Jim Hurd is the worst old libertine in the city. Put
                     that in your snuff-box and snuff it up.'
                  She was terribly enraged, but kept her keen eyes upon the revolver as if she
                     feared some harm might grow out of that. He noticed her fear, and became still
                     more saucy and aggravating. At last her wicked temper gained the mastery over
                     her fear, and her tongue began to move.
                  'You talk about libertines!' she said.—'Why, you are not only a libertine, but
                     a gambler also, yes, a lying, cheating gambler!'
                  'Say on, you ugly hunchbacked hag,' he said. 'I won't gratify the devil so much
                     as to put a bullet through your body and send you to him now.'
                  'Out of my house, or your heart's blood shall stain this shining blade,' she
                     said, flourishing her dagger, but keeping at a respectful distance from
                     him.
                  'Whew!' he said, smiling at her rage, and holding up his revolver.
                  'O, don't fire, for heaven's sake!' I exclaimed, in the greatest fear that
                     murder would be committed in my presence.
                  'Be calm,' he replied. 'No blood will be spilt this time, unless she approaches
                     me near enough to strike, and I think the old hunchback will not venture upon
                     that experiment. If she does I can put six bullets through her ugly body as
                     quick as you could count that number.'
                  'O, you imp of the devil!' she exclaimed, grating her teeth, and clenching her
                     hands. I won't kill you; but leave that dirty work to be finished by some of
                     your blackleg companions. Leave my house, or I will call the police.
                  'I told you I was ready to leave; but you keep talking, and common politeness
                     compels me to remain and hear you,' he said.—'Cease the wagging of your wicked
                     tongue, and I will depart from your ugly presence; for your looks almost make
                     me hate all womankind.'
                  'Go quickly, or my rage will know no bounds,' she answered; stamping her feet,
                     and flashing her eyes.
                  'Now before I go, let me say to you, Louise, get out of this den of iniquity as
                     soon as possible,' he said. 'Remain not another night with this old hunchback,
                     nor with that old libertine, Jim Hurd!'
                  Thus speaking, he hurried down stairs and left the house before Beulah had time
                     to disgorge any more of her slang. In fact she was so choked with rage that she
                     scarcely had the power of utterance. She trotted about the room, flourished her
                     dagger, and snapped her eyes, took several pinches of snuff in quick
                     succession, and breathed violently. Never before or since have I seen a woman
                     in such a rage; I was frightened and sick at heart. Some time elapsed before
                     she could speak, and I had no inclination to break the silence. It was the most
                     unhappy moment of my life; I felt as if my heart would burst, and longed to
                     sink into the earth and hide myself from the gaze of every human eye.
                  'O, what a black devil that young man is!' exclaimed Beulah, in a coarse,
                     cracked, unearthly voice. 'He is like a dog, and I wonder why I had not plunged
                     this dagger into his black, corrupt heart. Captain Dunmore a libertine, and I
                     an old hunchbacked hag. O, hell and damnation! No, no, I will not utter such
                     wicked words! But how can I halp it when such an infernal, black-hearted devil
                     as he is, lies to my very face? It seems to me now, if he should come back,
                     that I should let his gore besmear this bright blade!'
                  She ran on for some time, giving me no time to utter a word. My feelings were
                     wrought to the highest pitch of excitement. I longed to speak and ask about
                     James Hurd, but her tongue ran like a water-wheel, and she knew not when nor
                     where to stop. At last she seemed to have almost exhausted her rage, and I
                     found a chance to put in a word.
                  'What did he mean by calling the Captain, James Hurd?' I asked. 'Is Hurd his
                     real name, and has he a wife and daughters? O, for God's sake, speak, and tell
                     me nothing but the truth! Let me know the worst now, for perhaps I can endure
                     it better now than I can hereafter. Remember, I am a woman like yourself. At
                     the longest our time on earth is short, and soon we must appear in that world
                     where the secrets of all hearts will be laid open. O, as a woman, speak to a
                     woman and keep nothing back. Tell me
                     now if I am ruined! Speak the truth, and let it sink deep into my heart.
                     Better, a thousand times better that I should know it now than at some future
                     day.'
                  'Why, my dear girl, how alarmed you appear to be,' she replied, forcing a smile
                     upon her face, and some snuff into her nose.
                  'And have I not reason to be alarmed?' I asked.
                  'Not the least in the world,' she answered. 'You ought to have more common
                     sense than to believe that blackguard, scoundrel, libertine, and gambler. Was
                     he not shot at and came near being killed by one of his blackleg brothers whom
                     he had vilely cheated?—Strange that you should for a single moment believe one
                     word he uttered. He lied from beginning to end.'
                  'But why did he say that Captain Dunmore's name is James Hurd?' I anxiously
                     inquired; feeling as if he had really spoke the truth in that respect.
                  'Why did he say that?' she asked. For the very same reason that he called me
                     what he did. He is outraged with the Captain because he rescued you from his
                     cruel hands, and intends to make all the trouble he can. He means to plague
                     your very life out, if he can. He is awfully provoked, and no wonder. Almost
                     any young man would be to have such a prize as you are thus taken from him. Ah,
                     I understand the young rascal perfectly well. He would induce you to leave the
                     Captain so that he might have some chance of getting you back; but that he can
                     never do. No, no, my dear girl, be calm and quiet. Be not moved by the lies of
                     such a villain as he is known to be. Remember not a word he uttered, for all he
                     said was a tissue of falsehoods. I guess the Captain will laugh when he comes
                     to hear his name is James Hurd. O, the cunning rascal.—He was determined to
                     invent something that might harrow up your feelings. But think no more of him.
                     He'll have good luck to enter my house again. Whenever I am absent, you must
                     not answer any call at the door.'
                  Thus she spoke, and made every thing appear quite plausible. Knowing some
                     traits in his character, I had not much reason to believe what he said. Still I
                     was filled with fearful apprehensions, and desired to see my lover. Beulah had
                     done all she could do to quiet my nerves, and yet I was not fully reconciled.
                     It seemed to me there might be some truth in what he had so solemnly uttered.
                     Dark clouds began to gather about me.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXII.
                  
                     Dark clouds still gather over the heroine.—The hunchback's character still
                        deeper involved in mystery. The magic power of love in keeping down
                        suspicions, &c.
                  
                  THE Captain did not visit me that evening following the interview I had with
                     young Cunard, and the night was almost a sleepless one. I began to think that
                     he had already forsaken me, and my chilled blood crept coldly about my heart.
                     Beulah plied all her arts to keep my spirits up; but I would not be reconciled
                     so long as my lover was absent. At times it seemed to me that young Cunard had
                     spoken the truth; and yet I was reluctant to believe evil of him whom I so
                     ardently loved. Beulah's character was indeed a mystery to me; but she treated
                     me very kindly. Sometimes strange features in her character would appear very
                     prominent, and she seemed to be a very savage, ill-tempered, corrupt woman. I
                     was always disposed to put the most favorable construction upon her acts. From
                     her own story of her life I drew the inference that she had been an ill-used,
                     disappointed woman; and hence I could, I thought, account for her sudden
                     outbreaks of passion. I was not willing to believe that she was naturally
                     corrupt at heart, and yet she sometimes appeared savage, and cruel as a pirate.
                     The Captain's testimony gave me confidence in her; for I was too prone to
                     believe every thing he said.
                  The last night and the following day were cloudy ones for me. Scarcely a ray of
                     sunshine illumined my path, and my prospects for the future were dark and
                     gloomy. The words of Cunard had fastened themselves upon my memory, and
                     Beulah's power could not drive them from my mind.
                  The day wore away sadly and slowly for me. Thoughts of home, my mother, the
                     flowers my own hands had planted; the green pastures and shady groves where
                        I used to roam free as the birds of
                     summer; the school house where I learned to read; the little church where I
                     heard our humble parson preach, even the young blacksmith, all passed in review
                     before my mind's eye, and I began to long for those scenes.
                  The twilight had fallen upon the city, the man with a ladder and a torch in his
                     hand was passing from lamp to lamp, and lighting up the street; and I sat at a
                     window gazing upon the crowds passing and repassing, and listening to hear a
                     knocking at the door, for there was no door-bell. My heart throbbed, and every
                     moment I expected my lover would return, and yet I feared he might never come
                     again.
                  Thus impatiently and anxiously did I wait while Beulah was busy with her
                     household affairs. Occasionally tears would come unbidden into my eyes, and I
                     would wipe them away. A thousand conflicting thoughts rushed into my mind, and
                     the night of despair began to gather over my soul. What if he had abandoned me?
                     Suppose he never visited me again, or if he did, it was only to bid me a final
                     farewell? These questions greatly agitated my mind, and sorrow and sadness fell
                     upon my heart. A long time I remained in my chair pondering on the past and
                     trying to penetrate the veil that hung between me and the future. At last I
                     heard footsteps upon the door stone, immediately followed by knocking. I ran
                     down stairs, opened the door, and was soon in the arms of my lover. O, how many
                     thoughts and emotions were crowded into that moment!
                  'I feared you wouldn't come!' I faintly said.
                  'Why, my dear Louise, do you indulge such fears?' he asked.
                  'O, I can hardly tell; but I do indulge them, and they make me unhappy,' I
                     replied.
                  We now ascended to the stairs to the little sitting room and sat down side by
                     side My heart was rejoiced to be with him: but the words of young Cunard were
                     fresh in my memory and made me sad and sorrowful.—I hoped they were not true;
                     nay, I believed they were false and uttered only to torment me, still I thought
                     there was a possibility of their being true, and that thought troubled me
                     exceedingly.
                  'You have been well, I trust,' he said, resting his head upon my shoulder, and
                     looking fondly into my eyes.
                  'O, yes, I have been well; but O, my God, what feelings have pressed my heart!'
                     I said.
                  'My dear girl, why do you make such an exclamation?' he asked.' 'It falls
                     heavily upon my heart. Do be cheerful as I always am, when in your
                     presence.'
                  'When, think you, we shall be married?' I asked, in a voice of trembling.
                  'O, one of these days as soon as I can properly arrange my business affairs so
                     that we can leave the city, journey, and enjoy the honeymoon.'
                  'The honeymoon!' I repeated, looking him full in the face, and watching every
                     movement of his countenance. 'For heaven's sake, do tell me, if your name is
                     James Hurd!'
                  Suddenly he raised his head from my shoulder, his countenance changed, and for
                     a moment, troubled; but he soon recovered his balance, and smiling, said. 'What
                     in the world did you ask me such a question for?'
                  'I heard that was your real name,' I replied, feeling strangely.
                  'James Hurd, my name!' he repeated.—'Well, I confess that's the last thing I
                     have heard.'
                  'And have you not a wife and three daughters?' I asked, trembling in every
                     joint.
                  Again, he suddenly started in spite of all his self-control, which somewhat
                     confirmed my suspicions and made me sick at heart.—Never had I felt such a
                     heavy burden upon my soul as at that moment.
                  It seemed to me that all was lost, and that I must become a shame and a
                     reproach to my sex, and break the heart of my good mother.
                  Recovering from the embarrassment into which my inquiry had thrown him, he
                     began to laugh most heartily, and to throw ridicule upon the whole affair.
                  'Good gracious, and gracious goodness!' he exclaimed, between his fits of
                     laughter. 'Did ever any one hear such nonsense?—My wife and three
                     daughters.'
                  And again he laughed most immoderately, and once more repeated. 'My wife and
                     three daughters! That's a capital joke! I had'nt the most distant idea that I
                     was so well off in the world. A wife and three daughters! First rate! Capital!
                     I should like to see them! I wonder if my wife is handsome, and my daughters
                     beautiful and accomplished? Well, what will the world come to next? But who in
                     the city told you such a marvellous story? A wife and three daughters.'
                  And again he burst out into a fit of laughter as if he would break his
                     sides.—His laugh continued so long and so loud, that I could scarcely find an
                     opportunity to answer his question. At last I told him young Cunard was my
                     author.
                  'But where did you see him?' he anxiously inquired, looking as if he felt
                     somewhat troubled.
                  'He came to this house a short time since,' I replied.
                  'Come to this house!' he repeated.—'How under heaven did he know you were
                     here?'
                  'That is more than I can tell,' I answered. 'He came while Aunt Tuttle was
                     absent, and I let him in before I knew who was at the door.'
                  'Did he offer you any insult?' he asked, looking rather wild and
                     disconcerted.
                  'None,' I replied. 'But he said your name is James Hurd, that you have a wife
                     and three daughters, and are the greatest old libertine in the city.'
                  He rose from his chair, and walked the room in much agitation. At last he
                     stopped before me and asked if Aunt Tuttle heard him thus discourse.
                  'She did, and he accused her of having kept a brothel,' I replied.
                  'And why didn't she plunge a dagger into the foul slanderer's heart?' he
                     asked.
                  At that moment Beulah entered the room with a small lamp in one hand, and her
                     snuff-box in the other. It seems that she had been listening to what passed
                     between the Captain and me.
                  'The reason is, Captain, I did not like to besmear my well polished dagger with
                     his corrupt blood,' replied Beulah, as she entered the room.
                  'A pretty good reason; but if I had been present I think I should have choked
                     the breath from his body,' he said. 'It will not be well for him, if I happen
                     to meet the young rascal.'
                  'O, do not kill him, for then the law would take you and imprison you, and we
                     should be separated!' I said.
                  'That, my dear girl, is the only reason why I should not kill him,' he replied,
                     smiling, and gazing fondly upon me. 'But for you I would now pursue him until
                     his place in this world should know him no more, forever. He feels much
                     troubled in spirit because I rescued you from his polluting hands.'
                  'Then all he said were falsehoods!' I
                     asked, beginning to believe that he had uttered nothing but lies, base and
                     wilful lies.
                  'To be sure they were,' he replied, at the same time smoothing back my hair
                     from my forehead, and imprinting a warm kiss upon it.
                  'O, he is one of the blackest young scoundrels and the foulest liar in all the
                     city,' said Beulah, taking a fresh pinch of snuff by way of emphasis.
                  'You may truly say that, Aunt Tuttle,' replied the Captain. 'He will come to
                     some bad end yet. Such scoundrels are not fit to live or die.'
                  Some of his blackleg companions will shoot him again, and I do really hope the
                     next bullet will do better execution,' said Beulah.
                  'May your hope be fully realized,' he said. 'I think I shall cane him, if I
                     ever meet him again.'
                  'O, do not, for he may shoot you,' I said.
                  He carries a pistol always in his pocket.—He had one when he was here.'
                  'Did he show it?' he asked.
                  'Yes, and pointed it at Beulah,' I answered
                  'A very high-handed offence, and the law would make him suffer for it, if he
                     was prosecuted,' he said.
                  Beulah now left the room, and our conversation continued.
                  He remarked that Beulah ought to have him arrested and imprisoned for such an
                     insult.
                  But when I told him Cunard did not draw his pistol until she drew her dagger,
                     he said that might make some difference in the case, as he might satisfy a
                     court and jury that he acted in self-defence.
                  Finishing that subject we began to talk again of our marriage. He made the most
                     solemn promises that the time would come when we should be united in the holy
                     bands of wedlock.
                  He succeeded in making me believe that every thing Cunard uttered was false,
                     and I began to feel more cheerful and look forward to happy days. Again, I feel
                     it my duty to drop the curtain and shut out these scenes.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIII.
                  
                     Great excitement. A strange woman appears, and claims to be the wife of the
                        heroine's cover. A terrible blow is struck upon her heart. The talisman of
                        love again, &c.
                  
                  SEVERAL weeks more of my precious time passed, and still I lived with the
                     strange hunchbacked woman. No bridal day was appointed, and that much desired
                     period seemed as far off as ever. Not once had I been allowed to walk out, not
                     even to go to the post office, depending upon Beulah for every thing.
                  Beulah and the Captain made me believe it would not be safe for me to appear in
                     the streets, as Cunard or some of his spies might carry me off. Believing thus,
                     I was really afraid to go out.
                  My lover did not come to see me so often as he had previously, and that
                     circumstance gave me some alarm. His love, too, seemed to grow more cold, and
                     his promises of marriage fewer and far between, and apparently less solemn. In
                     spite of all the confidence I had in him, I began seriously to suspect that I
                     should be abandoned at last.
                  Beulah endeavored to keep my spirits up, but she was not competent to the
                     task.—Nothing but a visit from the Captain, could reconcile me to my situation;
                     and his power over me seemed to grow less as days rolled away.
                  My thoughts were continually upon the mysterious Josephine, and I wondered why
                     she had not answered my letters; for I had written to her there, urging her to
                     write, or call and see me, but neither she nor her letters came. I had received
                     another from my mother in answer to one I wrote in relation to my expected
                     marriage. I had told her his age, how he looked, and how rich he was.—She
                     cautioned me not to be deceived, and intimated that she should have more
                     confidence in an elderly bachelor than in a young man. Indirectly she approved
                     of my choice and that gave me great comfort and satisfaction.
                  
                  The sealing of the last letter I received from my mother looked as if it had
                     been broken up and re-sealed. Still I did not know, but I might be mistaken as
                     the letter came so far through the post office. Once I suggested to Beulah that
                     I thought the seal had been broken, but she said she guessed not, as the letter
                     came so far and was handled so much by the post masters that it might look so.
                     She partially made me believe her, and yet I entertained suspicions of her in
                     spite of all her art and cunning. No letter came to me except through hers or
                     the Captain's hands.
                  At times I was lonely, and wished myself back again in my native village. But
                     O, how could I see my mother without a husband! O, that thought was terrible
                     and crushed my heart to the ground!
                  'Why does not the Captain visit me more often?' I asked Beulah, one morning,
                     when three days had elapsed, and I had not seen him.
                  'O, he is busy, arranging his business matters,' she replied. 'He has a large
                     estate, and it requires a great deal of his attention. Every thing will be
                     arranged one of these days, and you will be the happy Mrs. Dunmore.'
                  'One of these days!' I repeated, while the tears stood in my eyes. 'One of
                     these days!' I have heard that so long that my patience is well nigh
                     exhausted.'
                  'O, you mustn't be too much in a hurry,' she answered. 'Every thing will come
                     round right one of these days.'
                  'The summer is now gone! O, God, if he should abandon me,' I exclaimed, at the
                     same time a knocking was heard at the door.
                  Beulah run down to answer the call, and I stood at the head of the stairs where
                     I could both see and hear. The door was opened, and a very respectable looking
                     lady stepped in and inquired if a young woman by the name of Louise Martin
                     boarded there.
                  'She left here a short time since, and I know not where she is gone,' replied
                     Beulah, in a low voice; but my ears were open to catch every sound.
                  'Louise Martin is here!' I exclaimed, rushing down stairs.
                  Beulah looked daggers at me; but my spirit was aroused, and for the first time
                     I was convinced that Cunard had told me the truth so far as she was
                     concerned.
                  'My name is Louise Martin,' I said, gazing into the lady's face. 'Do you wish
                     to see me?'
                  'I do,' she replied, taking a letter from her pocket and handing it to me.
                  'Read that and then we will converse farther upon the subject.'
                  'I have orders to let no person converse with this young lady, or permit her to
                     read any letters except they first come through my hands,' said Beulah, in a
                     trembling, excited manner.
                  'And who gave you such orders?' asked the lady.
                  'Captain Dunmore,' replied Beulah. 'He rescued her from one den of infamy.'
                  'Yes, and placed her in another!' quickly answered the lady; while I was
                     greedily devouring the contents of the letter, and Beulah was trembling from
                     head to foot.
                  'Leave my house,' said Beulah, in a high and angry tone, and attempting to
                     snatch the letter from my hand which attempt I successfully resisted.
                  'Shortly!' calmly replied the lady.
                  'Captain Dunmore will blame you for such conduct,' said Beulah.
                  'The letter was an anonymous one; stating that the lady's husband under the
                     assumed name of Captain Dunmore, kept a girl at a house, giving the number and
                     the street, and advising her to call and satisfy herself that her husband was
                     an old libertine, &c.
                  'You can read the letter, now, if you please, as the girl has finished reading
                     it,' said the lady to Beulah.
                  'O, my God, it is too true!' I exclaimed, letting the letter slip from my
                     trembling fingers and fall upon the floor.
                  'I have no desire to read the letter,' said Beulah. 'I understand where it
                     comes from. That young rascal, Cunard, wrote it. He is determined to make all
                     the trouble in his power for Captain Dunmore, since the Captain rescued this
                     girl from his hands. He lies when he says Captain Dunmore has assumed a false
                     name. He is Captain Dunmore, and nobody else. I have known him for years, and a
                     better man does not live in the city.
                  'Perhaps we can test that matter so that there will be no room for doubt,' said
                     Mrs. Hurd, for that was her name.
                  She took from her pocket a miniature likeness of her husband, and presenting it
                     to me, she continued: 'Does that resemble Captain Dunmore?'
                  I gazed upon it, my head swam round, my heart beat violently, my nerves
                     trembled, and I fell upon the stairs.
                  The picture was an exact likeness of him who had assumed the name of Captain
                     Dunmore for the hellish purpose of seducing me, and gratifying his corrupt
                     passions. The lady raised me up, while Beulah stood trembling in her shoes,
                     grating her teeth, and clenching her hands. I soon recovered my consciousness;
                     but the perspiration stood in large drops upon my brow. It seemed to me at that
                     moment I had ceased to love my seducer, and to commence hating him. A terrible
                     change had come over my feelings; such a change as I hope no other girl will
                     ever experience. I could not shed a single tear. My eyes were dry, and my voice
                     choked.
                  'I perceive you recognize the base husband; for actions speak louder than
                     words,' said the lady.
                  'O, yes, madam, it is he!' I exclaimed, in a choked, tremulous voice.
                  'It is all a lie,' vociferated Beulah. 'All done to torment the good
                     Captain.'
                  'The good Captain,' repeated the lady, while her lip curled with scorn, and her
                     eyes flashed indignation. 'The good Captain!—Would to heaven he was any thing
                     but my husband. The greatest curse of a woman's life is a false-hearted
                     husband.'
                  'And the greatest curse of a husband's life, is a false-hearted woman!'
                     screamed Beulah, loud enough to be heard out in the street.
                  'I am not accustomed to blackguardism, having never kept a house of infamy and
                     learned its billingsgate,' replied Mrs. Hurd, in calm voice, and manner.
                  'There is the door,' exclaimed Beulah, feeling very guilty, and pointing her
                     trembling finger to the door.
                  'I understand you,' said Mrs. Hurd. 'I shall go directly.' Then turning to me,
                     she continued. 'I hope and trust you will no longer be deceived by Captain
                     Dunmore. Flee from him as you would from a poisonous serpent that crosses your
                     path. His touch is worse than the leprosy. Would to heaven I had known he had
                     you here months ago. Then I might have saved you; but now I fear it is too
                     late. Escape from his power as you would from the poisoned atmosphere of the
                     Upas tree. I have long suspected him, and now I have 
                        couvincing
                        convincing
                     , damning proof of his corruption and turpitude.'
                  'O, what shall I do?' I exclaimed, in the bitterness of my feelings.
                  'Flee from his embraces as I shall henceforth and forever,' replied this abused
                     and ill-treated wife. If you want money I will give it you; but live no longer
                     with him who is your despoiler.
                  
                  'He promised, solemnly promised me marriage!' I replied.
                  'I am well aware of that,' she said. 'He passed himself upon you as a 
                        bachtlor
                        bachelor
                     , as thousands of libertines have done before him. 'You are young, and
                     yet may outlive your disgrace. God grant it may be so. I have no heart to
                     condemn you; for too well I know his power. Flee from him and resolve to atone
                     for all past offences.—Heaven knows I wish you well. Should you ever need
                     assistance, drop a line to me in the post office, and you shall have it.'
                  This good wife now shook my hand and took her leave. All that time the
                     corrupt-hearted Beulah stood listening to the words that fell from the abused
                     wife's lips. I was so weak I could hardly stand, and sat down upon one of the
                     steps, until I could somewhat rally my powers. At last Beulah assisted me to
                     ascend the stairs.
                  'It is all a farce,' said Beulah. 'And I confess it was well acted. The young
                     scoundrel, Cunard, hired that woman to play the part. No doubt, she is the
                     keeper of a bad house.'
                  'But how well she appears,' I replied.—'She must be a good woman.'
                  'Did not the widow Topway, as she calls herself, make you believe she was a
                     good woman, and a fine, charitable lady?' asked Beulah. 'Did not she appear
                     smooth and charming? 'O, I hate hypocritical ladies! They are devils incarnate.
                     I never have seen many of them in my day.'
                  'But the miniature likeness!' I said.—'That is conclusive. 'O, he must be her
                     husband.'
                  'By no means,' she replied. 'That is probably a likeness he had painted several
                     years ago, gave it to some one, and it was borrowed for the express occasion.
                     The Captain can explain it all when he comes again.'
                  Strange as it may seem, the words of this cunning woman did inspire me with
                     some hope. Now I longed more than ever to see my lover. O, if he could explain
                     all these mysteries, I should be happy once more. But, alas, how can he? And
                     yet he may do it. Cunard may have formed a conspiracy against me and the
                     Captain.—He is wicked enough to do it. No doubt, his feelings would prompt him
                     to any act which he thought would injure us.
                  During the day my mind was greatly troubled, and I thought of what I could do
                     in case all the woman told me was true.—Clouds and sunshine, but principally
                     the former, hung over me. Sometimes it seemed as if I could not live under such
                     a severe pressure of circumstances.
                  Evening came; but no lover, and I was obliged to pass another night in
                     uncertainty and almost despair. Never had I passed such a sleepless,
                     troublesome night. I found myself in the morning weak and nervous, and longed
                     for the truth, whatever it might be; for uncertainty and doubt seemed more
                     depressing to my spirits than any thing else could be.
                  Beulah struggled to keep me up and encourage me; but, alas! I had lost all
                     confidence in her. To me she now seemed to be a corrupt, wicked woman. I
                     thought I at last discovered the true traits of her character, and how ugly she
                     looked. And yet my feelings were such that I caught at any thing she said which
                     had the least appearance of reason. Like a drowning person, I seized upon
                     straws.
                  Beulah reasoned and argued the case with all her ingenuity, tact, and skill.
                     She said the woman must be false; for no wife would promise to assist a girl
                     with whom her husband was familiar. With much force and show of reason she
                     insisted upon it that such a course was perfectly unnatural. The wife would
                     hate such a girl instead of promising to befriend her. That seemed somewhat
                     reasonable to me, and gave me some hope that young Cunard and that woman had
                     formed a conspiracy against me and my lover.
                  After dinner I was sitting at the window and saw a carriage stop at the door.
                     Violently did my heart beat as I watched the driver spring from his seat and
                     open the door of his carriage. And O, what tongue can tell my feelings when I
                     saw the Captain alight.
                  I rushed down stairs as if new life had been given me, and opened the door ere
                     he began to knock for admission. He looked somewhat wild; but not so wild as I
                     did.—He caught me in his arms, and kissed me.
                  'How glad I am to fold you once more to my loving heart!' he said.
                  We ascended the stairs arm in arm. It seemed to me he could not have a wife and
                     daughters, he apparently loved me so much. Never had he appeared more fond, and
                     I almost forgot every thing while in his arms.—I was so overcome I could not
                     speak!
                  'I intended to have visited you last night, but circumstances prevented me,' he
                     continued. 'I suppose you expected me.'
                  'I did, indeed!' I replied, with a feeble, trembling, agitated voice. 'I did
                     not know as you would ever come again.'
                  'What made you cherish such fearful apprehensions?' he asked. 'You might know I
                     should come unless sickness or death prevented.'
                  I now related to him all that took place the day previous. He did not start,
                     nor scarcely change his countenance. It seemed to me he was prepared for such a
                     demonstration. Even his calmness and apparent indifference alarmed me.
                  He heard me through, and then broke out into a loud laugh. His laugh seemed
                     hollow and affected.
                  'Well, that farce was well played,' he said, laughing still louder, and patting
                     my head with the palm of his hand. 'That Cunard is full of expedients, and the
                     last trick he has played is quite an ingenious one. I will give him credit for
                     that. It was an admirably contrived conspiracy, and according to your account
                     she played her part well. The young rascal, no doubt, paid her liberally for
                     it. Well, my dear Louise, the whole affair was managed with great skill. I
                     confess as much as that; but it is all a farce, and not a word of truth in
                     it.'
                  'But, how about that miniature likeness of you?' I asked. 'It looks just like
                     you. I should recognize it in any place, or under any circumstances.'
                  'Yes, I see where your mind labors, and I wonder not at it,' he replied. 'That
                     miniature was painted several years ago for a particular friend, a cousin of
                     mine, not a lady, but a young gentleman. Cunard is acquainted with him, and no
                     doubt borrowed it for the purpose. When it was taken, the young man said he
                     wanted it for his mother, but his mother soon after died. I know it is the same
                     miniature, for there's not another one in existence.'
                  How could I resist the conclusion that all was a farce as he declared it? I did
                     so consider it, and again was comparatively happy. Our time passed pleasantly,
                     and we talked of our coming marriage. He said he intended to fix upon some day
                     before many weeks should elapse. He thought it best that I should be removed to
                     another boarding house, where I should not be so much molested. I willingly
                     consented to that; for I had become very much disgusted with the hunchbacked
                     Beulah, and lost all confidence in her.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXIV.
                  
                     An exciting interview. The artful woman and the artless maid. The awful
                        discovery. Vice, and the dreadful expiation. The reward of Industry,
                        Integrity, and Virtue.
                  
                  TIME passed, but I was not removed to another boarding house, and for reasons
                     which may be apparent to the reader.—Beulah was never half so pleasant during
                     my acquaintance with her as she was after that woman appeared and claimed to be
                     the wife of my lover. She even intimated one day to me that if Captain Dunmore
                     did forsake me, or proved to be a married man, she would take care of me.
                  It seemed to me she was preparing the way, and that my lover had provided her
                     with money for taking care of me after he had abandoned me. But these were
                     suspicions only, and yet they troubled me exceedingly.
                  I had received another letter from John Stebbins, in which he informed me that
                     he That time had passed, and he had not come I was anxious to see him, and talk
                     with him concerning the affairs in my native village. I had answered his
                     letter, and informed him where he might find me. Every day I was expecting him.
                     In my letter I was careful not to speak of love to him, but avoided that
                     subject altogether.
                  I noticed, and with the keenish anguish of heart, too, that Captain Dunmore had
                     grown more cold and indifferent, and that Beulah had become more pleasant and
                     agreeable. I was suspicious that there was some cause for these changes, and
                     was anxious to find it out.
                  should be in Boston by the first of October.
                  Beulah went so far one morning at the breakfast table as to say that men were
                     very strange creatures, and that I must be prepared for the worst. Such
                     language and insinuations alarmed me, and I pressed the inquiry whether she
                     thought there was the least danger of my lover's leaving me. She rather guessed
                     he would not; but I must not be surprised at any thing that might happen in the
                     city.
                  Soon after she had thrown out such views for my consideration, the Captain
                     came.—But he did not greet me with the cordiality he used to manifest. I
                     noticed it, and my heart sunk within me. His countenance showed that there was
                     something upon his mind which he wished to speak out, but hardly knew how to
                     commence. He was silent and thoughtful. I dreaded to hear him utter a word; for
                     I had fearful forebodings of what he might say. The tears came into my eyes. He
                     noticed them and turned away his face as if the sight was too much for him to
                     bear.
                  Neither spoke for some time. That silence was dreadful to me, and it seemed to
                     be so to him. At last I could hold in no longer, and broke the silence with a
                     voice full of trembling.
                  For heaven's sake, why are you so silent, thoughtful, and distant? I asked.
                  He turned his eyes upon me and hesitated to speak; but the expression of his
                     countenance spoke more eloquently than words could speak.
                  'O, my God!' I exclaimed. 'Speak, Captain, and keep me no longer in suspense.
                     My heart will be broken by your silence and looks!'
                  'My dear, don't you think there is too great a disparity in our years to
                     warrant us in becoming united in marriage?' he replied.
                  His words felt like iron to my soul. My head grew giddy, the room grew dark,
                     and I fell upon the floor. How long I remained I know not; but when I recovered
                     I found myself upon a bed and Beulah standing over me with a bottle in her
                     hand. The Captain sat by a window in the same room. I leaped from the bed and
                     rushed towards him. At first he thought I was deranged, and seemed to shrink
                     from me. Beulah advised me to lie down again and remain quiet.
                  'I'm strong now,' I replied, standing before him, and gazing full into his
                     face; 'I'm prepared for the worst. Let me hear what I have long feared. Do you
                     wish to cast me off? Speak, and tell me all! kill me, do any thing; but keep me
                     no longer in suspense! Do you intend to leave me and your child that is yet
                     unborn! Speak, and let me know my fate! O, God, why have I been permitted thus
                     to act? Why did I not die, and go down to an early grave before I came to this
                     city?'
                  'Be calm, and reasonable,' he said. 'You shall be well provided for.'
                  'O, yes, you may live with me as long as you please,' said Beulah.
                  A sickness came over my soul, and again I reclined upon the
                     bed. I remained silent, and thoughtful for a few moments, and wept like a
                     child; but there will come an end to weeping. My eyes became dry as if they had
                     never felt a tear, and an unseen power seemed to sustain and nerve me for the
                     emergency. Once more I rose and confronted my lover. We steadily gazed upon
                     each other, without speaking, while Beulah stood watching us with deep
                     interest.
                  'Are you a married man or not?' I demanded, in a firm tone of voice.
                  'Why, we talked that subject all over the other day,' he replied. 'And for what
                     reason do you wish to revive it again?—You do not, I trust, suppose I have
                     uttered falsehoods?'
                  'God only knows!' I replied. 'But why do you speak of the great disparity of
                     our ages now? Once I raised the same objection to our union; but you said it
                     was of no consequence where love was ardent and mutual.'
                  'Our opinions are liable to change,' he replied. 'I felt then as I talked; but
                     I confess time has wrought a change in my feelings and, consequently, in my
                     opinions.—You need not be alarmed, for you shall be well provided for. Aunt Tuttle will give you a
                     good home, and I will pay her well for it. She will treat you kindly as she
                     always has treated you.'
                  I walked the room in great excitement and agitation, and began to feel the
                     spirit of hate and revenge take the place of love. A wonderful change had come
                     over me within a few minutes—such a change as I once thought impossible.
                  How 
                        litle
                        little
                      of our own hearts do we know, until the pressure of circumstances
                     shall bring them to the test. Once I thought it impossible to hate him whom I
                     loved so deeply, so ardently; but I felt now as if he had always been
                     false-hearted, and never loved me. That feeling I could not possess and love
                     him at the same time. No, I began to know and to feel that I had been wronged
                     and abused. I was not conscious before of possessing such a spirit as now
                     agitated me.
                  'Don't be so agitated,' said Beulah, coaxingly. 'We can live happily together
                     and make money, even if the Captain concludes he is too old to marry you.'
                  'Live happily together, and make money!' I repeated. 'What mean you?'
                  'O, I mean just what I said she replied. 'You have beauty, and that will bring
                     money in this market.'
                  'Gracious God!' I exclaimed. 'Would you have me live the life of a wanton?—Do
                     you mean that, strange woman!'
                  At that moment a loud knocking was heard at the door, and Beulah opened it, and
                     there stood a woman with a child in her arms who asked if Mr. Hurd was in the
                     house. I listened and heard what was said.
                  'No such man, here,' replied Beulah, attempting to shut the door in the woman's
                     face.
                  It seemed to me I had heard that voice before, and I rushed down stairs. O,
                     heavens, what strange emotions pressed my hear when I saw that mysterious
                     Josephine Melville standing at the door with a child in her arms! The words she
                     once spoke to me came rushing into my memory. She received me cordially; but
                     there was a deep shade of melancholy on her countenance, and a strange wildness
                     in her eyes.
                  'Yes, Mr. Hurd is here, or he often comes here,' said Josephine.
                  'He is here now,' I said, wondering what would turn up next.
                  'He is not,' said Beulah, standing before the young mother, who was trying to
                     pass her and ascend the stairs.
                  'I know he is, and I must see him,' said Josephine; pressing forward, in spite
                     of the hunchback's opposition.
                  She quickly followed me up stairs, and entered the room where the deceiver
                     sat.—He gazed upon her a moment, and then cast his eyes upon the floor, as if
                     the stings of his conscience were doing their faithful work.
                  'O, you wretched, miserable man!' she exclaimed. Look into your own child's
                     face and see if there's any resemblance to his false-hearted father.
                  'The woman must be crazy,' he said, endeavoring to collect his scattered
                     thoughts, and appear cool and calm.
                  'Crazy!' she repeated. 'Yes, I was crazy when I listened to your promises of
                     marriage and yielded to your corrupt desires; but I'm not crazy now. Take your
                     child and learn it to lisp the name of father. The brutes recognize their
                     offspring, and care for them! Be not thou worse than they. Take your child and
                     beware of a woman's revenge! The time may not be far distant when you will feel
                     its scathing power!'
                  She thrust the child into his lap, and left it there. Then turning to me, she
                     continued. 'Avoid that old viper, for he will sting you at last. Perhaps we may
                     meet again!'
                  Before I had time to ask her a single question she rushed down stairs, and left
                     the house. There sat Mr. Hurd, (for that was his name) with a crying child in
                     his arms, and his own child, too! I will not attempt to describe my feelings
                     and emotions on that occasion. I sank into a chair, buried my face in my hands;
                     but my tears came to my relief. The child continued to cry, and the father
                     appeared in great trouble.
                  'Give me the brat,' said the unfeeling Beulah, taking the child, and attempting
                     to quiet it.
                  I remained silent, and let his own conscience work; for it seemed to be
                     exercising its office upon the false-hearted man. At last he rose and paced the
                     room; my eyes were upon him, and I hoped the arrows of conviction had
                     transfixed his soul.
                  'Confess, that you are a false-hearted, wicked man,' I said, in a clear,
                     distinct voice. 'Confess while it is not forever too late. Behold the ruins
                     your wicked passions have caused. I hate you, but I once loved you. I now see
                     the blackness of your heart.'
                  Just as I had finished my speaking, a knocking was heard at the door, and I
                     hastened down to answer the call as Beulah was busy with the crying child. I
                     opened the door, and there stood before me John Stebbins, the young blacksmith.
                     I knew not whether to be glad or sorry. I invited him in, and we entered the
                     room together. He was much agitated; for he saw my wild looks. I felt that I
                     had found a friend, and at a moment, too, when I most needed one. Mr. Hurd
                     still kept his chair and gazed upon us. I made some inquiries about my mother
                     which Stebbins answered; but with a trembling voice. He was evidently much
                     affected, and gazed wildly upon me. In a few moments Hurd stopped his walking
                     and stood looking upon us.
                  'The way of the transgressor is indeed hard,' said Hurd, looking as if he was
                     greatly troubled. This young man is from Maine, I conclude, and not only your
                     acquaintance, but a friend in whom you can confide.'
                  'He is so, and would to God you had proved such!' I replied.
                  'Let that pass,' he said. 'You need not wish me more trouble than I know
                     feel.—My wife has left me, and my daughters are in tears. I confess I have
                     wronged you, and all I can do to atone for the injuries I have done is to give
                     you the means of living respectably. I perceive this young man has loved you,
                     and probably does now.
                  I made no reply, but stood silent and thoughtful, while Stebbings seemed to be
                     petrified with astonishment. True, as the false-hearted man said, he could do
                     nothing but give me money. But what a meagre compensation is all the gold and
                     silver in the world for that which I had lost. And yet I was resolved to take
                     all he was disposed to give me. Again he paced the room in great agitation;
                     first gazing upon me, and then upon the young blacksmith, whom he thus
                     addressed.
                  'Meet me in two hours from this time in State Street.'
                  'I know not where that street is,' replied Stebbins.
                  'Never mind, I will be here in the course of an hour,' said Hurd, leaving
                     apparently in much hurry and agitation.
                  I was left alone with the young blacksmith, and O, how strangely I felt! I will
                     not undertake the task of describing either my own emotions or his. Many tears
                     were shed by both.
                  
                  Beulah was in her little cook room attempting to quiet the child who
                     instinctively shrank from her. It cried, and O, what anguish was in my soul!
                     The words of the broken-hearted mother came forth into my memory! I feared she
                     would commit some dreadful act.
                  The false-hearted Hurd returned, and handed me a roll of bank bills, the
                     largest I ever saw. I took the money, but returned him no thanks. It was not in
                     my heart to thank him. Had I attempted to do so the words would have stuck in
                     my throat. After giving me the money, he sought Beulah, conversed with her a
                     few minutes, and left the house.
                  Assisted by Stebbins, I departed from this boarding house where I had
                     experienced so many strange and conflicting emotions. I longed to see
                     Josephine, and addressed her a note where she might find me. Stebbins did not
                     forsake me; but endeavored to do every thing in his power to make me happy. O,
                     how grateful I felt to him for his kindness and attention while I was thus
                     disgraced.
                  Three days after I found a new boarding place. One evening, Josephine, or
                     rather, Elizabeth Moore, (for that was her name,) rushed into my room, wild and
                     frantic.—Never have I seen such an expression of countenance as she
                     possessed.
                  'I have done it! I have done it!' she exclaimed, laughing, as a maniac laughs,
                     and pulling a bloody dagger from her bosom.—'Yes, I have done it! Revenge is
                     sweet, and I have found it. I ask no more! The false man is bleeding and
                     dying!'
                  Before I had time to make a single inquiry, she was gone. The next morning her
                     body was found in the dock. She had drowned herself, not, however, before she
                     had given a mortal wound to her seducer. Mr. Hurd lingered a few days and died
                     in great agony.
                  It seemed to me I had seen enough of city life; but I dared not go home,
                     neither could I remain contented in Boston. I finally concluded to go to New
                     York. I did so, and the young blacksmith accompanied me. He would not forsake
                     me in all my troubles and misfortunes.
                  After the new year came in I gave birth to an infant whose life continued but a
                     few days.
                  We remained in New York during the following Spring, were married, and removed
                     to my native village. I had money; but O, how much like a dream did the past
                     year of my life seem! No one in the village, except my mother and husband, knew
                     my history for the last twelve months.
                  What become of Beulah Tuttle, I never knew; but, I heard that the widow Topway
                     died a miserable death. It was supposed that her negro servant had murdered her
                     and stolen much of her ill-gotten money.—She was found dead in her house, and
                     no traces of the negro could be found after wards.
                  Young Canard continued to follow the sins which so easily beset him, and was at
                     last shot in a gambling hell. Thus we see proofs on every hand that the way of
                     the transgressor is hard.
                  The story of a few brief months of my life is told. And if the reading shall
                     open the eyes of a single young man or woman to the evil temptations of a city,
                     life I shall feel myself amply rewarded for the trouble of writing it.
                  Let young ladies take warning from these pages; and remember all is not gold
                     that glitters.
                  The immortal Bard of Avon hath said:
                  
                     
                        'As surfeit is the father of much fast,
                        So every scope by immoderate use,
                        Turns to restraint; Our natures do pursue,
                        (Like rats that raven down their proper bane,)
                        A thirsty evil: and when we drink we die.'
                     
                  
               
               THE END.
            
            
               WOMAN'S LOVE.
               SOME years ago there lived upon the romantic shores of Long Island a young maiden
                  named Aileen. She was beautiful, and of noble and generous disposition.
               Nigh to her father's house resided a youth called Connor, handsome as Apollo, and
                  brave as Achilles.
               Aileen loved this youth, but was not loved in return—his affections were cast upon
                  another maiden, worthy of love certainly, but not possessing one-half the charms
                  of Aileen.
               The latter pined on in secret grief. Each day that she saw Connor go down to his
                  boat and sail out to sea, a tide of blood would rush from her heart, and leave her
                  almost fainting with excess of passion. She watched him when he sought the hills
                  with his gun upon his shoulder, and her eyes traced him up the steep mountain path
                  with a sick yet loving gaze.
               But, oh! what untold agony that maiden suffered when, in the glorious summer
                  evenings, as the sun was sinking in a golden sea, and the grey twilight was
                  creeping like a fox from the hills, she beheld Connor and his betrothed wandering
                  along the fragrant beach, with twining arms and almost touching cheeks.
               Then the gorgeous clouds that floated in the western sky, seemed to her
                  distempered fancy to change into faces that stared at her with fierce mockery,
                  while the azure heavens glowered upon her with myriads of sneering eyes.
               As time wore on, so much the deeper did her vain love eat into her soul and
                  inflame her brain.
               Connor knew not this. He knew not that the hollow eyes and pale cheek which now
                  never deserted Aileen, were all the fruits of love for him.
               
               When he met her, he was kind and gentle to the suffering girl—never dreaming that
                  each soft word he uttered planted a fresh arrow in her torn bosom.
               Nay, once even he saved her from an imminent danger, bore her in his arms to her
                  father's cottage, when, if he had but known the despair that racked her heart, he
                  would have left her to perish rather than restore her to a life which was nothing
                  but one vast long calendar of anguish.
               At last, the passion that burned within her became too great to be concealed. She
                  determined to make known to Connor her devouring secret.
               Before doing so, however, she thought she would consult the Spirit of the Hill,
                  who dwelt in a vast breezy cave, on the summit of a high mountain, and endeavor to
                  discover from him some means of winning Connor to her side.
               One starry night, when the summer dews were falling like a gentle rain, and nought
                  living was on foot save the fox and the wild cat, Aileen left her restless bed,
                  and stealing softly from the house, took the wild and rugged path that led to the
                  summit of the mountain. As she trod that broken and uncertain footway, strange
                  fancies haunted her. She walked, surrounded by a fearful mist of horrors.
               At length she reached the summit of the mountain, and wended her steps to the cave
                  where dwelt the Spirit of the hill. Large grey clouds continually veiled the
                  entrance of this solemn place, and within, the plaintive winds chanted all night
                  and day their mountain hymns.
               Aileen stood upon the rocky threshold, and with a bold and fearless voice, called
                  upon the spirit.
               A long, hollow moan, that sounded like the voice of some banished year, replied to
                  her summons.
               'Spirit of the Hill!' she cried, 'I summon thee to answer me. How shall I attain
                  either happiness or death? Tell me, thou unseen being, how to win Connor or to
                  die!'
               A moment's pause, and then the answer came from the depths of the cave in tones
                  like those of the tempest in a forest.
               'Seek the cave of Barlagh to-morrow eve,' said the voice of the Spirit, and there
                  wilt thou find rest.'
               'Thanks, thanks!' cried Aileen, as the murmurs died away along the hill.
                  'Tomorrow, then, I shall perhaps rest in Connor's arms.'
               She trod the downward path that night with a lighter step than she had known for
                  months; and, happy in the belief that heaven had at last taken pity on her
                  hopeless love, she sought her bed, and sank lightly into slumber.
               The evening sun was sinking into an amber sea, when Aileen, full of hope, sought
                  this cave of Barlagh. As she urged her little boat through the rapids with a
                  steady hand, her heart beat wildly in her bosom, and delightful visions full of
                  bliss and love floated between her and the gorgeous sky.
               That destiny would lead Connor to the ave, a nd that there, through the
                  intervention of the Spirit of the Hill, he would reward her attachment by a return
                  of the passion, Aileen felt quite assured. No shadow of misfortune clouded her
                  soul. No forbidding angel stood between her and the paradise of her imagination.
                  The foaming waves of the rapids soon brought her little skiff abreast of the
                  cavern mouth, and sweeping round the rocky corner, she was about to enter, when a
                  blue pigeon flew wildly out and almost skimmed her face.
               She started, and had scarcely time to utter an ejaculation of surprise, when a
                  loud report rang through the echoing chambers or the cavern, and she fell back in
                  the stern-sheets sheets, with her life-blood welling from her bosom.
               Another second, and a boat shot out rapidly from the dusky cave, and Connor, who
                  stood in the prow with his gun smoking in his hand, beheld with horror the form of
                  the bleeding girl.
               He jumped wildly into her boat, and lifting her in his arms, tried in vain to
                  arrest the flight of her ebbing soul.
               Then there, with that solemn cave-temple rising grandly above her head, and none
                  to lock upon her agony save Him and the golden sun—there, in that hour of mortal
                  trial, with the last energies of life quivering and flickering upon her lips, did
                  Aileen pour into Connor's ear the history of her despairing love.
               She told him of her long days of misery and sorrow, of her sleepless nights, of
                  her sick and wretched soul. She told him how deep, how ungovernable, was her love
                  for him, and how she strove in vain to conquer it, but could not. She related to
                  him how she had sought the Spirit of the Hill, and what reply he had given.
               'He was right!' she said faintly, for her voice was growing weaker each moment,
                  and the shades of death were creeping across her pale face. 'The Spirit was right.
                  I am dying in your arms, Connor; and is not that finding rest?'
               Sadly and sorrowfully did Connor hang over the dying girl. Pained by her sad
                  history, wrung with despair at having been the innocent cause of her death, nought
                  but the remembrance that he had some one to live for prevented him from
                  terminating his existence with his own hand. But he knew that there were longing
                  eyes and anxious hearts which awaited his return, and he refrained.
               Aileen was now speechless, and the coldness of death was chilling her frame. Yet
                  still her dying eyes sought his, and her white lips moved and told him, though he
                  heard no sound, that her heart was uttering a fond farewell. This lasted but a few
                  moments.—When the last sunbeam had ceased to cast its golden shadow on the heavens
                  and the ocean, her spirit fled.
               THE END.
            
         
      
      
         
            
            VERY INTERESTING.
            IMPORTANT TRIALS.
            REPORTED IN FULL, AND BY GENTLEMEN WHOSE REPUTATION IS A GUARANTEE THAT THEY ARE
               RELIABLE.
            
               PRICE 25 CENTS EACH.
               The Beardsley Divorce Case.
               The Burch Divorce Case. With Portrait.
               Trial of the Hon. Daniel E. Sickles. With Portraits.
               The Life, Trial and Execution of John Brown. With Portraits.
               The Life, Trial, and Execution of Albert W. Hicks. With Portraits
            
            
               PRICE 50 CENTS.
               The Forrest Divorce Case. With Portraits.
            
            ROBERT M. DE WITT, Publisher, 13 Frankfort St., New York.
            Copies mailed, postage paid, on receipt of price.
         
      
   
