
    ----CITATION----
        Belmont, Cara.. The City Side, or, Passages from a Pastor's Portfolio .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5775 wright2-0256
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  Captain Brown reading the paper. p. 24.
               
            
         
         
         
            
               THE CITY SIDE;
               OR, Passages from a Pastor's Portfolio.
            
            GATHERED BY CARA BELMONT.
            
            
               
                  
                     "At church, with meek and unaffected grace,
                     His looks adorned the venerable place;
                     Truth from his lips prevailed with double sway,
                     And fools who came to scoff remain'd to pray."
                  
               
            
            
               BOSTON:
               PHILLIPS, SAMPSON AND COMPANY.
               NEW YORK: 
               J. C. DERBY.
            
            1854.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by PHILLIPS, SAMPSON
                  & Co., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District of
                  Massachusetts.
               Stereotyped by HOBART & ROBBINS,
               BOSTON.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            A WHILE ago, the authoress of this work spent a month in the study of a clergyman,
               who was, at the time, absent on a missionary tour. Her duty was to transcribe certain
               documents which were to enter into an historical work, which has not yet been
               published. While thus engaged, she found the port-folio of the minister, in which
               were a number of facts on which she has based the following chapters.
            It has become common in our times to present the "Shady Side" of ministerial life,
               altogether, and the young are deterred from entering the sacred calling from the fear
               that want and starvation will soon stare them in the face. This work aims to correct
               this notion, and show that the ministry, though it has its dreary spots and its shady
               sides, has its allurements and its attractions; that there are churches that do not
               feel it necessary to starve their ministers in order to keep them humble. Without
               appealing to worldly ambition, its humble mission will be to cherish Christian
               emulation, and make the ministry appear desirable.
            
            It has also become common for churches to expect as much of the minister's wife as of
               himself, and, in the recent works of this kind, she is made to figure
               conspicuously at sewing circles, visiting the sick and the poor, attending public
               meetings, and, in some cases, appearing "much more of a man than her husband." Our
               object is to present the minister himself. His companion will be left at home, where
               she belongs, attending to her family. Park-place church did not ordain her, and they
               never will accustom themselves to call on her for services which should devolve on
               others.
            The authoress is sure, that however poorly she may have succeeded in her work, the
               object she has in view will commend her little book to every Christian heart, and
               that the motive which prompted her to intrude upon the public will gain
               for her pages an attentive perusal.
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. THE TWO FRIENDS, 9
               
               CHAPTER II. THE HAPPY WEDDING, 27
               
               CHAPTER III. DR. LANGLEY AND THE ORDINATION, 49
               
               CHAPTER IV. THE AGENT, 67
               
               CHAPTER V. VISITING THE PEOPLE, 74
               
               CHAPTER VI. THE BABY, 84
               
               CHAPTER VII. THE REVIVAL, 89
               
               CHAPTER VIII. THE GOLD WATCH AND SILVER BASKET, 100
               
               
               CHAPTER IX. MRS. BEMENT, 106
               
               CHAPTER X. JENNIE SINCLAIR, 112
               
               CHAPTER XI. THE COME-OUTER, 124
               
               CHAPTER XII. DICK HOSMER, 130
               
               CHAPTER XIII. THE POLEMIC, 139
               
               CHAPTER XIV. THE STOLEN SERMON, 145
               
               CHAPTER XV. LETTERS FROM THE HOLY LAND, 152
               
               CHAPTER XVI. THE GOLDEN WEDDING, 163
               
               CHAPTER XVII. THE ELECTION, 166
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. THE UNFORTUNATE SERMON, 177
               
               CHAPTER XIX. EDWARD DEVOLL, 186
               
               CHAPTER XX. DEATH OF LITTLE SAMMY, 212
               
               CHAPTER XXI. THE SINGULAR LETTERS, 220
               
               CHAPTER XXII. THE SABBATH-BREAKER, 227
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. KATE UPHAM, 241
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. THE CONVENT ESCAPE, 244
               
               CHAPTER XXV. DEATH OF DEACON HOBSON, 260
               
               CHAPTER XXVI. THE FUGITIVE, 265
               
               CHAPTER XXVII. THE MINISTERIAL CONFERENCE, 275
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII. CONCLUSION: A SCENE AT THE PARSONAGE, 294
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The city side, or, Passages from a pastor's portfolio
            
            THE CITY SIDE
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE TWO FRIENDS.
               
                  
                     
                        Hope's precious pearl in Sorrow's cup
                        Unmelted at the bottom lay,
                        To shine again when, all drank up,
                        The bitterness should pass away.
                     
                  
               
               AT the close of a sultry day in August, 18—, two young men were seen sitting upon
                  the shore of a beautiful bay which forms the harbor of one of our most pleasant
                  New England cities. They had been brought together in childhood, and had grown
                  into manhood with scarcely a secret withheld from each other. They had pursued a
                  course of education in the same classic halls, and graduated at the same time,
                  with no common honors. Their friends, teachers and classmates, were anticipating
                  for them a career of usefulness and fame.
               Elwood Forester, with whom we shall have most to do in this narrative, was a noble
                  spirit, who had never felt the heavy sorrows of the world. He was the only son of his mother, and she a widow.
                  Every wish had been gratified, and every desire promptly met. He had passed
                  through college as a genius, flattered by his teachers, and beloved by all. Though
                  not profound in his acquirements, he was well-educated, having a fine literary
                  taste and well-cultivated mind. Ardent and impulsive, he pressed through
                  difficulties and overcame obstacles which would have discouraged men of a
                  different mould, and secured his victory when others would never have risked the
                  battle. He was, in a word, a generous, noble young man, who had just left college
                  with the world before him.
               His companion, Edward Devoll, was, in many respects, the reverse of his friend.
                  There was no brilliancy about him. His nature was cold, calculating, methodical.
                  He was a utilitarian, who weighed and measured subjects before he committed
                  himself to them. Of unbending integrity, and having a mind well stored with
                  knowledge, he held in check the fiery impulses of his friend, and was his adviser
                  and counsellor on almost all subjects of life.
               These two friends had wandered from the busy city, in earnest conversation upon
                  the great objects and occupations of life, and almost unconsciously had reached
                  the sea-shore, were the surf rolled up, leaving pebbles and shells, wet and
                  glistening, at their feet. They had both devoted themselves to the ministry of
                  Jesus Christ, and were now marking out plans of future usefulness,—alas! too many
                  of which were to be disappointed.
               "See," said Elwood Forester, "our life is like this in-rolling ocean. To-day it is
                  calm as a summer cloud; to-morrow it may howl with storms and shriek with the
                  flying tempest."
               "Very true," replied his companion; "and yonder old wreck lying there may be the
                  likeness of one or the other of us. Life is a vast uncertainty, and shipwreck
                  seems to be an essential part of it. Many a young man starts in his profession
                  well, and fails ere he reaches the goal.
               "And does he not forget too often the guide which Heaven provides for him? My
                  experience is small, but I fear young men too often make the ministry a
                     profession, as you call it, and forget that it is a noble mission,—a
                  work reaching into eternity, and taking hold of the most momentous realities. I
                  cannot look upon the ministry as I do upon any other employment. My soul trembles
                  as I think of entering it, and enrolling my name among the preachers of the cross.
                  My ambition dies as I look forward to the awful work to which I feel called of
                  God.
               Yes, Elwood, it is an awful work on which we propose to enter. It is not a mere profession; and
                  woe to him who, for selfish purposes, dares to enter it!"
               "So I have always felt. You know how long I struggled against the call of duty,
                  and my proud heart has often murmured against the decision which I made under the
                  overwhelming light which flashed upon me when I gave myself to God. But my
                  prospects are bright; and, though I would have chosen the bar, yet I hope to be
                  happy in the ministry; and, though I may win no laurels for my own brow, I hope to
                  win souls for Christ."
               "Yes, Elwood, your prospects are bright; but be careful. You have received a call
                  to a large congregation in a flourishing city; friends will wait on your
                  footsteps, and you will have enough to inflate a heart naturally proud and
                  corrupt, a spirit naturally prone to evil. Be on your guard, for you will have
                  dangers. I go to a scene of rural, quiet, far from city life, far from exciting
                  and perplexing trials, and, perhaps, far from the comforts which will surround
                  you."
               "Thank you, dear Edward," replied Elwood, as a tear rolled swiftly over his manly
                  cheek; "thank you for your mild reproof. My wayward heart has by far too much of
                  this world in it; but my daily prayer is, and has been for years, that I might be
                  crucified with Christ. I have much to learn, much to suffer, perhaps; but I trust
                  in God."
               These two young disciples of the blessed Saviour had passed through college with
                  honor, but Elwood had received a far greater share of the world's favor. His
                  eloquent discourses, his warm, earnest oratory, his open, frank deportment, had
                  won for him golden opinions from all the churches he had visited; and, as soon as
                  he received his diploma, a deacon of one of the largest churches in the land—that
                  of Camberwell—had placed in his hands an invitation to become the pastor. This
                  call he had decided upon accepting, and was spending a few weeks with his friends,
                  ere entering upon his duties.
               Edward Devoll, with a more profound knowledge and a more extended acquaintance
                  with classic literature, but with less grace of oratory, and less fascinating
                  address, had received a call from the church in Oxford, a quiet village a few
                  miles from the great city where his friend was soon to draw admiring crowds of
                  auditors. He had more knowledge than Elwood, but far less ability to apply it to a
                  practical purpose. He was one of those men who need to be tried long, and worked
                  hard, and afflicted much, to bring out the noble qualities which, under a somewhat
                     rough exterior, lay buried like gems
                  beneath a barren, sandy plain.
               We left them sitting on the sea-shore, conversing on sober themes. While we have
                  been speaking of them, the conversation has changed, and we listen.
               "Well, Elwood, your choice is not a happy one. A minister's wife should not be an
                  ornament or a plaything. She should not be all heart or intellect. She needs a
                  strong physical constitution, and a power of endurance, Which, even in a city,
                  will be taxed to the utmost. She must have a power of self-control which will
                  enable her to bear reproof, and listen to the most provoking remarks, without
                  being broken or crushed beneath them. But you have chosen a flower from a
                  greenhouse, which has been nurtured with the greatest care, and reared with a
                  gloved hand. The rude winds of autumn will scatter the leaves and wither the
                  beauty."
               "O, folly, Edward! The parish in Camberwell have not called a minister's wife, and
                  I have never agreed to carry one with me. Our elder brethren have done wrong in
                  allowing half the duties of the church to fall on the shoulders of the better
                  half. I shall set a better example; so give your fears to the wind."
               "You may ridicule my fears, but you will find it to be as I have said. Hundreds
                  have argued as you have done, and mourned at last. Why, there is our friend
                  Henlee, whose young wife, under the privations and cares into the midst of which
                  he took her, faded and died in a single season; the gifted and accomplished wife
                  of Dr. B— raves in a mad-house; Mrs. T. has a broken-down frame and a weary tread,
                  so constant have been her toils. These are facts, Elwood; and I fear you are to
                  add another to the list of sufferers."
               The young man addressed sat a while in deep thought, and replied, "I know Anna
                  Brown is young, light-hearted and inexperienced; but she is gifted, beautiful, and
                  will at least make me a happy home. As for the church, they do not pay her, and
                  they must not expect to have her services."
               "All poetry, Elwood," responded Devoll, "all poetry, as you will find ere the
                  heavy cares of the ministry have been upon you a single year. Learn by experience,
                  if you will; but my advice would be to you, never take Anna Brown into a
                  parsonage. She is no more fit for the weary life of a minister's wife—no better
                  adapted to bear up against its trials—than a sensitive plant is to withstand the
                  night-storm."
               "Go on, Sir Croaker," quickly replied the
                  young man, evidently a little troubled by the pointed remarks of his friend.
               "I am no croaker, but speak forth the words of truth and soberness. If you were
                  rich, and could take your bride to 
                     'Tents of ease and thrones of power,'
                   no one would be better adapted to adorn your home and make you happy than the
                  one you have chosen. She is genteel, refined, educated and beautiful; a splendid
                  ornament for the parlor of a millionaire, but a poor helpmeet for a poor
                  minister."
               "Perhaps you mistake, Edward, the character of the lady of whom you speak; you
                  must allow me to be the best judge of her qualifications. She may
                  surprise and disappoint you, after all. You know Ann Hazeltine, the young, gay,
                  cheerful bride of Judson, the martyr, whose marriage to a missionary all looked
                  upon as a sacrifice. She nobly rose above the evils of her lot, her gentle soul
                  expanding with the sorrows which came crowding upon her, and her strength
                  increasing with the power of new afflictions. Others may do the same; and I, for
                  one, will believe and hope."
               "More poetry, boy. Beware lest you wed a Harriet Atwood, rather than an Ann
                  Hazeltine, and as soon mourn her loss. I tell you, a minister's wife, as well as a
                  minister himself, should have a frame of iron, and nerves of steel."
               "Come," said Elwood, "let us return to the city; the night comes on;" and a shade
                  of sorrow overspread his fine features. The words of his friend had saddened his
                  spirit, though his judgment was unconvinced, and his heart unchanged.
               With arms locked together, the two young men returned slowly to the city. The
                  subjection which they so much disagreed was dropped, and a new one introduced.
               "The prospect of furnishing ministers for this land and the world, from all
                  existing sources, is small indeed, Elwood; but God, who knows the wants of his
                  people, will look out for and take care of his church. He will raise up men to go
                  into his vineyard and toil for the sheaves of the harvest."
               "True, but may he not, to punish her for her sins, allow her ministers to
                  decrease, and many a pulpit to be empty?"
               "Perhaps so, and if he does in one place, or at one time, withhold men from his
                  work, he will make up all deficiencies in other places and at other times.
               
                  
                     
                        'God moves in a mysterious way,
                        His wonders to perform;
                        He plants his footsteps in the sea,
                        And rides upon the storm.'"
                     
                  
               
               Thus conversing, the two young men drew near to the crowded city, where resided their friends,
                  and where they had spent their childhood days.
               
               Leaving the young men to pursue their way, we plunge into the tide of whirling,
                  heaving, ever-restless life, which surges along the streets, and soon arrive at
                  the fine mansion of old Captain Brown, who, having retired from active life,
                  enjoys a comfortable independence, and is one of the most respected citizens of
                  this fine old city by the sea. The mansion is on one of the aristocratic
                  streets,—a fine-fronted brick house, with noble porch, and door well mounted with
                  shining silver, giving to every passer-by a very pleasant idea of the easy
                  opulence of the owner. Captain Brown had for many years been engaged in the
                  East-India trade, and had amassed a comfortable, though not extensive fortune, and
                  was now enjoying it. He was a professor of religion, but a somewhat worldly one,
                  and allowed temporary considerations to outweigh, oftentimes, the vast affairs of
                  eternity. He looked well to this world, hoping that the next would take care of
                  itself. His heart was always open, his hand free in the distribution of his gifts,
                  and his house a home for travelling ministers, political lecturers of his
                     party, and sailors of all climes and ages. On the whole, he
                  was what the world would call a "right clever fellow." His family consisted of his
                  wife, a woman whose piety shone like a steady star, whose mild disposition was
                  never disturbed by storms, and whose duty, seemed to be to love God, do good, and
                  take care of her husband,—the latter seeming to require the most time, if not the
                  most interest; a wild, rattle-brained son, who had talent enough, but no end and
                  object in life; who, though addicted to no specific vices, managed to spend large
                  sums of money, and whose stock in trade was a rifle, a fine yacht, a hound, and a
                  fast horse, whose chief virtue was that he would "go by anything in town;" a
                  daughter of eighteen years of age, the light of the proud mansion, and the object
                  of admiration among the young men generally.
               It may not be improper to give some description of this latter person, as she will
                  occupy an important position in these pages. Anna Brown was educated at the
                  seminary in Charlestown, and, had enjoyed various facilities for becoming
                  acquainted with the world. Engaging in her manners, prepossessing in her personal
                  appearance, with an amiable disposition, she had grown to early womanhood with a
                  heart unchilled by the frosts of time, and a spirit unbroken by adversity and
                  grief. Except when gentle Willie, a little brother, died, some years before, she
                  had scarcely known what it was to weep.
                  She combined in her nature the mild, amiable temper of her mother, with the lofty
                  independence and generous aspirations of the father. A little time before our
                  story commences, she had embraced the Saviour, and submitted to the ordinance of
                  Christian baptism; and, in the church of which she was a member, there was no one
                  whose heart was more pure, or whose life was more circumspect. She had three
                  suitors, who nearly at the same time requested her to share their lot through
                  life. The first was a lawyer of some ability, but more presumption; with some good
                  prospects, but more bad habits; and he met with a decided refusal from the old
                  gentleman, and a more decided refusal from the lady herself. The second was an
                  opulent merchant, some ten years older than Anna; and his case was urged by the
                  father, and discouraged by the daughter. The third was Elwood Forester, the pastor
                  elect of the church in Camberwell, who seemed to have the prospect of success.
               On the evening following the afternoon when our young ministers were introduced to
                  the reader, the whole family of Captain Brown were gathered around the old
                  gentleman, who, in his way, as he was accustomed to do, expounded a portion of
                  Scripture, in which he mingled nautical phrases with theological terms, until it
                  was impossible to tell whether he was giving instruction in navigation or
                  theology. The old family Bible being closed, conversation turned on a variety of
                  themes, among which was the choice made by Anna.
               "The day that Anna marries a minister, I shall bury her," said the old man,
                  petulantly; for, though he loved ministers, he loved money more.
               "She will bury herself," chimed in Robert, the spendthrift son. "Poor Forester was
                  a good fellow once. He stood at the head of his class in college, but he has lost
                  his pluck. He looks, in his white cravat, as tame as that dog! hey, Rover?"
                  patting the hound on the neck.
               "There," said Captain Brown, "is Livingston, with his seventy-five thousand
                  dollars, and an income of ten thousand a year, who is willing to lay it all at the
                  girl's feet; but she chooses a bankrupt minister, who will be tormenting me for
                  'loans', every six months."
               "O, father!" said Anna, "Mr. Livingston is over thirty years of age, has a bald
                  head, six nephews and three nieces, and has the rheumatism from October to June.
                  He would make me a very respectable father."
               The old man grumbled to himself a while, and added, "You are throwing yourself
                  away, my daughter. The lot of a minister's wife is the last which I would wish you
                  to choose. I have educated cated you for
                  a different position in life, and cannot endure the idea that you should give
                  yourself up to your romantic notions, and refuse a man who can carry you on a tide
                  of wealth through life, whatever its changes may be, and select another who has no
                  wealth, no home, no patronage, and whose life will be a checkered scene, at best.
                  Yes, you are throwing yourself away, and —"
               "Dear father, stop! Is it throwing myself away to connect myself with a man of
                  cultivated mind and noble gifts, of large heart and brilliant genius,—a Christian
                  minister of unsullied name? Is it a disgrace to share the lot of such an one,—to
                  go with him to the hovel of penury and want, to sit with him beside the bed of
                  sickness, to sit up late for him at night, to wake for him early in the morning,
                  to live in his society, and, if need be, to suffer with him? Mr. Livingston is
                  rich; but he would take me to a home of luxury and ease, and I should sit, day
                  after day, sighing for something to do worthy of the noble lessons you have taught
                  me, with all which I have studied and acquired unused and unprofitable."
               "Anna is right, husband," said a mild, pleasant voice. "God does not call her to
                  hide her light, or bury the faculties he has given her. My selfish heart would
                  keep her here, or load her with wealth; but my conscience, my heart, my God,
                  whisper, 'Let her go;' and we do wrong to draw her back."
               "Pugh! duty in marriage is not consulted," exclaimed Robert. "Anna consults her
                  taste, as I did in purchasing Rover. Let her go it! She will know the difference
                  between a parsonage with a leaky roof and unhinged doors, and a fine house with
                  ten thousand a year! What think you, Rover?"
               "Well, well, drop it," petulantly exclaimed Captain Brown, while a large tear
                  gathered in his eye and rolled down his cheek, but was dashed away with a rough
                  hand and an uneasy gesture.
               Anna moved away, singing, with a sweet, cheerful voice, 
                     
                        "My father's house on high!
                        Home of my soul! how near,
                        At times, to faith's discerning eye,
                        Thy golden gates appear!"
                     
                  
               
               Bob, as he was familiarly called, waiting until the stanza was finished, began to
                  repeat those words of the wanton poet,
               
                  
                     "For glances beget ogles, ogles sighs,
                     Sighs wishes, wishes words, and words a letter;
                     And then God knows what mischief may arise,
                     When love links two young hearts in one fetter."
                  
               
               In these conversations we see the reason why so few men enter the ministry. The
                  very men who love the cause of Christ
                  look upon one who enters the sacramental host as an heir of trouble and sorrow,
                  and the victim of early death. Old men teach their daughters not to wed a
                     minister; young men deem the preacher a lost man,—one who has thrown
                  himself away; and even ministers themselves come to consider their lot the hardest
                  and most desperate among men. Books are printed and newspaper articles are written
                  to show that the life of a minister and his wife is one of uncheered and
                  unalleviated hardship. This is not so. The lot of a minister; in any community,
                  will have its trials; so will any other station in life. But the position of the
                  minister, if he be ordinarily successful, is not to be despised. There are joys
                  and hopes, pleasures and rewards, connected with it, which any mortal, or an angel
                  from the throne of God, might wish to possess.
               It is a continual presentation of the dark side of ministerial life which prevents
                  many young men from entering it, and being useful in the service of Christ. They
                  dread to enter a work which promises nothing but a continual scene of privation.
                  Their friends, soured by the same view, hold them back, and they go into other
                  professions, trampling the call of God beneath their feet.
               So Captain Brown felt, when he found his young, cheerful daughter, the sought of
                  many admirers, about to ally herself with a man whose life must be one of drudgery
                  and suffering. That he respected Elwood, and would have been proud of him had he
                  been in any other profession, cannot be doubted. Whenever he visited his
                  hospitable mansion, he was kindly received, the softest chair was brought for him,
                  and the ripest fruit set before him; and the old man seemed more cheerful when the
                  young preacher was present, discoursing briskly on some theme of law, life or
                  logic, and forming a centre of attraction, not only to the mother and daughter,
                  but to the rough old man and the wayward Bob. But the idea that Elwood Forester
                  should take his daughter to Camberwell, and expose her to the ill-usage which
                  ministers' wives sometimes receive, even in cities,—drag her out to sewing-circles
                  and maternal meetings, set her up as a mark for envy and malice, and lay her, in a
                  few years, in a grave unwatered by parental tears, and far from the scenes of her
                  youth,—was one which he could not embrace.
               The truth is, he had been badly educated in these matters, and had a perverted
                  view of the life his daughter was to lead, He arrived at the same result, with
                  respect to Anna's fortune, as did Edward Devoll, though by another process. That s
                  he would ever fail from any lack on her own part, he did not believe. Parental
                  fondness blinded his eyes to the few
                  faults she had, and led him to look upon her as a perfect being, committing her
                  first great indiscretion by marrying a minister. The mother took a wider, less
                  selfish view, and rejoiced that her daughter was to be the companion of one so
                  well fitted to her, and was to accompany him to a city where she would be useful
                  in the cause of her divine Master; and every night as she retired to rest, and
                  every morning as she rose, she breathed a prayer that grace might be given Anna
                  for her work in the service of "OUR FATHER WHO ART IN HEAVEN."
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               THE HAPPY WEDDING.
               
                  
                     
                        Then come the wild weather, come sleet or come snow,
                        We will stand by each other, however it blow;
                        Oppression and sickness and sorrow and pain
                        Shall be to our true love as links to a chain.
                     
                  
               
               THREE months rolled away, and a bright light burned in the parlor of Captain
                  Brown. The chill November night was rendered pleasant by a lively fire, which
                  sparkled and blazed in the grate, throwing out strong and brilliant beams, which
                  illuminated the portraits which hung on the wall, and seemed to render them things
                  of life. Old Captain Brown sat in the centre of the room, with his feet in a
                  chair, and a pile of papers on the table, which he examined slowly, running his
                  eye over the "ship-news" first, and then passing to political reports and
                  speeches. His wife sat at a distance, in her old arm-chair, knit, knit, knitting,
                  as if her life depended on getting the heel turned that very evening. Anna, with a
                  flush on her cheek, and arrayed in a style scrupulously neat, seemed to have
                  extraordinary interest in getting the
                  room well arranged, the fire well blazing, and her father in a state of the
                  greatest good-nature. Bob and Rover had gone to the club-room, where some
                  frivolous subject was to be discussed.
               "Ah, Nanny!"—as he sometimes called his daughter—broke out the old gentleman, in a
                  manner so boisterous that Anna almost dropped the porcelain vase she was dusting,
                  and the old lady stopped knitting, "here is something of interest to you. Here, in
                  the Camberwell Courier, is a statement, which I will read:
               "'We learn that the First Church in this city has extended a unanimous call to Mr.
                  Elwood Forester, a recent graduate, to become pastor. He has preached several
                  Sabbaths to this people, with great acceptance. He is said to be a man of high
                  attainments and great eloquence, and promises to make one of the most
                  distinguished pulpit orators in our land. Judge Williams and Luther Wealthy, Esq.,
                  were on the committee to forward the call. It is understood that Mr. Forester has
                  accepted, or will accept, the call so heartily tendered, and which is echoed by
                  the promise of so large a salary. The church propose to remodel the house of
                  worship, procure a new bell, and get a new organ. When all these improvements are
                  made, the First Church will be in an excellent condition. We wish that influential
                  church of an influential sect much prosperity.'
               "Well, after all," said the captain, "I do not know but Anna is right. The young
                  man will have a good start, and—"
               "A good wife," chimed in Mrs. Brown.
               "Yes, yes, that he will,—hey, Nanny?"
               The person thus addressed blushed, and made no reply, but pursued her
                  occupations,—arranging the chairs, though they were not out of place; dusting the
                  furniture, though there was no dust on it.
               A ring at the door-bell interrupted the pleasantry of the father and the
                  employment of the daughter, and in a few minutes Elwood Forester was ushered in.
                  He was greeted with a hearty. shake of the hand from Captain Brown, a gentle
                  "good-evening" from his wife, and a modest yet pleasant salutation from Anna; and,
                  in a few minutes, was in brisk discussion with the captain on matters of state and
                  national policy.
               "I cannot reconcile myself to the passage of such a law," said Elwood. "Its
                  provisions all seem to me to be so heathenish, that I could not assist in its
                  enforcement."
               "There is no other way for a true patriot to do. If it becomes a law, it must be
                  enforced while it remains on the statute-book. My feelings are not Northern, but national, and while I am an American
                  citizen I shall support the laws of America, right or wrong."
               "That may be very good reasoning for a politician, sir, but not for a Christian.
                  Any fugitive-slave law interferes with the natural rights of man, with the
                  dictates of religion, and with the common instincts of humanity."
               "Pugh! it is all a false liberality which argues so, and a false philosophy which
                  refuses to obey reasonable laws."
               "I do not see how such a law can be called wise and reasonable. There is but one
                  case in all the history of nations where such a law was made, and that was in the
                  dark ages. Our law-makers wish to rival the most barbarous legislation of the
                  world, and enact an infamous statute, which will be the disgrace of our age."
               Mrs. Brown here folded her work, and, with a significant nod to her husband, moved
                  out of the room. The captain, after one or two ineffectual attempts to defend the
                  proposed fugitive-slave law, gathered up his paper, and, with a pleasant
                  "good-night" to Elwood, retired to his study, and left our young friends
                  alone.
               Mr. Forester had offered himself to Anna some time before, and she had waited for
                  her father's full consent, which had at last been obtained; and the suitor had
                  come this evening to receive her final decision. For a long time they conversed
                  together upon the prospects before them; the sunny and the shady sides were
                  reviewed, and at a somewhat late hour the conference was broken up by Anna, who
                  placed a sealed package in the hand of her friend, with a request that it should
                  not be opened until he arrived at home.
               On reaching his own house, Elwood broke the seal and read these simple words, to
                  which was appended the name of Anna Brown, "Where thou goest, I will go: where
                  thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my
                  God."
               
               We pass over a few days, and a happy party assemble in the family mansion of
                  Captain Brown, who is as busy as he ever was on shipboard, and as cheerful as he
                  ever was on arriving at port. Carriages roll up to the door, and out come the gay
                  young people, who anticipate so much pleasure. Even Bob has resolved to be civil,
                  and render himself agreeable to all; and Edward Devoll has come to the conclusion
                  that his friend's choice is not so bad, after all.
               In a moment the noise is hushed and the confusion dies away to a profound silence,
                  as the doors open, and Elwood Forester, with Anna Brown leaning upon his arm, stands before the
                  minister, a gray-haired man, who knew the parties before him ere either of them
                  could repeat the Lord's prayer, or whisper their own names. With slow and measured
                  voice he pronounces the words of an impressive formula, and adds. "What God hath
                  joined together, let not man put asunder," which is responded to by a deep and
                  fervent Amen, from many warm, gushing hearts. Tears and smiles mingle together,
                  and the whole occasion is one of unspeakable interest. For an hour or two the
                  company remain together, and then one by one depart, each leaving an honest kiss
                  on the cheek of the blushing bride.
               
               The morning dawned clear, bright, cold. An autumnal wind swept along the streets
                  of the city, and moaned over the broad, beautiful bay. In the first train of cars
                  which flew like lightning from the station-house was Elwood Forester, and his
                  young bride, who was now to enter upon scenes new and strange, yet pleasant and
                  profitable. She was to disappoint all the forebodings of those who had little
                  faith in the beautiful and the true-hearted, and was to prove a noble companion
                  for a faithful minister of God.
               For a while, not a word was spoken. Each one, happy in the thoughts which came
                  thronging into the mind, was willing to look out over the future, to count its
                  signs or promises, and to gather strength for possible and probable calamities. At
                  length Elwood broke the silence, and said: "Does not your heart sink within you,
                  as you leave the place where you have passed so many happy hours, and enjoyed so
                  many precious privileges?"
               "No, I counted the cost before I concluded to leave one home for another!"
               "But, if you should find the lot of a minister hard and cheerless, and that of his
                  companion full of privation, would you not sigh for the dear scenes from which you
                  are now passing away so rapidly?"
               "Try me, love, and see if I have uttered the solemn words of my marriage covenant
                  in vain!"
               "O, I know you will stand the trial well, and forgive me if I have raised a doubt
                  of your fitness for the situation! And yet, I would not have you dream that the
                  position to which you are going will be one of unalloyed pleasure. If all the
                  experience of my older brethren in the ministry teaches anything, we have reason
                  to fear that our lot, like that of others, will have some elements of sorrow
                  mingled in it."
               Thus he continued to speak, to prepare the mind of his bride for the life of a
                  city parsonage, giving her a somewhat curious description of persons and places with which we shall meet
                  hereafter, and the first fifty miles flew by in a space of time incredibly
                  brief.
               At a station on the road, a gentleman and lady entered the car, and taking seats
                  immediately in front of the young couple, entered into brisk and interesting
                  conversation, which those who occupied adjoining seats were compelled unwillingly
                  to hear.
               "I should think," said the gentleman, "a minister would know enough to leave his
                  people when his usefulness is done. I have not been edified, for many months, with
                  the preaching of Mr. Mason, and from the present time shall withhold from him my
                  support."
               "So should I," chimed in the lady, "and our church is in the same condition with
                  yours. We have been endeavoring to get rid of Mr. Henderson for two years, but
                  have not succeeded yet."
               "Ah, what is the trouble with Henderson? I thought he was universally liked."
               "He was popular; but his wife has been dreadfully imprudent, and he
                  has justified her course."
               "What's the matter?"
               "O, dear, everything!"
               "Is she a mischief-maker?"
               "No."
               "Is she extravagant?"
               "I should hardly think she was."
               "What, then, is the charge against her?"
               "Why, she keeps company with the lowest people in town, and even went to poor
                  drunken Cobb, and asked him to sign the pledge."
               "Keeps company with the lowest people in town!"
               "That is, the poorest! Why, the other day, when the sewing-circle met at Esq.
                  Johnson's, Mrs. Henderson did not arrive until the company was about being called
                  to tea; and, when taken to account for her tardiness, excused herself by saying
                  that she had been making up widow Blake's bed!"
               "Some persons would commend your pastor's wife."
               "The unrefined might, but our church want in the wife of a pastor womanly
                  dignity."
               "Womanly dignity!"
               "Yes, sir; a pastor's wife whose chief occupation is making beds for poor persons,
                  and patching garments for indigent children, must neglect the culture of the
                  young, ladies, who expect her to be a pattern of refinement."
               "Do the members of the church generally complain of the course pursued by Mrs.
                  Henderson?"
               "The paying members do."
               "I think they are wrong. We complain of our minister for the reverse of this. He visits the rich only, and the poor live
                  and die, as far as he is concerned, without the benefit of the clergy."
               "Perhaps we had better exchange Mr. Henderson for Mr. Mason," said the lady,
                  laughing at her own wit.
               "I surely think, if Mr. Henderson were at liberty, our church would avail itself
                  of his services; and in Mr. Mason you would have a man who would never know a
                  mechanic in a frock, or descend to the ungenteel act of visiting a pauper."
               "But how is his wife?"
               "O, like him."
               "Well, that would be better than what we have now, for we cannot endure what some
                  people call a female philanthropist. But I forgot to ask you if you
                  had heard the news."
               "What news?"
               "The Camberwell church has, at length, secured a minister."
               "Who is he?"
               "A young man named Elwood Forester, just from the Institution."
               "Ah! and a fine fellow he is."
               "Do you think so?"
               "Surely I do; he has preached for us several times, and is universally
                  admired."
               "I have formed a different opinion of him. He seems to me to be superficial and
                  shallow."
               "Your judgment, I must think, is unjust. How many times have you heard him?"
               "Only once."
               "I should hardly venture to form an opinion of a man from one discourse."
               "But he is so different from Dr. S. and Prof. B.; they are so profound, you
                  know."
               "Well, Forester has not the learning of either of those men, but he has much more
                  preaching ability. I have learned that dulness is not always depth. Prof. B.,
                  though a learned man, is a dull man, lives in his mouldy books, and is out of his
                  place in the pulpit."
               "How can you say so?"
               "Because it is so! Forester will do a vast deal of work while Prof. B. is putting
                  on his spectacles, and I am glad he is going to Camberwell. Is he married
                  yet?"
               "He was to have been, last evening."
               "To whom?"
               "To a daughter of that rough old sailor, Captain Brown, who a few years ago was so
                  praised for humanely saving a crew from a vessel on fire."
               "I remember him, but am not acquainted with his daughter. Will she make Forester a
                  good wife?"
               
               "I think not."
               "Why not?"
               "She is a flirt."
               "How do you know?"
               "I saw her at a picnic, a while ago, and became convinced from observation."
               "I am sorry for that."
               "So am I, and I think it strange that ministers cannot have some little judgment
                  in the selection of their wives."
               But we pause to inquire who these persons are. The gentleman is a member of a
                  church which has a most devoted minister Mr. Mason, his pastor, is a student, a
                  man who loves his study, who reads, thinks, and descends deep into sacred
                  mysteries. His wife loves him fondly, and stays at home to keep him company.
                  Hence, he is called a proud man, who does not love to visit; and the people, who
                  know not his worth, are endeavoring to drive him away.
               The lady is a member of a church a few miles distant. She seems to entertain a
                  mortal hatred to ministers' wives; probably from the fact that she has endeavored
                  to captivate five young preachers, failed in each case, and is a maiden after all.
                  Her minister is a most excellent man, of large heart. His lady is like him, full
                  of love and good works. Her deeds of noble nature are called unwomanly, and her
                  efforts to save the lost are said to be wanting in dignity.
               As Elwood Forester heard his wife pronounced a flirt by one who did not know her,
                  a hard sentence struggled for utterance; but he checked it, and turned with a sad
                  smile to her into whose eye a tear had come, in spite of herself, and said, "You
                  see what you are coming to. I hope there are few such women as that at
                  Camberwell."
               "It takes all kinds of people to make a world, you know, dear husband; and what
                  should we do without these people, who so kindly inform us that ministers are
                  superficial, and their wives are flirts?"
               Elwood laughed at the turn given to matters by his wife, and, as they commented
                  upon what they had just heard, the train of cars whirled into the dépôt at
                  Camberwell. As the young couple rose to leave, Elwood placed respectfully in the
                  hands of the gentleman whose conversation had been overheard his wedding card,
                  bearing the names of "Mr. and Mrs. Elwood Forester;" upon which the lady tattler
                  gazed, biting her lips with shame and mortification, while her companion, who had
                  expressed so favorable an opinion of the pastor elect of Camberwell, evidently
                  enjoyed her discomfiture.
               On leaving the cars, the young minister was met by good Deacon Brayton, who had come with a carriage to take the couple to
                  the fine house which had been fitted up for them. All was confusion and busy
                  anxiety, in the midst of which Mrs. Forester was introduced to a few friends, and
                  hurried away to the new house, half unconscious of the position in which she was
                  placed, and the new duties which devolved upon her. In a few minutes the carriage
                  stopped at a neat and beautiful residence, in a quiet street, in a retired section
                  of the city. A few friends had assembled to bid, the pastor and his wife a hearty
                  welcome; and, on being ushered into the parlor, he found the church had kindly
                  furnished the whole tenement, provided all the necessary articles for household
                  use, and even prepared a dinner, which was then smoking on the table. The whole
                  had been under the superintendence of Mrs. Brayton, a lady of polished manners,
                  kind heart, and great energy and perseverance. She had busied herself for a few
                  weeks in arranging the furniture, providing all the conveniences of a
                  well-furnished house, and now everything gave evidence of her taste and skill. The
                  parlors, the sleeping-rooms, the halls, the dining-room, and, most important of
                  all, the study, were well arranged, and the first words of the
                  youthful wife were, "O, I shall be so happy here, you are all so kind!"
               Mrs. Brayton led the way to a toilet-chamber, where the new comers were prepared
                  for dinner; and, in a few moments, all were seated at the table. At the head sat
                  the minister; at his right was his wife; opposite, doing the honors of the
                  occasion, was Mrs. Brayton; and on each side of her were Lizzie and Ella, two
                  beautiful daughters of Deacon Turner who had been waiting all the morning, full of
                  fun and frolic, to see the minister's new wife; while Miss Dennier, a young lady
                  who was about obtaining the reputation of an "old maid," acted as servant for the
                  occasion,—Margaret, the Irish girl who had been engaged, not having arrived.
               Order being obtained, the blessing of God was asked and thanks returned, and never
                  from fuller hearts than on that occasion. The dinner-hour passed away very
                  pleasantly, in animated and cheerful conversation.
               "I shall depend on you, Mrs. Brayton, for advice in all household matters," said
                  Mrs. Forester. "You live so near that I can come and plague you with my questions
                  often."
               "She is expert in all manners and customs prevalent among the Camberwellians,"
                  said Ella; "but for her, you would have found a sorry welcome."
               "We are very grateful," said Mr. Forester. "The labor of preparing the house we expected would fall on us, and the expense
                  also, and the church has generously defrayed all."
               "O, if you begin to talk of gratitude, Mr. Forester," added Mrs. Brayton, "we
                  shall retire; for all the ladies in the society contended for the
                     privilege of doing just what I, with the assistance of these
                  madcap girls, have done."
               The kindness of the people made a deep impression on the mind of the minister. He
                  had expected to find a few articles in the house, and just enough furniture to
                  meet the wants of the family for a few days; but here the parlors were nicely
                  completed, sofas and chairs were provided, and two or three beautiful engravings
                  hung on the wall. In every other part of the house the same care had been used to
                  provide everything which could be needed.
               Dinner being over, and Margaret having arrived, the kind entertainers slipped away
                  to their homes, leaving Mr. Forester to arrange his plans, and prepare for his
                  ordination, which was to take place the following week, and which, even on the day
                  of his arrival, began to engross his thoughts. The first hour after the departure
                  of Mrs. Brayton, the young family was left alone, but, at the expiration of that
                  time, Deacon Turner called, and was introduced to Mrs. Forester. He was a man of
                  the kindest disposition, and always "stood by the minister." Though not an active
                  man, he was very reliable, and to every pastor was a most valuable friend.
               "I called," said the deacon, "to see if I could do anything for you."
               "Thank you," replied Mr. Forester; "the people seem to have done all, and we have
                  nothing to do but to sit down and enjoy it."
               "Glad of it, glad of it. Old Parson Niles used to tell the Oxford people that a
                  kind people makes a good minister."
               The deacon rose to go, and, as he passed out, gave the minister a hearty shake of
                  the hand, and left a large gold piece there, for which the recipient could only
                  stammer out his thanks. It was so delicately done, that no opportunity was given
                  for a refusal, and the deacon was gone.
               He had scarcely disappeared when a car-man rolled up a barrel of flour, saying, "I
                  am to leave this here!"
               "I think not,—I have not ordered it."
               "Does not Rev. Mr. Forester live here?"
               "He does," said Elwood, blushing at the prefix to his name, which as yet hardly
                  belonged to him.
               "Then this is the place."
               "Who sent it?"
               
               "I was told not to tell;" and the flour was rolled in.
               About tea-time, Mrs. Bement called to introduce herself. She was a coarse woman,
                  who interfered with the business of every pastor, and who, though a member of the
                  church, gave little evidence of ever having felt the power of religion. Her
                  husband was a very good man, but of narrow abilities and little energy. His wife
                  ruled him with a rod of iron, and her counsel always prevailed in all family
                  matters. They had several children, who, though possessed of some talent, were
                  vain, quarrelsome, and exhibited every unwomanly trait of character which
                  distinguished the mother. This family was identified with all the troubles in the
                  church, and had long been a source of mischief among the people. Mrs. Bement
                  introduced herself with the interesting salutation,
               "I come to see how our new minister looks."
               "Glad to see you," was the reply; and an introduction followed, the lady being
                  careful to give an estimate of the esteem in which she was held, the influence she
                  possessed, and a hint as to the importance of her family to the welfare of the
                  minister.
               "I am sorry the people are not more united in you, Mr. Forester."
               "I did not know there were any divisions!"
               "O! there are no divisions; but some folks like to be contrary, you know."
               "The call was reported to me as unanimous."
               "So it was; but Mr. Gilman—who, you know, is not much—said he hoped you would not
                  accept it; and some other persons had doubts as to the propriety of the action of
                  the church."
               "This is news to me. I must see Mr. Gilman, and—"
               "O, not for the world! it would make trouble. You must not mention it; and, if you
                  do, my name must never be disclosed."
               Elwood made no reply, but resolved that the whole should come out, and that the
                  worst should be known. His visitor soon after took her leave, with a smirk and a
                  smile, urging the minister to make the first call on her. When she was gone,
                  Elwood turned to his wife, whose tears had gushed out, and whose heart was clouded
                  with this little sorrow, and said, "I have an insight into the character of that
                  woman. She is one of the disturbers of the peace; and, though I have never seen
                  her before, and have never heard her name, we have reason to avoid her. The less
                  we associate with her, the better."
               "But what a man Mr. Gilman must be! Did he not vote for you?"
               "Yes."
               
               "How, then, do you explain his conduct?"
               "I cannot but believe Mrs. Bement has misrepresented him."
               "Why do you think so?"
               "Because, when I have seen him, he has ever met me with the greatest kindness, and
                  he bears on his open countenance the marks of sincerity."
               Just then the door-bell rang, and Mr. Gilman was announced. He entered with a
                  pleasant smile on his countenance, and an extended hand.
               "Just in time," said Forester, as soon as the formality of introduction was over;
                  "I have been wishing to see you."
               "What for?"
               Elwood then related the conversation he had just had with Mrs. Bement, gave fact
                  for fact, statement for statement, and, as far as possible, word for word.
               "Slanderous, mischief-making woman!" exclaimed Mr. Gilman. "She planted thorns in
                  the way of our late pastor, and it seems she has begun to sow them in yours. I
                  will tell you whence all this arose, and right glad am I that I called so
                  opportunely. One day, just previous to the reception of your answer to our call,
                  Mrs. Bement called at my store, and, on my expressing a wish that we might hear
                  from you speedily, she replied,
               "'Mr. Forester will not come here.'
               "'Why not?'
               "'Because he has long contemplated a foreign mission, and his heart is set on an
                  Eastern field.'
               "'O, well, if that is the case, I would be willing to resign him; and, if God
                  calls him to India, I hope he will refuse our call, though it would be sad for
                  us.'"
               Is that all?"
               "Every word; and, my young brother, you will find in Camberwell no warmer friend
                  than I will prove to you."
               Elwood grasped the hand of his parishioner, while the warm tears of gratitude
                  streamed down his cheek, and fell on the friendly hand which held his own; and
                  from that moment there was a tie between the two which death itself did not
                  sunder. This interview removed the cloud which hovered over the dwelling of the
                  clergyman, and brought sunshine again to that newly-established fireside.
               The evening was spent in the formation of plans, broken by the friendly calls of
                  several persons, who asked, with real earnestness, "Can we do anything for you?"
                  and the hour of retirement came, bringing with it the pleasant duty of setting up
                  a FAMILY ALTAR, at which the husband and the wife kneeled together, and poured out
                  their fervent supplications. Thus ended the first day of the pastorate at Camberwell; a day well representing
                  years which were allotted to the happy couple in the city; a day of sunshine,
                  which was dimmed, now and then, by a passing cloud.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               DR. LANGLEY AND THE ORDINATION.
               
                  
                     
                        The proud he tamed, the penitent he cheered,
                        Nor to rebuke the rich offender feared;
                        His preaching much, but more his practice, wrought
                        A living sermon of the truths he taught.
                     
                  
               
               THE church in Camberwell was in a reduced condition at the time of which we have
                  been speaking. It had been rent by internal divisions, and assailed by various
                  influences from without. But the crooked and unhappy materials had gone away, and
                  were rendering other churches miserable, and the old, venerable body was left
                  without a single uneasy, jealous family, if we except that of which Mrs. Bement
                  was the female head. There were also in the city three other churches of the same
                  order. The Federal-street Church was a large, flourishing body, with more members,
                  but less real stability, than the First Church, which hereafter we shall call the
                  Park-place, from its location. The pastor at Federal-street was a person of some
                  years and ability, but a proud, jealous, overbearing man, who was disposed to
                     demand unusual respect and deference
                  from his brethren. He loved to hear his church spoken of as Dr.
                  Langley's; and, though the honorary title had never been conferred, he encouraged
                  his people to bestow it upon him. He was popular in his own society, because he
                  had a peculiar way of turning everything to his own advantage, and driving away
                  all who could see through his hollow devices, and rebuked them. His church was a
                  sort of religious theatre, where a funeral was performed one Sabbath, and a
                  wedding the next.
               The pastor of the Prescott-street church was Rev. Mr. North, a young man of great
                  excellence, though not a great preacher. He was loved for the excellent traits of
                  character which he possessed and developed. The other church was small, and, at
                  the time of Elwood's settlement, was destitute of a pastor, though Mr. Tucker, a
                  young man from a distant state, was preaching as a candidate, and was afterwards
                  settled.
               That Dr. Langley viewed the entrance of Elwood Forester into the city with any
                  degree of approbation, we could not say. He was afraid to compete—if preaching
                  side by side could be called competition—with the young, earnest, enthusiastic
                  theologue, who came to the pulpit fresh from the laurels of commencement-day.
               Meeting, one day, Deacon Brayton, of Park-place place Church, Dr. Langley said to
                  him, "Deacon, why did you call so young a man to fill your pulpit?"
               The deacon was a man of much thought and few words. He replied, at once, "We think
                  he will make us an able minister."
               "Do you not think Mr. Ford would have done better for you?"
               "No, sir."
               "Nor Mr. Wyman?"
               "Neither of them; they are both good men, but we did not want them at
                  Park-place."
               "You know Mr. Forester follows an able doctor of divinity, a man of years and
                  large experience, and will labor under many embarrassments."
               "True; but we think he is equal to the work, and shall try to sustain him."
               "Well, that is right; but I am afraid he will break down."
               The minister passed on, and soon met Mr. Tuttle, and accosted him:
               "Well, you have called a new minister, I hear."
               "Yes, yes,—a right smart one, who will take the wind out of your sails, doctor,"
                  said the blunt old fellow, willing to plant a thorn in the side of the doctor's
                  vanity.
               "Ah, I have been in Camberwell six years,— too long to fear young gifts;" and, with a merry laugh, the six-years' pastor
                  turned away.
               On the Sabbath following the arrival of the new minister, he did not preach. He
                  sat in the large old-fashioned pulpit, and listened to his friend Edward Devoll,
                  who came up on Saturday to assist him. Devoll had been ordained, a few weeks
                  previous, at Oxford, and was one of the pastors of the immediate vicinity. Not
                  being a remarkably pleasing orator, he did not receive so much attention as he
                  would have done under some other circumstances. The people were disappointed in
                  not hearing their own minister, and not a few used the holy day to scan his
                  features, and those of his young and beautiful wife. The minister's pew, and the
                  corner of the pulpit, were honored with more glances than the preacher, who
                  plodded on through a valuable discourse, which was sadly injured in delivery.
               In the evening the people assembled in the large, spacious lecture-room, which was
                  fuller than usual. The young minister who had filled the pulpit during the day
                  read a chapter from the Epistles of the great apostle to the Gentiles, and the
                  pastor elect arose to speak. He dwelt upon the history of Paul, his memorable
                  life, and his entire devotion to the work of the ministry. Beautiful reference was
                  made to the words of the man of God, where he says, "God forbid that I should
                  glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ;" and all present understood the
                  delicate allusion to the circumstances in which the speaker was then placed.
               The next Wednesday was the day fixed for the ordination. The council, composed of
                  delegates from the churches in the city and vicinity, met in the morning. Dr.
                  Langley was made moderator, and Edward Devoll scribe. The doctor opened the
                  business of the occasion by a pompous speech, in which he was careful to refer to
                  the fact that he had been in the ministry many years, had had much experience,
                  and, of course, though he did not say so, young men must yield to him.
               The candidate for holy orders being called on, Mr. Forester arose and gave an
                  affecting relation of his Christian experience, tracing the convictions of the
                  Holy Spirit from the time that his mother taught him to lisp the name of God. Then
                  he passed along to years of youthful waywardness and folly, when he neglected the
                  soundest advice, and pursued a course of sin. But grace called him to the
                  footstool of mercy, and drew him to his highest duties. With rapture he described
                  his case as a lost sinner, near despair, saved by grace, and repeated the charming
                  stanza of Watts: 
                     
                        "Jesus sought me, when a stranger, 
                        Wandering from the fold of God;
                        He, to save my soul from danger,
                        Interposed his precious blood."
                     
                  
               
               
               Then followed the call to the ministry, which was said to be a solemn conviction
                  that duty required him to preach, solemn providences which pointed out the path,
                  the general conviction of friends, and a fear to enter on any other
                  pursuit.
               When asked if he had endeavored to come to these conclusions, he replied:
               "No; I have endeavored to drive them from my mind. I was educated for the bar; I
                  wished to enter the legal profession; but God has forced me to the pulpit. I must
                  preach. Woe is me if I do not!"
               The statement of doctrinal views was very clear; the wondrous truths of revelation
                  were plainly stated, to the unusual satisfaction of the council, except Dr.
                  Langley, who entered into a cross-questioning, in which the candidate once or
                  twice completely "floored" him, to use a phrase common among politicians.
               The ordination was in the evening, and a crowd filled the spacious edifice.
                  Sermon, charges, prayers and songs, were, as usual, all admired. Dr. Langley gave
                  a somewhat funny charge, out of which the points were projecting in all
                  directions; and Edward Devoll tendered the fellowship of the churches in a spirit
                  so tender and subduing, that not a tearless eye was seen in the house. Everybody
                  wondered how so cold and mathematical sort of a man could so melt and sway the
                  hearts of others.
               The services closed, and Mr. Forester went out of the pulpit an ordained minister,
                  the pastor of a large and influential church, And with heavier cares upon him than
                  had ever rested there before.
               The week was spent by the young pastor in diligent preparation for the services of
                  the approaching Sabbath; and Park-place people generally denied themselves the
                  privilege of calling, that he might not be disturbed. The morning of the Sabbath
                  came, as lovely a morning as autumn could boast, and Park-place Church was
                  unusually full. The morning sermon was on "the reciprocal duties of pastor and
                  people;" that in the afternoon was upon a more general topic—"the glories of the
                  Gospel." Each was treated with much skill, and gave great satisfaction. Deacon
                  Brayton was in ecstasies; Deacon Turner followed the minister to his door; Mr.
                  Tuttle rubbed his hands and exclaimed, to each one he saw on his way home, "That
                  sounds like it;" and even Mrs. Bement bustled along to Mrs. Forester, and
                  whispered in her ear, "Don't let them spoil your husband!"
               That evening, as Elwood sat leaning back in his chair, with his wife sitting by
                  his side, a ringing of the bell announced a visitor, and soon Mr. Watson was
                  introduced.
               
               "Who is Mr. Watson?" said the minister to himself. "That is a new name."
               "My name is Watson," said the new comer. "I have heard you preach to-day, and
                  liked you very much, and came in to talk with you."
               "I am glad to see you, Mr. Watson. Where do you attend church?"
               "I am not a member of any church, though I hope I know what grace is."
               Mr. Watson was a tall, thin, cadaverous-looking man, with a black, rolling eye,
                  which never seemed to be fixed, but went wandering about; and, from the first, Mr.
                  Forester did not like his appearance, but he politely said:
               "Have you been long in Camberwell?"
               "About five years. When I first came, I attended Mr. Langley's meeting, but he was
                  not up to the times; and then I went to Mr. North's, and I now think of making
                  Park-place my home. But I wish to know how you are on morals."
               "O, I hope my morals are good!"
               "No, no; I mean how do you feel about preaching morals?"
               "I think every minister should preach morality; indeed, he cannot preach the
                  Gospel without it."
               "Nor I; that's just my doctrine exactly; but what do you think of slavery?"
               "It is an awful evil."
               "Well, could a man, according to your view, be a Christian and hold a slave, under
                  any circumstances?"
               "I think he could."
               "I am sorry to find you cherishing such an opinion. I hoped you was up to the true
                  standard on this subject. I am afraid you will impede the progress of the car of
                  reformation. We need men up to the times."
               Elwood was silent, for he wished his visitor would leave him, for he saw at once
                  that he would be of no value to Park-place; and soon Mr. Watson, with an
                  unceremonious movement, reached for his hat and bowed himself out, with the pious
                  hope that "Mr. Forester would get enlightened."
               Nearly opposite the residence of the minister was that of Mr. Farwell, who, with
                  his wife, was a member of Park-place society, but making no profession of
                  religion. They had two daughters, one of whom was a sweet child of eight years.
                  Soon after Mr. Watson had retired, Kate Farwell slipped in, saying, "Mother said I
                  might come in and spend half an hour with you."
               Anna folded the child in her arms, and, though it was the evening of the holy
                  Sabbath, welcomed her; for, to tell the truth, she was a little lonely with
                  Elwood, who was too weary to converse.
               "Is your mother well, Kate?"
               
               "Yes—no—she has been crying," innocently answered the child.
               "Has she?" said Anna, not daring to ask the reason.
               "Yes, and she cried at what Mr. Forester said about the Saviour, who came into the
                  world to save sinners. She says that she is a sinner; but I don't think so, she is
                  so good. Father told her not to cry, but to come over and see Mr. Forester."
               "Why did she not?"
               "She wanted to, but was afraid to."
               "Mrs. Farwell must be convicted of sin," said Anna to her husband.
               "Convicted!—what is that?" said the child. Anna did not explain, and the innocent
                  creature ran on with her childish strains.
               "O, I will tell you something," and the eyes of the little one brightened, "if you
                  will not tell. Mother went into the library and kneeled down, and prayed, just as
                  Aunt Ruth does. I never saw her before, and when she was done she leaned on the
                  chair and cried again."
               "What did your father say?"
               "He said he could almost cry too. My father never cried. Is it half an hour, Mrs.
                  Forester?"
               "Yes, dear, your half-hour is gone; and, if your mother told you to return at the
                  expiration of that time, you had better go. I will stand at the door until you
                  have crossed the street."
               With a warm kiss on the cheek of Anna, and a happy good-night to Elwood, the
                  light-hearted creature threw a shawl over her head and ran home, taking with her a
                  little tract, entitled "Come to Jesus," which the minister told her to carry to
                  her mother. When she was gone, there went up to God from that little family circle
                  such prayers as are seldom offered, for her whose soul was struggling in the heavy
                  chains of sin, and who was endeavoring to find him "of whom Moses in the law, and
                  the prophets did write."
               Early the next morning, a servant of Mr. Farwell brought to the door a large
                  basket of pears, with a little note from Mrs. Farwell, requesting Elwood to visit
                  her during the day. As soon as visiting hours arrived, he crossed the street, and
                  was admitted by Mrs. Farwell herself, whose smiling countenance gave ample
                  evidence that sorrow had endured but for a night, and that joy had come in the
                  morning. She gave him a full relation of her religious feelings for the last
                  twenty-four hours; described her deep, awful sense of sin her view of Christ as
                  her atoning Saviour, her present joy, and her strong hope in God. Tears of
                  pleasure flowed down her cheeks, while the minister, who found his labors blessed
                  so soon, could not restrain his own. He
                  wept with joy, that God should, so early in his ministry, make him the instrument
                  of saving a soul from death.
               The winter passed away in the performance of the usual duties of a newly-settled
                  minister, and the spring came without any unusual events. Park-place Church was
                  increasing in prosperity, and every Sabbath the young minister saw before him new
                  faces, and every week was permitted to welcome new friends. Dr. Langley was at his
                  wits' ends, and some new contrivance did he have every Sabbath to keep his people
                  from the old, venerable edifice in Park-place. But, ere the spring opened, the
                  tide was setting so strongly toward the new pastor, that his house was full, and
                  no seats were to be obtained. The church was happy, the minister and his wife were
                  happy, and prosperity crowned every endeavor to advance the glory of God. A few
                  letters written from Camberwell by the pastor's wife will show how matters were,
                  and how the pastor was succeeding in his new field of exertion.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Camberwell, April 10, 18—.
                           
                           "DEAR, KIND MOTHER: There is but one thing needed to make my lot as
                              near perfect bliss as earth can bring us. Could I remove my dear
                              parents and Robert to Camberwell, I should ask no more. That would
                              fill up my cup of pleasure, and make me satisfied. But, as this cannot
                              be done, I try to be content.
                           "I am happy now, for I am useful, and the little I can do for the
                              glory of God, and the good of my fellow-creatures, is appreciated.
                           "The members of the church are very kind. They have filled our house
                              with comforts, and our hearts with love, and every day seem to be
                              attached more and more to Elwood. They listen so attentively to his
                              preaching, and seem so determined to profit, that it does me good to
                              look over the assembly and behold the evidences of absorbing interest.
                              And, indeed, mother, I fear I am becoming proud of my husband. His
                              discourses give such general satisfaction, that my estimation of his
                              abilities—which, you know, was very high—is much higher than ever. The
                              other night, he preached the 'Union Lecture,' which was truly
                              eloquent, though I say it myself. The people went out of the house
                              delighted, and everybody but Dr. Langley spoke in praise. The next
                              morning, several gentlemen came to request a copy for the press; but
                              Elwood positively declined.
                           "In my household matters I am getting along very well. My girl is an
                              excellent one, and Mrs. Brayton lives close by, and I go in and get
                              her advice on disputed points. You do not know how kind this lady and
                              her husband are to us. They
                              show us such delicate attentions that our hearts are often affected.
                              Indeed, everybody is kind to us, but how long it will last. I cannot
                              tell. Mrs. Bement, a very funny woman, was in last evening, and I was
                              telling her of the kindness. of the people; and she advised me to make
                              the most of it, for the tide would soon begin to flow out, as it is
                              now flowing in. She made me sad, but it was all over soon, and I
                              ceased to doubt this generous and devoted people.
                           "But I am making a very long letter, and must draw it to a close. My
                              whole heart will go with it to your cheerful abode, and my spirit will
                              sit by when you read it, and when you pray for your daughter,
                           
                              ANNA."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Camberwell, May 1, 18—.
                           
                           "DEAR FATHER: Wish you a happy May-day, and, as I cannot spend it with
                              you, I will send you a poor letter to compensate for my absence. I
                              wish you were here to see me, this bright, beautiful morning. It would
                              be a complete punishment for your doubts as to my being happy as the
                              wife of a devoted minister of Jesus. A view of our present] felicity
                              would be heaping coals of fire on your head, for your opposition to my
                              marriage with Elwood. But I suppose you have repented of that, as you
                              told me in your last letter that the wealthy suitor, whose hand you
                              were so willing to force upon me, had failed and gone west, 'poor as a
                              crow,' as you term it. Ah! these papas do not always see with clear
                              eyes about these matters.
                           "But you must come and visit us, and we will introduce you to
                                 our parishioners. Some of them you would like very
                              much. There is Mr. Carlton, one of our four deacons, an aged man, who
                              would delight to sit down and converse with you. He is a firm friend
                              of Elwood; he calls my husband 'the young Timothy;' and, were Timothy
                              of Scripture memory to come to earth, he could not attach more
                              importance to his mission. The deacon is a real, genuine,
                              old-fashioned Christian, and his wife is like him. You would love them
                              for their many excellences, and for their real, unaffected piety. A
                              long letter would not be long enough to describe the kind families we
                              have all around us here, all anxious to make us happy. Why, instead of
                              the lot of a minister's wife being hard and tedious, as you used to
                              tell me, it is delightful. It consists of holy hopes, holy duties,
                              holy pleasures.
                           "Do come up and see us. It will make you so happy to see us happy, and
                              you will change some of your opinions about the life of a minister.
                              From your daughter,
                           
                              ANNA."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               On the day this letter was written, Dr. Langley met one of the members of
                  Park-place Church, a good, sensible, honest mechanic,—Mr. Osborn,—who had
                  accumulated some property, and was a much-respected citizen. The following
                  conversation ensued between the divine and the layman:
               "Well, Mr. Osborn, was you at church yesterday?"
               "Yes, sir; I usually attend."
               "How was your congregation?"
               "Very large; scarcely a vacant seat could be seen in the house."
               "Surely; was it an extra account?"
               "No; it is so every Sabbath."
               "Well, can you tell me how it is done?"
               "Done! done! It is done by faithful preaching and hard work."
               "I have been afraid your minister was somewhat theatrical, and drew the young
                  people by his poetic exhibitions."
               "Not at all; he is not one of your spiritual hocus-pocus men, such as I might
                  mention."
               "Who do you refer to, sir?" said the doctor, somewhat sternly, giving evidence of
                  having been touched in a tender place.
               "O, nobody!"
               The divine removed away, at a stately pace, not at all satisfied that Park-place
                  should fill up, while his own congregation could hardly be said to be improving.
                  When abroad, he was often questioned as to Mr. Forester's success; and, if he ever
                  admitted the fact, it was always attributed to "shrewdness," or "cunning
                  contrivance," or something else besides ability and piety.
               About this time, an exchange was proposed by the doctor, and accepted by the new
                  minister. The morning of the Sabbath came, and found Mr. Forester in the pulpit of
                  Federal-street Church.
               The people had long been wanting to hear him, and an unusual interest was
                  observable on all countenances. The preliminary services were performed, and the
                  text was announced,—"Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the
                  world." This passage opened a theme on which the preacher was at home; and soon,
                  with all embarrassment overcome, he was pouring out a tide of eloquent truth, such
                  as that congregation had seldom heard. Down deep into the mysteries of redemption
                  were they taken, silently following an intrepid leader to the very threshold of
                  the council-chamber of eternity; sadly were they drawn to the cross, where the
                  expiatory sacrifice was made, and there they stood until the tears gushed out with
                  love and pity; then forward to the awful hour of the vindication of the Saviour
                  from all the charges brought against him
                  by man, and his final exaltation to the highest throne in heaven.
               The enraptured people followed in these lofty flights, and returned again to the
                  life below with warmer hearts and better hopes, feeling that they had not looked
                  upon the Lamb of God in vain.
               The next day, Dr. Langley was very anxious to know what impressions his friend had
                  made on the minds of the people; so, as he passed from house to house, his
                  question was,
               "How did you like the new minister?"
               "O, very much."
               "A new broom sweeps clean, you know," was the ready reply.
               To another the doctor would say, "What did you think of Mr. Forester
                  yesterday?"
               "A fine preacher,—a noble sermon!"
               "Ah! did you know where he got it?"
               "But, doctor, you do not mean to say that Mr. Forester stole his
                  discourse, do you?"
               The crafty man made no reply, stroked his chin, put on a knowing look, and moved
                  away, leaving on the mind of his parishioner the idea that Elwood Forester had
                  stolen the sermon he preached the day before.
               Alas, alas, for poor, frail human nature!
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE AGENT.
               
                  
                     
                        —He was the mildest-mannered man
                        That ever scuttled ship, or cut a throat!
                     
                  
               
               IN the denomination to which Mr. Forester belonged there was a society for the
                  promotion of the Tract enterprise, the members of which, for various reasons, good
                  or otherwise, had broken off from the regular organizations for the spread of the
                  Gospel, and had assumed a hostile attitude towards those who still held to the old
                  ways. The ministers of the most thought had stood aloof from this new society, and
                  it lived a poor, dying existence. Mr. Forester, like his older brethren, deemed
                  such an organization unnecessary, and the leaders of it actuated by an improper
                  spirit. He did not feel it his duty to assist in sustaining it.
               One day, an agent for the American Reform Tract Society called upon him, and
                  requested permission to preach in his church on the following Sunday evening.
                  Elwood knew the man, and well understood his movements, and kindly and firmly told
                  him that he could not grant the request.
               
               "Then you will not allow me into your pulpit!" said the agent.
               "Yes, you may come into my pulpit, and, if you wish, you may preach a regular
                  sermon; but you must not present the claims of a society which is doing more harm
                  than good."
               "Then you wish to gag me, and hide the truth, do you?"
               "No; you have a right to speak where people wish to hear you; but you shall not
                  make my pulpit a place for the distribution of error; you shall not make me the
                  medium of distributing your gross views, and sending out poison to the
                  people."
               "Then you are anti-reform."
               "That depends on what you mean by reform."
               "You will not let me lecture on the subject of my agency in your pulpit?"
               "No, sir."
               "Then I will appeal to your people."
               "Do it, if you think best."
               "And, if they do not admit me, I will lecture on the steps, and denounce them
                  there."
               "As you please."
               The agent turned away in a rage, and, after considering the matter well,
                  determined to apply to the members of the church, and, if possible, force his way
                  into the Park-place Church. He went first to Mr. Masury, a pliable man, who
                  happened that year to be at the head of the trustees.
               "Good-morning, Mr. Masury; I have called on you for a little business."
               "Sit down, brother Foster, and make yourself at home."
               "I called, Mr. Masury, to see how you feel towards that noble organization, the
                  'Reform Tract Society.'"
               "I have no objection to it; but I have not hitherto acted with it. It seems to me
                  to be an organization which is quite useless."
               "O, no, sir! it, is doing a great work. The wants of the world are to be met by
                  it. It is the organization of the times, and it is destined to become great and
                  glorious."
               "But you oppose the old society, do you not?"
               "No, we do not oppose it."
               "How, then, do you meet the questions at issue?"
               "Why, I of course show the folly and inconsistency of the old society."
               "What are they?"
               "To tell the whole truth, the old society is a bad affair altogether. It has many
                  weak points, and should be broken down."
               "What are they?"
               "I have no time to specify. I came to see if the trustees of Park-place would meet this evening;
                  I wish to appear before the brethren and request the use of the church to show the
                  subject to the people, next Lord's-day evening."
               "You can come, but tell me what fault you find with the old society."
               The agent did not tell, but filled the mind of his hearer with vague, groundless
                  suspicions, and left him with the dreadful idea that the Tract Society was a very
                  corrupt and wicked body, and all the money paid into it was thrown away.
               He next went to Mr. Edwards. He was an anti-slavery man; a good, pious, devoted
                  friend of the slave. Here he pursued a new method, and gave the idea that the
                  Tract Society was knee-deep in blood,—that it was a great organization for the
                  forging of chains and the manufacture of slave-whips.
               To Mr. Holroyd he stated that the agents and secretaries were eating up the funds
                  of the Tract Society, that the people were unwise to contribute to support men who
                  were wasting the money thus generously given. By visiting one and another, he
                  succeeded in prejudicing the minds of nearly all the trustees, and when they came
                  together in the evening they were ready for almost any movement in favor of the
                  misnamed Reform Tract Society.
               When the trustee meeting was opened, Mr. Foster presented himself, and requested
                  the use of the church to lecture in. The trustees referred him to the minister,
                  saying they had no objection. The wily agent then commenced his speech.
               "Brethren," he said, "I have applied to your minister for the use of the church,
                  and he has flatly refused me. Now, I want you to take the matter in hand, and do
                  this thing as it ought to be done. Your minister is a young man; he is
                  inexperienced, and knows not how to deal with the world. He is endeavoring to lord
                  it over God's heritage, and you would do him and yourselves a kindness if you
                  should set the foot down in this matter. Now, open your house, and show the
                  supremacy of the church, and you will teach the good young brother a lesson which
                  he will never forget. He means well, and you will do him good by pursuing such a
                  course."
               This plan seemed feasible and proper to the good men, and they "expressed their
                  minds" as follows:
               
                  Mr. Holroyd. "The pulpit is ours, and I go for opening it. I love
                  the minister, but I love the cause better."
               
                  Mr. Parker. "What in the world should the minister meddle with this
                  for? I go for opening the church."
               
               
                  Mr. Chesley. "So do I. Let us begin! right with our good young
                  brother."
               Each one had something to say, and all but Deacon Brayton concurred in the plan
                  for allowing Foster to preach.
               "Be careful, brethren," said the deacon; "you have a minister who has a large
                  share of prudence and common sense. He is devotedly pious, and his hand is ready
                  for every good work. If he thought well of this new society, he would welcome it
                  to his pulpit. Let us not do him a wrong by crowding into the pulpit any subject
                  which he does not endorse."
               But foolish counsel prevailed, and the agent went away believing the house would
                  be opened. But he knew not the man with whom he had to ideal. On Friday evening,
                  at the close of the conference-meeting, the trustees met Mr. Forester in the porch
                  as he passed out. The pastor knew what was abroad, and when they approached him he
                  well understood their business.
               "Hem—we think it best to have the house opened for Rev. Mr. Foster on Sunday
                  evening,—hem!" said Mr. Holroyd. "We supposed you would have no objection to
                  it."
               "Is that the mind of all the trustees?"
               "Nearly all, sir."
               "Well, then, I must submit. You have known my feelings on this subject, and now
                  you deprive me of the right of controlling the pulpit to which you
                  have called me. Is it fair?"
               "Perhaps," said Deacon Brayton, "we can reconsider the matter now."
               "As you please, gentlemen, about it. Only let me know your decision early
                  to-morrow morning; for, if this man is to hold forth in the evening, I shall
                  preach my farewell sermon in the afternoon."
               With a dignity which he well knew how to assume, the young pastor moved away,
                  leaving his astonished brethren to mend the matter as best they could. The result
                  was that the house was not opened, and, to the end of his ministry at Park-place,
                  Mr. Forester heard no more of the Tract Reform Society.
               The agent obtained a hall, and delivered his address to a little handful of people
                  who came in to hear him, and decamped feeling poorly paid for his interview with
                  the old church in Camberwell. He continued to travel over the country, disturbing
                  the harmony of the churches; and unsettling pastors, until the denomination
                  dropped him from the ministry, and, like Judas, he went to his own place.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               VISITING THE PEOPLE.
               
                  
                     
                        The cold and heartless city, with its forms
                        And dull routine; its artificial manners,
                        And arbitrary rules; its cheerless pleasures,
                        And worthless masking.
                     
                  
               
               ONE day the minister went out to visit his people. His wife accompanied him, and
                  many were the calls they made, and the acquaintances they formed, in the various
                  circles of society, ere they returned. The first call they made was on an aged
                  woman who had long been supported by the parish,—a woman who had become soured by
                  age and infirmity, and who seldom received visits from any but those who wished to
                  see her for charitable purposes. Aunt Hannah—for so was she called—was an unhappy
                  creature, who had rendered herself miserable by grumbling at God and her
                  fellow-creatures. She was in the habit of complaining to all persons who called to
                  see her because they did not come before, and kept grumbling while they remained
                  because they did not treat her well.
               Up the minister and his wife went, over a crazy flight of stairs, into an attic on
                  Field-street, and knocked at a low, dirty door. A momentary stir inside, and the
                  door was thrown violently open, and they stood before the occupant.
               "Good-day, Aunt Hannah," said the pastor.
               "O, la, so you have come to see me, after so long a time!"
               "Yes, let me introduce Mrs. Forester to you; she will come in and see you oftener
                  than I can."
               "I did not know as she would come and see a poor cretur like me.
                  Ministers' wives are not now as they was in Parson Bolles' time. Mrs.
                  Bolles was a good woman; not a bit of pride in her."
               "Well, Aunt Hannah, how do you get along?"
               "None the better for Park-place Church, I tell ye."
               "O, you should not say so."
               "Why, there has not been a blessed soul of them in to see me for six months!
                  They'd let me starve."
               "Has not Deacon Brayton been in, and left you some money—twenty dollars?"
               "O, yes, he came in, but did not stop two minutes."
               "Did not Deacon Turner call, and has he not sent you some wood?"
               
               "Yes, but who can burn wood with no chips to kindle with?"
               "Did not Mrs. Ferguson bring you a nice quilt, and some clothing?"
               "I forgot her."
               "Has not your flour been sent from the store?"
               "Yes, and poor enough, too."
               "Well, now, Aunt Hannah, how many times do you suppose I have visited you, since I
                  have been in Camberwell?"
               "Once or twice."
               "I have been five times in one winter."
               "Well, I declare, my memory is short. I did not know you had called so often."
               Aunt Hannah was humbled. The minister had proved that she had reason for
                  gratitude, and she felt mortified and chagrined. For a while she conversed more
                  pleasantly, and Mrs. Forester entered into her wants, promised to provide for her
                  during the year, and on the whole made the old lady feel comfortably. But soon
                  Aunt Hannah was at it again, and in her denunciations seemed to bring in almost
                  every member of the church; and at last plainly asked the minister why he visited
                  widow Gary so much more than he did her, and received the deserved reply:
               "Aunt Hannah, I think I do not call on widow Gary oftener than I do on you; but,
                  if I do, it is because widow Gary always receives me with a smile, while you are
                  always fretting against your best friends."
               The old lady burst into tears, asked pardon for her capricious spirit, and invited
                  the minister to pray; who, falling on his knees, poured out a most fervent and
                  touching prayer that his parishioner might be kept by the grace of God, and
                  finally saved in a world where there should be no want.
               The next visit made was upon Sister Brighthopes, an old lady, who had been the
                  subject of many trying providences. She lived in a little chamber not far from the
                  humble residence of Aunt Hannah. She was a pattern of neatness, and, as the pastor
                  knocked at her door, a sweet yet tremulous "come in" was heard, and, on opening
                  the door, the young couple beheld the good woman with her knitting-work in her
                  hands, and the open family Bible on the table near her.
               "So, while you work with your hands, you cast your eye on the holy book, now and
                  then," said Mr. Forester.
               "Yes, sir," said the old lady, rising, and shaking hands with the minister, and
                  imprinting a kiss on the cheek of his wife, "it is my meat and my drink. But for
                  the Scriptures, I should have no hope. Here it is that I learn that God is too wise to make any mistakes, and too good
                  to do wrong."
               "We have heard," said the minister's wife, "that God has sorely afflicted you, in
                  days past."
               "He has indeed! My husband is gone, my sons are buried in a strange land, and my
                  daughter's grave is yet green. The last duty of our old minister was to offer the
                  prayer at her funeral. I am left alone! but it is all right and best, I know. God
                  is so kind, and all around are so kind, that I cannot murmur. I am a miracle of
                  grace, and God be praised for his goodness!"
               This godly woman had been sorely afflicted. Her friends had been removed, one by
                  one, and she was left alone, with one hope only—the hope to die. But no murmur of
                  discontent ever escaped her. She wept in joyful hope of seeing her kindred in the
                  world above, and joining there the song of the redeemed with them. Long did the
                  minister stay in that humble home, for his own love was increased, and his own
                  faith strengthened, by listening to the out-gushing piety of that devoted
                  saint.
               The next call was at the home of Mr. Mixer, a good man, but one who had received
                  no education, and who was entirely destitute of culture. He was at home, and, on
                  opening the door, and seeing the minister, exclaimed, "Hulloa, come in, come in;
                  my woman will be right glad to see you!"
               Mrs. Mixer was not so enthusiastic as her husband, and the plight in which she was
                  found was not a pleasant one. Two children none of the cleanest, her hands in
                  bread for which a heated oven waited, her house in disorder, made her wish her
                  husband at work, or anywhere else, ere he had taken the visitors into the kitchen.
                  But her husband—or her man, as she called him—was quite indifferent
                  to all these things.
               He wiped a chair with his rough hand and placed it for Mrs. Forester, while the
                  pastor secured one for himself.
               "So it seems that you are not one of the proud kind; you do visit poor people,
                  then?"
               "O, yes."
               "Glad of it! I went to Priest Langley's meeting four years, and he never darkened
                  my door."
               "He perhaps had other duties."
               "Well, if he had, he might have come once in a while."
               Mrs. Mixer had by this time cleared her hands of the dough, brushed the flour from
                  her apron, sent away the children, adjusted the furniture, and regained her
                  composure, and, sitting down with her visitors, enjoyed their call very much.
               Mrs. Forester gave her some valuable information tion respecting certain little garments she wished
                  to make for the children, and Mr. Forester kept her husband so busy in
                  conversation that a whole hour slipped away very pleasantly, and when the minister
                  rose to leave a couple of apples were thrust into his pocket for him to eat after
                  his return.
               The next call was on Mrs. Lighton, a woman of fashion, who lived on one of the
                  more respectable streets. The callers were introduced by the servant into a dark
                  parlor, where they remained some time, wondering if the lady of the house had
                  forgotten their presence. All the time, however, they heard a wonderful commotion
                  in the chamber above; feet were heard pacing the floor rapidly, as if some one was
                  engaged in hasty toilet; and at length the lady appeared, in the full fashion of
                  the season, after having kept the party waiting some thirty minutes or more. She
                  was glad to see her minister; but the visit was ceremonious, cold and formal, and
                  the minister soon took his leave, the lady thinking him quite dull, and his wife
                  very plain and unfashionable.
               One visit more finished the afternoon, and this was made upon the family of Mr.
                  Godard, a wealthy but pious merchant, who had long been connected with Park-place
                  Church. This gentleman lived in easy elegance, and welcomed his pastor with the
                  greatest cordiality, and it was arranged that here should be the place for tea.
                  While this was being provided, the pastor led his wealthy parishioner to a
                  consideration of the claims of the Eton College, an institution which was
                  languishing for want of an endowment. The object of Mr. Forester in visiting this
                  place was to receive a donation for the college. To accomplish his purpose, he led
                  the mind of his friend to the great duties of Christian benevolence, which were
                  very frankly admitted.
               "I have," said Mr. Godard, "long felt that, with my means, I have been doing too
                  little for the benefit of my fellow-men."
               "Well, now is a good time to increase your donations. The world is calling for
                  aid, and the treasury of the church is empty."
               "If I knew just where to direct my charity to the best advantage, I think I could
                  do some good in that way."
               "I can tell you of a fine field for your benevolence."
               "Let us hear it!"
               "Here is Eton College, which—"
               "O, I cannot do anything for Eton College. I have done contributing for that."
               "Why?"
               "Because an ocean of money has been swallowed up there already."
               
               The pastor then reviewed the whole matter; laid open the enlarged plans of the
                  trustees; and entered with great eloquence into the wants of the college, and the
                  necessity of an educated ministry. The wealthy man listened, and, at the close of
                  his remarks, said,
               "I will give one thousand dollars!"
               The young and faithful servant of God took him kindly by the hand, and said,
               "Brother Godard, will you retire to your closet and ask God how much you
                     ought to give?"
               "Why—ye—yes, I can!"
               "Will you do it?"
               "Yes, sir."
               The merchant retired, and, after being absent some time, returned, took the book
                  from the hand of the minister, and subscribed for Eton College six thousand
                  dollars.
               In the mean while, Mrs. Forester had been drawn aside by Mrs. Godard, who was
                  anxious to show her the wedding dress and gifts of her daughter, who was soon to
                  give her heart and hand to a lawyer of much eminence, who had recently become her
                  suitor.
               Just as the money had been subscribed, and the dress and the silver shown, the
                  bell announced the tea-hour, and the party took their places at the table; where
                  we leave them to finish their repast, enjoy the elevated conversation of the
                  evening, and, at length, to separate, the family to retire to rest, and the
                  minister and his companion to return to their own fireside.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               THE BABY.
               
                  
                     
                        It lay upon its mother's breast, a thing
                        Bright as a dew-drop when it first descends;
                        Or as the plumage of an angel's wing,
                        Where every tint of rainbow-beauty blends.
                     
                  
               
               IT was not long after the events recorded in the preceding chapters, that a new
                  occasion for excitement was found in Park-place congregation. It was told one day
                  that God had sent a young immortal to cheer the heart of the minister, and bear
                  his name down to future years; or, in other words, that Mrs. Forester had given
                  birth to a beautiful boy.
               Mrs. Bement put on her bonnet and shawl and went from house to house, relating the
                  facts as enthusiastically as if she had some connection with this important
                  transaction.
               Mrs. Brayton busied herself with the formation of many plans for the future, and
                  silently determined that the young comer should be called Elwood, for his father,
                  and Beecher, for a pastor of the church to which she formerly belonged. "Elwood
                  Beecher Forester," that would be a delightful name, she said to herself. The whole
                  parish was filled with joy at the event, and many a piece of tattle connected with
                  the advent of the little stranger was told abroad.
               But at home the arrival of the baby was an occasion of the greatest
                  pleasure. He was weighed, measured, handled and praised. His eyes were first
                  decided to be black, like his father's, and then it was affirmed that they were
                  like those of his mother. This name and that was selected and abandoned, until
                  forty had been tried, and none of them were pretty enough for baby. On all sides
                  he was decided to be the prettiest baby ever born; it would have been rank treason
                  to have said anything else, if the boy had been as plain as Esau. At length the
                  name was fixed. His mother and all the rest wished his first name Elwood, but
                  father said "No," and, when urged, said "No, no." It was at length decided to call
                  him Edward Beecher,—the first name for the early friend of Elwood, the second for
                  the sainted pastor of the wife of the good deacon.
               The unconscious object of all these suggestions was a chubby boy, so nearly like
                  other children, that any description of him would be tedious to the writer and the
                  reader. His advent, however, was an important matter to Park-place congregation tion, and especially so to the female
                  portion of it. The week after the event, the sewing-circle was more fully attended
                  than it had been for months before. The ladies were seen in little clusters,
                  discussing some subject of the greatest interest and importance to them, but the
                  nature of which the gentlemen; who were earnestly engaged in conversation on the
                  approaching elections, of course knew not.
               Sabbath morning came, and, a little later than usual, the pastor came to church.
                  He was a very exact man, and always left his hat and cane at the foot of the
                  pulpit-stairs: this morning he carried them both into the desk, and placed the
                  latter where it soon fell down with a great noise. After reading the first hymn
                  (the good man forgot his usual invocation), he found that his sermon was at home.
                  This placed him in a dilemma, from which he was fortunately extricated by one of
                  the deacons, who ran to the house and returned with the discourse, and placed it
                  in the hands of the minister. But, as a wise providence would have it, the
                  "Maternal Society" had invited the pastor to preach a sermon to
                     mothers on this very Sabbath; and, fortunately or unfortunately,
                  the pastor had accepted the invitation; and a large number of mothers were
                  present, who waited with considerable anxiety, and no less curiosity, for the
                  text. It was in Exodus 2:9,—Take this child and nurse it for me, and
                  I will give thee wages. At the announcement, the men settled back in their seats,
                  and the ladies were on the tip of expectation. Deacon Brayton looked grave and
                  anxious until the pastor was half through, and then began to breathe freely, and
                  when the sermon closed pronounced it one of the best he ever heard.
               The next week little presents began to come, from a pin-cushion to a fine robe,
                  from a tin rattle to a stuffed chair, from an elastic ring to a check on the bank
                  of Camberwell for one hundred dollars. Baby was well afloat in the world, and was
                  pronounced by all who saw him to be a wonderful child, though not one could have
                  told where he differed from all the other children who were born that same year.
                  The father was absent-minded for a few weeks, and then settled down into his usual
                  habits of diligence and duty. The feelings of the young mother were expressed in a
                  letter written as soon as she could hold a pen.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Camberwell, Feb. 5, 18—.
                           
                           "DEAR MOTHER: A new world has dawned upon me, since last you heard
                              from us. God has given us a son, to whom a pretty name has been
                              applied, and who will come and visit you as soon as I can travel on
                              the railroad. O, what feelings I have, as I look upon the sweet countenance, and into the eyes
                              which turn upon me so lovingly! How deep and how sacred is the gush of
                              joy which comes into my soul, as I realize my new relation! I seem to
                              have risen to a higher being, and have entered upon a higher life! My
                              soul has more fearful communings with God, and deeper yearnings to
                              live forever. [We here omit a few passages relating to the birth of
                              the child, and the little plans which had been formed. for its good,
                              and a few sentences which none but a mother should read.] I have gazed
                              upon my child, and turned my eyes to God for his protection; and
                              often, O, very often, have I repeated the beautiful words of a tender
                              poetess: 
                                 
                                    'This beautiful, mysterious thing,
                                    This seeming visitant from heaven,
                                    This bird with the immortal wing,
                                    To me, O God, thy hand has given.
                                 
                                 
                                    'The pulse first caught its tiny stroke,
                                    The blood its crimson hue, from mine:—
                                    This life which I have dared invoke
                                    Henceforth is parallel with thine.
                                 
                                 
                                    'A silent awe is in my room—
                                    I tremble with delicious fear;
                                    The future, with its light and gloom,
                                    Time and Eternity, are here.'
                                 
                              
                           
                           "And now, dear mother, adieu, for a season. Myself and husband will
                              soon reach the shelter of thy wing.
                           
                              ANNA."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE REVIVAL.
               
                  
                     
                        The Lord into his garden comes,—
                        The spices yield a rich perfume,
                        The lilies grow and thrive;
                        Refreshing streams of grace divine
                        From Jesus flow to every vine,
                        And make the dead revive.
                     
                  
               
               THE minister had now been settled about five years in his pleasant parish, when he
                  was visited with what is commonly termed "a revival." Hitherto the good
                  accomplished was in a different field, and exhibited itself in different results.
                  The sanctuary had been made pleasant to the people. From a little band the
                  worshippers had increased to a large and flourishing congregation. Intemperate men
                  had reformed; vile men had been induced to study the Bible, and ponder its
                  hallowed truths; dishonest men had become honest, and the church and pastor were
                  regarded as most successful. But the desire of the minister was to see a general
                  work of grace, which should take hold of men who had heard the Gospel so long that
                     they were hardened to the sacred
                  sound, and dead to the holy influence. Though not one of those men who love
                  spasmodic, unnatural seasons of excitement, the pastor was a believer in those
                  occasional works of grace which sweep, at times, through a community, uplifting
                  the deepest foundations of error and crime. But he had not been permitted thus far
                  to see such a work as he desired. The divine influence had been the calmly flowing
                  stream of holy love and life, and was so silent in its manifestations that it was
                  not appreciated, and scarcely observed. But, at length, the longing desire of the
                  good man's heart was to be gratified.
               One Sabbath morning Dr. Langley went to his church and found empty pews, and, on
                  ascending his pulpit, gave the few who were present a scolding for the sins of the
                  absent. The same morning Mr. Forester entered Park-place, and found the house
                  full, and many waiting to obtain seats. He had just come from his closet, where he
                  had been pouring out his soul unto God for a blessing upon the labors of that day;
                  and, as he ascended the sacred desk, the audience saw unusual solemnity in his
                  deportment. As his eyes fell on the throng which crowded the aisles and pews, and
                  were standing in the porch, hot tears began to trickle down his cheeks, and the
                  earnest soul went up to Heaven for help. There seemed to breathe on that assembly
                  bly a spirit of devotion. The very atmosphere was holy, and all murmuring was
                  hushed, and all worldliness fled away.
               The pastor arose, and, after the usual invocation, read, in his musical,
                  impressive tones, the beautiful hymn of Doddridge, commencing 
                     
                        "Thine earthly Sabbaths, Lord, we love,
                        But there's a nobler rest above."
                     
                  
               
               The text for the morning service was the words of Pharaoh to the patriarch Jacob,
                  "How old art thou?" and beautifully was it handled. In a masterly manner the
                  preacher proceeded to consider human life as a labor to be performed, a result to
                  be achieved. "Life," he said, "does not consist in dark nights and stormy days; it
                  is not to be measured by months and years, which pass away, but by the work
                  accomplished." With great ingenuity he laid out life as the map of a road in which
                  all men are travelling, and inquired earnestly how long each one had been living
                  to life's great purpose. In vivid colors he portrayed the man who had been on
                  earth many years, but who was still a babe; who had white locks and a brow
                  furrowed with cares and sorrows, but who had not commenced the great purpose of
                  his being. As he proceeded with his subject, silence gathered over the people, and
                  tears began to flow down the cheeks of
                  those who were not at all accustomed to weep; and, when the sermon closed, men
                  were seen standing, or bending forward, to catch the words as they fell from the
                  eloquent lips of the speaker. It was a great sermon; not great, as many of Elwood
                  Forester's efforts had been, in the finish and literary taste evinced, but great
                  in the truth; great, because every hearer had been reined up to the purpose of his
                  life, and had gazed down into eternity. The service closed, and the people
                  stopped, not to exchange friendly greetings,—the soul of each was measuring the
                  great work of life; the organist forgot to perform his afterlude as the people
                  left the temple; the little children hushed their young voices, as if in sympathy
                  with the general solemnity; and the minister, retiring to his anteroom, sunk upon
                  his knees, and remained long bowed before God in the utterance of prayers heard by
                  God alone.
               The afternoon came, and again the house was crowded with worshippers, and on all
                  minds weighed the solemnity of the occasion. The sermon was well calculated to
                  deepen the impression of the morning; the theme of which was, "The importance of
                  early piety." The speaker first remarked that piety in early life was not
                  uncommon, and introduced the names of several who in life's young dawn had become
                  illustrious for holy deeds and heavenly graces, and then enumerated the many
                  advantages of piety to the young.
               At the close of the service, the beautiful ordinance of baptism was administered
                  to seven young persons, members of the Sabbath-school, and children of members of
                  the church, who had embraced Christ as a great and glorious Saviour. More than a
                  thousand persons looked on while those young disciples made a good profession;
                  and, as the words of the impressive formula were uttered, "I baptize thee, in the
                  name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost," every eye was moistened, and sobs were
                  heard in every quarter of the house. It was a solemn spectacle, such as might
                  allure the angels from their holy employments, and draw them to the windows of
                  heaven to gaze down on the pursuits of men.
               That night was a night of prayer among the members of Park-place Church. The
                  family altar was erected in many a home where it had been broken down, and the
                  minister had the evidence in his soul that his work was approved of God, who, in
                  the final day, would show the results.
               The next afternoon, just as the cloth which had been spread for tea was removed,
                  and the pastor had retired to his study, a knock was heard at his door, and, on
                  opening it, a man, accompanied by two ladies, requested admission. They were handed to seats, and a kind inquiry was
                  made as to their wants. The gentleman stated that he was a professor of religion
                  who had just removed from the country to Camberwell, and that the young ladies
                  were his daughters. They had been at Park-place Church on the preceding day,, and
                  were affected by the great truths to which they had listened. The father stated
                  that, soon after retiring to rest, the eldest daughter entered the chamber of her
                  parents, and, with weeping eyes, besought them to pray for her. They gladly arose,
                  and pleaded with Heaven that their child might find that sweet comfort in
                  believing which they had found years before. While bowing there, the
                  other daughter, not knowing what her sister had done, and feeling the same force
                  of truth, entered the chamber, and, comprehending all at a single glance, said
                  "Pray for me, also." Ere the morning dawned, the young and intelligent girls were
                  full of joy. The light of heaven shone upon them amid the darkness of the night,
                  and when daylight came the Sun of righteousness was shining on their souls. And
                  now the father had brought his children, that the minister might converse with
                  them, and give them such instruction as they needed under such circumstances.
               The heart of the pastor was affected. That his preaching on that
                  Sabbath, when he had bewailed his own insufficiency so much, should be the means
                  of such good, he could hardly believe; and when he conversed with the young
                  ladies, and found them intelligent believers on the Son of God, his heart went up
                  to heaven, in gratitude and praise.
               The next Sabbath was also a day of the greatest solemnity. On the Monday
                  following, while breakfast was on the table at the parsonage, the bell was rung
                  violently, and the door was opened by Elwood himself. A gentleman, well dressed,
                  and with an intelligent look, stood there, who said,
               "I was at your church, sir, yesterday."
               "Was you?"
               "Yes, sir, and it was the first time I have been in church for six years."
               "Ah!"
               "Yes, sir, to my shame I must say it."
               "What induced you to attend yesterday?"
               "The Lord only knows; it must have been his Spirit."
               The man entered, and related the following story: He was a gentleman in easy
                  circumstances, who had been devoting his life to pleasure. His heart had grown
                  hard, as the cares of the world increased upon him. But, on the Sabbath in
                  question, he was riding by Park-place Church, and, seeing the people crowding in,
                  he determined to go with them. Reining
                  his horse into a shed, he went into the church, and soon a kind friend invited him
                  to a seat. He knew not what church it was, or who preached in the pulpit. The
                  sermon affected his hard heart, and all that night his soul was troubled. The
                  result was, he became a devoted Christian, and is now one of the most valued
                  members of the church. His consistent conduct, his generous liberality, his godly
                  deportment, mark him as a real disciple of Christ. No firmer friend in Park-place
                  has Elwood Forester than Henry Allen, the reformed Sabbath-breaker and the devoted
                  Christian.
               During all this time, the revival was in progress, and women who had long been
                  cherishing delusions of every kind began to believe on the Saviour. Now, Mr.
                  Forester, though not an enthusiast, was a believer in the use of means. His
                  meetings were frequent, and many were the books he distributed among the poor and
                  sinful. One of the means used by the minister to draw out the feelings and reach
                  the consciences of his hearers was the "inquiry-meeting," which was held on Monday
                  evenings. This meeting was appointed for those who were interested in the
                  salvation of the soul, who had questions to be answered, or doubts to be cleared
                  away.
               One day, Mr. Merton called on the pastor, and said, "I fear Mrs. Leslie is about
                  leaving Park-place Church."
               "For what reason?"
               "She does not assign the real cause."
               "What is the ostensible reason?"
               "Dissatisfaction."
               "With what? with whom?"
               "With the pastor."
               "In what respects?"
               "Why, she is offended with your method of proceeding in the revival now in
                  progress, and says openly what she thinks."
               "She is to be commended for that; but what does she say?"
               "That the inquiry-meeting is little better than the popish inquisition or
                  confessional-box."
               "She must be unacquainted with the services of the meeting."
               "No, she says not."
               "But do you think she will leave us? I should be sorry to see Mrs. Leslie's seat
                  filled by another. She is an amiable and sensible woman, of great virtues and
                  culture."
               "I think she will go. She is very violent and denunciatory; blames you for such
                  meetings, and complains that you put hindrances in the way of genteel
                  people who wish to go to heaven, and says Dr. Langley has no such meetings."
               
               After Mr. Merton had retired, the minister sat a while, and regret was written on
                  his countenance at the idea of losing Mrs. Leslie from his fold. But, when evening
                  came, he passed along to his inquiry-meeting, and was among the first to arrive.
                  Soon after, a lady, richly dressed and deeply veiled, took her seat directly in
                  front of the little pulpit in which sat the pastor, selecting a few passages of
                  Scripture. He did not notice her until he commenced speaking to his audience
                  personally. He first sat down by this lady, and said kindly to her, "Are you
                  seeking religion?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Are you willing to renounce the world, and all its pomp and vanity and pleasure,
                  for the sake of Christ?"
               "I will try to be willing."
               Then the minister led that wandering mind to the great and only Saviour of the
                  soul; and, as her tears fell fast, her pride gave way, and she asked,
               "Mr. Forester, do you know me?" removing, at the same time, her veil.
               "Mrs. Leslie!" said Mr. F., in surprise.
               "O!" said the penitent, "it was hard for me to come here this evening! My soul
                  struggled long against it. I hated to be found among those who were
                     seeking Christ. I thought, like Naaman, the Lord should come to
                  me, and perform some great work on me, and lead me out in a miraculous manner into
                  the liberty of his people."
               "Why did you come?"
               "I could not stay away; my soul was on fire; my very spirit was consuming; for
                  long have I trifled with divine grace, until it is hardly possible for there to be
                  mercy left for me."
               The soul seeking religion was then led in a calm, clear, scriptural manner to the
                  contemplation of the only way of life and salvation; and, in a few days, the
                  minister was rewarded by seeing her face covered with the smiles of hope, found in
                  believing on Christ.
               Space would fail to tell of the instances which occurred during this revival in
                  which hardened and irreligious persons were brought into fellowship with Christ,
                  the hope of the lost. Brothers and sisters, husbands and wives, together presented
                  themselves as the new-born of God, and there was joy in Camberwell over repenting
                  sinners.
               During the progress of the revival, the wife of the pastor had not been idle.
                  Though confined mostly at home, she drew around her the young ladies of the
                  congregation, and sought by all means to lead them to a saving acquaintance with
                  Christ Jesus; and many who were that winter converted traced their convictions to
                  her gentle yet faithful warnings.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE GOLD WATCH AND SILVER BASKET.
               
                  
                     
                        The secret pleasure of a generous act
                        Is the great mind's great bribe.
                     
                  
               
               ONE evening, the pastor was sitting in his study, with his head resting on his
                  hand. His wife was reading the "Preacher and the King," the interest of which did
                  not light up a smile on the countenance of the husband, as the rich, mellow tones
                  fell on his ear. The fine boy, that we saw in the cradle a little while before,
                  was sporting at his father's feet. But a cloud was on that unusually calm brow,
                  and a shadow hung over those noble features. What was the cause? There was no
                  cause. The minister was suffering in one of those states of depression which will
                  sometimes weigh upon the spirits of sensitive men, as they feel that their labors
                  are not appreciated, and their efforts are resulting in no good. The demon of
                  distrust had entered that home, and the minister was sad over imagined neglect and
                  fancied evils.
               "Smile once, husband," said Anna, raising her eyes from the page which she had
                  been reading.
               No answer was returned.
               "What makes you so sad?" coaxingly said the gentle companion.
               "I do not know, exactly."
               "Then your forebodings are unreasonable."
               "Perhaps they are, but I cannot help it. Deacon Brayton met me in the street
                  to-day, and "hardly looked towards me. Mr. and Mrs. Bement were absent from church
                  all day yesterday; Deacon Turner has not been for two months, and —"
               "Nonsense!"
               "You say that!"
               "Yes, and I can prove it. Deacon Brayton sent to you to-day a barrel of apples,
                  which I was thinking to surprise you with to-morrow; Mr. and Mrs. Bement are
                  people who are always running about, and yesterday went to hear Mr. Windworthy,
                  who has just received the title of D. D. Deacon Turner never has been here once in
                  two months since your settlement, and comes as often now as ever; and, though you
                  may imagine trials and difficulties, they are not real."
               "I cannot deny what you say, but the load remains on me still."
               "Fudge, husband! you have the blues, and—"
               Here the bell was rung, with great violence, and the servant introduced some ten or fifteen
                  gentlemen and ladies, among whom were the deacons of Park-place, and their ladies,
                  several of the prominent members of the society, and one or two strangers, with
                  whom the pastor had had no previous acquaintance. Unmistakable good-nature sat on
                  every countenance, and each one seemed to enjoy this unexpected visit upon the
                  minister.
               "We have come in," said Deacon Brayton, "to see our pastor a little while."
               "You are right welcome," said the minister, as he shook each one hastily by the
                  hand, and presented each to his wife. Soon the greeting was over, and the guests
                  all looked to Brother Pearsons, who, evidently, was ill at ease. At length, after
                  a short pause, Mr. Pearsons said,
               "We have come in to see you, Brother Forester, to—"
               "Yes, yes; I was just mourning over the fact that so few of my people have called
                  on us of late. We did not know but the society had deserted us."
               "We come in to —hem—"
               "Your visit is encouraging to me, just at this time."
               Brother Pearsons grew a little bolder, and, with considerable earnestness, said
                  again,
               "We have come in to see you, and present you a little token of our esteem. A few
                  of the gentlemen men in your society, wishing to encourage your heart, and testify
                  to you that we are interested in your welfare, have purchased this watch, which we
                  have come in to present to you. Your labors have been very arduous, and you have
                  been faithful; and though this small present does not pay you, it does speak of
                  our feelings towards you."
               Here he paused, and placed in the hand of the minister a valuable gold watch,
                  which had been purchased at an expense of two hundred dollars. He then added a few
                  kind words, and sat down.
               Mr. Forester held the watch in his hand, twisted the chain, and never seemed so
                  much confused before, but once, and that was the Sabbath after baby was born. At
                  length his feelings gave way, and he poured out to them his thoughts in broken
                  words.
               "You are kind, dear brethren," he said; "every step of my path in Camberwell you
                  have lightened, and it did not need this to attach me to you. It is a
                  rich gift, but there are richer associations connected with it. In every tick, as
                  I put it to my ear, I seem to heel the beatings of your kind and indulgent hearts.
                  I accept it, and will keep it to remind me of my duty, and to speak to me when I
                  am discouraged. Gentlemen, I thank you."
               The watch was a very valuable one, but its presentation sentation, under such circumstances, was far dearer
                  to the weary, sad heart of him who began to feel that he "had toiled all day, and
                  had caught nothing."
               No pecuniary consideration could outweigh the kindness of the hearts of those who,
                  in so delicate a manner, had visited him that evening.
               Soon it was evident that a new scene was about to transpire. The ladies were
                  pleasingly agitated; and soon Mrs. Wellman, a very estimable lady, stepped forward
                  and presented the pastor's wife with a most beautiful silver basket. A few
                  pleasant words accompanied it.
               As Mrs. Forester took it into her hand, she mildly and calmly replied, with none
                  of the agitation which had marked the deportment of her husband, "Thank you,
                  ladies, and may our dear Saviour bless you!"
               Two or three hours were spent in an interchange of thought, and the whole company
                  took their departure with a happy "Good-night!"
               Mr. Forester soon returned to rest, but he could not sleep. The transactions of
                  the evening were thronging through his mind. He did not care so much about the
                  pecuniary value of the gift, for he was a man who was above that consideration;
                  but the kindness of his people kept him awake long after the usual hour for rest.
                  Rising from his pillow, he kneeled beside his bed, and poured out his heart to God
                  for each one, and thanked his heavenly Father that the lines had fallen unto him
                  in such pleasant places, and that he had so goodly a heritage.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               MRS. BEMENT.
               
                  
                     
                        Steeling her soul with many vows of faith,
                        But ne'er a true one.
                     
                  
               
               BUT trials, as well as joys, were appointed to the minister of the church in
                  Camberwell. A son of Mr. and Mrs. Bement, a wild, reckless young man, had long
                  been chorister in the Park-place Church, much to the general dissatisfaction of
                  the people, who thought him unfitted for the station which he held. His voice was
                  poor, his ability to sustain a choir small, and his personal habits and customs
                  disagreeable and repulsive. But, out of kindness to Mr. Bement, he had been
                  retained in office for several years. At length it was deemed desirable to have a
                  change, and on the first day of the new year the chairman of the singing
                  committee—a mild, pleasant man—visited Mr. Bement, and informed the young man that
                  his services could be dispensed with. Then commenced such a stir in Camberwell as
                  the minister had never seen before. Mrs. Bement went from house to house, and,
                  with the greatest zeal, accused Park-place Church of being a band of hypocrites;
                  the young man who had acted as chorister berated the gentleman who had visited
                  him, and Mr. Bement at once advertised his pew, and gave out his intention of
                  going to Dr. Langley's church. But this did not answer the purpose. The society
                  and the committee refused to take a backward step, and, contrary to the
                  expectations of Mr. Bement and his lady, advised them to go, assuring them that
                  the church would survive without them. At this unexpected turn, Mrs. Bement became
                  enraged, and concluded that Mr. Forester was to blame for all the mortification
                  she had suffered, and all the injury done to her son. How, she could not tell, as
                  he had ever been kind and courteous to her son, and respectful and attentive to
                  all her family. So she goes out to see if, by injuring the minister, her son may
                  not be restored to his old place. She calls first on Mrs. Cornill, a woman of
                  great goodness, and of the most polished manners. She had seldom visited at this
                  place, but thought she must call now.
               "Well, Mrs. Cornill, you have lived in the square several years, and I have never
                  called on you."
               "I believe you have not."
               
               Here was a somewhat painful pause, which was ended by Mrs. Bement abruptly
                  asking,
               "Do you attend Park-place Church, now?"
               "We do."
               "We do not. Mr. Forester is a proud man, who is above the people."
               "I have never entertained such an impression as that."
               "Well, it is true, and a great many of his church are leaving."
               "I am sorry to hear that, for I think Mr. Forester is as good a man as can be
                  found in the pulpit, and as eloquent as any one I have ever heard."
               "Would you not be willing to leave, if a number of families in this neighborhood
                  should wish to get up a new church, and procure a more humble minister?"
               "My husband would decide that, but I should prefer Park-place."
               "Do you know what Mr. Forester says about working people?"
               "No, he would not say anything bad."
               "He says that he will not speak to a man with a frock on, or have a mechanic in
                  the broad aisle of Park-place Church."
               "Did you hear him say so?"
               "No, but Mrs. Greggs says that Mr. Waters told Mr. Parkman's clerk so."
               A quiet smile gathered over the face of Mrs. Cornill, which convinced the visitor
                  that her labor here was entirely lost; and the latter took her leave, feeling that
                  her visit was ineffectual. Though a woman given to petty detraction, she had
                  conscience and common sense enough to perceive that the high-minded woman she had
                  just left despised her for her course.
               Her next call was on Mrs. Worthington, the exact antipodes of Mrs. Cornill, and,
                  of course, to be approached in a different manner.
               "Good-afternoon, Mrs. Worthington."
               "Good-afternoon, Mrs. Bement."
               "I came in to see if you did not wish to leave Mr. Forester's church, and go—"
               "Mercy! no, my husband would not leave Park-place for a farm."
               "All the neighbors think of leaving."
               "Leaving!—what for?"
               "O, Mr. Forester is not genteel enough for us. He said hell three
                  times, last Sabbath week, in one sermon. He makes himself too common with poor
                  people; he lacks in dignity, and a lot of us have decided to leave."
               "How you talk! Who are they?"
               "Mr. Cornill's family, and ever so many."
               
               Mrs. Worthington was a weak-minded woman, and promised to talk with her husband;
                  saying that, "if the genteel people were leaving, they must."
               When Mr. Worthington returned from the store in the evening, she told him what she
                  had heard, and, in glowing colors, predicted the downfall of Park-place Church.
                  The good man, who knew the weaknesses of his wife, sipped his tea in silence as
                  her tongue ran, and at length said,
               "Who told you all this?"
               "Mrs. Bement."
               "That tattler? Well, wife, when you find any more wonderful news, let me know, but
                  do not disturb me now with the tattle of that woman."
               So Mrs. Bement pursued her course. At one place the minister was a very proud,
                  stiff, aristocratic man; at another, he was too common, and lacked dignity; at
                  another, he was dreadfully imprudent; at another, he did not keep his promises; at
                  another, his word was good for nothing; at another, he was too fond of the ladies;
                  at another, he was ambitious. But she worked to a failure in every case. Her
                  designs were discovered, her motives were apparent, and her counsel became "the
                  scorn and byword" of all who knew it. She soon sank into merited disfavor; for the
                  churches to which she and her family went, straying from Sabbath to Sabbath, were
                  afraid of her, and she was, at last, as all such persons should be, denied an
                  entrance to pious Christian families. Of all the evils to which a religious
                  society is subject, these female slanderers, who go from house to house breathing
                  suspicions, making insinuations, hinting of something bad, are the most to be
                  dreaded.
               Whether Mrs. Bement lives at Camberwell yet, or even lives at all, we do not know.
                  She left Park-place, which continued to flourish; she turned her back on the
                  minister, who had been kind to her and her children, and they are now lost sight
                  of. If she live, she may have repented and have become a changed woman; or, some
                  other parties, perchance, are feeling the force of her tongue, which, as Deacon
                  Turner used to say, was hung in the middle, and worked at both extremities.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               JENNIE SINCLAIR.
               
                  
                     
                        Death's but a path that must be trod,
                        If man would ever pass to God.
                     
                  
                  
                     The world recedes—it disappears!
                     Heaven opens on my eyes! my ears
                     With sounds seraphic ring!
                     Lend, lend your wings! I mount, I fly!
                     O, grave! where is thy victory?
                     O, death! where is thy sting?
                  
               
               NEAR the parsonage resided, in an old, aristocratic mansion, a lady, whose sole
                  support on earth was a beautiful daughter, who was the light of her home and the
                  joy of her heart. This lady was the widow of Captain Charles Sinclair, who died at
                  sea, leaving his wife and daughter upon a moderate but ample fortune, which had
                  been sufficient for all their wants. Jennie was a young, gay-hearted creature, who
                  was often at the parsonage, and almost as familiar with the arrangement of the
                  books in the study as was the pastor's wife. Many an hour when the minister was
                  absent, did she spend in dusting and arranging the books, thus saving Mrs.
                  Forester much time; for her husband was careful that no Irish servant should enter
                  his sanctum, as he called it. Jennie in time became as necessary in the family of
                  the minister as at her own home, and never was her eye brighter than when
                  listening to the voice of Elwood Forester.
               One evening, as the latter sat at the centre-table with his wife and Jennie, they
                  prevailed upon him to read a few passages of a sermon which he had been preparing
                  for the Sabbath. He opened in the middle, and commenced at once with these words:
                  "Wherever we look we behold signs of decay. The seasons come, and run their hasty
                  round. Night follows day; and day comes again, to show man that he is near the
                  tomb. One scene after another vanishes, and we lose sight of the past in the
                  feverish anxiety of the present. The autumn, especially, is full of warning to the
                  thoughtless and admonition to the wayward. 'We do all fade as a leaf' is written
                  on the forest-trees,—on the foliage of our gardens, on the withered flowers, and
                  on every object which yesterday was green and flourishing. As you leave your own
                  door, the vine which hangs over it bends down, and whispers 'Dying;' the yellow
                  leaf which rustles beneath your feet speaks of 'dying;' the fields, in which the
                  green of summer seems struggling with the brown of autumn, echo the language of the vine and the leaf, and are 'dying;'
                  while the giant oak looks down, and waves its tall branches, and growls, hoarsely,
                  'Dying, dying.' He who can move around among the works of God and not feel a
                  sadness creeping over him, and whose mind is not struck with the plain and obvious
                  teachings of all God's works, must be insensible to almost any lesson which God
                  may wish to teach. It is not range that the Scripture writers, and good men in
                  every age, when wishing to illustrate the brevity of man, and the transitory
                  nature of his stay on earth, should seize upon the emblems of mortality, and from
                  them draw wisdom and truth. And it is not strange that we, as we go abroad, should
                  feel the force of such instructions, and yield our hearts to their influence. Go
                  out to-day, and you will be reminded on every hand of the frailty of all things
                  here. The leaf and the tree from which it fell, the faded daisy and the little
                  clump of grass in which grew the vine and the fruit which has fallen from it, all
                  tell of the brief existence of earthly things. They seem to sigh, and bewail the
                  usual and ceaseless changes which are being wrought; and, as impressively as they
                  can, they assure man that he, too, will live his brief time, flourish his little
                  hour, and, like them, as short, as frail, as transitory, will wither and die. 
                     
                        'O, what is life? 'Tis like a flower
                        Which blossoms and is gone;
                        It flourishes its little hour,
                        With all its beauty on;
                        Death comes, and, like a wintry day,
                        It cuts that lovely flower away.'
                     
                  
               
               "The works of man are also vividly indicative of decay. There is found nothing on
                  earth,—no monument of the industry and skill of man,—which has outlived the
                  assaults of time. True, the pyramids of Egypt, erected centuries ago, still stand;
                  but Time is doing its work on them, and every year they grow more wrinkled, and
                  sink deeper into the sands of the mighty deserts. The cities of ancient times are
                  all gone, and the very traces of many of them are erased from earth. Those that
                  yet preserve their faint outlines are broken down and wasted, and remain in all
                  their ruin to remind man that all is vanity and change. The glory of Nineveh, and
                  Babylon, and Thebes, and Ephesus, and Jerusalem, and Rome, is gone; and, like a
                  ghost unlaid, their scattered relics cling to earth, as if eager to
                     preach a little longer to the gay and thoughtless multitude. The
                  traveller cannot wander amid the scenes of the past without learning something of
                  his own weakness and frailty. All admiration of genius, wealth, beauty, love and power, perishes in sorrow at
                  their end. As but a little while ago I wandered around the scenes of ancient Rome,
                  and amid the fallen temples, or sat down in the deserted grottos, or penetrated
                  the damp tombs of emperors and senators, and saw in them all nothing but the
                  sepulchre of life and glory, the unbidden tear would start, and a voice from
                  grotto and palace, temple and tomb, would come stealing into the heart, 'All this
                  is but an emblem of man himself;' and, sitting down upon the stones of the old
                  Appian way, all that Paul said about 'the earthly house of this tabernacle,' which
                  is to be dissolved, came rushing into the mind, and filling it with a gloom as
                  profound as that which reigns forever in those tombs of dead and perished
                  greatness. Nor are we destitute of those signs of change around us here. We are
                  not driven to Nineveh and Rome to learn these lessons of human frailty. All that
                  man does is doomed to decay, like himself; and there is no tower, nor temple, nor
                  habitation, which does not speak to him of dying and the grave."
               When he paused, he saw his young auditor bathed in tears, her lustrous eyes filled
                  with the dewy drops which were following each other down the cheeks. Laying down
                  his sermon, he turned to the young girl, and asked,
               "Why so sad, Jennie? Why those tears?"
               "I want to ask a question, Mr. Forester, if I may."
               "Well, what is it?"
               "Is it hard to die?"
               "Why do you ask, Jennie?"
               "Because—"
               "That is no reason at all, child."
               "Yet tell me."
               "No, it is not hard to die. The physical anguish of death is small. We suffer far
                  more in living than we do in dying."
               "But—"
               "But what?"
               "Is there any darkness in the soul when we die?"
               "No, not if we are the servants of Christ. He hath abolished death, and taken the
                  sting from the monster. But why do you ask?"
               "Because I have had a dream."
               "A dream! I do not believe in dreams; but tell it to us."
               The gentle girl drew her ottoman nearer to her friend and pastor, and began:
               "A few nights ago, I went to sleep, thinking of papa. In the night, I had a dream.
                  I was walking through a grove of fruit-trees, the branches of which hung down,
                  laden with delicious fruit. At every
                  step I took, the way seemed to become more beautiful, until at last I came to a
                  stream, whose waters rolled on dark and sluggishly. At once I was seized with an
                  irresistible longing to be on the other side; but a terrible fear entered my mind,
                  as I turned my eyes upon the waves which rolled up at my feet. Soon I heard a
                  voice, and, on turning round, saw a bright and beautiful being, between whom and
                  myself occurred the following conversation:
               "'Do you fear to cross this river?'
               "'Yes; its waters look dark and cold.'
               "'They only look so.'
               "'What land is on the other side?'
               "'Beulah, the home of the angels.'
               "'Is my father there?'
               "'He is.'
               "The bright being then bade me look across the river, and, pointing with his
                  finger, said,
               "'What do you see?'
               "I gazed attentively, and soon saw, away in the misty distance, the outlines of a
                  city, with its turrets, towers and domes, glistening, and its battlements covered
                  with celestial beings in shining raiment. As I gazed, a gate opened, and a
                  company, coming forth, hastened toward the river. As the late opened and closed, I
                  had a sight of the city within, and, O, so delightful! I cannot describe it. A
                  soft, heavenly strain of music, succeeded by a louder, wilder gush, was borne to
                  my ears, and over me stole a sweet and gentle sensation, such as I cannot explain
                  to you. The company had now reached the shore, and in the midst I saw dear, dear
                  papa, who died so long ago! He was arrayed in light, and had a crown on his head,
                  and he beckoned me over. I turned to the angel, and asked,
               "'Is the river deep?'
               "'No'
               "'Nor cold?'
               "'Nor dangerous?'
               "'No.'
               "I went trembling down, and dear papa stood on the other shore. My feet touched
                  the water, and at once the darkness was gone, and the waves were as clear as
                  crystal. All at once the scene changed. I was on a bed: stifled voices were heard
                  around my pillow, tears were falling on my forehead, and I awoke covered with
                  perspiration.
               "This dream has made a deep impression on my mind. I cannot rid myself of an idea
                  that I am to die soon; and I constantly hear the voice of my father, and the echo
                  of the spirit voice—'The river is not deep, nor cold, nor dangerous.'"
               
               "Well, coz," said Mr. Forester, "you have entertained us with your
                  spirit-vision."
               "My dream!"
               "Your dream, then, and it has saddened us too; but dreams are empty things, and
                  yours will prove so. Our dreams depend much on our thoughts the evening before, or
                  on what we eat or drink before retiring to rest."
               Though Elwood thus replied, he could not help feeling that the dream of his young
                  friend might prove true; for, in the eye which was fixed upon him there was an
                  unnatural lustre, and a false, deceptive brilliancy. But cheerfully the way was
                  led to other conversation, and soon the cloud was gone, and at nine o'clock Jennie
                  ran home, as light-hearted and glad as ever.
               Early the next morning, Mr. Forester received the following note, to which the
                  name of Mrs. Sinclair was attached:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "RESPECTED PASTOR: My dear daughter was seized last night with a
                              dangerous fever. Her reason has fled, and in a few hours a wreck has
                              been made of my poor child. The doctor says he is unable to foretell
                              the result: we fear the worst, while we hope for the best. A visit
                              from our ever kind friend and adviser would be welcome
                                 now.
                           
                              "Fleet-street, Nov. 5, 18—."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               On the reception of this note, the pastor hastened to the house of Mrs. Sinclair,
                  who met him at the door, bathed in tears, and informed him that Jennie was raving
                  in the delirium of fever, which had suddenly seized upon her, and was making
                  dreadful havoc on her system. Sadly did the pastor follow to the chamber where his
                  young. friend was laid. At the first sight, he started back. One night had made a
                  terrible alteration. The countenance was haggard, the eyes glared wildly, and the
                  locks which so recently shaded a beautiful countenance were dishevelled and
                  tangled.
               He approached the bed, and said, kindly,
               "Jennie, you are sick!"
               "No, not sick, but mad!"
               "Do you know me?"
               "Know you,—yes! You are the Prince of darkness, and your hands are red with
                  blood!" and a hollow laugh rang through the room.
               "Would you like to see Mrs. Forester, Jennie?"
               "I do see her, and she holds me on this bed! There she is!"—pointing to her
                  mother.
               "Shall I pray, Jennie?"
               That word seemed to recall the wandering senses, and, for a while, the poor girl
                  clasped her hands and looked up to heaven, as if in communion with God, while the minister poured out his full
                  heart to "Him who doeth all things well."
               The delirium soon passed away, and in a few days it was announced that Jennie was
                  dying of quick consumption. Mr. Forester visited her every day, and by his holy
                  words, and solemn, fervent prayers, poured mercy on her spirit. Soon his
                  interviews with the poor invalid were deeply touching. One day, as he sat beside
                  her, she said, "I told you my dream was sent from God."
               "It seems to have been so."
               "But I am not afraid to die."
               "God will be with you, dear, as you pass through the dark valley."
               "I know he will, for I feel his presence every day. He speaks to me at night and
                  morn, with kindest voice; but, when I am gone, what will mother do,—dear, kind
                  mother!"
               "God will care for her."
               "Yes, he will: he has been kind to me—I know he will be so to her."
               The autumn passed on, and the winter snows were deep on the earth, and the young
                  girl was dying.
               "I cannot see, mother: bring a light!"
               "Jennie, this is death," said Mr. Forester, as he leaned over the pillow.
               "Well! well!"
               A pause ensued, disturbed only by the low, deep breathings of the dying girl.
               "What light is that? What music? Hark!"
               "What do you see, my daughter?" said the mother. No answer was returned.
               "Yes, the very same, the being I saw in my dreams. He points me forward. The same
                  river; and, O, there is the beautiful city ******, and dear papa, all clothed in
                  white! Let me go! let me sing!"
               The sufferer was laid back on the pillow, and in a few minutes commenced singing, 
                     
                        "Hark! they whisper, angels say,
                        Sister spirit, come—a—way—"
                     
                  
               
               The hymn was interrupted by the angel of death, and the spirit had fled forever.
                  On New-Year's day they buried her, and, aside from the widowed mother, there was,
                  in all the long train of friends who followed to the grave, no one who mourned
                  more honestly and deeply than the pastor who instructed the young disciple in the
                  way of life, and who led her once to the baptismal waters, as he now laid her in a
                  new-made grave.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE COME-OUTER.
               
                  
                     
                        To wilful men,
                        The injuries that they themselves procure
                        Must be their schoolmasters.
                     
                  
               
               IN Camberwell, as in all other large cities, were a few men who carried matters to
                  a ruinous extreme, and who were sources of trouble and anxiety to all who had
                  dealings with them. A few years since, the delusion commonly called
                  "Come-outerism" reigned and raged in the land. Among others who embraced it was
                  Rev. George Staples, who had just graduated at Andover, and who was an energetic
                  and impulsive young man, of great promise. The ardent temperament of Staples was
                  fine fuel for the wildfire which was burning; and soon he had excommunicated the
                  church and his denomination, and was lecturing from place to place against the
                  people of God. As he increased in violence men lost confidence in him, and shook
                  him off, until at length he grew sour, and seemed filled with hate towards all his
                  fellow-men.
               The first time this champion of infidelity met Elwood Forester was while the
                  latter was a student. He was preaching at Cambridge, and, when about to commence
                  his sermon, Staples arose, and occupied twenty minutes, and at length succeeded in
                  breaking up the meeting. Mr. Forester was young and inexperienced, and could not
                  succeed in preventing the mischief. Chafed and outraged in his feelings at such a
                  gross specimen of impudence on the part of the agitator, he retired from the
                  church, determined to pursue a different line of conduct if he should ever meet
                  Staples again under similar circumstances. He resolved never again to sit silent
                  under such an infliction.
               One day, it was announced in the papers of Camberwell that George Staples would
                  lecture on the "American Church and Slavery," at Phoenix Hall, on Sabbath day and
                  evening. Staples came into town on Saturday evening, lectured on Sunday to so few
                  persons that he did not deem it wise to carry out his appointment for the evening;
                  but, in the afternoon, gave notice that he should be at the same hall every
                  evening during the following week. On his return to his boarding-place, it was
                  remarked that a revival was in progress, and that souls were being converted in
                  the city. His quick ear caught the words, and he inquired of the young man who had
                  made the statement,
               
               "A revival, did you say?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Where is it?"
               "At Park-place."
               "Who is the minister?"
               "Rev. Elwood Forester."
               "What! a young chap who graduated a few years since—a handsome speaker?"
               "That description answers to the man."
               "I know him. He is a clever fellow enough, but has no grit. I will go to his
                  church to-night; I never saw a revival which I could not break up in half an
                  hour."
               A young member of Mr. Forester's church had overheard this conversation, and soon
                  reported it to his minister, whom he met on his way to church. Though fearing the
                  influence of the disturber on his meeting, yet Mr. Forester was half glad of an
                  opportunity to meet Staples, who had so abused him on a former occasion.
               The meeting opened in the spacious lecture-room, which was filled with an
                  attentive audience. Soon Staples came in, his head up, and his wicked purpose
                  written plainly on his countenance. He took his seat directly in front of the
                  pulpit, and stared around with an impudent gaze. But, under the calm, earnest eye
                  of Elwood Forester, the agitator was not at home. He evidently felt that things
                  had changed since he talked down the young student, who was then in his teens. He
                  now had a man of mature mind to deal with. But, relying on his effrontery, he
                  watched his chance, and in a most solemn moment arose, and commenced his speech.
                  At first he seemed deeply pious, and talked like an angel; but soon the poison of
                  his come-outerism was shown, until at last his vile denunciation of the church of
                  Christ came out boldly. As a Christian, he warned them to pray
                  against modern churches, and to strive to pull them down; and when he took his
                  seat an effect had evidently been produced, and the come-outer evidently
                  congratulated himself on his victory. A pause ensued, a solemn, death-like pause;
                  and many young persons were saying in their hearts, "The churches must be bad, or
                  this good, pious, prayerful man would not denounce them."
               Mr. Forester arose, and Staples evidently expected a discussion, just what he
                  desired; but the minister, fixing his eye upon him, said, in a calm, peculiar, icy
                  tone, "Will the friend who has just taken his seat offer prayer in behalf of these
                  young persons who are under conviction, and whom he has just addressed so
                  eloquently?"
               Had a clap of thunder spoken to him, poor Staples could not have been more
                  astonished than at this unexpected turn which affairs had taken. He could talk, he could argue, he could denounce,
                  at he could not pray. And yet he had just been walking about prayer, and his
                  position became at once embarrassing and painful. After a pause, he rose in
                  evident confusion, and said,
               "My friends, I cannot pray. I—I—do not think it right to pray in public. I—I—can't
                  pray. I must—must—decline, sir."
               The sheep's clothing was off, and the wolf was out! All saw the hypocrisy of the
                  man, and doubtless suspected the object for which he had addressed them. Mr.
                  Forester then arose, with his nerves strung, and his whole soul on fire, and
                  poured out one of the most eloquent speeches which had ever echoed through that
                  room. With quick perception, he opened the Bible and pointed to instance after
                  instance of public prayer, entered into the interesting ramifications of the
                  subject, poured out the full gush of a heart which knew what public and private
                  prayer could do for a wounded spirit, and affirmed that the man who did not
                  believe in public prayer was seldom known to pray in private. Thus he wheeled
                  around the poor come-outer, like the eagle over the prey, in narrowing circles,
                  until, with his lip curled and his finger pointed at poor Staples, he said, "The
                  life and conduct of that man, his speech and his deportment, prove to us that to
                  any communion with God, in secret or in public, he is a stranger."
               Then he passed to another point. "Slavery does not belong to North or South; there
                  are white slaves, as well as black. If a man comes into a church where I am to
                  preach, and intrudes himself upon the people, against their will and mine, he
                  makes us slaves, just so long as he speaks. If he comes into a meeting set apart
                  for Christians to pray, in a room owned by them, and intrudes upon them sentiments
                  which they do not wish to have promulgated, he makes all who are present slaves,
                  as long as he continues to speak; and the man who would do thus would put chains
                  on the limbs of the bondmen, snap his whip over them, and drive them away to the
                  plantation, if he had the power. He who would be a tyrant among the whites only
                  wants the power to make him a tyrant among the blacks."
               The defeat of Staples was complete; he was unable to utter a single word. Never
                  before had he been met in this adroit manner, and until the meeting closed he sat
                  still and appeared absorbed in deep thought. After the benediction was pronounced
                  he shrunk away, and the next morning left the city at an early hour, leaving his
                  appointments for the week unfilled. The creature has since come to a bad end, and
                  sleeps in an unhonored grave, having died in deep despair.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XII.
               DICK HOSMER.
               
                  
                     
                        He hung his head—each noble aim,
                        And hope, and feeling, which had slept
                        From boyhood's hour, that instant came
                        Fresh o'er him, and he wept—he wept.
                     
                  
               
               IN Camberwell lived one Richard Hosmer, a rude, profane, intemperate man, who had
                  often declared that a minister should never enter his house. Some years after the
                  settlement of Mr. Forester, he heard of this man, who went by the familiar name of
                  Dick Hosmer, and was told that his wife—a quiet, suffering woman—was a pious
                  Christian, but a persecuted and afflicted one. He became interested in the case,
                  and resolved to visit the house of Dick Hosmer, and converse with his family.
                  Against this his deacons, and other friends to whom he related his plan,
                  remonstrated. Other ministers, they said, had been abused by Hosmer, and it was an
                  act of imprudence to enter his dwelling. But, the more that was said, the more
                  clearly was the pastor of Park-place convinced that he ought to go. A higher law
                  seemed to impel him, and one day he knocked at the door, of the notoriously rude
                  Dick Hosmer. His wife—a pale, shrinking, delicate woman—opened the door, and
                  invited the stranger in.
               "I came, Mrs. Hosmer," said Mr. Forester, "to make myself acquainted with you and
                  your family; having heard that, some years since, you attended worship at
                  Park-place Church, and was a communicant at the altar."
               "Yes, before my marriage I was a member of the church in Lester, and when I came
                  to Camberwell went to your meeting."
               "Do you attend any church now?"
               "No, I have not seen the inside of a meeting-house for ten years."
               "Would you like to go to church?"
               "I should, but my husband will not allow it."
               "Have you tried him?"
               "Yes, until my life was endangered."
               "I see you have the Bible on the table. Does he allow you to read that?"
               "O, yes; he does not care what I read. He threw two Bibles into the fire, a while
                  ago, just to plague me; but he would have done it as soon if the books had been
                  novels. It was not the Bible, but me, that was the object of
                  wrath."
               A heavy step was now heard in the entry, and soon a tall, dark-browed man, of
                  careless, slouchy appearance, entered
                  the room. The minister was introduced by Mrs. Hosmer to her husband.
               "This is Mr. Forester, minister at Park-place Church, who has called to see us,"
                  said the wife, in a sweet and pleasant tone of voice.
               "What does he want here?" growled the husband, as he cast a dark, threatening
                  glance at the minister.
               "I came to see you and your family, to make your acquaintance, and to see if I
                  could do you any good," said Mr. Forester.
               "You an't wanted here."
               "But—"
               "Take your hat, and clear!"
               "Will you not listen—"
               "Be off, I tell you, or I will walk you!"
               "When I choose," replied the minister, whose spirit was somewhat aroused, and who
                  saw that matters were coming to a crisis. Mrs. Hosmer burst into tears, and her
                  husband raged at her a while. Mr. Forester knew that, if he retired then, the
                  wrath of the angry man would be poured out upon the woman, who sat pale, trembling
                  and weeping, beside him.
               But every moment the wretch grew worse, and at length, going close to the
                  minister, and shaking his fist in his face, said, "There is the door, and, if you
                  do not go out of it, I will break your skull and throw you out!"
               Mr. Forester was not deficient in courage, nor in brute power. He knew, though the
                  act would not be ministerial, that he could master the rough man before him; so he
                  fixed his eye calmly on the angry man, while he threw off his cloak and sat
                  down.
               Hosmer saw that he had aroused the wrong man; and, after heaping abuse upon him,
                  and calling him by all the horrid names of blasphemy which he could invent, he
                  retired from the room into one adjoining, where his angry curses could be heard,
                  as he sat over a fire which he wished was applied to every church in Camberwell.
                  At length he became silent, and Mr. Forester conversed with his wife so that he
                  could hear, and with reference to effect upon him. Thus a whole hour passed away.
                  In the mean time the anger of Hosmer had died out, and he began to be heartily
                  ashamed of his conduct. His mind was carried back to the time when he went to
                  church, and loved ministers of the Gospel,—to the hour when his mother died, and
                  left him her dying blessing. At length he came to the door of the room, and looked
                  in. The minister read at once the workings of his mind, and said, "Do you have as much work as you can do, this
                  winter, Mr. Hosmer?"
               "Yes."
               "Business of all kinds is good now, I believe."
               "S'pose so."
               "Provisions of all kinds are high."
               "Yes."
               "But they must be lower soon;" and the pastor entered into an interesting and
                  ingenious account of the markets and produce of various countries, and gave
                  reasons why provisions were so dear. Dick listened with attention, and yet he
                  scarcely heard what was said to him, for his thoughts were "all over the lot," as
                  he expressed it afterward. He began to think, "Well, this priest, after all, is
                  not so bad as I thought,—perhaps I have done him injustice. He does not seem to be
                  proud,—he will speak to a man with a frock on." Thus the minister conversed, and
                  thus the drunkard thought, the former growing more eloquent, and the latter more
                  humble, every moment, until two hours had flown, and the shades of evening were
                  gathering over the earth.
               "Won't you stay to supper?" said Dick, as Mr. Forester threw his cloak over his
                  shoulders. His voice was husky, and his manner surly. The visitor thought a
                  moment. He had told his wife that he should take tea with the family of Mr.
                  Manning, one of the more wealthy of his parishioners, and had requested her to
                  meet him there. But, on the whole, he concluded to accept the invitation just
                  given him, though he well knew that Mrs. Hosmer was not prepared for company, and
                  that Dick did not want him to stay. So he again threw off his cloak, and soon Mrs.
                  Hosmer had her tea on the table. The meal was scanty, and the table adornments
                  few, and the luxuries none. But the minister cared not for this. His object was to
                  reach the heart of Dick Hosmer, and this he was doing.
               When they sat down to table, Dick said, "Help yourself, parson; we do not stand
                  for ceremony, here."
               Before Dick could have a chance to help himself, Mr. Forester had folded his
                  hands, and said, "O God, our great Shepherd, who suppliest all our wants, receive
                  our thanks for this food, and sanctify it to the nourishment of our bodies! Bless
                  this dear family, and give them the bread of heaven and the water of life, that
                  they may hunger and thirst no more, for Christ's sake."
               Dick said nothing, but thought the more. Mr. Forester talked incessantly, on all
                  topics, becoming more serious every moment, and yet not offensive even to the poor
                  creature at whose board he sat, and whose hospitality he was enjoying.
               
               Supper being ended, another half-hour's conversation was enjoyed, at the close of
                  which Mr. Forester deliberately took a Bible from his pocket, and, as if it were a
                  matter of course, read a few verses, and fell on his knees and poured out such a
                  prayer as made the tears stream down over the cheeks of Dick Hosmer, as if they
                  had been rain.
               The poor fellow was awe-struck, and knew not what to say or do; and when the
                  minister, on leaving, addressed a few words to him about his soul, he wept like a
                  child. The soft, tender place in his heart had been reached, and he was broken
                  down at the remembrance of his past violence.
               A few days afterward, Mr. Forester was called from his study, and, on repairing to
                  the door, found a lad standing on the step, who held in his hands a monstrous
                  piece of pork, saying he had orders to deliver it to none but Mr. Forester.
               "Who sent it?" inquired the minister.
               "I was told not to tell."
               "Told not to tell?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Well, what is your name?"
               "William Hosmer," said the lad, after some hesitation.
               No other inquiry was necessary. Dick Hosmer was the giver, and the minister valued
                  the present more than he would have valued a purse-full of gold. He took the meat,
                  and, with a light heart, delivered it to his wife, requesting William to return
                  his thanks to the giver.
               On Saturday evening Dick Hosmer entered the store of the sexton of Park-place
                  Church. Dick was well known, and, as he saluted the sexton in a tone more civil
                  than usual, the latter could not account for it. At length Dick broke the ice, and
                  said, "Have you any seats to let in Park-place Church?"
               "We have a few near the door."
               "I wish a whole pew."
               "You do?"
               "Yes, I do; and I mean to occupy it."
               "I am glad to hear it."
               "I am glad to say it. That minister of yours is a fine man,—a fine man, sir."
               "O, yes, he is."
               The pew was hired,—not a very eligible one, but Dick did not care, if it was
                  within sight of the pulpit. The Sabbath came, and the pew was filled; and the
                  result was that Dick reformed, became a better man, if not a Christian, and is now
                  one of the most respected men in Camberwell. Mrs. Hosmer, meeting the pastor one
                  day, said to him,
               "Mr. Forester, my whole heart thanks you for that call you made on us. God sent
                  you to our desolate home, to light it
                  up with smiles of mercy. My husband is so changed that I can hardly realize it. He
                  is kind as he was when we were married. He loves us all; and I think he loves
                  God."
               The minister turned away, and wept tears of joy. This one case would repay him for
                  all his labor in Camberwell; and light was his heart, as he returned home, to
                  repeat the words in the ears of the companion of his joys and sorrows.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE POLEMIC.
               
                  
                     
                        Portray polemic battles fought,
                        When settled clergy claimed the lot,
                        Enclosed by parish lines.
                        When doctrines of decrees were rife,
                        And "Free Salvation" raised a strife,
                        'Twixt preachers and divines.
                     
                  
               
               IN Camberwell resided an aged clergyman named Kennison, who came from England long
                  ago, and who was the oldest pastor in the city. His church stood near that in
                  which Elwood Forester, from Sabbath to Sabbath, preached the word of life. One
                  Sabbath, the pastor of Park-place Church indulged in some plain remarks on the
                  influence of episcopacy upon society at large, upon the government and the church.
                  These remarks, ventured in the ordinary course of pulpit discussion, were not
                  personal, but applied to great leading principles, and were of general truth. But
                  our worthy friend, Rev. Mr. Kennison, who had long been seeking for an
                     opportunity to display his powers,
                  chose to consider them as aimed at himself. The next day, the Camberwell
                     Gazette contained an inflammatory article, challenging Mr. Forester to
                  discuss certain propositions which were named. To this article no answer was
                  returned. A few days after, another appeared, more inflammatory in its character,
                  and then came a third. Unable longer to keep silent, Mr. Forester replied in a
                  calm, clear statement, which he hoped would end the debate. But Mr. Kennison,
                  whose heart was set on a public discussion, would not be satisfied, and at length
                  Mr. Forester unwisely consented to appear in the columns of the Camberwell
                     Gazette in defence of the independent form of church organization. For
                  seven months the contest was continued, until Mr. Forester, who in every article
                  of his reverend friend was abused, withdrew and closed up the debate; neither
                  party being satisfied that he had gained his point.
               One evening, after the last article appeared, Mr. Forester sat in his study, with
                  his wife at his side, and three children—for his family had thus increased—asleep
                  in an adjoining apartment. He had been reviewing the course which the debate had
                  taken, and the result to which it had led, when his wife said,
               "The general opinion is, Elwood, that you have secured a complete triumph, in your
                  discussion with Mr. Kennison."
               "Public opinion does seem to set in that direction."
               "Yes. Mr. Felch, the new pastor of Westminster-street Church, was heard to say
                  that all the dignity and power was on your side."
               "He is a good judge, and not most likely to be prejudiced in my favor."
               "I think your own people feel convinced that you have come out honorably from a
                  discussion into which you were forced very unwillingly."
               "True, but I do not feel satisfied with the results."
               "Why not?"
               "Because bitter feelings have been engendered, and no good has been done."
               "You are not sure of that."
               "Quite so. Such discussions do no good; and though I have come off victor, to all
                  appearance, yet I am sorry that I was ever drawn into it. I am resolved never
                  again to leave my appropriate work, to wrangle and strive on subjects which are,
                  to a considerable extent, foreign to the spirit of the Gospel of Christ."
               "But a great many good thoughts have been brought out, and who can tell but the
                     judgment will reveal great good as
                  the result of your efforts?"
               "It may be so, but my own conscience will not let me feel satisfied with such a
                  contest. It is so much like a strife for mastery that it does not befit my sacred
                  office."
               "Do you object to all public discussions?"
               "Not exactly, but I think good men had better preach their own views, without
                  attacking others."
               "Can they do this?"
               "I think so."
               "Is not the object of the Gospel to overcome evil, and expose error?"
               "Certainly."
               "Well, how can error be overcome and exposed, unless men who are called of God
                  enter into an investigation of the false theories which are abroad in the
                  world?"
               "By the presentation of truth. I as surely condemn intemperance when I describe
                  the pleasures of sobriety, as when I denounce the evils of inebriation."
               "And yet you would not feel that your whole duty was done, unless you had said
                  that the drunkard should come to poverty, and that he should not enter the kingdom
                  of heaven."
               "No, but that is a point of more importance than that which Mr. Kennison and
                  myself have been wasting our strength upon."
               "In some respects it is: but no people are of so little reliance as to be given up
                  without a struggle. In your discussion you have brought out great principles of
                  ecclesiastical government and politics; you have exposed the folly of a union of
                  church and state; you have established many minds as to the value of independency,
                  and have closed the contest honorably to yourself."
               "But—"
               "That everlasting but!"
               "But we have seen that similar discussions have resulted in no good. We remember
                  the famous contest on the baptismal question between Drs. Harrison and Thompson,
                  in which each claimed the victory, and in which each felt that he had secured a
                  conquest."
               And those two men are good friends still, and I think that some have joined
                  Park-place as the result of that discussion."
               "Yes, Mr. Parsons was one."
               "And the Hendee family. Mr. Hendee says he never saw things in that light before.
                  And there are others who were convinced by the eloquent speeches of those
                  men."
               "Well, wife, I give it up for the night. I am weary now, and your tongue is as long, and more
                  uncontrollable, than Mr. Kennison's pen."
               "Pretty good draw-off! Come, confess yourself, the conqueror of Mr. Kennison, the
                  profound polemic, to have this evening been beaten by a woman!"
               "O, no! my principles forbid that I should ever seem to triumph over a
                     weaker vessel!"
               "A weaker vessel!"
               "Well, never mind! Let us not sit here till midnight."
               Justice to Mr. Forester would require it to be said that he had conducted the
                  discussion with much propriety, and had secured an advantage over his opponent;
                  and though bitter feelings in some circles had been engendered, yet good was
                  brought out of what at first seemed to be evil.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE STOLEN SERMON.
               
                  
                     
                        Thieves for their robbery have authority,
                        When judges steal themselves.
                     
                     
                        The man who pauses in his honesty
                        Wants little of the villain.
                     
                  
               
               ONE day, near the close of the week, the pastor was called out to visit a man who
                  was dying, and on his return found that he had taken severe cold. The usual
                  remedies were applied in vain, and when Sabbath came the patient was so hoarse
                  that he could hardly be heard in his own chamber. In the city preached a certain
                  Dr. Taylor, the pastor of a wealthy congregation, and a man of considerable note
                  among his brethren. On this day, it was known that Dr. Taylor's pulpit was to be
                  supplied by an agent, and a messenger was sent to his house to invite him to
                  preach at Park-place. He kindly consented, and, morning and afternoon, charmed the
                  people with profound discourse. Mrs. Forester was prevailed upon to leave her
                  husband and attend church in the afternoon. On her return turn, she said to her husband, "We have had the
                  best discourse to-day I ever listened to."
               "Ah, that is a good deal to say to me."
               "Well, you excepted, of course!"
               "Thank you; but what was the text?"
               "It was in the first Epistle to the Corinthians. 'For the preaching of the cross
                  is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved it is the power of
                  God.'"
               "What did he make of it?"
               "O, an elegant sermon, truly. I cannot give an analysis of it now."
               At the tea-table, however, she was induced to give an illustration with which the
                  sermon commenced. At the time, the illustration struck the mind of Mr. Forester as
                  a very familiar one; and when tea was over, and the cloth had been removed, he
                  went into his study, and took down a volume of sermons, in which he found the very
                  figure used to illustrate the same text. He descended to the parlor, and began to
                  read. He had scarcely finished a page, when his wife exclaimed,
               "Why, you are reading Dr. Taylor's Sermon!"
               "No, not his."
               "The very same words."
               "You must be mistaken."
               He read another page; when she stopped him again, exclaiming,
               "The very same sermon, and now I will tell you what comes next;" and she gave what
                  she could of the discourse, and, by the time she had closed, her husband was
                  convinced that Dr. Taylor had preached a stolen sermon in his pulpit. That
                  evening, a number of Park-place people came in to see their minister, and, after
                  they were all seated, Mr. Forester said to them, "I wish my wife to read a sermon
                  of Dr. Chalmers' in which I have been much interested. The people had not come in
                  to hear a sermon; but, as it was the wish of the pastor, they expressed a
                  willingness to listen. Mrs. Forester took the book from the hand of her husband,
                  and began to read. Soon meaning glances were exchanged, and, ere she had closed,
                  all knew the purpose for which they had been invited to listen to a sermon. Mr.
                  Forester was advised by his friends to see the reverend doctor, and tell him that
                  his sin had been discovered, and urge him to sin no more.
               As soon as his health would permit, he called on the doctor, and, after some
                  preliminaries, said to him, "Dr. Taylor, some of my people feel aggrieved that you
                  should come to Park-place and preach another man's sermon."
               "What do you mean, sir?"
               "Just what I have said."
               "Whose sermon do they say I preached?"
               
               "Dr. Chalmers'."
               "Preposterous!"
               "Not wholly so."
               "Why, Mr. Forester, I am indignant."
               "So am I."
               "I am astonished at you—"
               "I can say the same."
               "Mr. Forester, you shall retract."
               "When I am convinced."
               "Convinced, sir! convinced, sir! You ought not to harbor such a suspicion."
               "I can't help harboring it."
               "But do you mean to say that I stole a sermon?"
               "I do."
               "I hold you responsible at the tribunal of justice and at the bar of God."
               "At either place I am ready to meet the charge."
               "Vile traducer! to charge me with such a crime in my own house!"
               "Dr. Taylor, your indignation is wasted on me."
               "How dare you?"
               "Be calm, sir, and let us talk over the matter quietly, and it may be adjusted
                  yet."
               "It shall not be adjusted. You have accused me of an infamous crime, and you shall
                  suffer for it."
               "Will you read me the sermon which you preached at Park-place yesterday?"
               "Yes—no."
               "Then take the consequences, Dr. Taylor. You refuse to settle a matter which ought
                  to break down any man, and I shall pursue my course accordingly."
               Mr. Forester took his hat, and was passing from the neat and commodious study of
                  the doctor, when the latter, in a softened tone, said, "Stay, brother Forester,
                  and let me speak to you."
               Mr. Forester took his seat, and fixed a calm, clear eye upon his antagonist, and
                  said, "I am ready to listen."
               "How much proof have you of the charge which you make?"
               "Twenty men are willing to swear."
               "Twenty men!—who are they?"
               "Judge Dewey, Major Glayt, Dr. Gray, and other men of that stamp."
               "I am undone, Mr. Forester," said the doctor, his indignation and courage dying
                  out at once.
               "You are, if you continue to deny this charge."
               "I do not deny it."
               "Is it true?"
               "It is. I was hurried and driven, and did not know what to do for a sermon, and
                  wrote that; but did not know that it
                  was one of Dr. Chalmers'."
               "Why, it is in Dr. Chalmers' published works."
               "It is?"
               "Certainly; see here."
               The doctor then stated that one of his parishioners had presented him with a copy
                  of an old sermon, preached in Scotland many years ago, but which had the
                  title-page torn out. The name of the writer was gone, and he supposed it was the
                  production of some good old divine long since dead, and this was the only copy
                  which had ever found its way out of the parish in which it was delivered. He had
                  preached it to his own people, by whom it was much admired; and he had also
                  delivered it in some other places with much acceptance.
               In due form the matter came before the consociation, and it was there proved that
                  this was not the first stolen sermon which the doctor had preached. One that he
                  had often delivered in and out of Camberwell was traced to the authorship Dr.
                  Channing; and, as fast as they were proved, they were admitted. The result was,
                  the doctor was admonished, and, on a most humble confession, he was forgiven, and
                  the case was dropped. But the people of Camberwell could not forget. When the
                  members of the doctor's church were heard praising any sermon which he had
                  preached, the question came into their mind, even if it did not find utterance,
                  "Whose sermon was it?" Confidence was lost, and the better the doctor preached the
                  more the people thought of Dr. Channing and Dr. Chalmers.
               Mr. Forester was censured by some for what was considered his severity towards Dr.
                  Taylor, in regard to the stolen sermon; but that severity, if it may be called so,
                  had virtue in it, for it arose out of an innate hatred of mean things; and the
                  course which the doctor had pursued was a mean and despicable one, and which must
                  have lowered him in the estimation of all noble and high-minded men. Not long
                  after, the doctor resigned his situation as pastor, for the alleged reason that he
                  was troubled with bronchitis.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               LETTERS FROM THE HOLY LAND.
               
                  
                     
                        Queen of Judea's stricken land,
                        Thy garland, fallen from thy brow,
                        Lies withered on the desert sand,
                        And trampled by the Moslem, now.
                        The laurel-boughs of Lebanon
                        Still brush the blue, unspotted sky;
                        Their plumes still quiver in the sun
                        That gilds thy ruin from on high.
                     
                  
               
               TEN years had passed away since Elwood Forester had received ordination in
                  Park-place Church. His life had been one uninterrupted round of holy duty and holy
                  pleasure. One evening, as he was returning from his lecture-room, where he had
                  been giving a familiar discourse on the "seven churches of Asia," on the occasion
                  of his weekly lecture, he expressed a wish to be relieved a few weeks from the
                  responsibilities of his sacred office, and seek rest and retirement in travel. Mr.
                  Hendee, who was walking with him, thoughtfully replied, "Perhaps we have been
                  overtaxing you with the cares of our parish and church."
               "O, no; but I am weary and somewhat sad, and need to be recruited; and I think, if
                  I could spend a fortnight at — Springs, I should return with new strength."
               Here the conversation ended. The next evening, as Mr. Forester was passing rapidly
                  to the post-office, Mr. Hendee caught him by the arm, and said,
                  good-naturedly,
               "Mr. Forester, I have an idea."
               "Very strange," replied Mr. Forester, "that you should have an idea."
               "Nevertheless, I have one, and a good one."
               "Well, let us hear it."
               "Why, we are going to send you to the Holy Land."
               "My aching head tells me that I am going there fast."
               "No, not that. I am in earnest. I have conversed with Deacon Brayton, and others,
                  and we have matured a plan for you to spend some months in the East."
               He then detailed his plan, and laid out the way in which the object was to be
                  effected. The minister went home with new hopes in his soul.
               He had dreamed of a visit to Jerusalem, but now the dream was to be
                  effected. The result was, a meeting of the parish was called, and it was voted to
                  give the pastor an absence of one year,
                  to continue his salary, and supply his pulpit during his tour, and to present him
                  with one thousand dollars to defray his expenses.
               He sailed in the merchant vessel "Stamboul," Captain Howland, for Smyrna, in
                  company with several missionaries, who were designated to various parts of Asia by
                  their respective boards. The voyage was a delightful one; and, when the ship
                  tracked the blue waters of the Mediterranean Sea, and sailed up by the numberless
                  islands which dot the surface of the Ægean, our traveller well wished that his
                  voyage might be prolonged to months. The monotony of a sea-voyage was broken by
                  cheerful recreation and religious services. Two sermons were preached every
                  Sabbath, and a familiar lecture given on Wednesday evening by Mr. Forester, or one
                  of the missionaries on board. These services were attended by all the passengers
                  and as many of the crew as could be released from duty; and, ere the ship arrived
                  at her destination, two of the hard, bronzed seamen had, through the influence of
                  the Christians on board, yielded their hearts to God.
               The ship arrived at Smyrna, and Mr. Forester, after spending a few days at the
                  mission-station, set out for the Holy Land; and it was not long before the
                  following letters were received by the officiating minister at Park-place
                  Church:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Jerusalem, June 2, 18—.
                           
                           "DEAR CHRISTIAN FRIENDS: Here I am in the city of God. Oceans,
                              mountains, rivers, deserts, dangers, separate me from my own dear
                              friends. I arrived in Jerusalem yesterday, after a weary, toilsome
                              ride on the back of a camel, and am lodging at a Greek convent, just
                              without the city. I have been here so short a time, that I know not
                              how to speak of these sacred localities. The impression made upon me
                              by the first sight was peculiar, and I cannot better describe it than
                              in the language of another, who has given his observations to the
                              public in an elegant book, which I have been reading this morning. He
                              observes:
                           "'The mountains rose more grandly, and I clambered up to broad, stony
                              table-lands, whence the prospect was bleak and sad. Vast ranges of
                              bare hills receded to the horizon. "In those days came John the
                              Baptist preaching in the wilderness of Judea." I passed rapidly over
                              this lofty, breezy table-land, with an inconceivable ardor of
                              expectation. Often the pinnacles and shining points of rock upon a
                              distant hill-side startled me with a doubt that I saw Jerusalem, and
                              at every change in the landscape I paused and searched the mountainous
                              desolations to distinguish the city. But the majestic play of morning
                              vapors with the sun and the mountains mocked the scrutiny of the longing traveller, and
                              gradually inspired a statelier hope. As I paced more slowly along the
                              hills, the words of the psalm suddenly rang through my mind, like a
                              sublime organ-peal through a hushed cathedral. "Beautiful for
                              situation, the joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion, on the sides of
                              the north, the city of the Great King."
                           "'They passed, but in their stead arose an imperial vision. Through
                              the stupendous vista of rocky mountain sides I should behold the joy
                              of the whole earth lifted upon a lofty hill, flashing with the massive
                              splendors of towers, and domes, and battlements, darkened by the
                              solemn sadness of cypresses, and graceful with palms. The delicate
                              outlines of hanging gardens, of marble terraces, and balconies, and
                              airy pavilions, should cluster within. Triumphant bursts of music,
                              "with trumpets, also, and shawns," and the chime of bells harmonious
                              with the soft acclaim of friendly voices, should breathe and pulse
                              from the magnificent metropolis, and preach more willingly than John,
                              in the wilderness of Judea.
                           "'In the summer of that Syrian noon, this was the spectacle I thought
                              to see, the majesty of its associations manifested in the city. And,
                              as I knew it nearer, I walked more slowly, dreaming that dream. The
                              camels of other travellers passed us, returning from Jerusalem. Our
                              caravan overtook took me, and I went forward with the pasha and the
                              commander. The high land unrolled itself more broadly. The breezy
                              morning died into the silent noon. In the imminent certainty, the
                              eagerness of expectation was passed. Golden Sleeve, our guide,
                              preceded us a little distance, and we followed silently. Suddenly he
                              stopped, and, without turning or speaking, pointed with his finger
                              toward the north. We reached his side, and looked. There was a blue
                              line of wall, a minaret, a black dome, a few flat rocks, and in the
                              midst a group of dark, slender cypresses, and olives, and palms.
                           "'There lay Jerusalem dead in the white noon The desolation of the
                              wilderness moaned at her gates. There was no suburb of trees or
                              houses. She lay upon a high hill in the midst of hills, barren as
                              those we had passed. There were no sights or sounds of life. The light
                              was colorless, the air was still. Nature had swooned around the dead
                              city. There was no sound in the air, but a wailing in my heart, "O
                              Jerusalem, Jerusalem! thou that stonest the prophets, and killest
                              those that are sent unto thee!'"
                           "In this poetic account, you have a description of my own feelings as
                              I approached the Holy City, covered with dust, and weary with my
                              journey. But, O, how does the soul recoil when we enter the sin-cursed streets! We can
                              only exclaim 'O Jerusalem, how fallen! The brooks and the hills
                              remain, but the glory of Jerusalem is gone.' 
                                 
                                    'Siloa's brook still flows along,
                                    Beneath the palm-trees' towering shade,
                                    Unmindful of the pilgrim throng
                                    In grief along its bank arrayed;
                                    And Kedron's amaranthine bowers
                                    Trail their crushed vines upon the ground.
                                    O, blasted are the holy towers
                                    That once their glories reared around.'
                                 
                              
                           
                           "Every step I have taken since my arrival has spoken to me of Judea's
                              awful sin, and God's terrible vengeance."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Jerusalem, June 12, 18—.
                           
                           "TO THE CHILDREN OF PARK-PLACE SABBATH-SCHOOL: Your pastor, who so
                              recently addressed you in your school-room, now writes you a letter
                              from Palestine, a map of which hangs behind my lecture-room pulpit.
                              You have often heard me tell of the splendor and glory of the Holy
                              City, and, perhaps, you have an idea that its ancient glory still
                              continues. But this is not the case. As I have wandered over these
                              hills and through these dells for a few days past, the words of the
                              poet have risen to my lips:
                                 
                                    'Judea's mountains still are seen
                                    To sentinel thy grave-like gloom,
                                    Her hills and valleys glisten green,
                                    As though thou didst not fill a tomb;
                                    The wave still curls by Calvary's steep
                                    The grape, the fig, the olive shine;
                                    Unwrinkled rolls the dark blue deep,
                                    And still she bears the fruitful vine;
                                    And fame still gilds her withered brow—
                                    Proud city, O, how dark art thou!'
                                 
                              
                           
                           "This city, you know, children, was destroyed, many centuries ago, by
                              the Romans, who cast down the wall, destroyed the temple, killed the
                              people, and left the city a heap of desolation. One of your own
                              writers, whose name is unknown to me, thus speaks of the awful carnage
                              of that terrific scene, which beggars all description:
                           "'The Roman army, in all the fulness of its strength, and with all the
                              fierceness of Egyptian Mamelukes, stood before the kingly Capitol. The
                              life-like eagles that decorated the gilded banners of the Cæsars were
                              unfurled to the breeze, while the sunlight that poured from heaven,
                              and shot athwart the Galilean hills, reflected upon every surrounding
                              object the majestic grandeur and ferocity that attached to a band of
                              Roman soldiers. There stood Titus, clothed with supreme authority, the
                              military representative of a mighty empire; and, as Macaulay said of
                              Cromwell, the very soul of
                              a well-disciplined army. After the soldiers were sufficiently rested
                              and refreshed, embankments were thrown up, and the battering-rams went
                              thundering against the wall, while the mortal enemies of Rome hurled
                              their javelins and shot their arrows into the midst of her armed men.
                              For days the conflict was terrible, and doubtful to the beholder. The
                              Jews rushed outside the walls, and inhumanly butchered the soldiers,
                              that, in obedience to the command of Titus, were willing to extend
                              mercy. Then all the Roman fury was aroused, and neither age nor sex
                              was spared; but, while Titus and his followers were discharging their
                              arrows from without, a more dreadful enemy was at work within the
                              walls, famine was destroying more than the sword. Thus the punishment
                              sent upon the Jews was doubly severe, and the scene must have been
                              doubly terrible when the walls fell down, and the Roman conqueror,
                              with his maddened army, swept through the city, destroying the most
                              magnificent superstructures of art, and butchering the starving
                              populace that were unable to flee before the uplifted sword. The
                              Saviour had said, the city, with all its gorgeous and lofty edifices,
                              should be thrown down; and so it was. Eleven hundred thousand of the
                              vain-glorious and God-defying inhabitants habitants were laid low in
                              the dust, as was their idol city.'
                           "Thus, children, was the city of God overthrown; and its beautiful
                              palaces will, probably, never be rebuilt. When some of you are men,
                              perhaps you will come here, and view these desolations; for the time
                              is not far distant when visits to Palestine will be as common as
                              visits to Niagara,—as expeditiously made, and as cheaply, too."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Jerusalem, Nov. 5, 18—.
                           
                           DEAR FRIENDS: I have now written you seventeen letters,
                              containing descriptions of what I have seen in this land. I have,
                              during the summer, made many excursions in all directions. I have
                              climbed to the top of Mt. Hermon, and slept in St. Catharine's
                              convent, at the base of Mt. Sinai. I have crossed the Nebbez Moussa,
                              and taken a bath in the clammy, glutinous waters of the Dead Sea. I
                              have sailed upon the Sea of Galilee, and drank the waters of the
                              Jordan. I have stood hour after hour and gazed upon the Mosque of
                              Omar, and have heard Bishop Gabat preach for the benefit of
                              Englishmen, and other strangers. Now I turn my eyes homeward. I shall
                              come via England, and be with you
                              early in the spring."
                        
                     
                  
               
               Never was joy greater in a parish than when Mr. Forester, a few months afterward, ascended the
                  pulpit of Park-place Church, his cheek bronzed, and his form robust, the picture
                  of perfect health, and the image of strength. Seldom afterward did he mention his
                  journeyings directly; but those who knew him best could see that every discourse
                  was richer in imagery, and more wealthy in thought; and it was evident to all that
                  one man, at least, had travelled to good advantage, and had used his time to great
                  profit. The people, in their kindness and liberality, had not only improved the
                  health of their minister but had enriched themselves.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE GOLDEN WEDDING.
               
                  
                     
                        O, pleasant is the welcome kiss
                        When day's dull round is o'er,
                        And sweet the music of the step
                        That meets us at the door!
                     
                  
               
               ONE night, after Mr. Forester and his family had retired to rest, his bell was
                  rung violently. He started up, and, going to the window, demanded "Who's
                  there?"
               "A couple to be married," was the answer.
               Marriages the clergy seldom lose, if they can help it; and in a few minutes Mr.
                  Forester had arranged his toilet, and the bridal party was admitted.
               "Why do you come so late?"
               "That is a notion of ours."
               "There may be something wrong about it."
               "Examine the certificate, and see."
               "That does not always tell."
               "We can go to another clergyman."
               "But—"
               
               "The matter will be explained to your satisfaction."
               Mr. Forester examined the certificate, and, finding it properly drawn and signed,
                  married the parties, though he had some misgivings. The bridegroom was a seafaring
                  man of about thirty, and the bride was a sweet, gentle creature, who seemed to be
                  above deceit. The work having been done, the parties withdrew, leaving a piece of
                  money in the hand of the minister, nicely wrapped in a piece of white paper. When
                  the carriage had rolled away, the clergyman opened his paper, and where he
                  expected to find a golden eagle was a copper cent. To tell the truth, the good man
                  was quite indignant, and gave vent to his feelings in some expressions not exactly
                  ministerial.
               "That—is—too—bad!" chimed in Mrs. Forester, who began to comprehend how the case
                  stood, and who had seldom seen her husband so indignant.
               "Too bad!—it is outrageous."
               "Well, well; it may turn out right, after all."
               "May!"
               "And, if it don't, you are not killed."
               Mr. Forester went to bed, determined he would never marry such a mean couple as
                  that again.
               "No wonder they came in the night!" said he to himself, after his companion had
                  fallen asleep.
               The next day, he was sitting in his study, when a commissioner brought to the door
                  a heavy bundle, accompanied by a delicate note. The note was opened, and read
                  thus:
               "Captain William Mansfield requests Mr. Forester to accept the accompanying loaf
                  of wedding-cake. The reason of our late arrival at his house last night was owing
                  to an unfortunate delay caused by the breaking down of our carriage, while coming
                  from Salem."
               The bundle was opened, and in it was found a nice cake pyramid, on the sides of
                  which spangled twenty English sovereigns, which glistened as if they were just
                  from the mint.
               "Well, Captain Mansfield is a man, after all," said the minister.
               "I told you it was all for the best," replied his wife.
               "Yes, but you knew nothing about it."
               "I had faith."
               "Nonsense, wife! But we have the twenty pieces of silver; so we will rejoice over
                  them. Your new cloak will come easy now, and those twenty volumes which I have
                  been wanting so long, I will have; so, many thanks to Captain Mansfield."
               In making a record in his journal of this affair, Mr. Forester entered it under
                  the appropriate head of the golden wedding.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE ELECTION.
               
                  
                     But, sir, the senator says he has great respect and great reverence for the
                        clergy,—for the ministers of the Gospel, as such,—while they keep their
                        robes pure and unspotted: but, when they descend to the turbid pools of
                        politics, and bedabble their garments all over with the mud, and slime, and
                        filth, which he would make you believe is found there, he loses all respect
                        for them.
                  
               
               FOR several years, the minister of Park-place did not exercise the privilege which
                  belongs to every freeman of casting his vote at the polls. But little interested
                  in mere party matters, he had allowed others to elect officers, without his
                  assistance. This, however, instead of being a virtue, was one of the sins of
                  omission. Every man in a republican government is under obligation to cast his
                  vote, and use his influence, in the election of good and wise men to office. In
                  18—, there occurred an election into which entered several moral questions, and
                  good men of all parties began to feel the importance of banding together for the
                  public good. Mr. Forester determined to vote. By a long relinquishment of this
                  right, his people had come to the conclusion that it did not belong to him; and,
                  when he announced, some days before, to a circle of friends, his determination to
                  vote, he was seriously advised not to do so. Even good Deacon Brayton, always
                  cautious and considerate, thought it might make trouble. But the pastor had his
                  own mind, and settled the question for himself; and, when the day came, marched
                  boldly to the polls, and deposited his vote according to the dictates of his
                  conscience.
               That year, there were before the country three prominent candidates for the
                  highest office in the gift of the people. The first was General Tyler, a military
                  chieftain, who had done much service for his country on the tented field, and who,
                  covered with the scars of battle, was now presented by his friends as a candidate
                  for civil honors. The second was General Gray, a statesman of some repute, and one
                  who had received well-earned laurels in the service of the republic. The third was
                  Martin Van Horn, a man of learning and diplomatic skill, who was presented by a
                  new and rising party, which was commencing its existence. These three men—all
                  heroes, and all worthy of the office sought, in the estimation of their
                  friends—were before the people for their suffrages. Which one of these Mr.
                  Forester voted for, we cannot tell. As
                  he went to the polls, his vote, though open in his hand, was not distinguished;
                  and each party claimed him, while he silently returned to his duties, designing to
                  say nothing of the manner in which he had voted.
               But the people were determined to bring him out, and make him show his colors;
                  and, in a short time, whigs, democrats and free-soilers, were all in commotion.
                  All at once, they seemed uneasy, and manifested a disposition to meddle with that
                  which was not their business. Simultaneously, the members of the various parties
                  determined to call on him, and bring him to an account.
               One evening, soon after the election, Mr. Forester was sitting in his study. Mr.
                  Erving Lyons, a prominent whig, was ushered in.
               "Good-evening, Mr. Forester; you have a fine study here, a glorious lot of books,
                  a nice place to grind out sermons," was his first salutation.
               "O, yes; it is easy for me to sit down to study here, I have so many helps."
               "I should judge your sermon-mill was in good order, by the way you preached last
                  Sabbath."
               Mr. Forester made no reply to this singular compliment, but changed the
                  conversation into another channel. After a short talk on general matters, Mr.
                  Lyons said,
               "What do you think of the result of the elections on Monday last?"
               "Why, I am satisfied, if all the rest are."
               "But don't you think the successful candidate the best one?"
               "Perhaps so; for I do not think either party had the best man to be found."
               "Well, Mr. Forester, I do not wish to pry into your business, but, if it is a fair
                  question, who did you vote for?"
               "Ah, that is among the secrets!"
               "I did not know as you would have any objection on that point. This voting
                  business is a public matter."
               "Yes; but I thought I would be a freemason on this subject, as my people were not
                  shrewd enough to see how I voted at the time."
               "That is all right; but the report is abroad that you voted for General Gray, and
                  it is doing you serious injury."
               "How?"
               "Your whig friends feel aggrieved that you should vote against their interests;
                  and I want you to let me say, from you, that you did not vote for that old
                  villain."
               "No, sir; I shall not allow you to say any such thing."
               "Well, then, you will be greatly injured by the reports in circulation. I do not care who you voted
                  for, but you must look out for your reputation."
               "Certainly; but, if casting an honest vote is hazardous to reputation, I must run
                  the risk."
               "Well, well; do as you please," said Mr. Lyons, rising, abruptly. "If trouble
                  comes out of this, remember that I have tried to befriend you. Good-evening,
                  sir."
               "Good-evening, sir."
               The door closed on the retreating form of the excited politician, one of the best
                  but most enthusiastic of men. Hurrying to his store, he exclaimed to his partner,
                  a mild, quiet man,
               "I will never enter Park-place Church again!"
               "Ho! what has turned up now?"
               "Turned up! Why, Forester voted, last Monday, for that miserable Gray; and I will
                  never set foot in his church again, as long as I breathe!"
               "Perhaps he did not vote for Gray. It may be a mistake."
               "No, I got it from his own lips."
               "From his own lips?"
               "Yes, or what was equivalent to it; and I am fixed for the future."
               
               Let us return to the parsonage. The minister sat musing upon the somewhat
                  extraordinary conversation versation he had had with Mr. Lyons, who had been one
                  of his warmest friends, when he was startled from his revery by another ring, and
                  Mr. Bradshaw was announced. This gentleman was not a member of the church, but was
                  a very good man, a lawyer, and somewhat excitable on political matters. He came in
                  with a pleasant smile, but evidently in a hurry, and on important business. He
                  commenced by saying, "Mr. Forester, you know I am a plain man."
               "Yes."
               "I don't like round-about stories."
               "No."
               "I have a little matter which I wish to converse about, and might as well come at
                  it first as last."
               "What is it?" said Mr. Forester, with a smile.
               "Why—why, it is rumored that you voted last Monday for General Tyler for office;
                  and some of your best friends, feeling injured by it, requested me to come in to
                  learn the truth. We all grieve that our minister should pursue a course so
                  inconsistent with his previous life."
               "Who told you I voted for Gen. Tyler?"
               "Common report."
               "She may lie."
               "Will you let me say so from you?" asked Esq. Bradshaw, rubbing his hands.
               "No."
               
               "Then you did vote for him?"
               "I did not say so."
               "Then you won't tell me?"
               "Certainly not."
               "Why not?"
               "Because it is my own business, and I do not choose to have it meddled with. I
                  voted honestly, and do not choose to give any account to my church."
               "O, I meant no harm; but the people are much excited about the matter, and you
                  could end the strife by a single word. Unless this can be cleared up to the
                  satisfaction of the people, several of our best democrats will leave
                  Park-place."
               "What kind of democrats would they show themselves to be?"
               "O, they would go away in a moment of excitement. However, I have no interest in
                  this matter."
               "Well, if you have not, let us drop it; and, if those who sent you ask a report,
                  please tell them, kindly, that I shall vote unbiased and unpledged, and cannot
                  admit of any dictation in a matter of this kind."
               The visitor soon took his leave, and hurried to the store of Mr. Pond, a sort of
                  resort for political men, where he found two or three other persons of the same
                  party, who had as much feeling in relation tion to the vote of the minister as he
                  had him. self.
               "What shall be done?" asked Mr. Pond.
               "Let it drop," responded Mr. Dennis.
               "I will tell you what I shall do," said Mr. Bradshaw.
               "What?" they all asked in one breath.
               "I shall leave Park-place, and go to Dr. Langley's, where I shall not be troubled
                  with sermons on politics or religion."
               "Then you will make a fool of yourself," chimed in Dick Hosmer, who had now become
                  somewhat of a man, especially about election times, being a strong democrat. "The
                  parson has as much right to vote for Tyler as you and I have for Gray. You had
                  better let Parson Forester alone. He is a match for all of you."
               Bradshaw went off in an angry mood, but the next morning concluded not to give up
                  his pew yet, but to hold on a little longer.
               The next day, as Mr. Forester was passing along one of the principal streets of
                  Camberwell, he was saluted by one of his brethren, who placed his arm within that
                  of the minister, and they slowly walked by blocks, and across squares, and through
                  parks, conversing with each other. Soon the subject of the late election was
                  introduced, and, though the pastor
                  tried to avoid it, the conference soon became personal.
               "They say you voted for Tyler, Mr. Forester," said Mr. Innes.
               "They say! Who are they?"
               "Those who were in the ward-room when you cast the ballot."
               "It is doubtful whether they are correct."
               "No more than doubtful?"
               "Brother Innes, I am not disposed to confess."
               "A man who votes for a slaveholder and a murderer ought to confess. For my part, I
                  think ministers are the last men who ought to vote for a military chieftain, or
                  men stained with the guilt of war."
               "Do you know of any minister who has?"
               "Why, no—not exactly. I s'pose Dr. Langley did, and they say you
                  did."
               "If I did, what—"
               "O, then you did, did you?"
               "I did not say so."
               "No, but you partially admitted it. Now, I believe it is my duty to bear my
                  testimony against all sin; and, if my minister votes for General Tyler, I will not
                  hear him preach again. I will not support those who support slaveholders and
                  murderers. It is time the lines were drawn; and, if our ministers ters vote for
                  such men, I, for one, will leave the church and join an engine-company!"
               "Perhaps you had better sleep over this a few nights, and good may—"
               "Sleep! sleep! It is a positive sin for anybody to sleep now." Thus the good man
                  went on, without knowing who his pastor voted for, or what wrong he was doing by
                  his accusations. They walked a while, Mr. Innes becoming more violent and
                  denunciatory, until every person they met stared at them, wondering what angry
                  discussion they were engaged in. At length they parted, Mr. Innes to visit all his
                  political brethren, and Mr. Forester to go mourning to his study, to lament the
                  inconsistencies of his people.
               For a little while the society was disturbed in certain circles; but the
                  excitement soon died away, and Mr. Lyons, Esq. Bradshaw and Brother Innes, were
                  not a little ashamed of the fierce manner in which they had assailed the minister,
                  and, convinced of the injustice they had done him, endeavored to undo whatever
                  evil impression they had made upon his mind.
               We imagine Mr. Forester is not the only minister who has been placed in such a
                  condition. Men become heated and intemperate in their political zeal, and say and
                  do things, in the frenzy of a political campaign, which they would blush to say and do in calmer moments. Mr. Innes was
                  a violent abolitionist, almost a come-outer, and he could not bear the idea that
                  his minister had not voted the "freedom ticket;" and he had assailed him for the
                  purpose of knowing, from his own lips, the true state of the case. Mr. Forester
                  did not choose to tell him, though he did vote for the anti-slavery candidate. The
                  minister, surely, concluded that his vote was his own, and that it did not concern
                  any other man. He felt himself competent to take care of his own political
                  opinions and acts, and he accordingly kept his own counsel.
               After this, the minister voted in every election, and voted as he chose, sometimes
                  with a sealed and sometimes with an open ballot. The people became so used to his
                  free exercise of right that they did not meddle with the matter at all. Mr. Lyons
                  was always careful that the pastor should have a whig ticket; Mr. Bradshaw
                  furnished him with one on the democratic side; while Brother Innes always came, on
                  the morning of election, to bring a ticket of his party. The minister took all of
                  them, and, with his penknife, formed one out of all to suit himself; and no
                  complaint was made. He became a free man.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE UNFORTUNATE SERMON.
               
                  
                     It fell on ears polite, as harsh as notes of woe.
                  
               
               NOT long after the events recorded in the previous chapter took place, a new cause
                  of rupture occurred. Congress made a wicked law, which required the rendition of
                  fugitive slaves; a law similar to one proposed some years before, and which, the
                  reader will recollect, formed the subject of discussion between Elwood Forester
                  and old Captain Brown, a short time before the former led to the altar the
                  daughter of the latter. It was such a law as made every man of humane feelings cry
                  out with indignation, and the pulpit and the press were loud in condemning it.
                  Among other clergymen who preached upon the subject, was the hero of this story.
                  Eloquently and forcibly did the minister of Park-place Church pour out the honest
                  abhorrence of his soul; and, with thrilling emphasis, did he declare, "If a slave
                  comes to my door, flying from oppression, I will take him in; if he is naked, I
                  will clothe him; if he is thirsty, I
                  will give him drink; if he is hungry, I will feed him; he shall share my bed; he
                  shall sit at my table; and as soon will I drive out my children as give him up to
                  slavery."
               Shortly after this law was made, the fourth of July, the day of our annual
                  independence, came on the Sabbath; and the clergy generally preached sermons of a
                  religio-political character, and Mr. Forester among others. The character of the
                  sermon may be gathered from the following extracts:
               "We have reached a state of public affairs when it becomes the pulpit to break its
                  silence, and utter its notes of warnings; when every honest man should lay his
                  hand upon his heart, and appeal to God against the unholy legislation of a corrupt
                  Congress; when the old men and the young men, when the citizen and the stranger,
                  should come forth to league themselves against human slavery, and break the rod of
                  oppression.
               "Causes are at work which threaten to overturn the fair fabric which our fathers
                  erected. In Congress, where we have been accustomed to look for justice, and
                  honor, we have seen public faith broken, national honor trod under foot, and
                  solemn compacts violated. It has become evident that no trust can be reposed in
                  the slave-power, and that we must deal with it only as with a dishonored, perjured
                  outlaw. Congress has trampled on our dearest rights, and an act has been
                  passed—pressed through its several stages at midnight—enslaving all the free
                  states. It is evident that the South cannot be trusted. It has broken solemn
                  compacts, and soon it will demand the right to bring slaves into New England, and
                  work them here with us.
               "Among the people, also, are alarming signs. The fugitive-slave law will be
                  resisted. While men are human, they will hate that infamous measure, and oppose,
                  at every step, its cruel enforcement. If the South persists in making a
                  hunting-ground of New-England, there will be bloodshed and civil war. The
                  fugitive-slave law must be blotted out, or there can be no peace. Indeed, we do
                  not want rest while that odious, devilish enactment pollutes the statute-book of
                  the nation. The Union is worth nothing under such circumstances."
               Then followed an argument showing the inhumanity of sending back to slavery those
                  who had escaped, and much more to this effect. This sermon gave offence to
                  several, members of the congregation. In the church was one man who was peculiarly
                  sensitive. He held an office under government, and felt called upon to resent the
                  affront. So, in the midst of the discourse, he seized his hat and cane, and marched down the aisle, with all the
                  appearance of offended dignity which he knew how to assume. The pastor saw him
                  start, and paused, fixing his eye sternly, and somewhat roguishly, on the
                  retreating form of the office-holder. Every eye in the house turned in the same
                  direction; a smile gathered on each countenance; hats, which had been taken by men
                  who wished to follow the example of Mr. Cushing, were dropped; a flush overspread
                  the face of the poor man who was passing out, as he heard the sound of his own
                  footsteps, and he wished himself in the pew, at home, in the custom-house, in
                  China—anywhere but in the aisle of Park-place Church.
               When the door had closed after him, the sermon went on. The next day, as the
                  preacher was passing along by the custom-house, Mr. Cushing met him, and began
                  thus:
               "Did you mean to insult me yesterday?"
               "No, indeed!"
               "Then why did you preach such a sermon?"
               "Because it was my duty to do so."
               "And you meant to hit me?"
               "Certainly, if you was guilty."
               "Well, I have made up my mind!"
               "I am glad of it, for it is seldom that a man makes up his mind in these times.
                  You, of course, have determined to assist the fugitive?"
               "I have determined not to listen to the preaching of a political preacher. I do
                  hate politics in the pulpit."
               "I was preaching on morals."
               "About niggers!"
               "A man is a man, however black his face may be."
               "I do not see what use it is to make such a fuss over a few niggers. The Union is
                  worth forty thousand niggers; and I would rather see all the blacks in Christendom
                  hung than see the Union broken. I think ministers are out of place when they begin
                  to preach politics. I can say, with Senator Adams, that 'I have as high a regard
                  for their vocation as any other individual, and as much respect for the ministers
                  of peace and good-will on earth as any other individual; but when they depart from
                  their high vocation, and come down to mingle in the turbid pools of politics, I
                  would treat them just as I would all other citizens. It is so unlike the apostles
                  and the ministers of Christ at an early day, that it loses the potency which they
                  suppose the styling themselves ministers of the Gospel would give to their
                  memorials. The early ministers of Christ attended to their mission, one which was
                  given to them by their Master; and, under all circumstances, even when the Saviour
                  himself was upon earth, and attempts
                  were made to induce him to give opinions with reference to the municipal affairs
                  of the government, he refused.'"
               "There may be a difference of opinion, Mr. Cushing, as to what the mission of the
                  minister is; and I claim to understand it as well as a holder of office under
                  government or a slaveholding senator can tell me. I lived —"
               "No matter; I shall leave Park-place, at once."
               "That is a more conclusive argument than the other. I can appreciate it."
               "Just as you please. But I cannot hear a political demagogue preach, nor I won't;
                  that's all about it!"
               And off he hurried, without the common form of civility, and the minister went on
                  his way. He had not gone far before he met Mr. Innes, who took him by the hand,
                  and exclaimed, "Good-morning, Mr. Forester. I have been wanting to see you, and
                  thank you for your sermon yesterday. It was a noble plea for the oppressed, and,
                  in the name of three million slaves, in the name of humanity and God, I thank
                  you."
               "I was not aware that there was anything in my sermon which was peculiar. My
                  people, from what they know of me, should have expected just such a sermon on the
                  occasion."
               "Yes; but they did not expect it after you had voted, so little time before, for a
                  slaveholder and a man of blood."
               "On what do you base such a charge?"
               "On your admissions to me."
               "I admitted nothing."
               "I understood you to."
               "You understood wrong."
               "Then I am wrong."
               "You were so excited, Mr. Innes, that you did not know what I did say."
               "Perhaps I am too hasty. I made up my mind at that time to leave your meeting, but
                  soon changed. I feel tenderly on the subject of slavery."
               "I merely refused to tell you for whom I voted, considering it my own matter."
               "O, well, let us drop it. Your sermon yesterday was excellent—excellent."
               Mr. Cushing did not leave the meeting, though he had resolved to do so. There was
                  another party to the bargain. Mrs. Cushing was not at meeting, and did not see her
                  husband retire, and was not aware of the difficulty. However, on Monday, after his
                  interview with Mr. Forester, the wounded office-holder said to his wife, a
                  strong-minded woman, "I am going to leave Park-place Church. I have had enough of
                  that—"
               "Leave Park-place Church!"
               
               "Yes."
               "What for, pray?"
               "O, you can't hear anything but politics."
               "I don't hear politics there."
               "If you don't, Forester is hammering at it all the time; and I shall leave. So,
                  that's settled!"
               "I shan't leave."
               "Shan't!"
               "No."
               "I will sell my pew."
               "I will buy it. I have no idea of leaving Park-place. You get into a fret, once in
                  four years, on politics, and want to sell your pew. I have left two churches on
                  your account, and won't move again. I am satisfied with Mr. Forester, and shall
                  not leave his church. If I go away with you, it will not be two years before you
                  will have a flare-up, and want to move again."
               "Well, I don't want to have my political views controverted every Sabbath."
               "I don't care anything about politics. I wish they would let women vote; we should
                  not have so much fuss about nothing."
               "Women and ministers are the last persons who ought to vote; they are always on
                  the wrong side."
               "Well, I don't leave Park-place."
               "I do."
               "Just as you please, Mr. Cushing."
               There ended the discussion. Mrs. Cushing had her way, and Mr. Cushing, though he
                  did not attend Park-place for some time, at length yielded, and thanked his wife
                  that she did not yield to his wishes. By some party manœuvre he lost his office,
                  and all at once declared that Mr. Forester knew more about political matters than
                  a great many statesmen, and ever after was a consistent member of the parish.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIX.
               EDWARD DEVOLL.
               
                  
                     
                        Adversity, sage, useful guest,
                        Serene instructor, but the best,
                        It is from thee alone we know
                        Justly to value things below.
                     
                  
               
               THE causes of dissatisfaction enumerated in the previous chapters soon
                  disappeared, and the parish settled down quietly. Mr. Innes, Esq. Bradshaw Mr.
                  Lyon, and the rest of the earnest politicians, concluded they had made themselves
                  appear somewhat foolish, and betook themselves to acts of kindness to undo any
                  unpleasant impressions which they had made on the mind of the pastor, whom they
                  sincerely loved. Camberwell was quiet, while other towns and cities were
                  convulsed.
               One day, Mr. Forester received a letter from his early and long-tried friend,
                  Edward Devoll, an extract from which we give below:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Oxford, July 31, 18—.
                           
                           "DEAR FRIEND: Come and see me, for I am in trouble; the deep waters
                              are going over my soul. The connection I have had with this people
                              must be sundered, and I must seek another place of labor. The people
                              are dissatisfied; I am weary and sad, and you must come and talk over
                              the matter with me.
                           "I have also domestic afflictions about which I must not write to you,
                              and the character of which I will not even intimate on paper. But come
                              down and see me, and I will commit all to your judgment."
                        
                     
                  
               
               Devoll, as we have seen, was settled at Oxford about the time Forester was settled
                  at Camberwell, and, though a man of mind, he had failed in his profession to a
                  considerable extent. Though he had kept along with his church, he had failed to
                  satisfy the wants of the people. His sermons were profoundly dry, and there was a
                  want of adaptation to the people and the times. He had married a pious but
                  strong-minded woman, who thought herself called to literary pursuits, and even
                  neglected her family in order to write poetry for some half-dozen magazines, and
                  prose articles for some half-dozen newspapers. She was really an intelligent,
                  cultivated woman, but with no taste for domestic duties, and no adaptation to make
                  the life of a pastor happy. Devoll, not being a man of popular abilities, had been
                     kept in a small parish; and his wife
                  had grown sour and fretful under the constant annoyances to which limited means
                  subjected her, and her husband, who had selected her among many, was disappointed
                  at the course she pursued. The Oxford people, though poor, were willing to do
                  everything possible for the minister; but it was becoming evident that a change
                  must come, for the good of both pastor and people.
               On the reception of the letter from his friend, Elwood Forester packed his valise
                  and posted off to Oxford, where he found his friend, disheartened and sad, his
                  house illy furnished, and his children, three in number, poorly clad, and growing
                  up with some very objectionable habits.
               Devoll met him at the door, welcomed him with much cordiality, and took him at
                  once into the study. They conversed about half an hour, when Mrs. Devoll made her
                  appearance in a loose robe, not the most appropriate for so late an hour in the
                  day.
               "O dear, Mr. Forester, you must excuse me," she said, "for not coming in sooner. I
                  have been engaged this afternoon in writing a sonnet."
               "A sonnet!" said Devoll, somewhat bitterly.
               "A sonnet on Autumn," added the lady.
               "Well, it will have time enough to mature before it is wanted, I see, as to-morrow
                  is the first day of August," said Forester, laughing.
               Soon the lady retired, and Devoll turned the attention of his friend to the
                  subjects for which he had sent for him.
               "I am in trouble," said he.
               "Laugh it off," was the reply.
               "I have tried to do so, but with very poor success. I have not the happy, or
                  unhappy, faculty of laughing off trouble, which you have."
               "Well, Devoll, what is the matter?"
               "There are many things. My preaching, in the first place, does not suit this
                  people. I am dry and tedious in the pulpit, I know."
               "Well, adapt yourself to the wants of your congregation. Those wants you know, and
                  you have ability to meet them."
               "I have tried."
               "And failed?"
               "Yes."
               "How have you tried?"
               "I have selected new topics, and have striven hard to make them interesting to the
                  people."
               "But have you not put too much learning into your discourses?"
               "How can I get too much learning into a sermon."
               "You cannot; but you can get too much book style, too much musty, abstruse
                  learning, which you alone can comprehend. I fear our ministers study harder for deep, incomprehensible
                  things, than they do to make simple, positive truths beneficial."
               "I may have done so."
               "I think you have, from the sermons I have heard you preach, and from a
                  conversation I had with one of your best hearers and most sincere friends. Your
                  congregation are good, common-sense people,—not learned, not ignorant; and, if I
                  mistake not, you preach to them as scholars, and not as sinners to be saved by
                  grace. You treat your themes in a learned, and not a practical way. You imitate
                  Melancthon, who preached to students and professors, and for them; instead of
                  imitating Luther, who preached to and for the masses, in which mingled the rich
                  and poor, the learned and the ignorant, the virtuous and vicious."
               "But I cannot change; I have—"
               "Yes, you can change. The man who has mastered languages and sciences, who stood
                  at the head of his class in college, and who is favorably known among men of
                  letters, can alter his style."
               "You have more versatility than I have, and do not understand the difficulties
                  which lie in the way of a downright plodder. You are a queer specimen of the
                     genus homo, a sort of exception to general
                  rules. It is useless to talk about adapting one to one's place. Men are not
                  whalebone, and cannot bend to all circumstances."
               "My dear friend, you are mistaken in some things, though I admit that you have
                  studied much more closely than I have. You dwell in your study; you live among
                  your books, and go not out to find how the public pulse is beating, and how —"
               "O, I despise the public pulse, and cannot consent to be an actor on the stage in
                  order to get a congregation. I am not a time-server, and cannot become one. If I
                  cannot secure a congregation by honest study, and well-digested, compact
                  discourses, I must leave the sacred palling."
               "You need not become a time-server, or an actor, in order to adapt yourself to the
                  wants of your people. But, if you would know how to preach, and if you would
                  benefit those who hear you, you must know what errors they are cherishing, what
                  sins most beset then, what virtues need most to be cultivated, what wrongs need to
                  be redressed, what sorrows are to be alleviated, and what hearts need to be
                  inspired. The greatest pulpit orators that ever lived, Bossuet, Bourdalou,
                  Massillon, on the continent, a noble host in Britain, and numbers among us, have
                  all adapted themselves to the condition and wants of the people. You can do the
                  same, if you keep in mind the solemn, awful fact that you are preaching to a
                  congregation of sinners, who are to meet you at the bar of God."
               
               "But, if this was the only difficulty, I might rise above it. Discontent already
                  reigns in the parish."
               "To what extent?"
               "I don't know."
               "Have you no means of judging?"
               "Only from a single circumstance."
               "What was it?"
               "Nothing more than the fact that one of the members of the church called on me,
                  and told me plainly that my usefulness in Oxford was at an end long ago."
               "Usefulness at an end?"
               "He so stated."
               "And you believed him?"
               "Yes,—no."
               "You should have done as Dr. H., of B—, did, a while ago."
               "How was that?"
               "A discontented, peevish member of his church called on him, and said: 'Doctor,
                  your usefulness is at end in B—.' 'How long have you thought so,' inquired the
                  doctor. 'O, for some time,' replied the man. 'Well,' said the doctor, 'I have been
                  thinking the same of you, brother Watson; your usefulness is evidently at an end
                  in this church, and, as a friend, I advise you to leave, and go to some other
                  church.' The doctor then told him that he was always making trouble, always ways
                  discontented and restive, that he had unsettled several ministers, and that the
                  church should be warned against him. The fellow was frightened, and from that day
                  never crossed the doctor's path again."
               "Ah, that is a good way to meet such men, but I couldn't do it."
               "You could try; you would be doing a real service to the church. But who was the
                  man?"
               "Brother King."
               "What, that chap that carried me in a chaise to Camberwell, one night?"
               "The same."
               "And has anybody else told you so?"
               "No."
               "Have you heard any complaints from Deacon Burchard, Doctor Lawson, or brother
                  Gates?"
               "None."
               "Do they express satisfaction?"
               "Yes; but I don't know whom to trust."
               "Trust them; they have stood by you for years; trust them, until they prove false.
                  Ministers do their members great injustice by harboring suspicions concerning
                  them."
               "But who set brother King at work?"
               "The Devil."
               "I don't know; he must have had some one to give him this lesson?"
               
               "Suppose he did; the persons who, instead of coming to you, like men, must set
                  that ignorant man to work on you, are not worth your notice."
               "Well, even this is not my chief difficulty."
               "What more?"
               "I am in debt, as are one half the ministers."
               "That is bad; how much do you owe?"
               "Three hundred dollars."
               "How much do your people owe you?"
               "One hundred and fifty dollars."
               "What other means have you for paying the debt?"
               "I have fifty dollars laid by for the purpose; but that does not meet the case,
                  and I am falling behind every quarter."
               Mr. Forester drew out his pocket-book, and filled up a check for one hundred
                  dollars on the bank of Camberwell, and placed it in the hands of his friend.
               A blush mounted to the cheek of Devoll as he said, "I cannot take this; I am not a
                  pauper!"
               "Certainly not, but God has prospered me, and I now only return you the payment of
                  the many favors you did for me in college; you must take it."
               After long entreaty and perseverance, Devoll consented to borrow the money of his
                  friend, giving his promise to return it as soon as he could.
               "But I have another difficulty," said he, at length.
               "What, more?"
               "Yes, domestic troubles."
               "I fear I cannot help you there."
               "I think not."
               "But what is the difficulty?"
               "You know I married a writer, and not a warm-hearted, domestic
                  woman."
               "I thought as much."
               "My wife is kind and amiable, but has no conception of her true duties to her
                  family."
               "That is indeed an affliction."
               "And I am thus afflicted. You are the first person on earth to whom I have
                  mentioned my feelings, or made this statement. But I can contain it no
                  longer."
               "How does Mrs. Devoll manage?"
               "Not at all."
               "Have you conversed with her, with a view to her reformation?"
               "A hundred times!"
               "Does it do no good?"
               "None at all; she neglects the children, spends her time in useless literary
                  pursuits; devotes herself to reading which unfits her mind for serious and
                  religious duties, and is a subject of various kinds of scandal in the town."
               
               "When you reason with her, what does she say?"
               "She replies that I am an odd creature, with no poetry in my soul; and then she
                  will quote from all the gods at once, and pile up what she deems beautiful
                  figures, until I am crushed beneath her towering Parnassus."
               "And may you not be in fault, to some extent?"
               "I do not see how."
               "Perhaps you do not really value your wife's literary taste."
               "Literary taste,—humbug!"
               "O, no; your wife has abilities which, well directed, would add both to your
                  happiness and to her own."
               "I do not think so."
               "It may be true, Edward, that your prosy nature needs some poetry to adapt you to
                  the world. You might be a more successful preacher by it."
               "Will you talk with my wife?"
               "I do not like to."
               "You must."
               "Some other person would do better."
               "No; she has unbounded confidence in you, and you must do it."
               "I will see."
               The bell here rang for tea, which was some half-hour behind the proper time; and
                  the two clergymen descended to the dining-room, where it was to be served. Mrs.
                  Devoll was seated at the table; her dress was quite carelessly arranged, and
                  Forester could not help contrasting her with his own neat, tidy, loving wife, who
                  never wrote poetry, but who took good care of his children. The children were
                  dirty, ill-behaved, and gave evident indications of neglect; the table was well
                  loaded, but without taste in the arrangement; the room was poorly ventilated, and
                  filled with rubbish, which gave it a very disordered appearance.
               Tea passed off, however, and Mr. Devoll, who had a meeting to attend, went out,
                  leaving Mr. Forester to spend the evening with his family. The children having
                  retired, Mrs. Devoll sat with her guest, conversing cheerfully, when the latter
                  said,
               "You pursue literary labors to some extent, do you not?"
               "I do."
               "It is agreeable recreation; I suppose."
               "O, yes; I love to write. I have been writing some verses to-day, which I will
                  read, if you wish."
               "I should be happy to listen."
               Mrs. Devoll then read the following lines:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              OUR COUNTRY.
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       
                                          Breathes there a man with soul so dead,
                                          Who never to himself hath said
                                          This is my own, my native land?
                                       
                                    
                                    —SCOTT.
                                 
                              
                              
                                 Our Country! yes, our native land,
                                 Bought by a brave and noble band,
                                 Who crossed the ocean's briny spray,
                                 From tyranny and strife away.
                                 Each rock and rill, each mount and hill,
                                 Is dearer far, and brighter still,
                                 Than all the temples fair of Rome,
                                 Or the high-swelling Grecian dome
                                 Her bosom bears a harvest fair,
                                 And all the fruits of peace are there;
                                 Each rugged rock, and flowing wave,
                                 Possess attractions for the brave.
                              
                              
                                 Our Country! 'neath her sacred soil
                                 Our brothers sleep, o'ercome by toil;
                                 They left the land they bled to save,
                                 And now they slumber in the grave.
                                 Our fathers' graves,—our fathers' graves!
                                 O'er them the sacred banner waves;
                                 They rest, set free from anxious fears,
                                 From pain, and care, and sorrowing tears.
                                 Their names will live till time shall end,
                                 Their children will their fame defend,
                                 Till all mankind their virtues sound,
                                 From pole to pole, the world around.
                              
                              
                                 Our Country! here religion reigns,
                                 And here a mighty conquest gains;
                                 Each mount points up a snow-white spire,
                                 Each altar burns with sacred fire.
                              
                              
                                 Our Country! sound her glorious name;
                                 Columbia, let it still remain;
                                 My proudest boast shall ever be
                                 That I'm a favored son of thee;
                                 That name inspires the soul with joy,
                                 That name my noblest songs employ;
                                 That name I'll sing when troubles roll,
                                 Or brighter prospects fill the soul.
                                 Inscribe that name on front of heaven,
                                 Till every cloud away is driven; 
                                 Ascendant let Columbia shine,
                                 To praise her let all nations join.
                              
                              
                                 Our Country! see that star-flag bright,
                                 Floating o'er our proudest height;
                                 Its flowing folds wave full and free,
                                 In every land, o'er every sea.
                              
                              
                                 Go look at England's banner, red
                                 With blood of those who from her fled;
                                 That banner often stained in gore,
                                 In present days and days of yore.
                                 The Turkish crescent has grown old,
                                 Though guarded by a Moslem bold;
                                 Its glories all have passed away,
                                 Like evening clouds at close of day.
                                 The flag of Rome—the papal power—
                                 Is but the pageant of an hour;
                                 Her banner waved o'er realms of space,
                                 But now is shrouded in disgrace.
                                 Fair Grecia, too, that classic land,
                                 Her temples now in ruins stand;
                                 Her banner furled, her power fled,
                                 And she a trembling captive led. 
                              
                              
                                 But thou, Columbia, thou shalt rise,
                                 Till thou shalt reach the glorious prize,
                                 
                                 Like the bold eagle of thy choice,
                                 Soaring on high, soaring, rejoice.
                              
                              
                                 Our Country! yes, we love her well,
                                 Her name, her flag, each pleasant dell;
                                 We love to wander 'mid the flowers
                                 Which bloom around her happy bowers.
                                 When 'mid sylvan scenes we roam,
                                 In each bright and happy home,
                                 Then we praise her sacred name,
                                 And sing of her undying fame.
                              
                              
                                 Living, I love my native land,
                                 The memory of her pilgrim band;
                                 Living, I'll speak her praises forth,
                                 From east to west, from south to north.
                              
                              
                                 Dying, my lisping, stammering tongue
                                 The loudest of these notes proclaim;
                                 Dying, my richest boon shall be,
                                 My native land, to think of thee.
                                 And, when from earth the spirit's fled,
                                 And I am numbered with the dead,
                                 My bones repose beneath her soil,
                                 Secure from sorrow, care and toil.
                              
                              
                                 Our Country! brighter prospects rise,
                                 And scenes of joy salute mine eyes;
                                 Her course is onward,—onward still;
                                 Her banner set on every hill.
                                 Then let us strike each tuneful lyre
                                 In memory of each patriot sire;
                                 We sing our country's statesmen band,
                                 We sing our pure and happy land.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Of course the listener professed himself satisfied with the poetry, though he
                  hardly wished to listen longer. But one or two other shorter and better verses she
                  read; and then, turning over her portfolio, said, I will read you a prose
                  article." Mr. Forester could not resist the temptation to pun, even at the expense
                  of his friend; so he said,
               "Your husband is a prose article."
               "So I often tell him, but he won't reform," was the rejoinder. The lady here read
                  the following effusion:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           THE DEATH-BED OF A SLAVE.
                           Death comes alike to all. The low and the proud-hearted alike must
                              feel his touch.
                        
                     
                  
               
               The sun was setting; its last bright beams were falling upon a southern scene; the
                  gay birds of the South were chanting their farewell to the king of day, and the
                  bright spring-flowers were lifting their heads to receive his parting beams. The
                  golden light receded as calmly and as beautifully as if with its departure it took
                  all care from man. It seemed to say that, when it came again, joy, too, should
                  come to every heart.
               But there are those who heed not the going down nor the uprising of the sun. There
                  are those to whom its beams bring not the light of comfort; who drink only the
                  bitter dregs of life; who see the beautiful, yet feel it not; who can go forth and
                  look on nature in its loveliest form, and heed not, for the suffering of their hearts, its beauties.
               In yon low cot there is a scene of suffering. Death has marked for its prey one of
                  its wretched inmates,—a slave. The "angel of death" has come to bear
                  away to heaven one whose only happiness here was to dream of that
                     blessed land. She looked abroad upon the face of nature, and then
                  bade her companions, ere she died, a sad farewell.
               "The hour has come,—I feel it; yet I do not dread to go. And now once more I would
                  look upon the face of nature. It seems as though I could enjoy its beauties now. I
                  have looked on nature when it was most beautiful, yet that beauty had not power to
                  touch my heart. I have seen the purest wild-flowers grow, and have sometimes
                  thought that sweet lessons might be gathered from their opening buds; yet I have
                  felt I had not the heart to gather them. I have heard the notes of the sweet
                  songsters of the wood, and have loved them, too; they seemed so plaintive, so like
                  the feelings of my own sad heart, that I have sat hours, and wept when they sang;
                  and it seemed as though those burning tears did wash away some of life's
                  dreariness. Life has been dreary. Its sweetest hours have been sad to me. Had I
                  been free, they would not have been thus. O, that I might have been free! I would
                  not ask that I might have been the favored child of fortune: would have been
                  content to suffer e'en to death, might I have been free. O, then I could have
                  loved so well the pure, fresh air of heaven, the song of birds, and the sweet,
                  blooming flowers; and they were dearer to my heart than anything, save my mother's
                  memory, and those sweet dreams of heaven I used to have. I remember, when a little
                  child, that, ere they tore my mother from me, I did love her tenderly. But now I
                  do not mourn that they have taken her away; for, had she been left, there would
                  have been a tie to bind me still to earth. Now there's nothing here I love. I do
                  not hate the world, though it has done me wrong; and I rejoice that death is
                  coming,—that sweet angel of peace. O, I have watched for him so long, and wished
                  that he might come, that I might go to heaven, and learn what Freedom was. And
                  there I shall learn. Seraphs and angels there will sing it in their praises, and
                  heaven itself will echo with the sound."
               After the reading was finished, the conversation naturally fell into the
                  prevailing tastes of the lady, who was the enthusiastic admirer of this poet, and
                  that moralist, and who gave much greater evidence of ability and culture than her
                     own school-girl literature would
                  seem to attest. Delicately and adroitly the clergyman led her into such a train of
                  reflection as would induce her to view her past life, and gaze over her present
                  condition; and finally asked her if she did not fear that she sometimes neglected
                  her family duties for literary pursuits.
               The idea had not entered her mind, though she had heard it from the lips of her
                  husband many times. Her questioner led her on from step to step; told her that the
                  education of her children, the culture of her family, was her noblest work; that
                  the most beautiful poem she could write was on the young hearts and intellects of
                  those whom God, in his kindness, had committed to her charge. The poetess, who had
                  lost the wife and the mother in the woman of literature, burst into tears; and, as
                  soon as her husband entered, hurried to her chamber, and reviewed the whole
                  conversation, and made resolutions of amendment for the future.
               Long that night did Elwood Forester and Edward Devoll converse together, and they
                  both retired to rest better and happier men. The former had infused much of his
                  own earnest spirit into his friend, who from that hour was a changed man.
               The next Sabbath morning was bright and beautiful tiful, and the Oxford church was
                  more than usually full; and as Mr. Devoll ascended the sacred desk, he felt within
                  him a high and holy purpose. The preliminary services were conducted with more
                  than usual unction and earnestness. The text was not some obscure passage, such as
                  was often preached from in that pulpit, but the beautiful words of John: "My
                  little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in
                  truth." The theme founded on this simple passage of the divine word was
                  beautifully developed, and its practical teachings were argued with much force and
                  propriety to the audience, which sat listening with the greatest interest. It was
                  evident that a new vein of rich spiritual truth had broken into the soul of the
                  preacher, and his auditors left the house wondering how they could ever be
                  dissatisfied with a man who could preach so good a discourse. As the people passed
                  along the streets towards their homes, various were the comments made on the
                  sermon. Good Deacon Lamb, a man whose head was white, and whose now venerable form
                  had been seen in the streets of Oxford for more than eighty years, whose life was
                  a living commentary upon the excellence of religion, met another aged member of
                  the church, and said to him, "Brother Balch, we have had an old-fashioned sermon
                  to-day, such as you and I used to hear
                  in the days of the old patriarchs who have all gone."
               "Yes, yes," was the reply; "our minister has evidently been baptized in the holy
                  fires of love, for he speaks like a man who has had communion with the Holy
                  Ghost."
               "We must not let him leave us; where could we get his like?"
               "Leave us! no. That would be one of the greatest calamities we could meet with. He
                  must stay with us."
               John Humphrey, a shrewd, driving and somewhat wealthy merchant of Oxford,—a man
                  who, though not a Christian, was a very amiable man,—met Mr. Haskins as he was
                  leaving the steps, and, clapping him on the shoulder, said: "Well, Haskins, the
                  parson has given some good preaching to-day."
               "First-rate—tip-top."
               "Such preaching is enough to make you and I Christians."
               "O, not much hope of that; we drive business too hard."
               "I'll tell you what I have been thinking about this afternoon."
               "About shaving a note to-morrow, I suppose."
               "No."
               "Well, about selling that lot of sugar you have on hand."
               "No."
               "Well, I can't guess, but I do not believe it was anything serious, for you and I,
                  business men, are not overburdened with religious convictions, and serious
                  impressions."
               "You may not be, but you must not judge others by yourself. However, it was
                  nothing serious that I was thinking about."
               "Well, out with it at once."
               "I propose to make Mr. Devoll a present."
               "Well, make it; nobody will hinder you."
               "I design to converse with others about it, and see if we cannot raise a little
                  sum of money for him."
               "Why, is he starving?"
               "No, I presume not; but he is living here on a small salary, and must have trials
                  and perplexities, and we ought to do something for him."
               "Perhaps so."
               "Certainly so."
               "Well, how will you get at it?"
               "I will write a paper, and hand it to Jacob Haskins to head it with the trifling
                  sum of twenty-five dollars."
               "Ah, that is your game, is it? And how much will you give yourself?"
               
               "The same, though I am not half so rich as you."
               "How much do you propose to raise?"
               "Five hundred dollars."
               "Good luck to you!"
               The paper was drawn up, and headed by Jacob Haskins, Esq., a rough but honest man;
                  and the five hundred dollars was early raised and handed in to the minister, who
                  received it with a great degree of stupor, such as he had never experienced
                  before.
               From that time the preaching in Oxford was changed. It might not have been so
                  learned as before, but it was more effective. There were no Latin or Greek
                  quotations, but plenty of plain, honest English; few flashes of fancy, but much
                  sober good sense. The discontented ones were satisfied, and, in a few Sabbaths, a
                  new feeling came over the people. They no longer slept in the house of God, but
                  were interested and benefited. The minister's debts were paid, and he had a few
                  hundred dollars on hand, which he invested in a profitable manner. A weight was
                  removed from his spirits, and he was a new man.
               In his family there was a change. His wife had listened to the calm, and what
                  seemed to her, at the time, the somewhat impertinent advice of Mr. Forester. She
                  had listened to his statements, and had her eyes opened to the folly of her
                  course. The results were soon seen. The parsonage assumed a more cheerful aspect;
                  the children were better educated; the heart of the minister was lighter, and the
                  whole parish wondered what new spirit had descended on the home of the pastor and
                  his companion. About a year after this, Mr. Devoll wrote to his friend Forester,
                  as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "Oxford Sept., 18—.
                           
                           "DEAR FRIEND AND BROTHER: I have hardly seen you since your very
                              fortunate visit at my house, months ago. But you have been in constant
                              remembrance, for the effects of your visit are perceptible in my
                              people and in my family You was the means of raising a load from my
                              soul, which had hung upon it for many weary months. I was accustomed
                              to look upon the shady side of life, and, like our mutual friend,
                              Edward Vernon, was continually gloomy and misanthropic. But you taught
                              me kindly to look at life as it is; and I have risen as from a trance,
                              to feel my soul nerved for its holy mission. I have learned how to be
                              practical, and have thrown away the mysteries, for common sense; and I
                              believe my people understand and appreciate me. A wonderful change has
                              come over the parish. The little children, even, appear more
                              interested in me; and the
                              old men look up to me on the Sabbath with eyes filled with tears. I am
                              following out the maxims which in college I despised, but which I see
                              plainly, now, have been the basis of your success.
                           "In my family, too, there has been a change. I have a wife, and my
                              children have a mother. My wife, a woman of good sense and real
                              affection, but almost spoiled in the seminary, by the foolish notions
                              inculcated by her teacher, has become my helper. You was faithful to
                              her, and her unbounded confidence in your judgment led her to reverse
                              her course and change her life. We now have a happy home, a contented
                              parish, and bright prospects for the future. Come again, not to rebuke
                              and advise, but to rejoice with us, and to receive our thanks for your
                              kindness.
                           "I give it up, Elwood; you know how to get along best in life. I have
                              studied books, and you have studied men; your knowledge is most
                              valuable. I give it up; I am the best linguist, the best
                              mathematician, the best metaphysician, and you are the most of a
                              MAN.
                           "But I am talking in the vein in which we used to converse in college,
                              where ambition held out its laurels, and where unholy emulations urged
                              us to a sinful competition.
                           
                              "EDWARD DEVOLL."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Mr. Devoll is pastor at Oxford now. His people, while they know that he does not
                  excel as a rhetorician, love the man for his profound arguments and his many
                  virtues; and the day seems to be far distant when any one will tell him that his
                  "usefulness is done."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               DEATH OF LITTLE SAMMY.
               
                  
                     
                        The little crib is empty
                        Where oft I've seen thee lie,
                        So beautiful in thy deep sleep,
                        Emblem of purity;
                        And, O, how silent is the place
                        Where late I heard thy voice
                        In gleeful shout or merry laugh,
                        Making my heart rejoice!
                     
                     
                        Thy playthings lie around me—
                        The silent rattle here,
                        Gay toys and picture-books are there
                        Ah, sure, thou must be near!
                        Thy tiny pair of half-worn shoes,
                        Thy life-like frock of red,
                        Thy whistle, hat, and favorite whip
                        Sweet baby, art thou dead?
                     
                     
                        My trembling hand encloses
                        Thy bright and clustering curls;
                        Millions of gold can't buy them,
                        Nor India's gems or pearls
                        'Tis all that's left to mortal sight
                        Of thee, sweet baby, now;
                        O, holy Father, teach my soul
                        Submissively to bow!
                     
                  
               
               THE family of Mr. Forester had now increased to seven persons, including himself
                  and companion. The younger of these, a bright, beautiful boy, was named Samuel
                  Newell, for one of the pious missionaries who early laid down his life on the
                  altar of fidelity to God. As the youngest child, Samuel was the object of much
                  attention, and was the pet of his parents. One day, as the minister returned from
                  his duties abroad, his wife met him with an anxious look.
               "What is the matter?"
               "Sammy has the croup!"
               "Where is he?"
               "In the nursery."
               "How long has he had it?"
               "A few minutes."
               "Let me see him."
               The lady led the way to the nursery, where the little fellow was sleeping in the
                  arms of the nurse. Mrs. Brayton was at work, applying the usual remedies. The
                  doctor, who had been sent for, soon arrived, and at once saw the necessity of
                  using extra medicines. A few minutes had allowed the disease to make fearful havoc
                  with that young child, who, as his father entered the room, stretched out his arms
                  towards him, hoarsely crying, "Father, father."
               "What do you think of him, doctor?" said the minister.
               
               "A bad case."
               "What can you do for him?"
               "I will do the best I can, but the croup is a terrible disease."
               All that night Sammy lived, growing worse and worse each hour. Again, and again
                  was the father driven from the bed-side, unable to witness the terrible struggles
                  of his child; while the mother, like an angel of mercy, hung over the couch,
                  wiping the sweat from the brow of her child, watching every breath, and
                  administering to its want.
               The next morning came, but it brought no smiles of hope to that afflicted family.
                  The father bowed heavily in prayer: "If it be possible, let this cup pass from us;
                  nevertheless, not my will, but thine, be done." He found that, after having given
                  consolation to others, it was hard to apply those consolations to his own case.
                  The mother was more calm; she heeded not the other children, as they sported
                  before her, or stood trembling at the contortions and distress of "brother dear,"
                  as his breath choked, and his race came to a close. Ah! a mother's love! How does
                  it hold out in times of distress, and how fearless it is in the dark night Who
                  does not love to remember his mother? 
                     
                        "That gentle hand I ne'er forget
                        And now, though time has set
                        His frosty seal upon my brow,
                        These temples feel it yet."
                     
                  
               
               Little Sammy died at noon, and there was sorrow in that abode, and throughout all
                  the families of the church. The funeral was attended by a host of sympathizing
                  friends, who loved the child for the sake of the parents. A neighboring minister
                  was called in to address the people, and offer a petition to God, for his
                  consoling grace. Many and kind were his words:
               "It is well with the child," he said, "was the language of a sorrowing mother, who
                  had just been bereaved of a beloved son. That mother was a godly woman, and
                  trusted in the watchful care and providence of her heavenly Father; and when He
                  had taken her child, she had no murmuring word to utter, no murmuring thought to
                  express. She bowed, in her grief, to 'Him who doeth all things well.'
               "Your child is gone; your home is desolate, and there,
                  are sad echoes around your mourning hearts. Each place, each nook, each scene,
                  reminds you of him, your fondly-loved and early-lost child. 
                     
                        'His place around your hearthstone,
                        His seat now vacant here,
                        His merry laugh so gleesome,
                        All bring the bitter tear.'
                     
                  
               
               
               "But can you regret that God should take your child? Were you in abject poverty,
                  and some kind man should come to your door and give food to your children, propose
                  to educate them in all the splendor of royalty, you would let them go; it would
                  prove you narrow, selfish and cruel, to keep your children in a hovel, in
                  ignorance, in want, when they might be well provided for, and educated, and
                  honored. You would let them go, though it might grieve you to part with them. You
                  would sacrifice your feelings to their welfare, and, though you knew you should
                  never see them again, you would bless the hand which was leading them away.
                  However much you might love your children, you would not stand in the way of their
                  advancement. Now, in this same manner has God acted toward the child which you
                  have lost. As he looked down from heaven, he saw you were unable to make your
                  little one happy, unable to supply its wants, and that you would keep it only for
                  a life of anxiety and care. He took the child away in wisdom, and it is now
                  enjoying the society of sainted spirits around the throne.
               "Nor is this all. By an unfortunate combination of circumstances, we are all under
                  the influence of sin. Our first responsible acts are sinful, and we grow up averse
                  to God and a holy life. Many of the human family become very wicked break over all
                  restraints, and almost rival Satan in iniquity. Not content with being sinners,
                  they covet the distinction of being the chief of sinners. Now, the
                  child whose death you mourn might have become extremely wicked. He might have
                  become a drunkard, a Sabbath-breaker, a gambler, or a profligate. He might have
                  been idle, indolent, vicious, and ended his life on the gallows. He might have
                  smote the bosom that nursed him, the hand that fed him, and the heart that loved
                  him. You shrink now from such a supposition. All the memories of your child are
                  precious, and you have dreamed only of his growing up with a heart of angel
                  goodness. But you have lived long enough, and seen enough of life, to know that
                  other parents have had visions as bright as yours, and have had them dashed in a
                  single hour.
               "Besides, it will require no argument to prove that your departed infant has been
                  wafted up to glory. Any other idea would be abhorrent to reason and revelation.
                  The character of God, his plans and purposes, the teachings of the Saviour, and
                  the great atonement, all are pledged to the precious doctrine of infant salvation.
                  John, in the vision of Patmos, had a sublime view of an infant throng, who,
                  standing on Mount Sion, joined in the grand chorus of the redeemed, and shouted,
                  'Glory to God, and the Lamb!' And 'I looked, and lo, a Lamb stood on the Mount Sion, and with
                  him a hundred and forty and four thousand, having his Father's name written in
                  their foreheads. And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and
                  as the voice of a great thunder; and I heard the voice of harpers, harping with
                  their harps. And they sung as it were a new song before the throne, and before the
                  four beasts and the elders; and no man could learn that song but the hundred and
                  forty and four thousand which were redeemed from the earth. These are they which
                  were not defiled with women, for they are virgins; these are they which follow the
                  Lamb whithersoever he goeth; these were redeemed from among men, being the first
                  fruits unto God and to the Lamb. And in their mouth was found no guile, for they
                  are without fault before the throne of God.'"
               With these, and many other kind words, he comforted the hearts of the bereaved and
                  stricken parents.
               The death of Sammy made a chasm in that bright family circle, and long did the
                  parsonage wear a mournful aspect. But the language of the young pastor was
                  cheerful, and the heart of his wife was sustained by grace such as the world never
                  conceived of. A letter written to her parents at the time was full of deep,
                  far-reaching faith, and abounded in many tender expressions of confidence in God.
                  The death of the child was sanctified to both father and mother, and it was good
                  for them that they were afflicted."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE SINGULAR LETTERS.
               
                  
                     He was a man scrupulously honest, devoid of selfish prejudice, who would
                        trample the most desirable good beneath his feet if it came in a
                        dishonorable way.
                  
               
               THE parish meeting of Park-place Church was at hand, and, just previous, several
                  members of the church met and discussed the propriety of increasing the salary of
                  the pastor, and the following conversation ensued:
               
                  Dea. Brayton. "I think it is a simple act of justice, and shall go
                  for it with all my heart."
               
                  Dea. Turner. "So shall I. Our pastor has been the means of renting
                  our pews, filling up the house, and increasing our income, and he should share in
                  this prosperity."
               
                  Mr. Skelton. "I don't know. Mr. Forester has a very large salary
                  now, and he ought to live on it."
               
                  Dea. Turner. "He does live on it, and he does not ask an increase.
                  But that does not affect the question of his just dues."
               
                  Mr. Skelton. "Well, I live on eight hundred dollars, and I do not
                  see why the minister cannot."
               
                  Dea. Turner. "If he can, we have no right to force him to. He
                  deserves a large salary, and ought to have it; and, if he does not want it for
                  current expenses, let him give it away to benevolent purposes."
               
                  Mr. Hammond. "He gives now to every beggar that comes along."
               
                  Mr. Edwards. "He ought to lay up something. I think the minister has
                  as much right to have a house, or a farm, as any other man; and a minister is
                  unjust to his family if he does not lay up something for a rainy day."
               
                  Dea. Brayton. "Very true, Mr. Edwards."
               It was generally settled that the minister should have an increase of salary, not
                  because he asked for it, but because he deserved it, and the society was able to
                  pay it.
               The parish meeting was held, and the generous sum of five hundred dollars was
                  added to the amount voted for supplying the pulpit, and not a voice was given
                  against it. Even Mr. Skelton acted in the affirmative, and, when the vote was
                  declared, Dick Hosmer clapped his hands for joy.
               
               However, at an adjourned meeting, the proprietors of the house received a letter
                  from the pastor, which read as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "To the Members of the First Parish in Camberwell, in
                              Parish-meeting assembled:
                           "GENTLEMEN: It is a circumstance which claims my thankful
                              acknowledgments, and of which I hope ever to retain a grateful
                              recollection, that while many ministers are constrained to ask, and
                              perhaps ask in vain, for an increase of salary, the only request
                              relative to a support which I have ever had occasion to present to you
                              is that my salary may be diminished. Such a request, you will
                              recollect, I made through the medium of one of the congregation at
                              your last annual meeting; but your kindness and liberality prevented
                              you from complying with it. I now repeat that request in writing. The
                              salary which you voted me at the time of my settlement is amply
                              sufficient for my support; for I can never consent to acquire wealth
                              by preaching the Gospel of Christ. Permit me, then, respectfully, but
                              earnestly, to request that the addition which you have so generously
                              made to my salary may be used for some other purpose. That the Master
                              whom I serve may repay all your kindness to his servant, is the first
                              wish and most earnest prayer of your deeply-indebted and grateful
                              pastor, ELLWOOD FORESTER."*
                              
                           
                           
                              
                              *This letter and the one which follows it will, in part, be
                                 recognized as the production of men who have stood high in the
                                 land. They are here put into the service of another.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The society was taken by surprise, and the pastor was firm. But the brethren were
                  not to be out-done, and they from that time have voted a yearly donation to the
                  pastor's wife of five hundred dollars.
               Mr. Forester evidently made a mistake in writing this letter. His society was able
                  to pay him a large salary, and, if he did not wish to lay it up, he should have
                  used it for benevolent purposes. There is no fear that a society will be too
                  generous with their pastor; and, when they are so disposed, he should be the last
                  to check their benevolent impulses.
               About this time the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity was conferred on Mr.
                  Forester, by Eton College. It was a title he did not desire, and which he felt
                  would be cumbersome to him. Eton College had enjoyed his services, and shared his
                  labors; and the trustees, who were well aware of his standing as a Christian
                  minister, without consulting him, gave him the title. The first intimation tion he had of it was from the pulpit
                  of the village church, on commencement day. As his name was announced, he sank
                  back further into the obscure corner where he had been concealed, and covered his
                  face with both hands; and, as soon as convenient, hurried out of the house, and
                  retired to Camberwell. On the next day he sent the following letter to the
                  trustees of Eton College:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "CAMBERWELL, —, 18—.
                              "To the Trustees of Eton College:
                           
                           "GENTLEMEN: You have been pleased to confer on me the honorary title
                              of Doctor of Divinity. I thank you for the kind design you had, and
                              the cordial manner in which you expressed it. I am not insensible of
                              the honor, nor of the weight of character required to wear it well.
                              But, while I thus thank you, I must return the title, and reject your
                              kindness. It is not fitting that a minister of Jesus should wear such
                              a distinction. I fully agree with my friend Mr. Barnes, who says:
                              'Jesus forbade his disciples to seek such titles of distinction. The
                              reason he gave was, that he was himself their Master and Teacher. They
                              were on a level; they were to be equal in authority; they were
                              brethren; and they should neither covet nor receive a title which
                              implied either an elevation of one above another, or which appeared to
                              infringe fringe on the absolute right of the Saviour to be their only
                              Teacher and Master. The command here is an express command to his
                              disciples not to receive such a title of distinction. They were not to
                              covet it; they were not to seek it; they were not to do anything that
                              implied a wish or a willingness that it should be appended to their
                              names. Everything which would tend to make a distinction among them,
                              or destroy their parity, everything which would lead the world to
                              suppose that there were ranks and grades among them as ministers, they
                              were to avoid. It is to be observed that the command is, that they
                              were not to receive the title. "Be not ye called Rabbi."
                              The Saviour did not forbid them giving the title to others when it was
                              customary, or not regarded as improper (comp. Acts 26:25), but
                                 they were not to receive it. It was to be unknown
                              among them. This title corresponds with the title "Doctor of Divinity," as applied to ministers of the Gospel; and, so
                              far as I can see, the spirit of the Saviour's command is violated by
                              the reception of such a title, as would have been by their being
                              called Rabbi. It is a literary distinction. It does not appropriately
                              pertain to office. It makes a distinction among ministers. It tends to
                              engender pride, and a sense of superiority, in those who obtain it;
                              and envy, and a sense of inferiority, in those who do not; and the whole spirit and
                              tendency of it is contrary to the 'simplicity that is in Christ.'"
                           "Cherishing these views, I cannot accept the honor conferred upon me,
                              and must request you to withdraw it, and my friends to withhold
                              it.
                           
                              "ELWOOD FORESTER."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Here was another mistake. The honorary title amounts to nothing, and there is more
                  modesty in receiving it than in rejecting it; and it would have been far better to
                  receive it, say nothing about and let it pass, than to formally reject it, and
                  thus bring out the matter to notice. From that time to this Elwood Forester has
                  been honored by the title; and, it must be confessed, has come to hear it prefixed
                  to his name with no feelings of disapprobation.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               THE SABBATH-BREAKER.
               
                  
                     
                        With dove-like wings peace o'er yon village broods;
                        The dizzy mill-wheel rests; the anvil's din
                        Has ceased; all, all around is quietness.
                     
                  
               
               AGITATING scenes will be found in all religious societies, and Park-place, though
                  prospered to a wonderful extent, had its crooked, uncomfortable members, who would
                  not rest. One day, it was announced that Hon. Mr. Upham, who had been a senator in
                  the state legislature, would make Camberwell his residence; and in due time he
                  arrived, purchased a fine residence, fitted it in a style of surpassing elegance,
                  and moved into it with a showy, dashy family, consisting of his honorable self,
                  Mrs. Upham, and three daughters,—Kate, Anna and Bell. Mr. Upham had retired from
                  public life; had abandoned the bar, at which he was never very successful, and
                  purchased a large saw and planing mill, with extensive water privileges, about two
                  miles from the city, which, for want of a better name, we call the Clyde.
               
               It was a matter of some consequence, to a few ambitious persons, where Mr. Upham
                  went to church. He was a man of means, and his presence in certain positions was
                  highly-desirable. He received calls from several clergymen, who were very zealous
                  in drawing him into their fold. Mr. Kendall, rector of Grace Church, was the first
                  to ring the bell at Mr. Upham's residence. He was ushered in by a servant, and
                  seated in a richly-furnished drawing-room. Soon the owner of the mansion entered,
                  and, in a pompous way, inquired to whom he was indebted for the honor
                  of the reverend gentleman's visit."
               Mr. Kendall replied, in an obsequious manner, much at variance with the real
                  feelings of his heart, "O, I knew of your reputation, as a distinguished citizen,
                  and called in to see you."
               "Thank you, Mr. Kendall. Hope you will call often."
               "How do you like Camberwell?"
               "Well, thus far."
               "Have you decided on a church to attend?"
               "Not yet."
               "Glad of it; I came in to give you an invitation to settle down at Grace
                  Church."
               "Grace Church,—Grace Church,—where is that?"
               "But a few doors from you, in the next block."
               "O, the church with a freestone front!"
               "The same."
               "Well, Mr. Kendall, though I think well of that people, I am not of that way of
                  thinking. I am a —, a regular old-liner."
               "Ah, I did not know as you were fixed in your preferences."
               "Most decidedly fixed."
               "But I hope, before you decide, you will come in and see our church and people and
                  hear—our—the organ."
               "Thank you; maybe I will."
               The rector here bowed himself out, with not very agreeable feelings.
               The same day, Rev. Mr. Fletcher, of the Tabernacle Church, called. He had heard of
                  Mr. Upham, and wished to make his acquaintance. He was a shrewder man than Mr.
                  Kendall, and never asked a man to attend his meeting; but wherever he was, nobody
                  ever seemed to know that there was any church in Camberwell but Mr. Fletcher's, or
                  any minister but himself.
               "Good-morning; welcome to Camberwell," said the minister, with a smile as bland as
                  a spring morning.
               "The same to you, reverend sir."
               "So, you have come to live among us."
               "Yes, to pass my days here."
               
               "I shall be glad to hear that you are contented among us."
               "I think I shall be; Camberwell is a pleasant place, and there are many fine
                  specimens of architecture, and various other attractions."
               "Certainly, sir; the Tabernacle is one of the finest Gothic
                  edifices in the land."
               "The people seem very courteous and upright."
               "Yes; the Tabernacle society is the most pleasant to which I ever
                  ministered. I have been settled twice before."
               "I met, yesterday, with your mayor."
               "Mr. Webster,—ah, yes; the Tabernacle people urged his claims strongly."
               "Have you resided here long?"
               "Several years; the Tabernacle folks are fond of permanency."
               "I am struck with a peculiar feature of your city."
               "What is that?"
               "The people are mostly young."
               "True; the Tabernacle congregation is mostly made up of young
                  men."
               "The young form the bone and sinew of our country, but I love to see a white head
                  in the house of God."
               "Everybody who comes to the Tabernacle is struck with the venerable
                  appearance of some of our people. Our six deacons are aged, and several venerable
                  forms sit bending forward to hear the word."
               "Yes, yes."
               "Well, Mr. Upham, I never ask a man to come to the Tabernacle, but of course you
                  will look round, and make up your mind for yourself; but it's generally understood
                  that men who wish to take a high position here attend church at the
                     Tabernacle."
               "It is not my aim to stand high."
               "Truly not; but we all love to."
               "We may," dryly retorted the senator.
               The minister departed about as well satisfied as was the rector. Mr. Upham had
                  heard of Elwood Forester, and, being of the same communion, had decided pretty
                  fully to attend his church; so the next day he went to the trustees to secure a
                  pew. Deacon Turner was chairman, and with him personally the wealthy man commenced
                  conversation.
               "Good-morning, Deacon Turner."
               "Good-morning, Mr. Upham."
               "I have come to Camberwell."
               "So it seems."
               "And I want a pew in your church."
               "A whole pew?"
               "Certainly; I don't want to be crowded in with everybody."
               
               "You can't get a whole pew, for love or money."
               "I must have one."
               "You can't hire one."
               "What must I do?"
               "We can accommodate you with two seats in one place, two in another, and one in
                  another, as you want five in all."
               "Well, if that is the best you can do, I must put up with it, though I speak for
                  the next whole pew which is vacated."
               Mr. Upham next called on the minister of Park-place Church, to whom he introduced
                  himself with the salutation, "I have a letter from the sister church in Hoxton,
                  and wish with it to unite with your church."
               "I will examine the letter, and lay it before the committee."
               In due time the letter was received, and Mr. Upham became a member of Park-place
                  Church. He soon secured a whole pew, had it richly furnished, and cut quite a dash
                  in Camberwell. It was not long before he proved himself to be a vain, conceited
                  man, who loved to exhibit himself, and who was not satisfied unless he could have
                  his own way. He had manifested a troublesome disposition in several instances, and
                  was evidently a person whose absence was a greater security than his company.
               One Sabbath morning, Mr. Forester had engaged to exchange with a neighboring
                  pastor, and at an early hour walked out to the place. On his way he passed the
                  extensive planing-mill of Mr. Upham, which he was astonished to see in full
                  operation. The water-wheel was turning briskly, and the steam was puffing as
                  spitefully as if it was not on the Sabbath day. On his return, the mill was in
                  operation, as before, and the steam and the water, controlled by human hands, were
                  at work with ceaseless vigilance. With grief and sorrow the faithful minister
                  mentioned the matter to Deacon Brayton, who as highly disapproved the course of
                  Brother Upham, and who agreed to see him. On the following day he called at Mr.
                  Upham's house, just after dinner. The worthy man was reading the afternoon paper,
                  but welcomed the deacon with great cordiality; for it must be said that, with all
                  his faults, he was a generous-hearted man.
               "I am told," said Deacon Brayton, after some other conversation, "that your mill
                  was running yesterday.
               "Yes."
               "Do you often run Sundays?"
               "Always."
               "I am surprised to hear it."
               "Perhaps so, but my fires never go out."
               
               "But do you think it right?"
               "Right, right,—what is there wrong about it?"
               "Six days shalt thou—"
               "Tush, tush!"
               —"Labor, and do thy—"
               "Did not Christ pluck ears of corn on the Sabbath?"
               "Certainly he did, but that was a work of mercy."
               "Well, I run my mill as a work of necessity."
               "It cannot be."
               "It is."
               "How?"
               "Why, if my fires should go out, I could not make a living."
               "That does not undo the commandment."
               "My men are rough creatures, who will work."
               "You know the commandment: Thy 
                     man-servent
                     man-servant
                  , thy maid-servant, thy cattle, thy stranger that is within thy
                  gate."
               "Yes, but that was a Mosaic command."
               "Yet in full force on us,—binding to the letter. The moral law has not been
                  annulled. I do not know what the church would say, if they knew."
               "What has the church to do with my business?"
               "Nothing; but we have something to do with your religious character, and your
                  business affects your religious character."
               "Deacon Brayton, if you will attend to your affairs, I will attend to mine."
               This ended the conversation; Mr. Upham was determined to keep his mill going on
                  the Sabbath, and Deacon Brayton was as resolutely resolved to represent the matter
                  to the church. Mr. Forester also called, and pressed the conscience of his
                  parishioner with truth on the subject, and was told at the close that he was
                  meddling with that which did not belong to him, and might go about his business.
                  Various attempts were made by the brethren to bring the erring man to his senses,
                  but all in vain. He held out against their arguments and entreaties.
               The pastor and deacon soon presented the matter to the church, for their action,
                  and soon it was found that trouble was likely to grow out of the matter. Mr.
                  Upham's book-keeper and two of his hired men were members of the church, and,
                  though they did not work themselves, defended their employer. They, in turn, had
                  their friends, and when the matter come up in church-meeting, Mr. Upham placed
                  himself at the head of his party, and prepared to resist. He was a wealthy man,
                  and had influence. He was linked in with various members of the church. One was
                  his grocer, one was his baker, one was
                  his carpenter, and so he had quite a party in the church.
               The church-meeting came, and the vestry was crowded with people. Deacon Brayton
                  arose, after the meeting was opened, and remarked that he had a sad duty to
                  perform; he came there with a serious charge against a brother member; and
                  proceeded to detail the facts clearly, and solemnly. He paused.
               Mr. Upham arose, and in a lawyer-like way began his defence. He admitted that his
                  mill did run on the Sabbath, and defended it as a necessary thing; quoted
                  scripture, appealed to facts, and made sundry hard hits at the various members who
                  were opposed to him. "Here," he said, "if a minister exchanges, he does not
                  hesitate to tackle his horse, and ride off ten miles, seen by the world; if a
                  deacon wishes to see a friend, he does not hesitate to visit him; and the line
                  cannot be drawn. Who shall say I have taken the step too far?"
               Close remarks were taken on both sides, and the meeting adjourned for one month.
                  During that month the erring man began to use all means to injure his minister. He
                  did not hesitate to say he had no confidence in him; that he did not preach the
                  Gospel, was always haranguing on Sabbath-breaking, rumselling or something else,
                  and did not preach the cross. He went from man to man, urging the necessity of a
                  change of pastors, and using all his influence to divide the church. On Sabbath
                  days his pew was occupied by one person, his daughter, Kate, who sincerely
                  believed her father to be in the wrong, and who adhered to the pastor and the
                  church. The difficulty was made worse by several ministers, who at once began to
                  spread their nets for the rich and honorable Mr. Upham, ex-senator; and when the
                  next church-meeting came, no one could tell how the matter would end.
               At the opening of the meeting, Deacon Turner reviewed the case, and Mr. Upham and
                  his book-keeper, Elbridge Clark, made long and windy speeches, in which the pastor
                  was denounced, and open violations of the moral law defended. After all had been
                  said, the pastor arose, and asked the deacons if they had anything more to offer.
                  They replied in the negative. He then turned to Mr. Upham, and asked him and his
                  friends if they had anything more to say. They also gave a negative reply. He then
                  asked them if the church had neglected any of the usual disciplinary steps, and
                  Mr. Upham at once professed himself satisfied with that part of the matter. The
                  pastor then proceeded to lay down the Bible rule for the Sabbath; compared that
                  rule with the course of Mr. Upham;
                  replied to the objections of the erring brother, and demolished all his arguments,
                  and made the case, which had been mixed up with many side issues, stand out
                  clearly before the body. He then referred to the course of Mr. Upham, and his
                  efforts to injure him personally, repeated his insulting remarks, and gave a view
                  of the character of the man as it had been developed in the progress of the
                  difficulty.
               The members of the church were convinced, and many who came in purposing to vote
                  for Mr. Upham resolved to vote on the other side; and when the question was put,
                  "Shall the hand of church-fellowship be withdrawn from Brother Upham, until he
                  ceases to violate the Sabbath," nearly every response was in the affirmative, the
                  only "nay" being from the lips of Elbridge Clark.
               Mr. Upham arose, his lips white with rage, and shook his finger at the pastor,
                  exclaiming, "You'll be sorry for this!" Then turning to the church, he said, "You
                  have excluded me now; I want letters of dismission for my wife and three
                  daughters, who are members here. Elbridge Clark moved that the request be granted.
                  Deacon Brayton thought the request had better be laid over for one month; Mr.
                  Upham said it should not be delayed; Deacon Turner said that was all in the hands
                  of the church.
               Just then, Kate Upham arose, and said, in a sweet, musical voice, "Against your
                  custom, and perhaps against the scripture rule, a woman speaks in church. I
                  implore you do not vote to dismiss me; I am of age, and must act for myself. I
                  wish to stay with Park-place Church. Here has my wounded heart found rest; here
                  have I met my blessed Saviour; and, if it be so, I must leave father and mother,
                  and come unto you." She sat down, and there was only one in that assembly whose
                  cheeks were dry. Mr. Upham alone seemed unmoved. The request was laid upon the
                  table.
               
               The scene changes from the church-meeting to the parlor of Mr. Upham. The daughter
                  had reached home first, and sat with her Bible open before her, and hot tears
                  chasing each other down her cheeks. The mother and the other daughters endeavored
                  to draw from her the cause of her grief, for they had not been at the meeting.
                  Just then Mr. Upham entered, and threw his hat and coat violently upon the table,
                  and angrily drew on his dressing-gown, and began,
               "Kate Upham, you are unworthy of the name you bear."
               No answer.
               "You have disgraced yourself, and me, and the whole family."
               
               No answer.
               "Now, unless you leave Park-place Church, you shall leave my house; and I give you
                  till to-morrow morning to decide."
               "What has she done?" asked Mrs. Upham, bursting into tears.
               "What is the matter?" cried Anna and Bell, in one breath.
               An explanation ensued, and Mr. Upham found he was not so strong at home as he
                  supposed. Mrs. Upham said, "I cannot leave the church."
               "You must,—you shall!" was the rejoinder.
               "I can't," said the gentle Anna.
               "I won't," added the impatient, high-spirited Bell.
               Midnight came, and the family were still up. Kate, Anna and Bell, held out; the
                  mother gave in; and it was decided that the father and mother should go to Grace
                  Church, and that the daughters should remain where they were. The family divided,
                  and Park-place was at peace again. The three lovely daughters, so different from
                  their father, are more valuable to the congregation than the whole family was
                  before, and none but Elbridge Clark regrets the absence of Hon. Mr. Upham.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               KATE UPHAM.
               
                  
                     
                        Though fools spurn Hymen's gentle powers,
                        We, who improve his golden hours,
                        By sweet experience know
                        That marriage, rightly understood,
                        Gives to the tender and the good
                        A paradise below.
                     
                  
               
               KATE UPHAM, whom we have seen in a previous chapter, was a frequent visitor at the
                  parsonage. She was Mrs. Forester's companion in acts of charity and domestic
                  duties, and she was endeared to the pastor and his wife by many acts of kindness,
                  and by many noble traits of character. One day, she came into the nursery, where
                  the pastor's wife was attending to her duties, and, with a brighter flush than
                  usual on her beautiful cheek, said, "O, I have some news to tell you."
               "And what may it be?"
               "It may be that the Dutch have taken Holland, but it an't."
               "Whatever it is, it seems to elate you."
               "Not at all," said Kate, with a blush.
               
               "Well, out with it; suspense, is dreadful."
               "Why it is—is—simply that Kate Upham has had an offer of marriage."
               "Indeed!"
               "Well you say indeed; for who ever heard the like?"
               "But, Kate, who has made you the offer?"
               "Guess."
               "I cannot."
               "You must."
               "Well, at a venture, I say Elbridge Clark; he has been haunting you for two
                  years."
               "No."
               "Ned Clapham, the banker, who wears spectacles with no glasses in them."
               "No."
               "George Brayton, one of the best young men in Camberwell."
               "No."
               "That Dr. Somebody—who is it?—who went home with you from the circle last
                  week."
               "No."
               "Then I must give it up. There are a dozen hovering around you, like sparks around
                  a lamp."
               "I suppose I must tell you; but, for the world, do not let Mr.
                  Forester know. Last night, Oswald Morton, who has just had a call to the
                  Westchester Church, now vacant in the city, called, and offered me his hand
                  and heart, and—"
               "You accepted him, of course."
               "Of course I did no such thing."
               "Did you refuse him?"
               "No."
               "What, then?"
               "I referred him to papa, and consented to take the matter into careful
                  consideration."
               
               In about three months, Kate was married to Oswald Morton by Mr. Forester, and the
                  young couple settled down with the church in Westchester-street, which of late had
                  experienced many changes, not greatly for the better. The wives of the two
                  ministers were warm friends, and the churches were thoroughly united with each
                  other. Kate makes one of the best of wives, and assures Mrs. Forester that she has
                  one of the best of husbands,—equal to Mr. Forester, her pattern of perfection. The
                  feelings of Mr. Upham are considerably softened towards Mr. Forester, and he is
                  often seen in Park-place Church, in the pew occupied by Bell and Anna, both of
                  whom are married to eminent merchants of Camberwell, and members of the
                  church.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               THE CONVENT ESCAPE.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           One Priest alone can pardon me,
                           Or bid me "Go in peace;"
                           Can breathe that word, "Absolvo te,"
                           And make these heart-throbs cease.
                           My soul has heard this priestly voice,
                           It said, "I bore thy sins—rejoice!"
                        
                     
                     1 Pet. 11:24.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           He showed the spear-mark in his side,
                           The nail-print on his palm;
                           Said, "Look on me, the Crucified,—
                           Why tremble thus? Be calm!
                           All power is mine,—I set thee free,—
                           Be not afraid,—'Absolvo te.'"
                        
                     
                     Isa. 14:22.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           In chains of sin once tied and bound,
                           I walk in life and light;
                           Each spot I tread is hallowed ground,
                           Whilst him I keep in sight
                           Who died a victim on the tree,
                           That he might say, "Absolvo te."
                        
                     
                     1 John 1:7.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           By him my soul is purified,
                           Once leprous and defiled;
                           Cleansed by the water from his side,
                           God sees me as a child;
                           No priest can heal or cleanse but he,
                           No other say, "Absolvo te."
                        
                     
                     Matt. 8:3.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           He robed me in a priestly dress,
                           That I might incense bring
                           Of prayer, and praise, and righteousness,
                           To heaven's eternal King;
                           And when he gave this robe to me,
                           He smiled, and said, "Absolvo te."
                        
                     
                     Zech. 3:4, 5.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           In heaven he stands before the throne,
                           The Great High-priest above;
                           "MELCHISEDEC"—that name alone
                           Can sin's dark stain remove;
                           To him I look on bended knee,
                           And hear that sweet "Absolvo te."
                        
                     
                     Heb. 8:1.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           A girded Levite here below,
                           I willing service bring,
                           And fain would tell to all I know
                           Of Christ, the Priestly King;
                           Would win all hearts from sin to flee,
                           And hear him say, "Absolvo te."
                        
                     
                     1 John 2:1.
                  
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "A little while," and he shall come
                           Forth from the inner shrine,
                           To call his pardoned brethren home;
                           O, bliss supreme, divine!
                           When every blood-bought child shall see
                           THE PRIEST who said, "ABSOLVO TE."
                        
                     
                     Heb. 9:28.
                  
               
               
               AMONG the Park-place families, at the date of Mr. Forester's ordination, was that
                  of Mr. Crowninshield, a merchant of opulence, and a man of sincere piety. He had a
                  wife and one daughter, a fine girl of about eighteen years of age. This daughter
                  had, in company with the family of an uncle, spent about two years in Europe,—much
                  of the time in the city of Rome.
               Near Camberwell, on Mount Pleasant, stood a convent of the Sisters of Charity.
                  This convent was under the control of the Catholic bishop and his priests. A
                  school was held in connection with this convent, to which many persons of
                  Protestant faith sent their children to be educated; and many of whom were induced
                  to take the veil, and become nuns.
               On the return of Helen Crowninshield, or "Nell," as she was called, the directors
                  of the convent called on her father, and wished him to send his daughter to the
                  Catholic school. For some time the old man steadily resisted; but a young priest,
                  whom we shall call Father Fitzhazel, had seen the young girl, and had found the
                  way to her heart, and persuaded her to second the wishes of the church. Having
                  become habituated to the sight of priests, and feeling herself secure against the
                  wiles of the Romish faith, she urged her father to allow her to attend school at
                  the convent. At length he yielded, but with some forebodings, and his daughter
                  went to board at the convent. So much secured, Father Fitzhazel set to work to
                  induce her to become a nun, in which effort he was seconded by several Roman
                  Catholic ladies. It is needless to state by what specious falsehoods and by what
                  subtle schemes the priest succeeded in winning the young girl over to his purpose.
                  At the end of one year, the accomplished victim announced to her parents her
                  purpose to give herself to the church. No argument, no entreaty, could shake her
                  resolution. Mr. Forester reasoned with her, and her parents pleaded with her; but
                  she persisted in her course, and soon took the customary vows, and disappeared
                  from the view of the world, into a prison kept by priestly jailers. Her parents,
                  crushed and broken-hearted, were laid in the grave side by side, within six
                  months, and the daughter came not forth to see them. Mr. Forester sought many
                  times to see her, and especially at the time of the death of her mother, but was
                  repulsed by the priests, who told him that the recluse did not wish to have any
                  conversations with him. Letters written to her by friends and relatives were never
                  answered, and all efforts to learn her condition were unavailing.
               The convent on Mount Pleasant was a large, gloomy, brick edifice, surrounded with
                  a handsome garden, enclosed within high
                  brick walls. The gates were always kept locked, and no person could come in or go
                  out without the notice of a watchful porter. In the stone walls, at a distance of
                  one hundred feet from each other, were round holes, covered with iron bars, and
                  now and then the face of a man, or a sentinel, would be seen peeping through.
               One day, Mr. Forester, weary with the noise and confusion of the crowded city, had
                  wandered forth into the country; and, on his return, took a road which led him
                  along beneath the walls of the convent on Mount Pleasant. As he moved slowly
                  along, meditating on themes which the place and the hour were calculated to
                  suggest, a note, tied to a stone, fell at his feet. He took it, and saw that it
                  was directed in pencil-lines to himself, and at once concealed it about his
                  person. Anxiety to learn its contents would not allow him to reach his own house
                  before reading it; and, after getting at a safe distance from the convent, he
                  opened the note, which read as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MR. FORESTER: I saw you coming. Be here to-morrow evening, at eight
                              o'clock, and I will throw a paper over the wall. I am a prisoner
                              here.
                           
                              HELEN CROWNINSHIELD."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               At eight o'clock, on the following evening, he was on the spot, and soon a heavy
                  package was thrown over the wall. le seized it, and hurried back to the city; and,
                  sitting down in his study, read the following
               
                  
                     
                        
                           NARRATIVE.
                           "Two years have elapsed since I took the veil which shut me out from
                              home and the friendships of life. When, a while before, I came to this
                              convent to school, I had no idea of ever embracing what is miscalled a
                              religious life. But I was no sooner here than means were taken to
                              bring me into a position from which the Romish church appeared to be
                              the most spiritual and elevated body on earth. Everything seemed
                              sacred, and an air of hallowed sanctity rested on every rite which I
                              saw practised. But I had seen the church at her own capital, and had
                              become aware that she was a base hypocrite; and, though the religious
                              aspect of the convent swayed my feelings, my judgment remained
                              unconvinced; I was not a Catholic. At length, I began to receive
                              visits from Father Fitzhazel. That wonderful man, from the first time
                              I ever saw him, has not ceased to exert a most powerful influence over
                              me. His first few visits at my room at the convent were short, and a
                              religious life was not mentioned. He gave me directions about my
                              studies, and laughed and
                              talked like an old, familiar friend. He seemed to lay aside entirely
                              his priestly character, and entered into my literary pursuits with the
                              greatest zeal. But a few years older than myself, of engaging personal
                              appearance, and having fine conversational powers, his visits were
                              exceedingly agreeable, and each evening I looked for his arrival with
                              much pleasure.
                           "The first time he ever introduced the subject of a convent life, was
                              one evening on which raged a terrific thunder-storm, which seemed to
                              shake the solid walls of the convent. Filled with fear, I drew nearer
                              than usual to the priest, and almost clung to him for protection. He
                              calmed my fears; was placid and serene as a summer morning, while I
                              was exceedingly terrified. The storm passed away, and the moon came
                              forth in wonderful beauty; and, as we looked out upon the night, I
                              asked Father Fitzhazel how he could be so calm in such dreadful
                              hours.
                           "'Our religion gives security, my sister,' he said. Everywhere else,
                              and at all other times than on the occasion of these visits to my
                              room, he addressed me as his 'daughter.'
                           "'I wish I could be calm.'
                           "'You can, if you will.'
                           "'How can I?'
                           "'Give yourself to the church.
                           "'No, Father, I am too gay for that.'
                           "One word led to another, and long did we sit conversing on the
                              subject of a religious life. The lamp burned low, and the priest
                              departed. I retired to rest with my faith shattered, my nerves
                              unstrung, and my resolution gone.
                           "The next night Father Fitzhazel came again, and seemed determined to
                              follow up his advantage; and, when he left me, I was committed to the
                              church. I need not tell—I should blush to tell—the means he used, and
                              how I wronged myself. Enough to say I had taken a fearful leap, and
                              could not return. I was not what I was before. The caresses of the
                              priest had effected what his argument had failed to accomplish.
                           "I announced my intention of becoming a recluse to my dear parents,
                              and God only knows the anguish of my heart at the sad separation which
                              took place. I became a nun, and my friends deserted me. From my
                              parents I have heard nothing from that hour. I have written to them
                              repeatedly, but my letters are unanswered. I have sent messages by
                              Father Fitzhazel, but they have declared me an outcast, and have
                              denied me a home, even if the church would allow me to escape. The
                              world has turned its back on me, and I on it.
                           "I took the veil,—misled, blinded, deceived,— and turned from the chapel where the
                              ceremony was performed to a secret chamber, where the usual
                              instructions were to be given. Conducted by a nun, I was taken through
                              a long corridor, to a room which I had never entered before. The nun
                              carried me forward, and bade me kneel at the feet of the Superior, who
                              sat on an elevated seat at one extremity of the apartment. How long I
                              kneeled I do not know, but to me it seemed an age. At length I was
                              commanded to rise, by a voice so stern and severe that I burst into
                              tears as I arose.
                           "'The senses must be crucified," said the Superior, in the same stern
                              voice; and, at her bidding, a nun, whom I learned afterward was called
                              Sister Mary, forced me to my knees. This time I was compelled to
                              remain in this posture longer than before, and, knowing the discipline
                              to be on account of my tears, I schooled myself into an apparent want
                              of feeling, and when commanded to rise did so without emotion. My rich
                              dresses were then taken from me, and I was clad in coarse but clean
                              garments, and my hair was nearly all cut off. As I saw my tresses,
                              which I deemed so beautiful, hewed and hacked to pieces by the
                              relentless Sister Mary,—a coarse Irish girl, who seemed to be the tool
                              of the Superior,—I wept again. A nod from the Superior, and I was
                              compelled to fall upon my face, and remain so half an hour. When this
                              penance was completed, I was conducted to my cell. This was a little
                              room in the third story of the building, lighted by a window in which
                              were four squares of glass, across which stretched several iron bars.
                              The bed was of the meanest kind, and not altogether cleanly; and the
                              whole apartment was far different from the neat, tidy rooms allotted
                              to the boarding pupils, one of which I was, only yesterday.
                           "Sister Mary, as she left me, gave me the welcome information that I
                              was exempt from all services until the next morning; and no sooner had
                              she left me, than I fell on the floor and wept myself to sleep. My
                              dreams were troubled; sad visions filled my soul while sleep held me
                              in its embrace, and I awoke long before day, only to feel the most sad
                              forebodings.
                           "I pass over the first six months of my slavery. My name was taken
                              from me, and I was called Sister Agnes; my time was filled up with
                              useless religious ceremonies, such as midnight prayers, and daily and
                              hourly howlings and mimicries. The severest penances were imposed upon
                              me for the most trivial faults; whole nights have I been compelled to
                              kneel in the Chapel of Our Lady before the altar; the very dust of my
                              cell have I licked with my
                              tongue like a dog, and my flesh and beauty have wasted away.
                           "I had not been here a week before I was heartily sick of the place,
                              and, in six months, I had fully determined to escape. Father
                              Fitzhazel, whom I at first believed to be a saint, now appears to me
                              like a fiend. His real character has been discovered, and I abhor him.
                              He is my confessor, and he holds my soul in his grasp. My purpose to
                              escape was discovered soon after it was formed, and ever since my
                              discipline has been more severe, and the approaches of Father
                              Fitzhazel more insulting. I could tell you of dreadful scenes which
                              have been witnessed in this place; but it may not be safe for me to
                              write them. I could tell of groans which have sounded at midnight from
                              the room beneath my own; of silent and sad funerals we have had here,
                              of which there are sad rumors among the nuns; of priestly debauchery
                              within these walls. I could tell of crimes, of woes, but I must
                              not.
                           "I have planned an escape for to-morrow night. Thrice have my purposes
                              been thwarted, and cruel whippings have been my fate; I try again and,
                              O, if I do not escape, appeal for me to the civil authorities, that
                              they may set me free. I hope to reach your home to-morrow night, at
                              midnight; and, though I have written several times to you, and you
                              have not answered, yet I hope you will take me in, and assist in
                              reconciling me with my parents.
                           
                              HELEN CROWNINSHIELD."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The next day passed, and the evening came, and the family of the minister were in
                  anxious expectation. Mr. Forester was sometimes almost persuaded to secure legal
                  assistance, but wisely deferred to see what the night would unfold. Midnight came,
                  and there were no signs of the young woman. The clock struck one—two. About
                  half-past two the door-bell rang violently, and the nun fell fainting upon the
                  floor. The door was scarcely closed ere two men cautiously passed down the street,
                  looking anxiously in all directions, as if in search of some fugitive.
               
               Daylight came, and of all the friends who knew Nell Crowninshield before her
                  incarceration not one would have known her now. She gave the particulars of her
                  stay in the convent, in which many a sad incident mingled, and narrated the manner
                  in which she had escaped. She had bribed the porter to leave the gate open, on
                  pretence of having a sister who wished to commune with her; and, at a convenient
                  moment, in as much disguise as she could assume, she started for the city. She was
                  not a quarter of a mile from the enclosure, when the alarm-bell of the convent was rung, and,
                  as she turned and looked back, lights were seen flashing in every direction in the
                  garden. Once or twice the pursuers were very near her, and she avoided them by
                  turning abruptly into lanes and alleys, with which she was more familiar than were
                  her enemies.
               Deep was her grief when she found her parents were dead—had died of grief, without
                  receiving her letters of penitence; and sad were all her friends at the melancholy
                  wreck which had been made of a once beautiful woman.
               During her incarceration Nell Crowninshield had indeed become a Christian. The
                  tyranny and corruption, the duplicity and cruelty, of the Catholic church, had led
                  her to the Lord Jesus Christ as her Saviour. Shut up in her cell, she had become a
                  true disciple of the great High Priest, who gave his life a ransom for the sins of
                  his people, and very soon expressed a desire to unite with the Park-place church.
                  Mr. Forester communicated her desire to the church, and, on account of the
                  peculiar circumstances, it was deemed best, though contrary to custom, that she
                  should appear before the church in person, and relate God's dealings with her
                  soul.
               She came, and the vestry was crowded with people, among whom were many Roman
                  Catholics. In a clear voice and tone she related her religious convictions from
                  childhood, explained how those convictions were turned towards the Romish church,
                  and gave the date when she found hope in Christ. Before that tearful audience she
                  stood and poured out the lessons of a full, deep, Christian experience, and
                  declared how the light of mercy shone into her cell, and beamed upon the darkness
                  of her affliction, and made glorious day around her, and how she said 
                     
                        "Soul of mine,
                        Mourning in darkness thicker than the night,
                        With clasped hands before an empty shrine,
                        Give thanks—the heaven is opened—there is light!
                     
                     
                        "Rich and fair,
                        Glories of Nature home return to me—
                        The calm serene that fills the violet air,
                        The wondrous shading of the distant sea.
                     
                     
                        "Full and sweet,
                        On wings more light than ever spanned the air,
                        The wondrous incense, for the altar meet,
                        Descends once more unto my poet-share.
                     
                     
                        "Bright and grand,
                        Old pictures show, which, in my sad despair,
                        I said, with aching heart and nerveless hand,
                        God had denied to my beseeching prayer.
                     
                     
                        "Soft and slow,
                        Through all the chambers of my weary soul,
                        I hear the blessed Music come and go,
                        And the low measures thrill me as they roll.
                     
                     
                        
                        "Soul of mine,
                        
                           Shine in the light that breaks upon thee pure—
                        Give back an answering flash! the gem is thine;
                        
                           Sing—and thy song shall teach thee to
                           endure!"
                     
                  
               
               When her simple yet sublime narration was finished, the pastor asked her a few
                  questions, more to get the truth before the minds of the Catholic portion of the
                  assembly, than to satisfy his own mind.
               "Do you believe in the forgiveness of sins?"
               "Alas! what hope could I have, but for the forgiveness of sins?"
               "Who can forgive sins?"
               "God only."
               "Have you not confessed to priests?"
               "In my weakness and folly, I have."
               "To whom do you now confess?"
               "To God alone, and hope for mercy through his Son." 
                     
                        "I lay my sins on Jesus,
                        The spotless Lamb of God;
                        He bears them all, and frees us
                        From the accursed load.
                        I bring my load to Jesus,
                        To wash my crimes and stains
                        White in that blood most precious,
                        Till not a spot remains."
                     
                  
               
               "What value do you attach to the 'Absolvo te' of
                  a priest?"
               "None."
               The convert was received by the church, and is now a valued and faithful member,
                  being employed during the week in teaching, and expending the fortune left her by
                  her parents for the good of others. The convent still stands, and, for aught we
                  know, Father Fitzhazel still lives, by his arts and devices to draw young,
                  romantic girls into the veil of the Romish Church. The Lady Superior still sits on
                  Mount Pleasant, doing her work of corruption; and no law has yet been made which
                  will open the doors of her brothel, or save from destruction the victims of her
                  false and hateful faith.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXV.
               DEATH OF DEACON HOBSON.
               
                  
                     
                        The dear old friends of early time,
                        Hearts round our hearts entwined,
                        Have faded from us in their prime,
                        And we are left behind
                        To mourn,
                        And we are left behind.
                        Pale stars, red sun, ye come again,
                        For whom no hearts have pined;
                        We call our darlings back in vain,
                        Still we are left behind,
                        Alone,
                        Still we are left behind.
                        O! dear ones, teach us so to run
                        Our race, in sun and wind,
                        That we may win where ye have won,
                        Though we be left behind
                        A while,
                        Though we be left behind.
                     
                  
               
               WE have been introduced to Deacon Hobson. He was an old man, full of years, of a
                  holy and gentle spirit. He was not an active man, for disease had laid its hand on
                  him, and all through the ministry of Mr. Forester he was suffering under the
                  infirmities of old age. As he drew near to death, he sent for his minister, who
                  came to see him, and received his dying testimony as to the value of a good hope
                  through grace.
               "You have come, Mr. Forester, to see an old man die."
               "Yes; but I trust death will be to you the gate of endless life."
               "It will; I have assurance of that."
               "Then it is easy dying."
               "Yes, O, yes!"
               "Do you suffer pain?"
               "No; the joy of my soul swallows up all pain."
               "You can trust Christ now?"
               "Whom but him could I trust in an hour like this? 
                     
                        'Jesus can make a dying bed,
                        Feel soft as downy pillows are.'"
                     
                  
               
               "Does the hope of heaven seem as sweet as when you were in health?"
               "Far more. I see heaven now, and have waves of glory rolling over my soul. The
                  songs of angels are borne to my senses, and the harps of heaven make melodious
                  music."
               "Well, commit your trust to Christ, and he will keep you. Never yet did he desert a soul in the
                  struggle with death. He will be with you, and—"
               "I know he will,—he is, he is!"
               "He was with David, and Paul, and the blessed martyrs, and all—"
               "And he is with unworthy me."
               "And will be with you to the end."
               "Yes, he said, 'Lo, I am with—you—alway.'"
               The dying man here lay back, exhausted with the conversation; but he soon started
                  up, and exclaimed, "Almost home!"
               "Yes, almost," replied the minister.
               The children were now called around the bedside, and were addressed as follows:
                  "My children, my course is run; my lamp is almost out. Love each other; love God.
                  You all profess religion; try to show to the world that you love it."
               His wife, the companion of his youth, his middle age, and his declining years, now
                  came forward, and he whispered in her ear, tremblingly, "I have loved thee on
                  earth, I will love thee in heaven."
               Then he clasped his hands, and sung: 
                     
                        "Now I lay me down to sleep,
                        I pray the Lord my soul to keep;
                        If I should die before I wake,
                        I pray the Lord my soul to take."
                     
                  
               
               For a long time not a word was spoken. The dying man breathed heavily, and now and
                  then repeated, "Almost home!" At length he aroused again, and called Mr. Forester
                  to his side. The minister hung over him, and heard him say, "Tell them—that—I
                  died—well—happy. Tell them Christ was—with—me—poor me—a sinner. Don't forget
                  to—say that I died—trust—trusting in Christ—not in myself."
               Soon he called for his hymn-book, and asked his pastor to read the hymn commencing 
                     
                        "On Jordan's stormy banks I stand."
                     
                  
               
               He then asked to have the eighth chapter of Romans read to him. In a rich, deep
                  tone, broken by grief, the pastor read on slowly, letting each sentence fall on
                  the ear of the dying man. He read to the declaration of the apostle: "He that
                  spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him
                  also freely give us all things?"
               "True, true," cried the deacon.
               The pastor read on: "For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor—" A
                  movement of the friends in the room arrested the attention of the reader. He
                  looked toward the bed, and all was over, and the good man had gone to his long
                  home.
               
               Sincere was the grief of the church when it was known that old Deacon Hobson had
                  departed from this life. "If there is a true Christian in the world, Deacon Hobson
                  was one," was the common expression of all who knew him.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THE FUGITIVE.
               
                  
                     
                        When an injured people's cause
                        Lies oppressed by lordling's might,
                        When base, cringing, unjust laws
                        Foster wrong and hinder right—
                        Think upon the tiny drop
                        Which will wear the rock away;
                        In your efforts never stop—
                        Though it now be dark, the day
                        Soon will dawn, your hopes to cheer;
                        Persevere, then, persevere!
                     
                  
               
               ONE stormy night in February, 18—, the wind howled around the dwellings, and the
                  snow drifted along the streets of Camberwell. The inmates of Park-place parsonage
                  retired to rest earlier than usual, and as the pastor drew the curtains and closed
                  the shutters, he said to his wife, "This would be a fearful night for a fire."
               "Or to be out in the streets," added his wife.
               "And yet some vessel may be on the coast, driven by the storms, or some friendless
                  one may be roaming our streets."
               "How happy we should be, and how grateful to God, that we are not exposed to
                  danger!"
               
               The evening prayer was more fervent, and the hearts of the worshippers were more
                  thankful that night, on account of the storm raging around the dwelling.
               
               Sleep had settled down upon the city, and not a window gave forth a cheering ray.
                  No sound was heard save the moanings of the storm. About midnight Mr. Forester was
                  startled from his slumbers by a violent and twice-repeated ring of his door-bell.
                  He hastened to the window, and asked what was wanted. A shivering creature,
                  standing there, replied, "O massa, open de door,—for God sake, massa, let me
                  in!"
               "Where you from?"
               "Can't tell, massa."
               "Are you a fugitive slave?"
               "Yes, no, massa; do let me warm me."
               The door was open, and a negro, black as jet, came tremblingly into the house,
                  half clad, and shivering with the cold. Mr. Forester asked no questions. Hie saw
                  that the poor creature before him was in want, and his heart readily responded to
                  the appeal made to him. Mrs. Forester, who had arisen with her husband, was
                  heating some water, and preparing food, and soon the slave was devouring the
                  articles placed before him, as if he had not tasted food for a month. Bread, meat,
                  fish, all went in the same direction, while scarcely a word was spoken. At length
                  the repast was over, and the guest was taken to a close room and a warm bed, and
                  the family again retired to rest. After being in silence awhile, Mrs. Forester
                  said to her husband, "Did you not do wrong in taking that man in, and letting him
                  retire, without questioning him more closely?"
               "I think not."
               "He may be an impostor."
               "What impostor would come out in a night like this, and in such clothing?"
               "But you might have questioned him."
               "True, but I could not stop to question a man in his case. He wanted food, and I
                  gave it; he wanted sleep, and he shall have it. My house shall be his castle till
                  the morning, and then, if I find him worthy, I will furnish him with means to
                  pursue his way to the North Star."
               "Perhaps you are right; but suppose—"
               "Suppose what?"
               "That he be an impostor, and arise in the 
                     hight
                     night
                  , and—"
               "Pugh!"
               "Well, he might—"
               "Might what?"
               "Kill us all."
               "Folly!"
               
               "Such cases have happened."
               "But where there has been some inducement to kill; there is none here."
               "You don't know."
               "Why, we have no silver worth stealing, and,—but it is no use to talk. You are
                  getting fidgety; so go to sleep."
               The poor fugitive, for such he proved to be, had no disposition to disturb
                  anybody, that night. He had travelled many a weary mile, and was now dreaming
                  sweetly of freedom. In the morning he awoke at a late hour, and came down,
                  trembling and fearful, and after eating a hearty breakfast, gave an account of
                  himself as follows:
               "He had been a slave in Virginia, owned and held by Col. Cuttle. His master was
                  not very severe, but was accustomed to let him out by the day to other persons,
                  and often to men who would shamefully abuse him. A few days before he ran away, he
                  had been beaten most unmercifully, and the scars and fresh wounds, were still on
                  his back. This whipping had induced him to run away, and in the cold night he had
                  travelled on, hardly knowing where he went, until he arrived, late the evening
                  before, in Camberwell. He had applied at a hotel, but, having no money, could not
                  be admitted. He was afraid to go to the negro quarters, fearing he should be
                  searched for. Late in the evening, as he wandered up and down the streets, in
                  passing a gun-shop, he saw, through the gas-lighted window, an agent of his
                  master, a Virginian, whom he had often seen at home, purchasing a revolver. Two
                  other rough-looking men were with him, and the poor slave rightly conjectured that
                  he had been tracked to Camberwell, and was liable to be seized. So he waited till
                  nearly midnight, and, at length, knocked at the door of a house, told what he
                  wanted, but was driven away. Mr. Forester's was the fifth house at which he
                  called, and, almost in despair, he would have died had he been again
                  repulsed."
               Just then the newsboy came along, and the Camberwell Gazette was thrown into the
                  door while the slave was relating his story; and, on opening it, the eye of the
                  minister fell on the following paragraph:
               
                  "A FUGITIVE. A run-away slave came into Camberwell during the day, yesterday,
                     and was tracked by an agent of his master, who is now at the Revere house. He
                     was seen in the evening by the agent, who was afraid to take him in so public a
                     place. We hope the poor fellow will escape, but we fear the contrary."
               
               The necessity of urgent means to save the poor fellow was apparent, and he was
                  taken into a rear room, a comfortable
                  fire was made, and he was well clothed, and charged not to leave the apartment for
                  any front window. The pastor then went to the Revere, where he soon saw the agent
                  of the southern master. The fellow was sitting in a public parlor, conversing with
                  a special policeman, who had been hired for the occasion, and who was ready for
                  any deed of guilt and shame.
               "I'll have him," said the agent, "if it costs a fortune."
               "That's right; I glory in your spunk," replied the policeman.
               "Do you think we shall have trouble?"
               "Not much; the people of Camberwell bluster, but soon give up."
               "Can't stand the fire, hey?"
               "They have no pluck."
               "But how shall we proceed? You know best about Camberwell."
               "Wal, we had better have a few fellows, to watch."
               "S'pose we see him, will it be safe to arrest him?"
               "O, arrest him for stealing."
               "But he hasn't stole."
               "Wal, thunder, you can arrest him for it, and get him into the court-house, and
                  he's safe."
               "Ah, I see!"
               "That we are accustomed to do. The abolitionists are easily gulled."
               "Capital!"
               "But about my pay?"
               "You shall be satisfied, depend on that. Where do you suppose he is?"
               "I don't know."
               "Have you no inkling about it?"
               "Wal, I have."
               "Out with it."
               "Why, I missed sight of him last night, right against the door of Parson
                  Forester."
               "Who's he?"
               "One of the fanatics who stand in the way of law."
               "Do you know him, personally?"
               "No."
               "Is he a large or small man?"
               "I believe he is a small man, but tormented smart and wiry."
               "We must look after him."
               "That's a fact."
               Mr. Forester thought he had heard enough, and hurried home to put himself and
                  family into a position of defence. He had been in the house but a few minutes,
                  when he saw the agent and the officer walking slowly by, and casting glances
                  towards the house. As soon as they were fairly out of the way, he ventured out to consult with friends, who advised
                  an immediate removal to Canada. The slave was covered with a large cloak, and
                  removed, by a back street, to the vestry of Park-place church, and that night was
                  conveyed towards British territory.
               Late in the evening, after the slave was safe, the agent and the officers were
                  seen posting sentinels in all directions around the parsonage. One man stood in a
                  little recess, directly opposite; one was put at a corner, and others in different
                  places, shielded from observation. The minister was something of a wag, and
                  determined to have a joke at the expense of these agents of slavery. So he sent
                  out for Mr. Innis and Deacon Hendee to come in, and explained his plan. Mr. Innis
                  was about the size of the fugitive, and could well personify him. So he was
                  wrapped in a thick coat, his face covered, and the hat which the slave left was
                  put upon his head. His hair was curly, and in the dark no one could tell him from
                  the negro, who was lame, and whose lameness he was to imitate. They sallied forth,
                  the minister on one side of him, and Deacon Hendee on the other. They had
                  proceeded but a few steps from the door, when they heard a shrill whistle, and Mr.
                  Innis cried out, "Massa, thar coming!"
               A few steps forward, and six stout men confronted the trio.
               "I am a police officer, and want to know who goes here," said the officer we saw
                  in the morning.
               "My name is Forester."
               "Yes, we supposed so; but whom have you there between you?"
               "You have no right to ask."
               "I have."
               "You have not."
               "Come, come, said another; "don't put on any airs here, parson; if you do we'll
                  take you to the lock-up."
               "Well," said Mr. Forester, appearing to be alarmed, "it is Mr.—Mr.—Innis, a member
                  of my congregation. We are taking him home."
               A rude laugh followed this declaration, and the first officer replied, "Mr. Innis,
                  is it? Well, I have a warrant for the arrest of Mr. Innis."
               "For what?"
               "For robbery."
               "Come, come," said the agent, coming forward, "don't stop to parley any longer;
                  take hold of him. We shall have an alarm soon."
               The men did their duty, and seized the supposed fugitive and hurried him along to
                  the court-house, thrust him into a dark room, locked the door, set a man to watch
                  it, and went home.
               In the mean while a writ was taken out, and when the six special policemen came
                  together for their pay, in the morning,
                  they were all seized—a charge having been entered against them for false
                  imprisonment, on behalf of Mr. Innis. The men were thunder-struck, and, on the
                  door of the room being opened, Mr. Innis was seen sitting calmly at the window,
                  and, as the police approached, he exclaimed, "Good morning, gentlemen."
               "Fools! dolts!" cried the agent.
               "Duped!" said the first officer.
               "Thunder!" exclaimed all the rest; "we have arrested a white man."
               The six men were taken before the police judge, and, being unable to procure bail,
                  were committed for trial. They remained in jail about a week, and, it being
                  generally supposed they had their due, they were liberated and discharged.
               All said Mr. Forester's joke was a good one, though some thought it rather a funny
                  one for a minister to play.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               THE MINISTERIAL CONFERENCE.
               
                  
                     
                        I never saw an oft-removed tree,
                        Nor yet an oft-removed family,
                        That throve so well as those that settled be.
                     
                  
               
               THE churches in the vicinity of Camberwell had formed themselves into a
                  consociation, and the ministers were united in an informal ministerial conference.
                  The object of this conference was mutual improvement; its meetings were held
                  monthly; the services consisted of a free social discussion in the morning, and a
                  sermon in the afternoon. The dinner, however, which cannot be said to be a part of
                  the services, was a point of considerable importance, and over the table were
                  bandied wit and humor, free discussion and kind debate.
               One day the conference met with Edward Devoll, in Oxford, and the ministers of the
                  whole region assembled together. At an early hour carriages of all descriptions,
                  from the finely-decorated city cab to the plain country wagon, were seen driving up to the door of the
                  parsonage. The grave old man came, with his white cravat so stiffly bound around
                  his throat, that his very countenance seemed to have assumed an expression of
                  pain; the young, plain village preacher, with his cheek bronzed by the sun beneath
                  which he had toiled, also came; and there, too, was the city preacher, with a
                  nicer coat, but no more benevolent heart,—a softer hand, but no clearer head.
               The conference having assembled, old Father Brighthopes was elected moderator.
                  This worthy man was pastor of one of the churches in Chesterville, and was in
                  life's decline. Long had he preached in that town, and his name was associated
                  with almost every wedding, almost every civic celebration, almost every funeral,
                  that had occurred for forty years. He was a patriarch among his brethren, and was
                  esteemed by them as an elder who had ruled well in the church. His life was simple
                  and his manner grave, and all who knew him loved him as a father and revered him
                  as a patriarch. Many times had he been honored by being called upon to preside in
                  their meetings, and control their deliberations. In his personal appearance he had
                  a singular advantage. Well formed, straight and finely-proportioned, his figure in
                  the pulpit was noble, and his manner dignified. Full, white locks fell upon his
                  shoulders, or floated in the breeze, and when addressing an audience his eye was
                  lighted with startling brilliancy, and his whole manner was calculated to produce
                  an effect upon an audience. His piety was undoubted, and his life unblemished,
                  and, as his sweet, musical tones fell on the ears of an audience, his words seemed
                  to be but the harmonious gush of a devout and holy soul.
               Let us look into the room where this clerical company is assembled. The apartment
                  is large, and comfortably furnished, and the members of the conference sit ranged
                  around a large table, on which their books and papers are laid. Near Father
                  Brighthopes sits Edward Devoll, pastor of the church in the village, with whose
                  history we have become somewhat acquainted. Near him, leaning his head upon his
                  hand, and gazing upon the venerable moderator, is Rev. Mr. Chester, of Bubbleton,
                  a short, wiry-looking man, with a wild, rolling eye, and a sharp, severe
                  countenance. Further along is Rev. Charles Holbrook, a tall, richly-dressed, and
                  intellectual-looking young man, pastor of Downs-street Church, in a neighboring
                  city. He has a book, and is eagerly reading the table of contents. Next to him,
                  canted back in his chair, is Mr. Humphreys of Brookboro', a man on whose face is a
                  look of honest, manly purpose. His eye sparkles with goodness, and his voice is earnest, as he describes a new mill,
                  which is being built in his town, and the operatives in which he expects will
                  swell his congregation. The Edgefield minister, Rev. Mr. Williams, sits at the end
                  of the table. His look is a sad one, for his church was burnt a short time before,
                  and the ability of the people to build another is somewhat questionable. On the
                  other side of the table, next to the moderator, sits a pale, careworn man, pastor
                  of the church in Salem. His name is Edward Vernon. His coat is somewhat
                  threadbare, his vest neatly darned and patched, and his whole appearance indicates
                  a man who has seen trouble. Now and then he fetches a deep sigh, and his eyes are
                  scarcely raised from the floor. He is a man who cannot bear up under trouble, but
                  sinks when the waves of affliction come dashing against him. Beside him is Rev.
                  Mr. Edwards, of Weston, the exact reverse of Mr. Vernon. He looks just as if he
                  were ready for a joke, and the muscles of his mouth begin to twitch as soon as a
                  clever remark is made. Elwood Forester stands looking out at the window; Dr.
                  Langley lolls in an arm-chair, in a corner, and other ministers of the vicinity
                  fill up the room.
               The meeting is not open, and a brisk but random conversation is going on in the
                  room. Two here are discussing the merits of a discourse recently cently preached
                  before the State Convention, on which there is a variety of opinions; two there
                  are engaged in a political conversation, and both are on one side; two others, in
                  another place, are dissecting an article from a learned professor, in the
                  Bibliotheca Sacra. But now the moderator rises and says, "Order!" and at once all
                  is still and every eye is turned toward the head of the table. The old man rises
                  slowly and begins his speech, and all give audience.
               "My brethren," says Father Brighthopes, "or rather my children,—for you are all in
                  the morning of life, and younger than my dear boy, who now sleeps beneath the
                  funereal cypress, would have been, had God spared him,—my brethren, I thank you
                  for calling me to the chair; but sad thoughts oppress me while I take it. I seem
                  to stand among you as a relic of a past time, as the part of a former history. You
                  are all young, while age hangs on me, and I feel its influence. Those who started
                  life with me are gone. The men who occupied the various pulpits with me, a long
                  time ago, have all departed. This head has grown white, while theirs are laid to
                  rest. I call them, but they come not; I pronounce their names, but they do not
                  hear me, and I return to my home wondering when I shall die.
               "In our times, the young days when the standard-bearers bearers lived, many evils which now
                  prevail were not known. The preacher became pastor of the church, and lived and
                  died with his people. He became identified with his church and congregation in all
                  their interests, and was not a yearling, as some of our brethren now are. My heart
                  has been affected by the changes which I have seen among the members of the
                  sacramental host. Churches have been dismembered, useful ministers have been
                  crippled, and endless injury done, by the frequent removals of clergymen from
                  place to place. The spirit of change has come over us, and some of our churches
                  are ordaining ministers every two years. Where this will stop none can tell; but
                  it becomes us to cast our influence against the destructive habits of the churches
                  whose fickle members demand such constant removals. I therefore propose that we
                  consider to-day the causes of such a state of things, and the means by which a
                  change can be effected."
               The old man entered into the deplorable effects of frequent pastoral removals, and
                  portrayed them before the minds of his younger brethren with great earnestness.
                  They listened to him with much attention, and, when he sat down, a profound
                  impression had been made on the minds of his auditors.
               Edward Devoll was the first to break the silence which succeeded the impressive
                  speech of the moderator. "I think," he said, "that one frequent cause of the
                  frequent pastoral changes is found in the fact that we do not adapt ourselves to
                  the real wants of our hearers. We preach finely-written essays, and appeal to the
                  intelligence of our hearers, and do not descend into their warm gushing hearts. I
                  have had some severe experience in this, and have seen a discontented people,
                  simply because I did not study their wants, but contented myself with preaching
                  heavy, well-written, compact discourses on themes which had no personal bearing on
                  the lives of my auditors. I made this great mistake, and my people as well as
                  myself were disappointed in the results of my preaching. I had the reputation of
                  being a learned man, but I was not a good minister of Jesus Christ.
                  The error was pointed out to me, and I amended, and my prospect of permanency is
                  bright and cheerful."
               "O, you are an exception!" said Mr. Humphreys; "none of the rest of us will ever
                  secure the reputation of learned men."
               "And yet," replied Mr. Devoll, "I am convinced that much of the preaching of our
                  times, though learned, eloquent, and truthful, is so much Dutch to our audiences.
                  I know, for I have been a martyr to rules pounded into me by old Professor
                  P—."
               
               "Well, we can't remedy that," whiningly replied Dr. Langley. "We are just as we
                  have been made."
               "We can, we can," replied Devoll, with considerable vehemence. "I was a machine,
                  and not a preacher, and the other day I burned a huge pile of sermons, which cost
                  me years of toil, but which might well pass under the name of worldly philosophy,
                  spun out, and Christianized."
               "Good, brother Devoll, I will be your witness," good-naturedly remarked Mr.
                  Forester.
               "I think," remarked Mr. Holbrook, of Downs street church, that the pastoral
                  relation is often broken up by a class of fanatics, who expect the minister to
                  look through their spectacles at all the moral reforms of the day. Why, I have in
                  my society a man named Bolton, who calls the church a 'brotherhood of thieves,'
                  and who would tire the life out of a dozen ministers. Men of his stamp, who have
                  more zeal than knowledge, and more sail than ballast, are unsettling ministers,
                  and destroying churches. Brother Devoll lays all the blame to the want of
                  practical common sense on the part of the clergy, while I lay the blame at the
                  door of the uneasy, restless people in the church."
               "Has Mr. Bolton troubled you of late?" asked Mr. Forester.
               "Not much."
               "Have you any others like him?"
               "None."
               "What do you do with him?"
               "Let him alone."
               "Does he let you alone?"
               "No, that is the trouble. He is always at work doing mischief. He has been from
                  church to church, and found rest nowhere."
               "I have the opinion," pompously remarked Dr. Langley, "that the trouble grows out
                  of a limited knowledge among the clergy themselves. Many of our ministers have
                  never graduated at any college; they are unlearned men. The college-educated men
                  never change much." The Doctor fell back in his chair, satisfied with this huge
                  effort.
               "May it not be," modestly asked Mr. Vernon, "that the ministry is changeable, and
                  the settlements insecure, on account of the poverty which the churches compel the
                  ministers to endure? I have been settled some time, and from the day of my
                  ordination have been unable to pay my debts. Most of us are poor, and have hard
                  fare from year to year. This I believe to be one cause, perhaps the greatest
                  cause, of the frequent changes which ministers are making. Poverty is an
                  irresistible argument."
               
               He paused, and all present looked at him in pity, for every one knew he was
                  pinched with want.
               "Brother Vernon, you have touched a tender point," said Father Brighthopes.
               "Ay, ay," responded Mr. Chester.
               "He has, indeed," said Mr. Humphreys, with a sigh.
               "But," asked Mr. Chester, "is there not a more significant reason why ministers
                  are settling and unsettling almost every week?"
               "There doubtless is," said the moderator.
               "What is it?" asked Mr. Vernon.
               "I could tell," said Mr. Forester.
               "Well, one at a time,—order is Heaven's first law. Let brother Chester tell us
                  what he considers as the chief cause of difficulty," said Father Brighthopes.
               "I pronounce the evil of which we complain," said Mr. Chester, in reply, "to be
                  the work of sour deacons."
               "Sour deacons?"
               "Yes."
               "Ah! you have had a thorn in your side, friend Chester, have you
                  not?" said the moderator.
               "Surely I have."
               "And is it out?"
               "No."
               "Is it a cause of present pain?"
               "Yes, it is like the thorn which Paul had."
               "But, I thought," said Mr. Forester, "that all Bubbleton deacons were men of
                  god."
               "They may be, for we read that the Lord is a man of war."
               "But who troubles you so much?"
               "O, my friend Arlington."
               "What, the man who settled you?"
               "The same."
               "What is his trouble?"
               "I have troubled his conscience."
               "A good reason."
               "For a bad man."
               "Yes; but I thought he was your best friend."
               "He was, for a time; he would have plucked out his eyes and given them to me; but
                  he has changed."
               "Well, a troublesome deacon is very bad," said brother Williams, of Edgefield;
                  "but I think the evil which we all deplore is engendered by the extravagant
                  expectations the people have of us. They can hardly allow us to be human. We must
                  have India rubber lungs, and iron frames, and leathern feelings. They want us to
                  study all the time, to visit all the time, and in a hundred ways make demands upon
                  us, which are unreasonable and
                  improper. We fail to come up to the mark, and trouble ensues."
               "Yes," said Devoll, "they expect a minister now-a-days to fill up an empty house,
                  draw hearers from the four winds, and of the stones raise up children unto
                  Abraham."
               "True as the book," cried Mr. Chester. "I know by experience what you say."
               "I have another reason to give," said Mr. Humphreys. "I think that a few
                  quarrelsome members often succeed in unsettling a good minister. They make him a
                  party to their difficulties, and draw him into their private quarrels."
               "Have you met a case?" asked the moderator.
               "I have."
               "Is it likely to trouble you?"
               "It will break up my ministry in Bubbleton."
               "Can't it be settled?"
               "No."
               "How are you involved?"
               "Both sides accuse me of taking part with the other."
               "How so?"
               "Because I condemn both."
               "So you are between two fires."
               "Exactly."
               "A bad place, brother."
               "I do not know how it is here in the east, but in the west, where I live," said
                  Rev. Mr. Mason, "our changes come mostly from the destitution of means. The
                  churches are free and liberal, but they are unable to support their pastors."
               "Do not some of us lack economy?" asked Mr. Edwards, of Weston. "Some of us have
                  large families, and lack judgment about our expenses. Extravagance is not to be
                  commended: it does the minister and his family much harm some—"
               "O, don't talk so, brother Edwards!" impetuously exclaimed Mr. Forester. "The idea
                  of a minister being extravagant, when living, with a large family, on three
                  hundred and fifty dollars a year! It is all folly."
               "So I say!" exclaimed a half-dozen at once.
               "I think one reason of the changes of our times is found in the spleeny characters
                  of our ministers," said Mr. Forester. "They are sick half the time, and are so
                  sensitive that a parishioner cannot look at them without their having bad
                  feelings."
               Old Father Brighthopes here commenced giving his view of the subject. He thought a
                  want of piety, on the part of ministers and people, would account for
                  many of the changes, and was sure that if piety was cultivated, pastoral
                  permanency would be in a measure secured. He said many excellent things on the subject, and was heard
                  with great attention.
               Dinner hour having arrived, the ministerial party took their places at the table,
                  where other subjects were nicely dissected, and other forms of life laid bare. An
                  hour was spent over the table, and the "feast of reason and the flow of soul" kept
                  time with the means taken to supply the wants of the physical man.
               In the afternoon a large audience gathered in the church to listen to a discourse
                  from Mr. Forester. Mr. Holbrook read that beautiful hymn commencing, 
                     
                        "In the cross of Christ I glory,
                        Towering o'er the wrecks of time;"
                     
                   Mr. Vernon read the fifty-third chapter of Isaiah, in tones of wonderful
                  sympathy with the spirit of the prophet. Mr. Edwards offered prayer, and, after
                  another singing, the preacher announced his text, "For I am not ashamed of the
                  Gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that
                  believeth: to the Jew first, and also to the Greek." No analysis of this discourse
                  can now be given, but it fastened the attention of the audience to its close. The
                  preacher drew a portrait of man before the fall, and afterward, and described the
                  power of the Gospel to lift him up. "Before the fall," he said, "man was like a
                  beautiful temple, whose correct proportions and vast dimensions drew the eye and
                  won the admiration of every beholder. After the fall, man was like the same
                  temple, when the fire had crumbled its walls, desolated its altar, and destroyed
                  its beauty. The grand temple of the human soul is now in ruins. The fires of sin
                  have passed over it, the altar of the heart is broken down, and God's holy image
                  is marred and defiled."
               The application of the Gospel to the ruined condition of man was shown, and its
                  power to lift up nations, as well as individuals, as clearly set forth. Christ was
                  shown to be the central theme of the Gospel, and it was proved that the idea of
                  atonement must be comprehended, or there can be no permanent reformation, no
                  liberal government, no virtuous society. "Strike out this idea," said the
                  preacher, "and you strike out the sun of the system of truth, and leave the world
                  of thought without a centre. Remove this fact, and the relations which exist
                  between Creator and creature are at once divided, and the world is found without a
                  governor."
               The doctrines of the Gospel, he contended, must be at the basis of every society,
                  or that society is rotten at the core. "Hence," he said, "we ask not in vain why the nations of antiquity have
                  fallen. Orators and statesmen tell us why. They have ascribed it to certain
                  defects in their political economy. We ascribe it to an absence of those doctrines
                  which constitute the foundation of moral rectitude in the hearts of the people—we
                  ascribe it to an absence of moral truth, and, consequently, an absence of virtue.
                  They had nothing substantial upon which to rest; and, like the 'baseless fabric of
                  a vision,' they have passed away. Old Rome never could have been conquered by fire
                  and sword alone. Her shattered pillars would have stood until the end of time, had
                  her children been as virtuous as they were heroic. Greece—the land of literature,
                  the scholar's ideal of Paradise—would never have become the by-word of the world,
                  had she not preferred her own philosophy, sin-stained and corrupted, to the wisdom
                  of Almighty God. The Jewish nation would not have lost its identity, had not the
                  people crucified the Saviour, and brought his blood on them and on their children.
                  We see, also, why every effort to civilize the world, without the aid of religion,
                  has proved abortive. For ages philanthropy sent out civilization as the pioneer of
                  religion. She advanced in her own impotent name, with the implements of husbandry
                  in the one hand, and those of the artisan in the other. No permanent good was
                  effected. Her converts became seven-fold more the children of Satan, and used the
                  name of civilization to spread death and destruction. At length Christianity
                  advanced alone, the banner of the cross floating over her, and the
                  doctrines of the Gospel inscribed upon her front. A wondrous change took place;
                  and now over all the earth are found the trophies of victorious grace. Earth's
                  wildest children, whom civilization passed by as incorrigible, have listened,
                  believed, and loved. The African Negro, the wild Caffre, the filthy Hottentot, and
                  the wandering red man of America, have yielded to the melting story of the
                  cross."
               The sermon ended, and the people returned to their homes; the ministerial
                  conference adjoined to meet in Weston a month from that day.
               Dr. Langley and Mr. Forester took chaise together, and drove towards Camberwell.
                  On the way, the Doctor seemed determined to get into a dispute with his younger
                  brother, and, after trying a variety of ways, said abruptly, "I don't think you
                  use the most honest means to fill up your church."
               "What do you mean?"
               "Nothing particular."
               
               "Well, such a remark should not be made without meaning something."
               "Well, I supposed a few years ago you used underhanded means to get Mr. Barney
                  from my meeting."
               "What means?"
               "Wrong means."
               "What were they?"
               "You know."
               "I do not know."
               "Well, don't be so testy about it."
               "The charge is a serious one, and—"
               "Did you not visit Mr. Barney?"
               "I went into his store occasionally."
               "Did you not use undue influence on his mind?"
               "I treated him well."
               "No more than that?"
               "No."
               "Well, I may have been mistaken."
               "May have?"
               "Yes."
               "Now let me ask, Dr. Langley, if this is proper or Christian for you to make such
                  groundless charges against me?"
               "I made no charge."
               "O, I see it is no use to converse with you on these subjects. Drop them, or stop
                  the chaise and drop me, and I will walk to the city."
               The conversation turned into more pleasant channels; but Mr. Forester could not
                  help saying to his wife, on his return, that the Doctor was "the same old
                  sixpence."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               CONCLUSION: A SCENE AT THE PARSONAGE.
               
                  
                     
                        So live, that when thy summons comes to join
                        The innumerable caravan, that moves
                        To that mysterious realm, where each shall take
                        His chamber in the silent halls of death,
                        Thou go not like the quarry-slave at night
                        Scourged to his dungeon; but, sustained and soothed
                        By an unfaltering trust, approach thy grave,
                        Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch
                        About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.
                     
                  
               
               WE have now carried the Park-place minister through a long and prosperous
                  pastorate. He has secured influence, character, and popularity, yet has never
                  sacrificed to any of these the claims of the Gospel, or lowered the character of
                  the Christian minister. He has had enemies enough to release him from the woe
                  pronounced upon those of whom all men speak well, and friends enough to prove that
                  the good man's ways are all ordered by the Lord. Under his ministrations
                  Park-place church has enjoyed unexampled prosperity, and yet sin has been
                  denounced, the vices of society have been marked for detestation, and the Cross of
                  Christ, in its beauty, majesty and glory, has been held up. Under such preaching,
                  the drunkard has been reformed, the vicious have been reclaimed the erring have
                  been brought to the paths of rectitude, and sinners have been converted and
                  saved.
               In closing this account, let us walk to the parsonage, and take a farewell glance
                  of the pastor and his family. We enter the spacious hall, and advancing into the
                  well-furnished parlor, where hang several fine engravings, pass on to the study
                  where the family is assembled. In his old armchair sits the minister himself,
                  reading an entertaining book, which has been handed in by a friendly parishioner;
                  on a lounge sits the wife, sewing upon a garment for one of the children, while
                  the children themselves are building cobhouses of books, which they have taken
                  from the shelves. The sides of the room are covered with books, of all the usual
                  kinds found in a minister's library, well assorted, well arranged, and well used.
                  A golden light from a well-shaded gas-burner, sheds mellow rays on the whole
                  scene, which is one of the finest pictures imaginable of domestic bliss.
               "We have stayed in Camberwell a long time," said the minister, raising his eyes
                  from the book.
               
               "Yes; longer than kind friends predicted we should remain."
               "Yes; our friends had sad forebodings when we entered this large and wealthy
                  parish."
               "But we have reason to be grateful that God has so prospered us."
               "True; he has given us all we could desire."
               "We may be thankful that there are so few things to be regretted on our part, and
                  on the part of the people."
               "Yes; we may be thankful that God has given us grace to act and live, so that, to
                  some extent, we have secured the approbation of the wise and good. Though I feel
                  my weakness and imperfections, yet I have the consciousness of having tried to do
                  my duty. No sick-beds have I shunned; no poor families have I neglected; no
                  doctrine, however unwelcome, have I withheld, and no sin have I feared to
                  rebuke."
               "God has promised to reward faithfulness."
               "He has, and he will do it; but I have not been faithful. The longer I live, the
                  farther I seem from perfection. But if any man sin, we have an advocate with the
                  Father."
               "A glorious advocate."
               "What should we do without him? Our best services are poor and feeble in the sight
                  of God."
               Thus conversing on the glorious hope we have in Christ, the couple sat a long
                  time, and at length retired to rest. That same night many prayers were offered in
                  Camberwell, and, in many of them, the pastor's name was mentioned by an
                  affectionate and grateful people, who loved their minister, and whose countenance
                  was associated with many scenes of good and evil, and whose life was a constant
                  model for the young and unguarded.
               Park-place Church is united, and not a few of the members, warned and terrified by
                  the rocks on which other churches have split, are determined that no root of
                  bitterness shall arise,—that no cause of division shall come,—and are looking
                  forward to long and happy years of pastoral permanency. May that God, who holds
                  all things in his hand and orders all things according to his will, grant that it
                  may be so; and when the pastor dies, may the lines at the head of this chapter be
                  appropriate to his case.
            
         
      
   
